OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

be added on rehearing, we do not know. The Court endeavors to protect the right of parties to fair hearings,
but it will not presume that their rights have been substantially denied when they do not embrace the opportunity
to prove their grievance in the court below.
It is clear that the Commission on the facts found had
power to include in the authorization provision for service
greater than the carrier had asked. Section 208 (a) of
the Act provides that in any certificate issued under either
§ 206 or § 207 "there shall, at the time of issuance and
from time to time thereafter, be attached to the exercise
of the privileges granted by the certificate such reasonable
terms, conditions, and limitations as the public convenience and necessity may from time to time require, including terms, conditions, and limitations as to the extension of the route or routes of the carrier." 49 U. S. C.
§ 308 (a).
Judgment affirmed.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 345.

Argued February 10, 1944.-Decided April 10, 1944.

1. A statute of Florida which makes guilty of a misdemeanor any person who, with intent to defraud, obtains an advance upon an agreement to render services, and which provides further that failure to
perform the services for which an advance was obtained shall be
prima facie evidence of intent to defraud, held violative of the Thirteenth Amendment and the federal Antipeonage Act. Pp. 5, 17. .
2. In view of the history and operation of the Florida statute, it can
not be said that a plea of guilty is uninfluenced by the statute's
threat to convict by its prima facie evidence section; hence the entire statute is invalid, and a conviction under it, though based upon
a plea of guilty, can not be sustained. P. 15.
3. That upon a trial of the defendant his testimony in respect of his
intent would have been competent is immaterial. P. 25.
153 Fla. 338, 14 So. 2d 700, reversed.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from the reversal of a judgment which, upon a
writ of habeas corpus, discharged the prisoner, appellant
here.

Mr. Raymer F. Maguire,with whom Messrs. W. H. Poe
and Thomas T. Purdom were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. John C. Wynn, Assistant Attorney General of Florida, with whom Messrs. J. Tom Watson, Attorney General, and Woodrow M. Melvin, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant Pollock questions the validity of a statute
of the State of Florida making it a misdemeanor to induce
advances with intent to defraud by a promise to perform
labor and further making failure to perform labor for
which money has been obtained prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud.' It conflicts, he says, with the Thirteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution and with
the antipeonage statute enacted by Congress thereunder.
Claims also are made under the due process and equal
1The Florida statute under which Pollock is held was enacted as
Chapter 7917 of the Acts of 1919. It was re-enacted as §§ 817.09 and
817.10, Statutes of 1941, in the revision and compilation of the general
statute laws of the State. It reads:
"817.09 Obtaining property by fraudulent promise to perform labor
or service.-Any person in this state who shall, with intent to injure
and defraud, under and by reason of a contract or promise to perform
labor or service, procure or obtain money or other thing of value as a
credit, or as advances, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months.

"817.10 Same; prima facie evidence of fraudulent intent.-In all
prosecutions for a violation of § 817.09 the failure or refusal, without

just cause, to perform such labor or service or to pay for the money
or other thing of value so obtained or procured shall be prima facie
evidence of the intent to injure and defraud."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment which
we find it unnecessary to consider.
Pollock was arrested January 5, 1943, on a warrant issued three days before which charged that on the 17th of
October, 1942, he did "with intent to injure and defraud
under and by reason of a contract and promise to perform
labor and service, procure and obtain money, to-wit: the
sum of $5.00, as advances from one J. V. O'Albora, a corporation, contrary to the statute in such cases made and
provided, and against the peace and dignity of the State
of Florida." He was taken before the county judge on
the same day, entered a plea of guilty, and was sentenced
to pay a fine of $100 and in default to serve sixty days in
the county jail. He was immediately committed.
On January 11, 1943, a writ of habeas corpus was issued
by the judge of the circuit court, directed to the jail keeper,
who is appellee here. Petition for the writ challenged the
constitutionality of the statutes under which Pollock was
confined and set forth that "at the trial aforesaid, he was
not told that he was entitled to counsel, and that counsel
would be provided for him if he wished, and he did not
know that he had such right. Petitioner was without
funds and unable to employ counsel. He further avers
that he did not understand the nature of the charge against
him, but understood that if he owed any money to his prior
employer and had quit his employment without paying
the same, he was guilty, which facts he admitted." The
Sheriff's return makes no denial of these allegations, but
merely sets forth that he holds the prisoner by virtue of the
commitment "based upon the judgment and conviction as
set forth in the petition." The Supreme Court of Florida
has said that "undenied allegations of the petition are
taken as true." 2
2

State ex rel. Libtz v. Coleman, 149 Fla. 28, 5 So. 2d 60.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

4

The Circuit Court held the statutes under which the case
was prosecuted to be unconstitutional and discharged the
prisoner. The Supreme Court of Florida reversed.' It
read our decisions in Bailey v. Alabama 4 and Taylor v.
Georgia' to hold that similar laws are not in conflict with
the Constitution in so far as they denounce the crime, but
only in declaring the prima facie evidence rule. It stated
that its first impression was that the entire Florida act
would fall, as did that of Georgia, but on reflection it concluded that our decisions were called forth by operation of
the presumption, and did not condemn the substantive
part of the statute where the presumption was not brought
into play. As the prisoner had pleaded guilty, the Florida
court thought the presumption had played no part in this
case, and therefore remanded the prisoner to custody. An
appeal to this Court was taken and probable jurisdiction
noted.'
Florida advances no argument that the presumption section of this statute is constitutional, nor could it plausibly
do so in view of our decisions. It contends, however, (1)
that we can give no consideration to the presumption section because it was not in fact brought into play in the case,
by reason of the plea of guilty; (2) that so severed the section denouncing the crime is constitutional.
I.
These issues emerge from an historical background
against which the Florida legislation in question must be
appraised.
The Thirteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, made in 1865, declares that involuntary servitude
3 Williams v. Pollock, 153 Fla. 338, 14 So. 2d 700.
4219 U. S. 219.
5315 U. S. 25.
6 October 25, 1943.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

shall not exist within the United States and gives Congress

power to enforce the article by appropriate legislation.
Congress on March 2, 1867, enacted that all laws or usages
of any state "by virtue of which any attempt shall
hereafter be made to establish, maintain, or enforce, directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or
labor of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt
or obligation, or otherwise," are null and void, and denounced it as a crime to hold, arrest, or return a person to
the condition of peonage.' Congress thus raised both a
shield and a sword against forced labor because of debt.
Clyatt v. UnitedStates was a case from Florida in which
the Federal Act was used as a sword and an employer
7 "Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a
punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to
their jurisdiction.
"Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
8The Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 546, reads:
"The holding of any person to service or labor under the system
known as peonage is hereby declared to be unlawful, and the same
is hereby abolished and forever prohibited in the Territory of New
Mexico, or in any other Territory or State of the United States; and
all acts, laws, resolutions, orders, regulations, or usages of the Territory of New Mexico, or of any other Territory or State of the United
States, which have heretofore established, maintained, or enforced, or
by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter be made to establish,
maintain, or enforce, directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any
debt or obligation, or otherwise, be, and the same are hereby, declared
null and void; and any person or persons who shall hold, arrest, or return, or cause to be held, arrested, or returned, or in any manner aid
in the arrest or return of any person or persons to a condition of peonage, shall, upon conviction, be punished by fine not less than one thousand nor more than five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not less
than one nor more than five years, or both, at the discretion of the
court." The first part of the statute is now 8 U. S. C. § 56 (R. S.
§ 1990) and the criminal provision is § 269 of the Criminal Code, 18
U. S. C. § 444 (R. S. § 5526).

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

4

convicted under it. This Court sustained it as constitutional and said of peonage: "It may be defined as a status
or condition of compulsory service, based upon the indebtedness of the peon to the master. The basal fact is
indebtedness. . . . Peonage is sometimes classified as
voluntary or involuntary, but this implies simply a difference in the mode of origin, but none in the character of
the servitude. The one exists where the debtor voluntarily contracts to enter the service of his creditor. The
other is forced upon the debtor by some provision of
law. . . A clear distinction exists between peonage and
the voluntary performance of labor or rendering of services
in payment of a debt. In the latter case the debtor, though
contracting to pay his indebtedness by labor or service,
and subject like any other contractor to an action for damages for breach of that contract, can elect at any time to
break it, and no law or force compels performance or a
continuance of the service." I
Then came the twice-considered case of Bailey v. Alabama,10 in which the Act and the Constitution were raised
as a shield against conviction of a laborer under an Alabama act substantially the same as the one before us now.
Bailey, a Negro, had obtained $15 from a corporation on
a written agreement to work for a year at $12 per month,
$10.75 to be paid him and $1.25 per month to apply on his
debt. In about a month he quit. He was convicted, fined
$30, or in default sentenced to hard labor for 20 days in
lieu of the fine and 116 days on account of costs. The
Court considered that the portion of the state law defining
the crime would require proof of intent to defraud, and so
did not strike down that part; nor was it expressly sustained, nor was it necessarily reached, for the prima facie
evidence provision had been used to obtain a conviction.
9 197 U. S. 207, 215-16 (1905).
10 211 U. S. 452 (1908), where held to be brought here prematurely,

and 219 U.S. 219 (1911).
587770--44.5

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

This Court held the presumption, in such a context, to be
unconstitutional.
Later came UnitedStates v. Reynolds and UnitedStates
v. Broughton" in which the Act of 1867 was sword again.
Reynolds and Broughton were indicted under it. The
Alabama Code authorized one under some circumstances
to become surety for a convict, pay his fine, and be reimbursed by labor. Reynolds and Broughton each got himself a convict to work out fines and costs as a farm hand
at $6.00 per month. After a time each convict refused
to labor further and, under the statute, each was convicted
for the refusal. This Court said, "Thus, under pain of
recurring prosecutions, the convict may be kept at labor,
to satisfy the demands of his employer." It held the Alabama statute unconstitutional and employers under it
subject to prosecution.
In Taylor v. Georgia12 the Federal Act was again applied as a shield, against conviction by resort to the presumption, of a Negro laborer, under a Georgia statute in
effect like the one before us now. We made no effort to
separate valid from invalid elements in the statute, although the substantive and procedural provisions were,
as here, in separate, and separately numbered, sections.
We said, "We think that the sections of the Georgia Code
upon which this conviction rests are repugnant to the
Thirteenth Amendment and to the Act of 1867, and that
the conviction must therefore be reversed." Only recently in a case from Northern Florida a creditor-employer
was indicted under the Federal Act for arresting a debtor
to peonage, and we sustained the indictment. United
States v. Gaskin.3
These cases decided by this Court under the Act of 1867
came either from Florida or one of the adjoining states.
11235 U. S. 133 (1914).
1 315 U. S.25 (1942).
13 320 U. S. 527.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

And these were but a part of the stir caused by the Federal14
Antipeonage Act and its enforcement in this same region.
This is not to intimate that this section, more than others,
was sympathetic with peonage, for this evil has never had
general approval anywhere, and its sporadic appearances
have been neither sectional nor racial. It is mentioned,
however, to indicate that the Legislature of Florida acted
with almost certain knowledge in designing its successive
"labor fraud" acts in relation to our series of peonage decisions. The present Act is the latest of a lineage, in which
its antecedents were obviously associated with the practice
of peonage. This history throws some light on whether
the present state act is one "by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter be made" to "enforce involuntary
servitude," in which event the Federal Act declares it
void.
In 1891, the Legislature created an offense of two elements: obtaining money or property upon a false promise
to perform service, and abandonment of service without
just cause and without restitution of what had been obtained.' In 1905, this Court decided Clyatt v. United
States, indicating that any person, including public officers,
14 See Peonage Cases, 123 F. 671; United States v. Eberhart, 127 F.
252; United States v. McClellan, 127 F. 971; In re Peonage Charge,
138 F. 686; Ex parte Drayton, 153 F. 986; Taylor v. United States,
244 F. 321.
16 "Any person in the State of Florida, who by false promises and
with the intent to injure or defraud, obtains from another, any money
or personal property, or any person who has entered into a written contract, with, at the time, the intent to defraud, to do or to
perform any act or service, and in consideration thereof, obtains from
the hirer, money or other personal property, and who abandons the
service of said hirer without just cause, without first re-paying such
money or paying for such personal property, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not less than five nor more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not less than thirty days, nor more than
one year, or both fine and imprisonment." Florida Laws 1891,
c. 4032.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

even if acting under state law, might be guilty of violating
the Federal Act. In 1907, the Florida Legislature enacted
a new statute, nearly identical in terms with that of Alabama."6 In 1911, in Bailey v. Alabama, this Court held
such an act unconstitutional. In 1913, the Florida Legislature repealed the 1907 act, but re-enacted in substance
the section denouncing the crime, omitting the presumption of intent from the failure to perform the service or
make restitution. 7 In 1919, the Florida Supreme Court
16It provided:
"Section 1. That from and after the passage of this act any person
in the State of Florida, who shall contract with another to perform
for him services of any kind with intent to procure money, or other
thing of value thereby, and not to perform the service contracted for,
or whoever, after having so contracted, shall obtain or procure from
the hirer money or other thing of value, with intent not to perform
such service, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by fine of not more than one thousand
dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than one year,
or by both fine and imprisonment.
"Sec. 2. That satisfactory proof of the contract, the procuring
thereon of money or other thing of value, the failure to perform the
services so contracted for, or failure to return the money so advanced
with interest thereon at the time said labor or service was to be
performed, without good and sufficient cause, shall be deemed prima
facie evidence of the intent referred to in the preceding section."
Florida Laws 1907, c. 5678.
17 "Section 1. Any person in this State who shall contract with
another to perform any labor or service and who shall, by reason of
such contract and with the intent to injure and defraud, obtain or
procure money or other thing of value as a credit or advances from
the person so contracted with and who shall, without just cause, fail
or refuse to perform such labor or service or fail or refuse to pay
for the money or other thing of value so received upon demand, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment
for a period not exceeding six months.
"See. 2. That Chapter 5678, Acts of 1907, be and the same is hereby
repealed.
"Sec. 3. That all laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act
are hereby repealed." Florida Laws 1913, c. 6528.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

held this act, standing alone, void under the authority of
Bailey v. Alabama.8 Whereupon, at the session of 1919,
the present statute was enacted, including the prima facie
evidence provisions, notwithstanding these decisions by
the Supreme Court of Florida and by this Court. The
Supreme Court of Florida later upheld a conviction under
this statute on a plea of guilty, but declined to pass on
the presumption section, because, as in the present case,
the plea of guilty was thought to make its consideration
unnecessary. 9 The statute was re-enacted without substantial change in 1941. Again in 1943 it was re-enacted
despite the fact that the year before we held a very
0
similar Georgia statute unconstitutional in its entirety.
II.
The State contends that we must exclude the prima
facie evidence provision from consideration because in
fact it played no part in producing this conviction. Such
was the holding of the State Supreme Court. We are

not concluded by that holding, however, but under the
circumstances are authorized to make an independent

determination.
18 Goode v. Nelson, 73 Fla. 29, 74 So. 17. "As 'involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been
duly convicted,' is forbidden 'within the United States' by the Federal
Constitution, a crime to be punished by imprisonment cannot lawfully be predicated upon the breach of a promise to perform labor or
service." 73 Fla. at 32.
19
Phillipsv. Bell, 84 Fla. 225, 94 So. 699. In this case no reference
was made to the prior decision of the Florida court in Goode v. Nelson,
supra note 18.
20Florida Statutes (1941)
§§ 817.09, 817.10; Florida Laws 1943,
c. 22000, approved June 10, 1943. Taylor v. Georgia was decided
January 12, 1942. 315 U. S.25.
21 "That the question is one of fact does not relieve us of the duty
to determine whether in truth a federal right has been denied. When
a federal right has been specially set up and claimed in a state court,
it is our province to inquire not merely whether it was denied in

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

What the prisoner actually did that constituted the
crime cannot be gleaned from the record. The charge is
cast in the words of the statute and is largely a conclusion.
It affords no information except that Pollock obtained $5
from a corporation in connection with a promise to work
which he failed to perform, and that his doing so was
fraudulent. If the conclusion that the prisoner acted
with intent to defraud rests on facts and not on the prima
facie evidence provisions of the statute, none are stated
in the warrant or appear in the record. None were so set
forth that he could deny them. He obtained the money
on the 14th of October, 1942, and the warrant was not
sought until January 2, 1943. Whether the original advancement was more or less than $5, what he represented
or promised in obtaining it, whether he worked a time and

quit, or whether he never began work at all are undisclosed. About all that appears is that he obtained an
advancement of $5 from a corporation and failed to keep
his agreement to work it out. He admitted those facts
and the law purported to supply the element of intent.
He admitted the conclusion of guilt which the statute
express terms but also whether it was denied in substance and effect.
If this requires an examination of evidence, that examination must be
made. Otherwise, review by this Court would fail of its purpose in
safeguarding constitutional rights. Thus, whenever a conclusion of
law of a state court as to a federal right and findings of fact are so
intermingled that the latter control the former, it is incumbent upon
us to analyze the facts in order that the appropriate enforcement of
the federal right may be assured." Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587,
589. See Lisenba v. California, 314 U. S. 219, 236; Chambers v.
Florida,309 U. S. 227. "Even though the constitutional protection
invoked be denied on non-federal grounds, it is the province of this
Court to inquire whether the decision of the state court rests upon a
fair or substantial basis. If unsubstantial, constitutional obligations
may not be thus evaded." Broad River Power Co. v. South Carolina,
281 U. S. 537, 540; Demorest v. City Bank Farmers Trust Co., 321
U. S. 36.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

4

made prima facie thereon. He was fined $20 for each
dollar of his debt, and in default of payment was required
to atone for it by serving time at the rate of less than 90
per day.
Especially in view of the undenied assertions in Pollock's
petition we cannot doubt that the presumption provision
had a coercive effect in producing the plea of guilty. The
statute laid its undivided weight upon him. The legislature had not even included a separability clause.22 Of
course the function of the prima facie evidence section is
to make it possible to convict where proof of guilt is lacking. No one questions that we clearly have held that
such a presumption is prohibited by the Constitution and
the federal statute. The Florida Legislature has enacted
and twice re-enacted it since we so held. We cannot assume it was doing an idle thing. Since the presumption
was known to be unconstitutional and of no use in a contested case, the only explanation we can find for its persistent appearance in the statute is its extra-legal coercive
effect in suppressing defenses. It confronted this defendant. There was every probability that a law so recently and repeatedly enacted by the legislature would be
followed by the trial court, whose judge was not required
to be a lawyer. The possibility of obtaining relief by
appeal was not bright, as the event proved, for Pollock
had to come all the way to this Court and was required,
and quite regularly, to post a supersedeas bond of $500, a
hundred times the amount of his debt. He was an illiterate Negro laborer in the toils of the law for the want
of $5. Such considerations bear importantly on the decision of a prisoner even if aided by counsel, as Pollock
was not, whether to plead guilty and hope for leniency or
to fight. It is plain that, had his plight after conviction
22

The Florida Legislature has made use of separability clauses where

separability was the desire. See Florida Laws 1919, cc. 7808, 7936.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

not aroused outside help, Pollock himself would have been
unheard in any appellate court.
In the light of its history, there is no reason'to believe
that the law was generally used or especially useful merely
to punish deceit. Florida has a general and comprehensive statute making it a crime to obtain money or property
by false pretenses 23 or commit "gross fraud or cheat at
common law." 24 These appear to authorize prosecution
for even the petty amount involved here. 5 We can conceive reasons, even if unconstitutional ones, which might
lead well-intentioned persons to apply this Act as a means
to make otherwise shiftless men work," but if in addition
to this general fraud protection employers as a class are so
susceptible to imposition that they need extra legislation,
or workmen so crafty and subtle as to constitute a special
menace, we do not know it, nor are we advised of such
facts.
We think that a state which maintains such a law in
face of the court decisions we have recited may not be
heard to say that a plea of guilty under the circumstances
is not due to pressure of its statutory threat to convict
him on the presumption.
As we have seen, Florida persisted in putting upon its
statute books a provision creating a presumption of fraud
23 Florida
24

Statutes (1941) § 817.01.
Florida Statutes (1941) § 817.29.

2These

statutes carry permissible maximum punishment such,

however, that they may be prosecuted only in courts presided over by
judges required to be lawyers and where presumably defendant's rights
are more accurately observed. See Florida Constitution, Art. V, §§ 3,
17; Florida Statutes (1941) §§ 32.05, 33.03, 36.01.
28

Dr. Albert Bushnell Hart in The Southern South, after reviewing

and unsparingly condemning evidences of peonage in some regions,

says, "Much of the peonage is simply a desperate attempt to make
men earn their living. The trouble is that nobody is wise enough to
invent a method of compelling specific performance of a labor con-

tract which shall not carry with it the principle of bondage."

P. 287.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

from the mere nonperformance of a contract for labor service three times after the courts ruled that such a provision
violates the prohibition against peonage. To attach no
meaning to such action, to say that legally speaking there
was no such legislation, is to be blind to fact. Since the
Florida Legislature deemed these repeated enactments
to be important, we take the Legislature at its own word.
Such a provision is on the statute books for those who
are arrested for the crime, and it is on the statute books
for us in considering the practical meaning of what Florida
has done.
In the view we take of the purpose and effect of this
prima facie evidence provision it is not material whether
as matter of state law it is regarded as an independent
and severable provision.
III.
We are induced by the evident misunderstanding of our
decisions by the Florida Supreme Court, in what we are
convinced was a conscientious and painstaking study of
them, to make more explicit the basis of constitutional
invalidity of this type of statute.
The undoubted aim of the Thirteenth Amendment as
implemented by the Antipeonage Act was not merely to
end slavery but to maintain a system of completely free
and voluntary labor throughout the United States.
Forced labor in some special circumstances may be consistent with the general basic system of free labor. For
example, forced labor has been sustained as a means of
punishing crime, 7 and there are duties such as work on
27 United States v. Reynolds, 235 U. S. 133, 149; Loeb v. Jennings,
133 Ga. 796, 67 S. E. 101, affirmed on other grounds, 219 U. S. 582;

Dunbar v. Atlanta, 7 Ga. App. 434, 67 S. E. 107.

Cf. Chicago v. Wil-

liams, 254 Ill. 360, 98 N. E. 666; Chicago v. Coleman, 254 Il. 338, 98
N. E. 521.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

highways28 which society may compel. But in general
the defense against oppressive hours, pay, working conditions, or treatment is the right to change employers.
When the master can compel and the laborer cannot escape the obligation to go on, there is no power below to
redress and no incentive above to relieve a harsh overlordship or unwholesome conditions of work. Resulting
depression of working conditions and living standards affects not only the laborer under the system, but every
other with whom his labor comes in competition. Whatever of social value there may be, and of course it is great,
in enforcing contracts and collection of debts, Congress
has put it beyond debate that no indebtedness warrants a
suspension of the right to be free from compulsory service.
This congressional policy means that no state can make
the quitting of work any component of a crime, or make
criminal sanctions available for holding unwilling persons
to labor. The federal statutory test is a practical inquiry
into the utilization of an act as well as its mere form and
terms.
Where peonage has existed in the United States it has
done so chiefly by virtue of laws like the statute in question. Whether the statute did or did not include the
presumption seems to have made little difference in its
practical effect. In 1910, in response to a resolution of
the House of Representatives, the Immigration Commission reported the results of an investigation of peonage
among immigrants in the United States.29 It found that
no general system of peonage existed, and that sentiment
did not support it anywhere. On the other hand, it found
sporadic cases of probable peonage in every state in the
Union except Oklahoma and Connecticut. It pointed out
that "there has probably existed in Maine the most com28

Butler v. Perry, 240 U. S. 328.
on Peonage, Abstracts of Reports of the Immigration
Commission, Vol. II, p. 439, Sen. Doe. No. 747, 61st Cong., 3d Sess.
21 Report

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

19

Opinion of the Court.

plete system of peonage in the entire country," in the
lumber camps.8" In 1907, Maine enacted a statute, applicable only to lumber operations but in its terms very
like the section of the Florida statute we are asked to sep80 The operation of the system is described as follows:

"In late years the natives who formerly supplied the labor for the
logging concerns in that State have been engaged in the paper mills,
and the lumber companies have been compelled to import laborers,
largely foreigners, from other States. Boston is the chief labor market
for the Maine forests. The employment agents misrepresent condi-

tions in the woods, and frequently tell the laborers that the camps
will be but a few miles from some town where they can go from time
to time for recreation and enjoyment. Arriving at the outskirts of
civilization the laborers are driven in wagons a short distance into
the forests and then have to walk sometimes 60 or 70 miles into the
interior, the roads being impassable for vehicles. The men will then
be kept in the heart of the forest for months throughout the winter,
living in a most rugged fashion and with no recreation whatever. A
great many of them have rebelled against this treatment, and they
have left their employers by the score. The lumbermen having advanced transportation and supplies have appealed to the legislature
for protection. In February, 1907, a bill became a law making it a
crime for a person to-enter into an agreement to labor for any lumbering operation or in
driving logs and in consideration thereof receive any advances of
goods, money, or transportation, and unreasonably and with intent
to defraud, fail to enter into said employment as agreed and labor
a sufficient length of time to reimburse his employer for said
advances and expenses.
Judges in municipal courts and trial justices were given jurisdiction to
try cases under this law, and the act provided that it would take effect
immediately upon approval. When this bill was before the legislature,
requests were made by citizens interested in factories and other industries that the provisions of the statute be made to protect all employers of labor. The attorney who introduced the bill on behalf of
the lumber interests which he represented, has stated that he had
refused to accede to these requests, inasmuch as he believed the provision should not be extended. The protection granted by the statute,
therefore, was restricted to a favored class, persons interested in 'lumbering operations and in driving logs.'" Peonage Report, supra note
29, p. 447.

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

arate and save. The law was enforcible in local courts
not of record. The Commission pointed out that the
Maine statute, unlike that of Minnesota 8 and the statutes of other states in the West and South, did not contain
a prima facie evidence provision. But as a practical matter the statute led to the same result.82
81 Minnesota Stat. (1941)
32 "There is no provision

§ 620.64.
in the Maine statute thatthe failure or refusal of any employee to perform such labor or
render such services in accordance with his contract or to pay in
money the amount for such transportation or such advancement
shall be prima facie evidence of his intent to defraud;
as appears in the contract-labor law of Minnesota and in the statutes of other States in the West and the South. However, justices
of the peace in Maine have decided indiscriminately that, in order
to obtain a conviction under the law of that State, it is necessary to
show only that the laborer obtained the 'advances' and failed 'to
labor a sufficient length of time to reimburse his employer.'
"A justice at Houlton, Maine, who is a lawyer by profession, told
the attorney representing the peonage committee that he decided in
cases brought under the contract-labor law that 'the burden of
proof is upon the defendant,' who must show to the court 'beyond
a reasonable doubt that he had no intent to defraud.' This justice
added that once in a while if a laborer has a really good excuse he
will let him off, as he believes 'every man has some rights, although
he may be poor.' Another justice of the peace at Patten, Maine,
stated that if it was shown that a laborer had obtained the advances
and had not worked sufficiently to settle for them he found the
defendant guilty without considering the question of intent to defraud. This seems to be the general attitude of the rural justices of
Maine toward the contract-labor law.
"Considerable peonage has resulted from this statute. The law
has been vigorously enforced. Soon after its passage prosecutions
were commenced in the lumber regions, and the jail at Dover, the
county seat of one of the large lumber counties of Maine, was crowded
with laborers convicted of defrauding their employers out of 'advances
of goods, money, or transportation.'
"Involuntary servitude results in utilizing this statute to intimidate
laborers to work against their will. On account of the vigorous
methods pursued in enforcing the above-described law, it soon became

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

21

Opinion of the Court.

The fraud which such statutes purport to penalize is
not the concealment or misrepresentation of existing
facts, such as financial condition, ownership of assets, or
data relevant to credit. They either penalize promissory representations which relate to future action and
conduct or they penalize a misrepresentation of the
present intent or state of mind of the laborer."3 In these
"a hair perhaps divides the false and true." Of course
there might be provable fraud even in such matters. One
might engage for the same period to several employers,
collecting an advance from each, or he might work the
same trick of hiring out and collecting in advance again
and again, or otherwise provide proof that fraud was his
known throughout the lumber region of Maine that any laborer was
liable to imprisonment who refused to work according to the provisions of his contract until he had settled for all advances, no matter
what misrepresentations may have been made to induce him to enter
into the agreement. The contract-labor law has become a club which
the foremen and superintendents draw upon the laborers who refuse
to go to work or to continue at work. If a man leaves his employer
before settling for advances, he will be pursued and apprehended, or
someone will telephone to the constable, who will arrest the laborer.
He will then be brought before the justice, and 'sent down the river,'
to prison; or if he consents to labor until he shall have reimbursed
for all advances and the fine and cost of the prosecution, the employer
will settle with the court and constable and will take the laborer back
into the forest. No doubt many of the laborers never attempt to
escape, although they may consider that they have been basely
deceived about the conditions of labor." Peonage Report, supra note
29, pp. 448-49.
33 The Court at one time said, "The law gives a different effect to
a representation of existing facts, from that given to a representation
of facts to come into existence. To make a false representation the
subject of an indictment, or of an action, two things are generally
necessary, viz., that it should be a statement likely to impose upon
one exercising common prudence and caution, and that it should be
the statement of an existing fact. A promissory statement is not,
ordinarily, the subject either of an indictment or of an action."
Sawyer v. Prickett, 19 Wall. 146, 160.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

design and purpose. But in not one of the cases to come
before this Court under the antipeonage statute has there
been evidence of such subtlety or design. In each there
was the same story, a necessitous and illiterate laborer, an
agreement to work for a small wage, a trifling advance, a
breach of contract to work. In not one has there been
proof from which we fairly could say whether the Negro
never intended to work out the advance, or quit because
of some real or fancied grievance, or just got tired. If
such statutes have ever on even one occasion been put to
a worthier use in the records of any state court, it has not
been called to our attention. If this is the visible record,
it is hardly to be assumed that the off-the-record uses are
more benign.
It is a mistake to believe that in dealing with statutes of
this type we have held the presumption section to be the
only source of invalidity. On the contrary, the substantive section has contributed largely to the conclusion of unconstitutionality of the presumption section. The latter
in a different context might not be invalid. Indeed, we
have sustained the power of the state to enact an almost
identical presumption of fraud, but in transactions that
did not involve involuntary labor to discharge a debt.
4
James-DickinsonFarmMortgage Co. v. Harry."
Absent
this feature any objection to prima facie evidence or presumption statutes of the state can arise only under the
Fourteenth Amendment, rather than under the Thirteenth.
In deciding peonage cases under the latter this Court has
been as careful to point out the broad power of the state to
create presumptions as it has to point out its power to
punish frauds. It "has frequently recognized the general
power of every legislature to prescribe the evidence which
shall be received, and the effect of that evidence in the
courts of its own government. In the exercise of this
84273 U. S. 119.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

Opinion of the Court.

power numerous statutes have been enacted providing that
proof of one fact shall be prima facie evidence of the main
fact in issue; and where the inference is not purely arbitrary and there is a rational relation between the two facts,
and the accused is not deprived of a proper opportunity to
submit all the facts bearing upon the issue, it has been held
that such statutes do not violate the requirements of due
process of law." Bailey v. Alabama.5 But the Court
added that "the State may not in this way interfere with
matters withdrawn from its authority by the Federal Constitution or subject an accused to conviction for conduct
which it is powerless to proscribe." 1 And it proceeded to
hold that the presumption, when coupled with the other
section, transgressed those limits, for while it appeared to
punish fraud the inevitable effect of the law was to punish
failure to perform labor contracts.
In Taylor v. Georgia both sections of the Act were held
unconstitutional. There the State relied on the presumption to convict. But it was not denied that a state has
power reasonably to prescribe the prima facie inferences to
be drawn from circumstantial evidence. It was the substance of the crime to establish which the presumption was
invoked that gave a forbidden aspect to that method of
short-cutting the road to conviction. The decision striking down both sections was not, as the Supreme Court of
Florida thought, a casual and unconsidered use of the
plural. Mr. Justice Byrnes knew whereof he spoke; unconstitutionality inhered in the substantive quite as much
as in the procedural section and no part of the invalid statute could be separated to be salvaged. Where in the
same substantive context the State threatens by statute
to convict on a presumption, its inherent coercive power is
such that we are constrained to hold that it is equally use85219 U. S. 219, 238.
- 219 U. S. 219, 239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ful in attempts to enforce involuntary service in discharge
of a debt, and the whole is invalid.
It is true that in each opinion dealing with statutes of
this type this Court has expressly recognized the right of
the state to punish fraud, even in matters of this kind, by
statutes which do not either in form or in operation lend
themselves to sheltering the practice of peonage. Deceit is
not put beyond the power of the state because the cheat is
a laborer nor because the device for swindling is an agreement to labor. But when the state undertakes to deal with
this specialized form of fraud, it must respect the constitutional and statutory command that it may not make failure to labor in discharge of a debt any part of a crime. It
may not directly or indirectly command involuntary servitude, even if it was voluntarily contracted for.
From what we have said about the practical considerations which are relevant to the inquiry whether any particular state act conflicts with the Antipeonage Act of 1867
because it is one by which "any attempt shall hereafter be
made to establish, maintain or enforce" the prohibited servitude, it is apparent that we should not pass on hypothetical acts. Reservation of the question of the validity of an
act unassociated with a presumption now, as heretofore,
does not denote approval. The Supreme Court of Florida
has held such an act standing alone unconstitutional. 7 A
considerable recorded experience would merit examination
in relation to any specific labor fraud act.8 We do not
enter upon the inquiry further than the Act before us.
8 Goode v. Nelson, supra note 18.
8 On the practical effect of such laws as amounting to the existence
of involuntary servitude in the United States, see: Peonage, Encyclopedia of Social Sciences; Commons & Andrews, Principles of Labor
Legislation, p. 37; Wilson, Forced Labor in the United States, Chapters VI and VII; "Report of Chas. W. Russell, Assistant Attorney
General, Relative to Peonage Matters," in Report of Attorney General
(1937) p. 207; and Report of Immigration Commission, supra note 29.

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

REED,

J., dissenting.

Another matter deserves notice. In Bailey v. Alabama
it was observed that the law of that state did not permit the
prisoner to testify to his uncommunicated intent, which
handicapped him in meeting the presumption. In Taylor
v. Georgiathe prisoner could not be sworn, but could and
did make a statement to the jury. In this Florida case
appellee is under neither disability, but is at liberty to offer
his sworn word as against presumptions. These distinctions we think are without consequence. As Mr. Justice
Byrnes said in Taylor v. Georgia, the effect of this disability "was simply to accentuate the harshness of an
otherwise invalid statute."
We impute to the Legislature no intention to oppress,
but we are compelled to hold that the Florida Act of 1919
as brought forward on the statutes as §§ 817.09 and 817.10
of the Statutes of 1941 are, by virtue of the Thirteenth
Amendment and the Antipeonage Act of the United
States, null and void. The judgment of the court below
is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE REED, dissenting:

The Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States reads as follows:
"Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall
have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
"Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislation."
To meet the problem of peonage, that is, "compulsory
service in payment of a debt," "Congress enacted the legislation set out in note 8 of the Court's opinion which de'Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 242.
587770°-45-6

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

322

U. S.

clared invalid laws of a state by virtue of which involuntary service is enforced or attempted to be enforced in
liquidation of any debt. This Court reiterates today in
accordance with its previous rulings that the second section
of the Florida statute, § 817.10 set out in note 1 of today's
opinion, is invalid under the Thirteenth Amendment and
the Federal Act because this second section enforces labor
by fear of conviction of the crime denounced in the first
section. The second section provides that a refusal to
perform labor for which one has contracted and been paid
in advance is prima facie evidence of an intent to defraud
under the first section which makes it a crime to obtain
money with intent to defraud under a contract to perform
labor. This conclusion is accepted as a proper interpretation of the Federal prohibitions. In the effort to obliterate
compulsory labor to satisfy a debt, Congress may invalidate a state law which coerces that labor by fear of a conviction obtained by a presumption of law which may be
false in fact. Taylor v. Georgia, 315 U. S. 25.
However much peonage may offend our susceptibilities,
and however great our distaste for a statute which is capable of use as a means of imposing peonage on the working man, the present statute is, in this Court, no more
immune than any other which a state may enact, from the
salutary requirement that its constitutionality must be
presumed, and that the burden rests on him who assails
it, on constitutional grounds, to show that it is either unconstitutional on its face or that it has been or will be in
fact so applied as to deny his constitutional rights.
This Court now holds, as it has held before, that when
the presumption section is applied in the trial of a criminal charge under the substantive section, both are invalid
and a conviction thus obtained by resort to a presumption
of law which may be false in fact, cannot be sustained.
But the Court's opinion fails to bridge the gap between

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

REED,

J., dissenting.

these earlier decisions of the Court and its present conclusion that the substantive provision, when resorted to alone
as the basis for a sentence on an admission of guilt, is
likewise invalid, because of the mere existence of the
presumption section.
Whether this conclusion rests upon the ground that the
State of Florida cannot constitutionally make it a penal
offense for a laborer fraudulently to procure advances of
wages for which he intends to render no service or upon
the ground that the presumption section has in fact operated in this case to coerce petitioner's plea of guilty, the
one is platinly without support in law and the other is
without support in the record.
So far as the decision of the Court rests on the ground
that the substantive section is unconstitutional on its face,
the decision necessarily proceeds on the assumption that
because of the Thirteenth Amendment a state is without
power to punish a workman who fraudulently procures an
advance of a wage when he intends not to work for it, or
that the two sections in law and in fact are inseparable
in their application so that the substantive section is
tainted by the presumption section, although in this case
it is not shown to have influenced the plea of guilty.
We are given no constitutional reason for saying that
a state may not punish the fraudulent procurement of an
advance of wages as well as the giving of a check drawn
on a bank account in which there are no funds, or any
other course of conduct which the common law has long
recognized, as the procuring of money or property by
fraud or deceit. There is of course no constitutional
reason why Florida should not punish fraud in labor contracts differently from fraud in other classes of contracts.
Legislation need not seek to correct every abuse by a single
enactment. The state may select its objective. Whitney
v. California,274 U. S. 357, 370; Tigner v. Texa-s, 310 U. S.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

141, 149. The Constitution does not require that all persons should be treated alike but only that those in the
same class shall receive equal treatment.
Not only has the Supreme Court of Florida held as a
matter of law that the two sections of the statute now before us are separable,2 but it is obvious that as a matter
of law the presumption section is not called into operation
where, as here, the accused does not go to trial but pleads
guilty to the substantive charge. In rejecting these con-

clusions as to the separability of the two sections, we take
it that the Court is not rejecting the Supreme Court of
Florida's interpretation of the Florida statute, but rather
that it concludes as a matter of fact that the presumption
section is so all-pervasive in its operation that we must
2 The Supreme Court of Florida said: "This is not the first challenge

of the act which has appeared in this court. The identical matter was
considered in Phillipsv. Bell, 84 Fla. 225, 94 So. 699, where the court
concluded that the portion of the law defining the crime was harmonious with the Thirteenth Amendment, and observed, without deciding the point, that if the part referring to the prima facie character
of certain evidence should be pronounced unconstitutional the ruling
would not affect the remainder."
The court then took up Bailey v. Alabama, 211 U. S. 452, and noted
as to it: "We think it very significant that the court remarked upon
the lack of doubt that the offenses defined could be made a crime.
Gist of the decision, as we understand it, was, summarizing, that the
part of the law describing the crime and the one providing for the
presumption were not interdependent and that if, in the prosecution,
the state did not resort to the latter the validity of the former would
be unaffected."
Later, speaking of our opinion in the Taylor case, the Florida court
said: "The section anent presumptive evidence had been relied upon
to secure a conviction, so the court again had for determination the
question of the constitutionality of the first section when the second
was brought into play. Not being faced with that problem here we
conclude that the first Bailey decision and ours in Phillips v. Bell are
in accord and that they in turn are not in conflict with the rulings in
the second Bailey case and Taylor v. Georgia,supra"

POLLOCK v. WILLIAMS.
4

nREE, J., dissenting.

conclude without further proof that it so operated in petitioner's case as to coerce his plea of guilty to the charge
of violating the substantive section.
But neither the present record nor any facts of which
we can take judicial notice lend support to that conclusion. For all that appears petitioner had no defense
to the charge even though the substantive section had
stood alone. Unless we are to presume that the statute
can only be given an unconstitutional application, we
cannot say that petitioner had any defense to the charge
of fraud to which he pleaded guilty, and certainly we cannot treat the presumption section as depriving him of a
defense which he did not have.
The Court apparently concludes that the enactment
and maintenance of the presumption section, after a determination here of its invalidity, makes the entire statute invalid on its face. This result is reached by assuming that the existence of the presumption section coerces
involuntary labor under the contract by fear of conviction
for violation of the first or substantive section. We cannot properly take judicial notice of such an effect. If
pleaded and proven a different situation would emerge.
The petition for habeas corpus in this case can hardly
be said to go farther than object to conviction on the
ground of the unconstitutionality of the Florida statute as
a whole. No coercion to plead guilty is alleged. The
statements in the petition as to lack of counsel and of
knowledge of the elements of the offense are referred to
in the Court's opinion but we do not understand that the
Court relies upon them. No use was made of the presumption section at the trial. Petitioner pleaded guilty to the
substantive crime. No allegations or proof appear in the
record that the Florida statute was used or applied to
promote peonage or involuntary servitude of petitioner or
to coerce his plea of guilty. The decision is in effect that

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
REED,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

because the two sections standing together are capable
of being used in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment
and the peonage act, each must be taken to be invalid on
its face. The presumption of constitutionality of statutes
is a safeguard wisely conceived to keep courts within constitutional bounds in the exercise of their extraordinary
power of judicial review. It should not be disregarded
here.
We cannot conclude that a statute which merely punishes a fraud in a contract, as the first section does if considered alone, violates the provision of the Thirteenth
Amendment against involuntary servitude or is null and
void under 8 U. S. C. § 56 because it is an attempt to enforce compulsory service for a debt. Conviction under
the statute results not in peonage, work for a debt, but
in punishment for crime, probably in the county workhouse. Cf. United States v. Reynolds, 235 U. S. 133, 149.
The conception embodied in the Court's opinion that the
fear of conviction for his fraud might compel the defendant to work as agreed is without basis in the record. At
any rate, fear of punishment is supposed to be a deterrent
to crime.
The conviction should be affirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this dissent.

