OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

72

Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 578. Argued March 28, 29, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
Under a land-grant equalization agreement whereby a non-land-grant
carrier agreed to accept for the transportation of Government
property "the lowest net rates lawfully available" over land-grant
routes, the Government is entitled to the lowest rate which it could
have obtained over any land-grant route, however circuitous, which
could have been used. P. 76.
100 Ct. Cls. 175, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

321 U. S.758, to review a judgment deny-

ing recovery in a suit by the railroad company upon a
land grant equalization agreement.
Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. Seddon G.
Boxley and S. R. Prince were on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.
Court.

JusTicE

DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

In 1933 petitioner, a common carrier, entered into a
"Freight-Land-Grant Equalization Agreement" with the
Quartermaster General, acting for the United States.
This agreement was made under the authority of § 22 of
the Interstate Commerce Act. 24 Stat. 387, 49 U. S. C.
§ 22. So far as material here, petitioner agreed
"to accept for the transportation of property shipped
for account of the Government of the United States and
for which the Government of the United States is lawfully entitled to reduced rates over land-grant roads, the
lowest net rates lawfully available, as derived through
deductions account of land-grant distance from the lawful

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 73
Opinion of the Court.

72

rates filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission
applying from poiint of origin to destination at time of
movement." (Italics added.)
From the point of view of the carrier the purpose of the
agreement was to give it a portion of government business which might have been routed over land-grant
routes.' Land-grant roads were under an obligation to
furnish transportation to the government free of charge
or at reduced rates. See Public Aids to Transportation,
Federal Coordinator of Transportation (1938), Vol. II,
pp. 3-42 for a review of the various Acts of Congress. At
the time when this agreement was made land-grant roads
were required to allow the United States 50% deductions
from the commercial rate for the transportation of property or troops of the United States.2 43 Stat. 477, 486,
10 U. S. C. § 1375. "Railroads which compete with the
reduced-rate lines found themselves unable to participate,
not only in the local transportation of federal troops and
property between the termini of the reduced-rate lines,
but also in through movements from and to points beyond
such termini." Public Aids to Transportation, supra, p.
42. Accordingly most of those roads entered into land'The Court of Claims made the following finding in this case: "The
purpose and effect of the freight equalization agreements of the
defendant with plaintiff and with other common carriers was to
equalize rates on Government property over various routes serving
the same point of origin and destination, where one or more of those
routes had been aided in whole or in part by grant of public lands,
rates over all routes from point of origin to destination being brought
down to the level of that over the route producing the lowest net rate
on account of land-grant deduction. This arrangement was designed
to give the equalizing carrier a portion of the Government business
that was possible of routing over the governing land-grant route,
and to give the Government a greater range in choice of routes where
considerations of economy entered into the selection."
2 But see § 321 of the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 898,
954.
587770°-45----9

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

grant equalization agreements with the United States in
order to get as large a share of the business as possible.'
See Southern Pacific Co. v. United States, 307 U. S.
393, 394. The one involved in the present case is an
example.
This suit involves 374 shipments of government property over petitioner's lines and its connections made between 1934 and 1938 while this agreement was in force.'
There were available in case of each shipment several
routes between the point of origin and the point of destination. Petitioner's route was in general the shortest. But
there were other routes containing land grants of varying
percentages which it was possible to use for these shipments. And the rates shown by tariffs on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission for freight shipments
between the points in question were the same (with exceptions not important here) for each of the alternative routes
regardless of the mileage. Petitioner computed its charges
so as to allow the rate reductions to which the United
States would have been entitled had it actually made the
shipments by one of the available, alternative land-grant
routes. The United States, however, claimed greater deductions. It showed a lofiger and more circuitous route
which could have been used' and which contained more
land-grant mileage than the alternative route chosen by
3Petitioner's road includes 145 miles of land-grants. But as pointed
out in Public Aids to Transportation, supra, p. 42, "The land-grant
railroads are parties to these agreements for the reason that, in many
instances, a non-aided portion of a land-grant railroad competes with
a reduced-rate portion of another land-grant railroad."
4These consisted of 147 shipments of livestock by the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation from midwestern points to southeastern points;
and 227 shipments of property by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
r Thus in case of the shipments of livestock the routes on which the
United States made its computation of rates were from 137 to almost
700 miles longer than the ones actually used.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 75
72

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner. Since the tariff rates over either alternative
route were the same, the greater land grants included in
the route selected by the United States resulted in lower
rates than those which were computed on the basis of
the land-grant route selected by petitioner. The United
States paid the lower rates. Petitioner brought suit in the
Court of Claims for the difference between the amount
paid and the rates computed on the basis of the tariffs for
the route which it had selected. The Court of Claims
denied recovery. 100 Ct. Cls. 175. The case is here on a
petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because
of the public importance of the problem.
The Court of Claims found that the circuitous routes
on which the United States based its computations could
have been used for the shipments in question. But petitioner contends that such an interpretation of the word
"available" is unreasonable in the present context and that
it should be construed to mean "capable of being employed
or made use of with advantage." In that connection,
petitioner argues that it would have been improvident and
uneconomical to ship livestock on such circuitous routes
and that those routes would never in fact have been used
by the United States. It is argued, moreover, that the
equalization agreement properly construed requires petitioner to equalize rates computed by land-grant routes
which are competitive for government traffic. Its purpose, according to that contention, was to secure for petitioner traffic which in its absence would be likely to move
over competing land-grant routes, as distinguished from
traffic which was possible of routing over the cheapest
land-grant route.
We agree, however, with the Court of Claims. In this
context the "lowest net rates lawfully available" mean
to us the lowest net rates which could have been obtained
on the basis of tariffs on file with the Interstate Commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Commission. Whether such circuitous routes as were employed in the present computation would have been
actually used for these shipments in absence of the equalization agreement is of course unknown. But circuitous
routing by the United States in order to obtain the benefits
of its earlier land-grants to railroads was apparently a common practice. See Public Aids to Transportation, supra,
p. 42. The records show that the privilege of obtaining
the benefit of rates on land-grant routes is a valuable privilege indeed. We cannot assume that the United States
intended to surrender any of those benefits by granting the
equalizing carriers more favorable rates than those to
which it was lawfully entitled on the land-grant routes,
unless the purpose to do so was plainly expressed. It
must be remembered that the equalization agreement was
a rate-making agreement. Its object was to divert shipments to the non-land-grant route. The land-grant route
was chosen merely for the purpose of computing the rate.
The fact that in a given case the shipment probably would
not have moved over the land-grant route is immaterial.
The United States was bargaining for low rates for the
shipment of its property. It did not differentiate between
the types of property shipped. It did not in terms state
that land-grant routes, though actually available, would
not be used in computing the rate unless they would in fact
have been convenient or practicable to use for the particular shipment. The standard it prescribes is "the lowest
net rates lawfully available." We may not resolve any
ambiguities which may linger in that phrase against the
United States. Cf. Southern Pacific Co. v. United States,
supra, p. 401. We are not warranted in assuming that the
United States was more generous to this carrier than the
6

See Public Aids to Transportation, supra, pp. 43-45; Kenny,
Land-Grant Railroads and the Government (1933), 9 Journal of Land
& Public Utility Economics 368.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 77
72

Opinion of the Court.

language of the contract requires. We must assume that
the contracting officers for the United States drove as
provident a bargain as a reading of the agreement fairly
permits.
At times the United States has made equalization agreements which were more favorable to the equalizing carriers
than the instant one appears to be. Thus in 1917 a passenger land-grant equalization agreement was made with
petitioner and other carriers ' whereby they agreed to accept the lowest net fare "lawfully available, as derived,
through deductions account land-grant distance via a
usually traveled routefor military traffic, from a lawful fare
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission as applying from point of origin to destination via such route at
time of movement." (Italics added.) That agreement
suggests that when the United States desired to give equalizing carriers more favorable rates than the lowest rates
to which it was lawfully entitled on land-grant routes, it
chose apt words to express its purpose. It also gives added
significance to the omission of any such qualification in the
present agreement. It suggests that if we read into the
agreement the qualification which the petitioner desires,
we would remake the contract.
Much material bearing on administrative construction
of various types of equalization agreements has been
pressed upon us. But we have not relied on it as we found
it inconclusive.
Affirmed.

7See Manual for the Quartermaster Corps, 1916 (1917), vol. 2, pp.
223, 230.

