ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
408

Syllabus.

The Circuit Court of Appeals recognized established
principles in determining to what extent the respondent
Simkins should be denied compensation for services by
reason of his acting in inconsistent relations. That court
canvassed authorities which this court cites in its opinion
and not only did not refuse to follow and apply them but,
as I think, in perfect good faith, proceeded to examine and
appraise the facts and circumstances in order to apply the
relevant legal principles.
There is not a suggestion of any conflict amongst the
federal courts respecting the law which should govern decision nor is there any suggestion that, on an identical
set of -facts, any federal court has reached a result contrary to that reached by the court below. In essence, the
case presents the question whether the action taken by
the Circuit Court of Appeals was sufficiently drastic in the
circumstances disclosed.
I think it plain that this case falls within the category
to which I referred in Bailey v. Central Vermont Ry. Co.,
319 U. S. 350, 354. All the considerations there mentioned
apply equally here. If this court is to spend its time correcting mistakes in the appraisal of facts in individual
cases by courts below, the performance of its essential
functions necessarily will suffer.
ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 463.

Argued March 6, 7, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

Upon the record in this case, which was a suit brought against the
United States under the Act of August 15, 1894, by an Indian
claiming, under the Mission Indian Act of 1891, as amended by the
Act of March 2, 1917, a right to a trust patent to an allotment of
lands which had long been in his possession and which had been

considerably improved by him, but which allotment had not been

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

finally approved by the Secretary of the Interior, the Government
was not entitled to summary judgment but should be required to
answer, and the cause should proceed to trial, findings and judgment. P. 433.
137 F. 2d 199, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 733, to review the affirmance of

a summary judgment for the United States in a suit
against it under a special jurisdictional act.
Messrs. John W. Preston and Oliver 0. Clark argued
the cause, and Mr. Prestonwas on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Norman MacDonald,with whom Assistant Attorney General Littell was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner Arenas is a full-blood Mission Indian,
regularly enrolled in the Agua Caliente or Palm Springs
Band. He sued in the United States District Court to be
awarded a trust patent to certain lands on the Palm
Springs Reservation. The Government was granted a
summary judgment of dismissal on affidavits and on the
record of the St. Marie litigation on like claims by similarly situated Indians.' No findings have been made in
this case by the District Court. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed 2 chiefly in reliance upon its previous decision in the St. Marie case, and we granted certiorari."
For a long period Congress pursued the policy of imposing, as rapidly as possible, our system of individual
land tenure on the Indian. To this end tribal or com'St. Marie v. United States, 24 F. Supp. 237, 108 F. 2d 876, cert.
denied because petition out of time, 311 U. S. 652.
2 137 F. 2d 199.
3 320 U. S. 733.

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

munal land holdings of the Indians were superseded by
allotment to individuals, who were protected against improvidence by restraints on alienation.4 The Mission
Indians had deserved well and had fared badly 5 and Congress passed the Mission Indian Act of 1891 1 for their
particular redress.
The first three sections of this Act set up a commission
to settle these several bands on suitable reservations and
directed that appropriate patents issue. The United
States was to hold the titles in trust, however, for twentyfive years and then was to convey to the tribes any portions not previously patented in severalty to members.
Several reservations were set apart, including one at Palm
Springs, with which this and the St. Marie case were
concerned.
The Act also provided in ยง 4 that whenever in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior any of the Indians
should "be so advanced in civilization as to be capable
of owning and managing land in severalty, the Secretary
of the Interior may cause allotments to be made to such
Indians, out of the land of such reservation" and it specified the acreage to be allotted to each. Section 5 provided that on approval of the allotments the Secretary
should cause patents to issue in the name of the allottees.
For twenty-five years the lands were to remain in trust
for their benefit and then were to be conveyed in fee free
of the trust.'
4

General Allotment Act of 1887, 24 Stat. 388, 25 U. S. C. ยง 331;

see Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law, c. 11.
1 See report on conditions and needs of the Mission Indians, Sen.
Rep. No. 74, 50th Cong., 1st Sess.
6 26 Stat. 712.
7 Sections 4 and 5 of the Act provide as follows:
"See. 4. That whenever any of the Indians residing upon any reservation patented under the provisions of this act shall, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, be so advanced in civilization

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Nevertheless, little was done toward allotment in severalty to Mission Indians for nearly twenty-five years.
One reason, we gather, was that the Act authorized allotment on a more liberal basis than available lands would
permit, although there may have been other reasons. In
1916, however, Secretary Lane called the neglect to the
attention of Congress and asked that he be authorized to
make allotments in quantities governed by the General
Allotment Act of 1887 as amended by ยง 17 of the Act of
June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 859, instead of in those set out in
as to be capable of owning and managing land in severalty, the Secretary of the Interior may cause allotments to be made to such Indians, out of the land of such reservation, in quantity as follows:

To each head of a family not more than six hundred and forty acres
nor less than one hundred and sixty acres of pasture or grazing land,
and in addition thereto not exceeding twenty acres, as he shall deem
for the best interest of the allottee, of arable land in some suitable
locality; to each single person over twenty-one years of age not less
than eighty nor more than six hundred and forty acres of pasture or
grazing land an not exceeding ten acres of such arable land.
"SEc. 5. That upon the approval of the allotments provided for in
the preceding section by the Secretary of the Interior he shall cause
patents to issue therefor in the name of the allottees, which shall be of
the legal effect and declare that the United States does and will hold
the land thus allotted for the period of twenty-five years, in trust
for the sole use and benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment
shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of his heirs according
to the laws of the State of California, and that at the expiration
of said period the United States will convey the same by patent to
the said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said
trust and free of all charge or incumbrance whatsoever. And if any
conveyance shall be made of the lands set apart and allotted as herein
provided, or any contract made touching the same, before the expiration of the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract
shall be absolutely null and void: Provided,That these patents, when
issued, shall override the patent authorized to be issued to the band
or village as aforesaid, and shall separate the individual allotment
from the lands held in common, which proviso shall be incorporated
in each of the village patents."

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

the Mission Indian Act of 1891. Thereupon Congress
passed the Act of March 2, 1917 ' by which it "authorized
and directed" the Secretary to proceed under the Act of
1910.
The Secretary on June 7, 1921 appointed Harry E.
Wadsworth as Special Allotting Agent at Large for the
Mission Indian Reservations of California and instructed
him to prepare schedules of selections for allotments
thereon. In 1923, Wadsworth filed a schedule showing
selections on the Palm Springs Reservation for fifty members of the Band. The Secretary expressly disapproved
this schedule. Complaint had come from the Indians,
many of whom did not want allotments and had not made
the selections listed in their names. When they failed to
choose, the allotment agent had made a choice for them.
The Secretary instructed Wadsworth to prepare a new
schedule listing only selections voluntarily made and to
leave off those who did not desire allotments. In 1927,
the Department received from Wadsworth a new schedule
showing voluntary selections for twenty-four members of
the Palm Springs Band.
Each Indian for whom a selection was listed received
from Wadsworth a certificate of selection for allotment.
Each was stamped "Not valid unless approved by the Secretary of the Interior."
On October 26, 1923, Wadsworth asked the Indian Department for instructions, reciting, "Allotments being
completed and certificates issued. Many allottees anxious
to immediately occupy their selections and prepare things
for early crops instead waiting for receipt of patents."
On the same day he received reply, "No objection to Indians preparing their respective allotment selections for
crops if properly listed on schedule." Wadsworth also
wrote to one, at least, of the allottees in the St. Marie case,
8 39 Stat. 969, 976.

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

saying among other things, "It is difficult to tell exactly
when you may expect these patents from Washington
but I believe they should be here within 6 weeks or so.
They will come to the superintendent in Riverside, who
will notify you that they are there and ready for delivery
to you. In the meantime, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs in Washington authorizes me to say to you that
from this date you are entitled to enter upon and take possession of these allotments, and these certificates will be
your evidence of such authority until the trust patents are
received by you."
Wadsworth filed the schedule with the Department of
the Interior. He attached a certificate, among other
things reciting "that the allotments shown hereon were
made in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress of February 8, 1887 as amended by the Act of June
25, 1910 and supplemented by the Act of March 2, 1917."
The General Land Office recommended that the schedule
be approved, with exceptions that appear to have no bearing on the case before us.
But the allotments appear never to have been approved
by the Secretary. He refuses to issue patents to which
these Indians claim to be entitled. The Government's
moving papers contain an affidavit by counsel declaring
that the Secretary disapproved the allotments. But it
gives no reason, and no order or statement of disapproval
by the Secretary is in the record. The Government filed
no pleading averring reasons for disapproval or, if disapproval was formal, setting forth the document. On the
contrary, counsel seems to have taken the position that
as matter of law the Secretary's reasons and the form of
his disapproval were not relevant to any question the
Court is empowered to decide.
The power of the Secretary so to refuse patents and
the powerlessness of the courts to review the refusal are
here maintained on these contentions: "It rests in the

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

complete discretion of the Secretary of the Interior
whether or not allotments shall be made on the Palm
Springs Reservation. Sections 4 and 5 of the Act of January 12, 1891 contemplate three steps in the making of
allotments on that reservation: (1) an opinion by the
Secretary as to the capacity of the Indians to receive allotments; (2) a method or procedure for making such allotments; and (3) approval of the allotments by the Secretary. Each of these steps is under the control and rests
in the discretion of the Secretary." Upon these grounds
the trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
the plaintiffs in the St. Marie cases were not entitled to
patents and that this petitioner is not entitled to go to
trial.
I.
The Secretary's discretionin determining the capacity of
the Indians to receive allotments.
The Act of 1891 provides that "whenever any of the
Indians residing upon any reservation patented under the
provisions of this Act shall, in the opinion of the Secretary
of the Interior,be so advanced in civilization as to be capable of owning and managing land in severalty, the Secretary of the Interior may cause allotments to be made to
such Indians." (Emphasis supplied.) This undoubtedly
conferred a very considerable discretion upon the
Secretary.
The Act of 1917; however, drops the language of discretion and directs the Secretary to cause allotments to be
made to the Indians on the Mission reservations.' The
9 The Act of 1917 in relevant part provides that: ". . the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to
cause allotments to be made to the Indians belonging to and having
tribal rights on the Mission Indian reservations in the State of California, in areas as provided in section seventeen of the Act of June
twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten (Thirty-sixth Statutes at
Large, page eight hundred and fifty-nine), instead of as provided
587770*-45-31

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Act was prepared by the Secretary"' and if it was intended to perpetuate his discretion as to whether the allotment policy was to be applied to these Indians at all, it
might easily have so provided. Both the Secretary and
Congress appear to have settled that point. The communication of the Secretary to the Chairman of the Senate
Committee on Indian Affairs indicates no reservations
about the Secretary's view that the Indians were qualified
and that the Department should carry out the allotment
policy. It points out certain evils and inequalities among
the Indians under the tribal system of land holdings and
says, "This is a condition that cannot be cured entirely
until the lands have been allotted in severalty." And
again it says, "The Department believes that the present
conditions, while much better than they were some years
ago, would be rapidly improved by allotment in severalty,
provided authority to prorate the available land is
given."
Following passage of the Act the Secretary set about
executing its directions. Wadsworth was appointed General Allotment Agent and was sent to the Indians with
instructions to permit them to select their own allotments.
When he selected for those who did not choose for themselves, his schedule was disapproved, and only for that
reason. He was returned to the task of compiling voluntary selections for those who desired allotments, it being
thought that if that were done those who objected "would
soon fall in line and request that they too be given their
proportionate share of the allottable areas." 11 There is
in section four of the Act of January twelfth, eighteen hundred and
ninety-one (Twenty-sixth Statutes at Large, page seven hundred and
thirteen): Provided, That this act shall not affect any allotments
heretofore patented to these Indians." 39 Stat. 969, 976.
10 See letter of Secretary of Interior to Chairman of Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, January 7, 1916.
11 Letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of
the Interior, December 22, 1926.

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

no denial that Wadsworth was authorized to hold out to
the Indians that their patents would be received in a few
weeks and that meanwhile, if not already living on their
selected lands, they might enter into possession.
To assume that the Act of 1917, while directing the
Secretary to make allotments, only meant to give him uncontrolled discretion not to do so would be a doubtful construction, in view of its history. But even if it were so
interpreted, it did not require the Secretary to manifest
his exercise of discretion in any formal way. His opinion
that the Indians had the capacity for individual responsibility for land ownership could be indicated by conduct
as well as by words. We think his conduct and words
amount both to an administrative construction of the
1917 Act as a direction and to the exercise of any discretion he may have had under It.
If the Indians were not ready for allotments, why send
an agent to hold out to them that hope and promise? Why
the elaborate procedure of allotment? The Department
then sought not only to offer allotment but to proceed so
as to make the Indians "fall in line." Despite the obvious
inference from these acts the record does not counter them
by any showing that the Secretary now considers these
Indians to lack civilization and capacity, tested by the
usual standards for allotment, nor does it show that they
do not in fact possess it. History and common knowledge
of these Indians would indicate that they are not wanting in whatever it is that makes up "civilization." Long
ago the Franciscans converted them to Christianity,
taught them to subsist by good husbandry and handicrafts. Under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (1848)
their ancestral lands and their governance passed from
Mexico to the United States. During the gold discovery
days they were too gentle to combat the ruthless pressures of the whites and came to lead a precarious and p*itiable, but peaceful, existence. Eventually the country was

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

aroused by their plight and set up a commission to investigate their grievances and to make recommendations for
their protection and relief. It reported in 1884 2 and its
recommendations were substantially embodied in the
Mission Indian Act of 1891. By the standards of peacefulness, industry, and gentleness these Indians have long
been "civilized." Even tested by the standard of acquisitiveness, they seem not to have failed. Improvements
made by Arenas on the lands he occupied in reliance upon
his certificate are valued at $15,000.
On the record as it now stands we do not think the Government has established the falsity of the allegations of
the complaint that the Secretary had made the preliminary decision as to the allotments. We think the issue
has been settled, in the absence of further proof to
the contrary, by the Act of 1917 and the Secretary's
action under it.
II.
The Secretary's discretion as to procedurefor making
such allotments.
We do not see that this is much in question nor is much
in point, if true. Arenas does not question that the Secretary had discretion to adopt the method of allotment
which was followed. He claims that both he and the Department have complied with it, that his choice has been
ascertained, the lands have been identified and marked and
reported to the Department, and that nothing remains for
either to do to perfect the right to a patent. If there has
been any irregularity in the procedure to lead to a patent,
the Government has not pleaded or evidenced it in the
case. We assume the Secretary's complete control of the
method and, as the record stands, that his method has
12

S. Ex. Doc. No. 49, 48th Cong., 1st Sess., reproduced in Sen. Rep.

No. 74, 50th Cong., 1st Sess.

ARENAS. v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

been executed to the point where a patent would issue but
for the refusal of the Secretary.
III.
The Secretary's discretion as to final approval of the
allotments.
This is the crux of the lawsuit. It is as to this final
step that Congress has invested the courts with some
responsibility.
The Act of August 15, 1894, 25 U. S. C. ยง 345, authorizes
Indians to commence and prosecute actions "in relation
to their right" to land under any allotment act or under
any grant made by Congress "in the proper district court
of the United States; and said district courts are given
jurisdiction to try and determine any action, suit, or proceeding arising within their respective jurisdictions involving the right of any person, in whole or in part of
Indian blood or descent, to any allotment of land under
any law or treaty." It is further provided that "the judgment or decree of any such court in favor of any claimant
to an allotment of land shall have the same effect, when
properly certified to the Secretary of Interior, as if such
allotment had been allowed and approved by him."' 3
'a The statute in full is as follows:
"All persons who are in whole or in part of Indian blood or descent
who are entitled to an allotment of land under any law of Congress, or

who claim to be so entitled to land under any allotment Act or under any grant made by Congress, or who claim to have been unlawfully denied or excluded from any allotment or ny parcel of land to
which they claim to be lawfully entitled by virtue of any Act of Congress, may commence and prosecute or defend any action, suit, or
proceeding in relation to their right thereto in the proper district court
of the United States; and said district courts are given jurisdiction
to try and determine any action, suit, or proceeding arising within
their respective jurisdictions involving the right of any person, in whole
or in part of Indian blood or descent, to any allotment of land under

any law or treaty (and in said suit the parties thereto shall be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Under this statute the courts have decided disputes between Indians and the Government as to the relative
qualifications of two claimants to receive, as a member of
a band, a patent, Hy-Yu-Tse-Mil-Kin v. Smith, 194 U. S.
401, and whether particular lands were appropriate for
allotment, United States v. Payne, 264 U. S.446.
But here we do not know from any information developed in the adversary proceedings what the dispute
between the Secretary of the Interior and Arenas is about.
The Government did not answer the complaint. It foreclosed evidence on the facts by its motion for summary
judgment, in which it incorporated the evidence in another proceeding. In that other proceeding no representative of the Government except the local Mission Indian
agent and Wadsworth, the former allotment agent, were
sworn. There appears to have been no testimony as to
what happened to the schedule of allotments after it
reached Washington or as to whether it ever was approved
or disapproved and, if so, how or by whom or why. The
Government's affidavit filed in opposition to the motion
recited that the Secretary's records "reveal that the Secretary of the Interior has disapproved the allotment schedule and certificates of selection." No entry order or memorandum of disapproval is produced, nor is the date thereof
stated.
Certain facts do appear from which we know that this
is no ordinary allotment problem. Each selection here
claimant as plaintiff and the United States as party defendant); and
the judgment or decree of any such court in favor of any claimant to
an allotment of land shall have the same effect, when properly certified
to the Secretary of the Interior, as if such allotment had been allowed
and approved by him, but this provision shall not apply to any lands
held August 15, 1894, by either of the Five Civilized Tribes, nor to
any of the lands within the Quapaw Indian Agency: Provided, That
the right of appeal shall be allowed to either party as in other cases."

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

included three kinds of land: a two-acre town lot, of considerable value; five acres of irrigable land of fair value;
and forty acres of desert land. All of the town lots chosen
are in Section 14, Township 4 South, Range 4 East. This
section contains Palm Springs, a hot mineral spring, from
which the reservation derives its name.
But the reservation itself is a checkerboard affair. At
the time of its establishment the odd-numbered sections
already had been granted to the Southern Pacific Railroad
and hence the reservation consisted of only even-numbered sections. On the railroad sections the whites have
established the settlement known as Palm Springs, a
flourishing winter resort with large hotels and the usual
business places and residences that characterize such a development. Out of this situation has grown conflict of
interest between the Indians and the whites and between
Indians themselves. The Indians, to the annoyance of
the whites, seek to exploit their ownership of the springs,
and the whites are accused, not without probable cause, of
coveting the Indians' property rights therein. Those
among both races who favor allotment allege that the denial of patents is designed to serve the white interests in
Palm Springs by leasing or selling valuable tribal lands to
those who are promoting the resort interests. Those who
oppose issuance of patents allege that the allotment system is unfair to the tribe and will result eventually in the
whites' getting possession and title to the lands. The
outlines of the controversy are clear, but the summary
disposition of the case has precluded the adversary trial
which alone would give reliable foundation for determining it, if indeed the evidence will show that it should be
the subject of judicial determination. The legal claims
of this particular Indian to a patent for the lands he
selected for allotment, which have long been in his possession and have been considerably improved with the knowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

edge of the Government, are now entangled in larger
questions of Indian land policy.
The jurisdictional Act of 1894, under which this suit is
in the courts, requires them to adjudicate legal rights of
the parties and to render a judgment which will stand
in lieu of the Secretary's action if he has unlawfully denied a patent to an allotment to which the Indian is entitled. But courts are not to determine questions of Indian
land policy, nor can the Secretary on grounds of policy
deprive an allottee of any rights he may have acquired in
his allotment. To separate questions of right from questions of policy requires judicial examination of any well
pleaded allegation of the complaint and of any grounds
advanced for refusal of the patent. Even in some discretionary matters, it has been held that if an official acts
solely on grounds which misapprehend the legal rights of
the parties, an otherwise unreviewable discretion may become subject to correction. Perkinsv. Elg, 307 U. S.325,
349.
Since the Government has not pleaded to the complaint
nor offered evidence as to the Secretary's position we know
it only as stated in argument. It appears that the sole
reason for denying a patent is a departmental change of
policy, by which the Secretary now disagrees with the
allotment policy prescribed for these Indians by the Acts
of 1891 and 1917. The Government brief says, "Meanwhile opposition to the making of allotments in severalty
developed among the members of the Palm Springs Band
of Indians, and as a result administrative action on the
1927 schedule was further delayed. During this period
the conclusion was reached in the Department that in fairness to the Band as a whole and from the standpoint of
their best interests the lands scheduled for allotment
should be held in a tribal status and dealt with as a tribal
asset." It says further, "The Secretary has determined

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
419

Opinion of the Court.

that it would be inequitable and detrimental to the Palm
Springs Band of Indians as a whole to approve any allotments on their reservation." Again, "The Secretary
should not be compelled to carry through a plan of allotment in severalty which in his judgment will operate contrary to the best interests of the Palm Springs Band of
Indians, but he should be permitted to stay his hand and
seek a time which would be more in the interest of that
Band."
The Secretary has endeavored to persuade Congress that
treatment other than the allotment policy embodied in its
legislation would be more advantageous for the Indians.
In 1935, he recommended to Congress a bill authorizing
him to make a 99-year lease of the reservation lands."
This failed of enactment. In 1937, the Secretary recommended a bill to repeal the provisions of the Act of March
2, 1917, directing the making of allotments on the Mission
Indian Reservations." That bill failed. He also recommended a bill to authorize the sale of a part of the Palm
Springs Reservation.' That likewise failed of enactment.
We think the grounds advanced by the Government by
way of argument, although not by way of evidence, are
inadequate to establish as matter of law that the petitioner
has no legal right to a patent. Congress not only has failed
to deny these allotment rights by legislation, but has rejected urgent and reiterated appeals from the Department
to do so. Arenas is entitled to invoke the applicable legis1'See

H. R. Rep. No. 1521 and Sen. Rep. No. 1201, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess.
15 Sen. Rep. No. 1238, 75th Cong., 1st Sess. The Palm Springs Indians were among those which had voted against application to them
of the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 984, which would
have terminated all future allotment in severalty.
16 Hearings, House Committee on Indian Affairs, on H. R. 7450,
75th Cong,, 3d Sess., pp. 5-6.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

lation as it stands in determining whether he is entitled
to have completed the all but fully executed policy of
allotment. '
The petitioner made no counter motion in the District
Court for summary judgment against the Government.
Before us he asks only that his complaint be answered
and that he be given a chance to establish his legal claim if
he can by trial. The summary judgment against him
should be reversed and the Government required to
answer. We do not preclude motion by the Government
to strike parts of the complaint if any are found to be
improper pleading. But we think the duty of the Court
under the jurisdictional act can be discharged in a case of
this complexity only by trial, findings and judgment in
regular course.
Reversed.

17 The Solicitor of the Department of Interior has himself indicated
that where the Indian has done all he could to get his patent and has
failed because of the neglect of public officers the courts will generally
protect him, and that this may be proper even where there has been
a failure to approve the allotment. See 55 Decisions of the Department of the Interior 295, 303-304.

