OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

CRITES, INCORPORATED v. PRUDENTIAL
INSURANCE CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 317.

Argued March 1, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

1. A federal court receiver who, through a private agreement made
prior to the foreclosure sale of the properties, derived a profit
from their subsequent resale, held accountable to the receivership
estate for such profit, notwithstanding that he had been appointed to collect rents and operate the properties and was without authority in respect of any sale thereof. P. 416.
2. The fee-splitting arrangement entered into by the receiver in this
case, together with the fact that he engaged in other misconduct
incompatible with his position as an officer of the court, require
that he be denied all fees and compensation as receiver. P. 418.
134 F. 2d 925, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 728, to review a judgment which

modified and affirmed an order of the District Court approving and confirming receivers' accounts and overruling exceptions thereto.
Messrs. Isaac E. Ferguson and Joseph Rosenbaum for
petitioner.
Messrs. Clarence D. Laylin and Osmer C. Ingalls for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We granted certiorari in this case to determine certain
important questions concerning the proper administration of federal receiverships.
Henry M. Crites and his wife, May R. Crites, executed
mortgages in 1929 to the Prudential Insurance Company
of America upon 22 parcels of adjoining farm property in

CRITES, INC. v. PRUDENTIAL CO.
408

Opinion of the Court.

*Madison and Pickaway Counties, Ohio. Each mortgage,
being in default, was matured by acceleration on December 30, 1931. On February 17, 1932, Prudential began 22
separate foreclosure proceedings against the Criteses and
Crites, Inc., the petitioner. Only the 11 proceedings
relating to the 11 contiguous farms in Madison County,
on which the mortgages aggregated $192,000, are now
before us.
An involuntary petition in bankruptcy had been filed
against Henry M. Crites. Petitioner is an Ohio corporation formed by Crites' creditors in an effort to salvage
something from the farms. To it had been conveyed all
the properties of the Criteses, including the equities of redemption. Prudential requested that a receiver be appointed to take charge of the mortgaged farms pending
the termination of the foreclosure proceedings. The District Court accordingly appointed as co-receivers the respondents Simkins and Florence "to collect the rents and
proceeds of the real estate . . . to operate and manage
said real estate through tenants, lessees, or otherwise, to
rent and lease said real estate, to pay delinquent taxes and
assessments and insurance premiums, to make such repairs
as may be necessary to preserve the value of the premises
and to produce normal income therefrom, and to do such
other acts as may be from time to time ordered by the
court." Subsequent orders authorized them to borrow
money from Prudential and from the local bank to pay
necessary expenses relating to the farms and to execute
leases of the farms upon a share or crop rental basis.
No answers to the foreclosure complaints were filed.
In the hope that economic conditions would improve and
bring about a higher sale value, the District Court allowed
the receivers to operate the farms for a year before entering decrees pro confesso on May 2, 1933. By these decrees
the mortgages and equities of redemption were declared
foreclosed and the marshal was directed to sell each farm
587770°-45-30

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

individually on July 1, 1933, at a public sale for cash at.
not less than two-thirds of the appraised value. The appraisers set the value of the 11 Madison County farms at
$244,080, making $162,720 the minimum price at which
they could be sold. The decree indebtedness in the 11
cases was $223,742.32. Prudential made the sole bids at
the public sale on July 1 and secured title to the 11 farms
for $163,900, slightly more than the upset price. The District Court confirmed this sale on July 18.
Prudential subsequently objected to the allowance of
the receivers' claims on the ground that they were excessive. Petitioner also filed objections. Hearings were held
before a special master. The District Court overruled
petitioner's exceptions to the special master's report and
its counterclaim, amended and approved the receivers'
accounts, and affirmed the special master's report.
Petitioner alone appealed, the court below affirming
the action of the District Court with a slight modification as to additional fees for the receivers' attorneys.
134 F. 2d 925.
I.
Petitioner's first contention is that Simkins' actions in
connection with the foreclosure sales constituted a breach
of his duty as a receiver and rendered him accountable
for certain profits made by him and others.
The evidence indicates that a Col. Proctor of Cincinnati
was interested in purchasing the entire 11 Madison
County farms as a unit and that he employed a real estate
agent, Edwin Jones,1 to represent him in the matter. Several weeks before the foreclosure sales, Jones visited Simkins and told him that he understood that Simkins was
one of the attorneys in the matter and that he was inter"Jones was familiar with the 11 Madison County farms, having
made an offer of $500,000 for them "a year or more" prior to 1933 on
behalf of a New York principal. Crites rejected this offer, however.

CRITES, INC. v. PRUDENTIAL CO.
408

Opinion of the Court.

ested in buying the farms. Simkins, in addition to being
one of the co-receivers, was an attorney who had represented Prudential in other foreclosure proceedings in
Ohio and who had served Jones in a professional capacity
on other matters. Simkins replied that "we are in no
position to offer it right now, not in position until after
the foreclosure proceedings and the Prudential Insurance
Company acquires title for it, then they will be in position
to offer it to anybody else trying to buy it." Simkins
agreed, however, to intercede on Jones' behalf. They then
drew up a contract whereby Simkins was to assist Jones in
securing title to the 11 farms from Prudential after the
latter had secured title by purchase at the public sale.
The compensation of Simkins was dependent upon the
success of the deal. Simkins did not know at this time the
name of Jones' principal or how much the principal was
willing to pay for the farms as a unit. Simkins then informed petitioner's counsel and the district judge that
there "might be some parties interested" in the 11 farms
as a unit, but was informed that they could not be sold as
a group. It does not appear that he told counsel or the
court that he had accepted employment from Jones!
At Jones' request, Simkins conferred on June 25, 1933,
with Prudential representatives concerning the possibility
of purchasing the 11 farms from Prudential. No definite
arrangements were then made, the representatives stating
that they could not discuss terms until Prudential had
bought the farms at the sale. On June 27 Jones submitted
through Simkins a written offer of $249,106 to Prudential
for the 11 farms, including "the company's undivided onehalf interest in the growing corn crop thereon." The offer
was witnessed by Simkins and another person and was
2 Simkins testified that the fact of his employment by Jones "was
no secret" and that "I may have told Judge Hough. I would not
have hesitated in telling him."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

enclosed in a letter which was addressed to one of Prudential's representatives and which was signed by Simkins. In this letter Simkins vouched for the responsibility
of "Mr. Jones' buyer." Jones also enclosed a $3,000 certified check in support of his offer. Simkins by this time
clearly was aware of the identity of Jones' principal and of
the terms of the offer to Prudential. But he made no
effort to inform either the district judge or petitioner of
these facts prior to or at the sale.
At the public sale held by the marshal on July 1, Prudential made the sole bids and secured title to the 11 farms
for a total sum of $163,900. Jones attended the sale but
Col. Proctor had not authorized Jones to bid since he desired to buy only when he could be assured of securing all
the 11 farms at once and when title to them was suppprted
by a warranty deed from Prudential. Two days later, on
July 3, Prudential accepted Jones' offer of $249,106.
Prudential then moved to confirm the public sales, giving due notice to petitioner of the hearing on the motion.
At this hearing on July 18, objections to the motion "were
suggested by reason of alleged commitments made by the
plaintiff [Prudential] for the sale of certain of said properties, prior to public sale." It does not appear who made
these objections or whether the petitioner's counsel was
present. Harrison, one of the attorneys for the receivers,
thereupon orally advised the judge of the terms and
amount of Jones' offer and its acceptance by Prudential.
At the judge's suggestion, Harrison set forth these facts
in the form of an affidavit, which was later introduced at
the hearing on the receivers' accounts. The court was
not informed, however, as to Simkins' participation in the
matter or as to the fact that Col. Proctor was the actual
purchaser of the farms. Simkins was present in the court
room at this time but said nothing. The judge confirmed
the sales on the same day, July 18. Soon afterwards Prudential executed a warranty deed to Col. Proctor's nom-

CRITES, INC. v. PRUDENTIAL CO.
408

Opinion of the Court.

inee, the deed reciting a consideration of $249,106 but
bearing tax stamps apparently indicating a substantially
greater price.'
Simkins received a total of $2,797 from Jones, nearly all
of which was in payment for his aid in consummating the
purchase of the farms from Prudential.
On the basis of these facts, petitioner seeks to have
Simkins surcharged with (a) all payments received by
him from Jones for his assistance in consummating the resale of the farms to Col. Proctor; (b) the commission or
profit received by Jones; and (c) the amount received by
Prudential in excess of the decree indebtedness or, in the
alternative, the amount by which the appraised value of
the farms exceeded the decree indebtedness. Petitioner
claims that Simkins must be surcharged with these
amounts because he breached his duty as co-receiver by
accepting employment from Jones in advance of the foreclosure sales to help bring about a resale of the farms from
Prudential to Col. Proctor. Respondents, on the other
hand, resist this claim on the ground that Simkins was appointed co-receiver only to collect the rents and to operate
the farms and had no fiduciary duty with respect to the
foreclosure sales.
It is true that Simkins' official duties as co-receiver were
limited to those conferred upon him by the court and that
he had no authority to sell or to cause a sale of the farms
in question. The foreclosure sales were conducted by
the marshal under the direct supervision of the District
Court and there was no evidence that Simkins unduly influenced the actual 'xecution of the sales in any way. It
3

Petitioner claims that the stamps indicate that Col. Proctor paid
approximately $281,000, "presumably, $249,106 net to Prudential . . .
and the difference of $31,894 to Jones." There was no proof, however,
that Jones received that amount. He testified merely that he received
$15,000 and an additional amount that he did not remember, from
which amounts he paid Simkins.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

is obvious, moreover, that Simkins was bound to perform
his delegated duties with the high degree of care demanded
of a trustee or other similar fiduciary. He was not free
to deal with the property under his control as co-receiver
in such a way as to benefit himself or his associates. Any
profits that might have resulted from a breach of these
high standards, including the profits of others who knowingly joined him in pursuing an illegal course of action,
would have to be disgorged and applied to the estate.
Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503; Magruder v. Drury, 235
U. S. 106; Jackson v. Smith, 254 U. S. 586.
But Simkins' conduct is not to be measured solely by
the arbitrary dichotomy of functions relating to the conservation and liquidation of the farm properties. As a
co-receiver in charge of collecting the rents and operating
the farms, Simkins was also an officer or arm of the court.
He was appointed to assist the court in protecting and
preserving, for the benefit of all parties concerned, the
properties in the court's custody pending the foreclosure
proceedings. Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, 331; Davis v.
Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 217-218; Stuart v. Boulware, 133 U. S.
78, 81; Porterv. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473, 479; Atlantic Trust
Co. v. Chapman,208 U. S. 360, 370-371. The court's authority and duties, however, covered all phases of the foreclosure proceedings. They included not only the conservation but the liquidation of the farm properties. The
court had discretion to delegate these duties as it saw fit.
But whatever the functional distribution, all the court
officers were bound to act fairly and.openly with respect
to every aspect of the proceedinjs before the court. The
mere fact that any one aspect did not fall within the delegated function of a particular court officer did not give
that officer free rein to act in a secret, non-judicial manner
as to that aspect. The court, as well as all the interested
parties, had the right to expect that its officers would not
make undisclosed private agreements, fail to reveal any

CRITES, INC. v. PRUDENTIAL CO.
408

Opinion of the Court.

pertinent information or use their official position for their
own profit or to further the interests of themselves or any
associates.
It is impossible to reconcile the activities of Simkins relating to the foreclosure sales with the basic standard of
conduct demanded of him as an officer of the court. One
of the prime purposes of the foreclosure proceedings was
to obtain enough money from the farm properties to pay
in full the mortgage indebtedness, with any surplus going
to the owner of the equities of redemption. All information to that end which came to Simkins or to any other
court officer belonged to the court and to the parties interested in the foreclosure proceedings. Here Simkins had
knowledge of a prospective purchaser of the farms who
was willing to pay more than the mortgage indebtedness
on the properties. Yet he made no effort to reveal this
important information prior to the foreclosure sales other
than to state that there "might be some parties interested"
in buying the 11 farms as a unit. He was told that the
court could not order a public sale of the farms as a unit.
But it is clear that the court and petitioner might well have
profited if Simkins had more fully revealed to them in advance of the sales that there was a prospect of selling all
11 farms to a responsible buyer at an advantageous price.
Petitioner could well have been given the opportunity to
bargain directly with Col. Proctor for a private sale of the
farms as a unit.' This suppression of vital information
was in no way mitigated by the partial revelation of the
facts at the hearing on the motion to confirm the sales to
4The special master and the court below found that Col. Proctor
was interested in purchasing the 11 farms as a unit only if he could
obtain a warranty deed from Prudential. But there was no evidence
that petitioner could not have furnished muniments of title equally
satisfactory to Col. Proctor or that he would not have been satisfied
with a warranty deed from petitioner. According to Jones, Col.
Proctor "said a general warranty deed from the Prudential Insurance
Company was good enough for him."

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Prudential, after Prudential had accepted the resale offer,
or by any subsequent knowledge obtained by petitioner.
The information was most valuable prior to the foreclosure
sales when the prospects were greater for successful bargaining, and it should have been divulged at that time.
Moreover it was inconsistent with his position as an
officer of the court for Simkins to make a secret arrangement with Jones to bring about, by active intervention, a
resale of the properties in the custody of the court. The
fact that he was not a liquidating receiver did not absolve him of the duty to act openly at all times with respect
to the subject matter of the proceedings. Due regard for
his official position demanded that he at least notify and
obtain the approval of the court and of the interested parties before entering into an employment contract with a
third party wherein his compensation was dependent upon
a particular bidder being successful at the foreclosure
sales. This arrangement brought out in even bolder relief the reprehensibleness of Simkins' failure to disclose
all the facts regarding Col. Proctor's interest in purchasing
the farms. Had such facts been revealed prior to the
public foreclosure sales, Prudential might not have obtained title to the farms and Simkins would not have
earned any compensation under his contract with Jones.
It was thus to Simkins' personal benefit not to disclose all
the pertinent facts.
Since the course taken by Simkins was one which he
as an officer of the court could not legally pursue and since
profits resulted to him, the law makes him accountable to
the trust estate for all such profits. Cf. Magruder v.
Drury,supra;Jackson v. Smith, supra. We need not speculate as to whether his conduct operated to dampen the
foreclosure sales to any appreciable degree or whether the
estate was in any other way injured. It is enough that his
activities had a tendency to dampen the sales. For that
reason alone he may be held to forfeit all profits he derived

CRITES, INC. v. PRUDENTIAL CO.
408

Opinion of the Court.

from his misconduct, regardless of whether it actually had
an adverse effect or not. In this type of situation "the
incidence of a particular conflict of interest can seldom be
measured with any degree of certainty." Woods v. City
National Bank Co., 312 U. S. 262, 268. Proof of profits
resulting from an irregular or conflicting course of conduct is sufficient. Simkins was thus accountable for the
paymehts received by him from Jones for his assistance in
consummating the resale of the farms from Prudential
to Col. Proctor.'
Under the circumstances of this case, however, Simkins
was not surchargeable with the commission received by
Jones, with any amount received by Prudential or with
the amount by which the appraised value of the farms
exceeded the decree indebtedness. We perceive no basis
in this record for holding Simkins responsible for any
possible misconduct on the part of Jones or Prudential
or for any profits that they may have obtained thereby.
We do not, of course, determine in this proceeding whether
petitioner could recover any such profits in a direct action
against either Jones or Prudential.
II.
Petitioner also claims that Simkins should be surcharged with all his receivership fees because of a feesplitting arrangement which he made with Harrison and
Ingalls, the attorneys for the co-receivers as well as for
Prudential. The three agreed to pool the fees allowed
5It is unnecessary to consider petitioner's argument relating to the
sale to Prudential of the growing crops on the farm lands, inasmuch
as petitioner seeks to surcharge Simkins with the same amounts as
in connection with the sale of the lands and no different considerations
are present. Respondents' claim that petitioner is barred from relief
because of laches is without merit. Nothing in the record indicates
that petitioner discovered the full facts concerning Simkins' activities
until several years after the foreclosure sales. Petitioner then made
timely exceptions to the receivers' accounts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J.

322 U. S.

them by the District Court and to divide them equally,
although this arrangement apparently was not completely
carried out.
Petitioner excepted to all credits in the receivers' accounts for fees to either Simkins or Ingalls because of this
arrangement. The Court below allowed credit to the
receivers for the $250 fees received by Harrison and Ingalls
from the court as preliminary compensation and for all
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the two attorneys on
behalf of the estate. But all credits were denied for
additional attorney fees paid to them. Petitioner objects
to the failure to disallow the $250 fee allowed Simkins
by the District Court and the additional $1,800 fee
which he paid to himself on account of his services as
co-receiver.
A fee-splitting arrangement of this nature is clearly
unenforceable and void as against public policy. Weil v.
Neary, 278 U. S. 160. But whether the parties to such a
contract should be allowed any fees at all, and if so the
amount thereof, are normally matters within the sound
discretion of the District Court and are not reviewable
except where a clear abuse of discretion is apparent. In
this case, however, the fact that Simkins entered into a
fee-splitting contract so patently illegal, plus the fact that
he engaged in other misconduct and indiscretions incompatible with his position as an officer of the court, compel
the conclusion that all fees and compensation as coreceiver should have been denied him. Cf. Woods v. City
NationalBank Co., supra, 268.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE

ROBERTS:

I am of opinion that certiorari should not have been
granted in this case and that the writ should be dismissed.

ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
408

Syllabus.

The Circuit Court of Appeals recognized established
principles in determining to what extent the respondent
Simkins should be denied compensation for services by
reason of his acting in inconsistent relations. That court
canvassed authorities which this court cites in its opinion
and not only did not refuse to follow and apply them but,
as I think, in perfect good faith, proceeded to examine and
appraise the facts and circumstances in order to apply the
relevant legal principles.
There is not a suggestion of any conflict amongst the
federal courts respecting the law which should govern decision nor is there any suggestion that, on an identical
set of -facts, any federal court has reached a result contrary to that reached by the court below. In essence, the
case presents the question whether the action taken by
the Circuit Court of Appeals was sufficiently drastic in the
circumstances disclosed.
I think it plain that this case falls within the category
to which I referred in Bailey v. Central Vermont Ry. Co.,
319 U. S. 350, 354. All the considerations there mentioned
apply equally here. If this court is to spend its time correcting mistakes in the appraisal of facts in individual
cases by courts below, the performance of its essential
functions necessarily will suffer.
ARENAS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 463.

Argued March 6, 7, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

Upon the record in this case, which was a suit brought against the
United States under the Act of August 15, 1894, by an Indian
claiming, under the Mission Indian Act of 1891, as amended by the
Act of March 2, 1917, a right to a trust patent to an allotment of
lands which had long been in his possession and which had been

considerably improved by him, but which allotment had not been

