McLEOD v. DILWORTH CO.
Opinion of the Court.

McLEOD, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUES, v.
J. E. DILWORTH CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 311.

Argued February 4, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

A Tennessee corporation which was not qualified to do business in
Arkansas, and which had no sales office nor any other place of
business in Arkansas, made sales of goods in Tennessee for delivery by common carrier in Arkansas. Though some orders were
solicited in Arkansas by traveling salesmen domiciled in Tennessee, all orders were taken subject to acceptance by the corporation in Tennessee; title to the goods passed upon delivery to
the carrier in Tennessee; and no collections were made in Arkansas. Held that the imposition by Arkansas of a tax on such
transactions, under a statute construed by the state court as levying
a sales tax and not a use tax (which construction is accepted
here), violated the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, and Wisconsin v.
J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435, distinguished. Pp. 328, 330.
205 Ark. 780, 171 S. W. 2d 62, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 728, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing the complaint in two suits (consolidated for trial) to enforce a state tax.

Mr. LefJel Gentry for petitioner.
Mr. J. Fred Brown, with whom Mr. Allan Davis was
on the brief, for the J. E. Dilworth Co.; and Mr. William
H. Daggett for the Reichman-Crosby Co., respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are asked to reverse a decision of the Supreme Court
of Arkansas holding that the Commerce Clause precludes
liability for the sales tax of that State upon the transactions to be set forth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

822 U. S.

We take the descriptions of these transactions from the
opinion under review. Respondents are Tennessee corporations with home offices and places of business in
Memphis where they sell machinery and mill supplies.
They are not qualified to do business in Arkansas and
have neither sales office, branch plant nor any other place
of business in that State. Orders for goods come to Tennessee through solicitation in Arkansas by traveling
salesmen domiciled in Tennessee, by mail or telephone.
But no matter how an order is placed it requires acceptance by the Memphis office, and on approval the goods are
shipped from Tennessee. Title passes upon delivery to the
carrier in Memphis, and collection of the sales price is not
made in Arkansas. In short, we are here concerned with
sales made by Tennessee vendors that are consummated
in Tennessee for the delivery of goods in Arkansas.
For such sales, the Supreme Court of Arkansas had held,
in 1939, the State had no power to exact a sales tax, Mann
v. McCarroll,'198Ark. 628, 130 S. W. 2d 721. The Arkansas legislation then in force was Act 154 of 1937. The
transactions on which the Collector here seeks to tax extended over periods that bring into question Act 154 (extended by Act 364 of 1939) and a new Statute (Act 386
of 1941), known as the Gross Receipts Act. The Arkansas
Supreme Court gave the Act of 1941 the same scope and
significance as it attributed to the Act of 1937, that is, an
act imposing a retail sales tax and not a use tax. In view
of this construction, it has adhered to its earlier decision in
Mann v. McCarroll, finding nothing in our intervening
decision in McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S.
33, requiring a change in its constitutional views. 205
Ark. 780, 171 S.W. 2d 62. To permit further examination
of the complicated problems raised by the interplay of
federal and state powers we brought the case here. 320
U. S.728.

McLEOD v. DILWORTH CO.
3271

329

Opinion of the Court.

We agree with the Arkansas Supreme Court that the
Berwind-White case presented a situation different from
this case and that this case is on the other side of the line
which marks off the limits of state power. A boundary
line is none the worse for being narrow. Once it is recognized, as it long has been by this Court, that federal and
state taxation do not move within wholly different orbits,
that there are points of intersection between the powers
of the two governments, and that there are transactions of
what colloquially may be deemed a single process across
state lines which may yet be taxed by the State of their
occurrence, "nice distinctions are to be expected," Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.217, 225. The
differentiations made by the court below between this
case and the Berwind-White case are relevant and controlling. "The distinguishing point between the BerwindWhite Coal case and the cases at bar is that in the
Berwind-White Coal case the corporation maintained its
sales office in New York City, took its contracts in New
York City and made actual delivery in New York
City. . . ." 205 Ark. at 786. This, according to practical notions of what constitutes a sale which is reflected
by what the law deems a sale, constituted a sale in New
York and accordingly we sustained a retail sales tax
by New York. Here, as the Arkansas Supreme Court
continued, "the offices are maintained in Tennessee, the
sale is made in Tennessee, and the delivery is consummated either in Tennessee or in interstate commerce with
no interruption from Tennessee until delivery to the consignee essential to complete the interstate journey." Because the relevant factors in the two cases decided together
with the Berwind-White case were the same as those in
Berwind-White, the decision in that case controlled the
two other cases. "In both cases the tax was imposed on all
the sales of merchandise for which orders were taken
587770O-45-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

within the city and possession of which was transferred to
the purchaser there. Decision in both is controlled by our
decision in the Berwind-White Company case." McGoldrick v. Felt & TarrantCo., 309 U. S. 70, 77. In BerwindWhite the Pennsylvania seller completed his sales in New
York; in this case the Tennessee seller was through
selling in Tennessee. We would have to destroy both business and legal notions to deny that under these circumstances the sale-the transfer of ownership-was made
in Tennessee. For Arkansas to impose a tax on such transaction would be to project its powers beyond its boundaries
and to tax an interstate transaction.
It is suggested, however, that Arkansas could have
levied a tax of the same amount on the use of these goods
in Arkansas by the Arkansas buyers, and that such a use
tax would not exceed the limits upon state power derived
from the United States Constitution. Whatever might
be the fate of such a tax were it before us, the not too short
answer is that Arkansas has chosen not to impose such a
use tax, as its Supreme Court so emphatically found. A
sales tax and a use tax in many instances may bring about
the same result. But they are different in conception,
are assessments upon different transactions, and in the
interlacings of the two legislative authorities within our
federation may have to justify themselves on different
constitutional grounds. A sales tax is a tax on the freedom of purchase-'a freedom which wartime restrictions
serve to emphasize. A use tax is a tax on the enjoyment
of that which was purchased. In view of the differences
in the basis of these two taxes and the differences in the
relation of the taxing state to them, a tax on an interstate
sale like the one before us and unlike the tax on the enjoyment of the goods sold, involves an assumption of
power by a State which the Commerce Clause was meant
to end. The very purpose of the Commerce Clause was
to create an area of free trade among the several States.

McLEOD v. DILWORTH CO.
327

Opinion of the Court.

That clause vested the power of taxing a transaction
forming an unbroken process of interstate commerce in
the Congress, not in the States.
The difference in substance between a sales and a use
tax was adverted to in the leading case sustaining a tax
on the use after a sale had spent its interstate character:
"A tax upon a use so closely connected with delivery as
to be in substance a part thereof might be subject to the
same objections that would be applicable to a tax upon
the sale itself." Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S.
577, 583. Thus we are not dealing with matters of nomenclature even though they be matters of nicety. "The
state court could not render valid, by misdescribing it, a
tax law which in substance and effect was repugnant to
the Federal Constitution; neither can it render unconstitutional a tax, that in its actual effect violates no constitutional provision, by inaccurately defining it." Wagnet v. City of Covington, 251 U. S. 95, 102. Though sales
and use taxes may secure the same revenues and serve
complementary purposes, they are, as we have indicated,
taxes on different transactions and for different opportunities afforded by a State.
A very different situation underlay Wisconsin v. J. C.
Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435. The Wisconsin Supreme
Court and this Court were concerned with an exaction on
a transaction which the Wisconsin Court described
one way and we another. We looked behind the labels
to the thing described, and the thing-taxation of the
distribution of income earned in Wisconsin--did not offend
the Federal Constitution. That case affords no ground
for rejecting the deliberate choice of a State to impose a
tax on a transfer of ownership and sustaining it, where
the transfer was made beyond the State limits, as a use
tax on that property because the State might, so far as
the Federal Constitution is concerned, have enacted a use
tax and such a use tax might have been collected on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

enjoyment of the goods so sold. Such a mode of adjudication would imply a duty of excessive astuteness on our
part to contract the area of free trade among the States.
Judgment affirmed.
with whom MR. JUsTIcE BLACK
and MR. JuSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

The present decision marks a retreat from the philosophy of the Berwind-White case, 309 U. S. 33. It draws
a distinction between the use tax (Felt & Tarrant Co. v.
Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62) and the sales tax which on the
facts of this case seems irrelevant to the power of Arkansas
to tax. And it is squarely opposed to McGoldriclc v. Felt
& Tarrant Co., 309 U. S. 70, which should be overruled if
the present decision goes down.
Felt & Tarrant Co. v. Gallagher involved a use tax.
The State of the buyer (California) was allowed to exact
the tax from the Illinois seller for goods sold to California
buyers though the seller's activities in California were not
different in quality and hardly more numerous than the
Arkansas activities of the Tennessee sellers in the present
case. Though in some cases deliveries were made by the
local agent for Felt & Tarrant, in others shipments were
made by it from Illinois direct to the buyers in California.
And in that case, as in the present case, the orders were
accepted outside the State of the buyer and remittances
were made direct to the out-of-state seller.
In McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrant Co. we allowed New
York City to collect its sales tax on sales which Felt &
Tarrant made to New York purchasers under substantially the same course of dealing as obtained in case of
the California use tax. Moreover, there were other transactions in McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrantwhich were even
closer to the sales in the present case. I refer to the sales
to New York City buyers by a Massachusetts corporation

McLEOD v. DILWORTH CO.
327

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

(Du Grenier, Inc.) which was not authorized to do business in New York and which had no employee there. Another company, Stewart & McGuire, Inc., acted as its exclusive agent and solicited orders in New York City. The
orders were forwarded to Massachusetts where they were
accepted. Shipments were made by rail or truck (F. 0. B.
Haverhill, Mass.) to the purchaser in New York City, who
paid the freight. Yet we allowed New York City to collect its sales tax on those transactions.
If the federal Constitution does not prohibit New York
City from levying its sales tax on the proceeds of those
interstate transactions or California from exacting its use
tax at the final stage of an interstate movement of goods,
I fail to see why Arkansas should be prohibited from collecting the present tax.
It is not enough to say that the use tax and the sales
tax are different. A use tax may of course have a wider
range of application than a sales tax. Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., 300 U. S.577. But a use tax and a sales tax
applied at the very end of an interstate transaction have
precisely the same economic incidence. Their effect on
interstate commerce is identical. We stated as much in
the Berwind-White case where, in speaking of the sales
tax, we said (309 U. S. p. 49): "It does not aim at or discriminate against interstate commerce. It is laid upon
every purchaser, within the state, of goods for consumption, regardless of whether they have been transported in
interstate commerce. Its only relation to the commerce
arises from the fact that immediately preceding transfer
of possession to the purchaser within the state, which is
the taxable event regardless of the time and place of passing title, the merchandise has been transported in interstate commerce and brought to its journey's end. Such a
tax has no different effect upon interstate commerce than
a tax on the 'use' of property which has just been moved

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

in interstate commerce," citing use tax cases including
Henneford v. Silas Mason Co. and Felt & Tarrant Co. v.
Gallagher.
The sales tax and the use tax are, to be sure, taxes on
different phases of the interstate transaction. We may
agree that the use tax is a tax "on the enjoyment of that
which was purchased." But realistically the sales tax is a
tax on the receipt of that which was purchased. For as
we said in the excerpt from the Berwind-White case
quoted above, it is the "transfer of possession to the purchaser within the state" which is the "taxable event regardless of the time and place of passing title." And
McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrant Co. makes plain that the
transfer of possession need not be by the seller, for in
that case, as in the present one, deliveries were made by
common carriers which accepted the goods F. 0. B. at
points outside the State. In terms of state power, receipt
of goods within the State of the buyer is as adequate a
basis for the exercise of the taxing power as use within
the State. And there should be no difference in result
under the Commerce Clause where, as here, the practical
impact on the interstate transaction is the same.
It is no answer to say that the Arkansas sales tax may
not be imposed because the out-of-state seller was
"through selling" when the tax was incurred. That was
likewise true of both the use tax cases, including General
Trading Co. v. State Tax Commission, post, p. 335, and the
sales tax decision in McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrant Co.
The question is whether there is a phase of the interstate
transaction on which the State of the buyer can lay hold
without placing interstate commerce at a disadvantage.
There s no showing that Tennessee was exacting from
these vendors a tax on these same transactions or that
Arkansas discriminated against them. I can see no warrant for an interpretation of the Commerce Clause which

GENERAL TRADING CO. v. TAX COMM'N. 335
327

Statement of the Case.

puts local industry at a competitive disadvantage with
interstate business. If there is a taxable event within the
State of the buyer, I would make the result under the Commerce Clause turn on practical considerations and business realities rather than on dialectics. If that is not done,
I think we should retreat from the view that interstate
commerce should carry its fair share of the costs of government in the localities where it finds its markets and adopt
the views expressed in the dissent in the Berwind-White
case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE also dissents. For his opinion,
see post, p. 349.

GENERAL TRADING CO., DOING BUSINESS AS MINNEAPOLIS IRON STORE, v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 441.

Argued February 4, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

A Minnesota corporation which had not qualified to do business in
Iowa, and which maintained no office or other place of business in

Iowa, made sales of goods in Minnesota which were sent by common carrier or by mail to purchasers in Iowa. Orders, solicited in
Iowa by salesmen from headquarters in Minnesota, were taken
subject to acceptance in Minnesota.

Held that the tax imposed

by the Iowa Use Tax Act upon the use of such goods in Iowa, and
the requirement that the corporation collect the tax and pay it

to the State, did not violate the Federal Constitution. Following
Felt & TarrantCo. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359, and Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co.,
312 U. S. 373. Pp. 336, 338.
233 Iowa 877, 10 N. W. 2d 659, affirmed.

320 U. S. 731, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the State Tax Commission in an action
CERTIORARI,

to recover use taxes.

