OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

and opinions of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in the
Wilson and later cases.
So ordered.
HAZEL-ATLAS GLASS CO. v. HARTFORDEMPIRE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 398.

Argued February 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

Upon appeal from a judgment of the District Court denying relief
in a suit by Hartford against Hazel for infringement of a patent,
the Circuit Court of Appeals in 1932 held Hartford's patent valid
and infringed, and upon its mandate the District Court entered
judgment accordingly. In 1941, Hazel commenced in the Circuit
Court of Appeals this proceeding, wherein it conclusively appeared that Hartford, through publication of an article purporting
to have been written by a disinterested person, had perpetrated
a fraud on the Patent Office in obtaining the patent and on the
Circuit Court of Appeals itself in the infringement suit. Upon
review here of an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals denying
relief, held:
1. Upon the record, the Circuit Court of Appeals had the
power and the duty to vacate its 1932 judgment and to give the
District Court appropriate directions. P. 247.
(a) Even if Hazel failed to exercise due diligence to uncover
the fraud, relief may not be denied on that ground alone, since
public interests are involved. P. 246.
(b) In the circumstances, Hartford may not be heard to
dispute the effectiveness nor to assert the truth of the article.
P. 247.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals is directed to set aside its
1932 judgment, recall its 1932 mandate, dismiss Hartford's appeal, and to issue a mandate to the District Court directing it to
set aside its judgment entered pursuant to the 1932 mandate,
to reinstate its original judgment denying relief to Hartford, and
to take such additional action as may be necessary and appropriate. P. 250.
137 F. 2d 764, reversed.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

239

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 732, to review an order of the
Circuit Court of Appeals denying relief in a bill of review
proceeding commenced in that court.

Mr. Stephen H. Philbin,with whom Mr. Henry R. Ashton was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Francis W. Cole, with whom Messrs. Walter J.
Blenko, Edgar J. Goodrich, and James M. Carlisle were
on the brief, for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Shea, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Melvin Richter filed
a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging reversal.
MR. JusTIc

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case involves the power of a Circuit Court of Appeals, upon proof that fraud was perpetrated on it by a
successful litigant, to vacate its own judgment entered at
a prior term and direct vacation of a District Court's decree entered pursuant to the Circuit Court of Appeals'
mandate.
Hazel-Atlas commenced the present suit in November,
1941, by filing in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals a
petition for leave to file a bill of review in the District
Court to set aside a judgment entered by that Court
against Hazel in 1932 pursuant to the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals' mandate. Hazel contended that the Circuit
Court of Appeals' judgment had been obtained by fraud
and supported this charge with affidavits and exhibits.
Hartford-Empire, in whose favor the challenged judgment had been entered, did not question the appellate
court's power to consider the petition, but filed counter
affidavits and exhibits. After a hearing the Circuit Court
concluded that since the alleged fraud had been practiced
on it rather than the District Court it would pass on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

issues of fraud itself instead of sending the case to the District Court. An order was thereupon entered denying the
petition as framed but granting Hazel leave to amend the
prayer of the petition to ask that the Circuit Court itself
hear and determine the issue of fraud. Hazel accordingly
amended, praying that the 1932 judgments against it be
vacated and for such other relief as might be just. Hartford then replied and filed additional exhibits and affidavits. The following facts were shown by the record
without dispute.
In 1926 Hartford had pending an application for a patent on a machine which utilized a method of pouring
glass into molds known as "gob feeding." The application, according to the Circuit Court, "was confronted
with apparently insurmountable Patent Office opposition." To help along the application, certain officials and
attorneys of Hartford determined to have published in
a trade journal an article signed by an ostensibly disinterested expert which would describe the "gob feeding"
device as a remarkable advance in the art of fashioning
glass by machine. Accordingly these officials prepared
an article entitled "Introduction of Automatic Glass
Working Machinery; How Received by Organized Labor," which referred to "gob feeding" as one of the two
"revolutionary devices" with which workmen skilled in
bottle-blowing had been confronted since they had organized. After unsuccessfully attempting to persuade
the President of the Bottle Blowers' Association to sign
this article, the Hartford officials, together with other persons called to their aid, procured the signature of one William P. Clarke, widely known as National President of the
Flint Glass Workers' Union. Subsequently, in July 1926,
the article was published in the National Glass Budget,
and in October 1926 it was introduced as part of the record
in support of the pending application in the Patent Office.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

241

Opinion of the *Court.

January 3, 1928, the Patent Office granted the application
as Patent No. 1,655,391.
On June 6, 1928, Hartford brought suit in the District
Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania charging
that Hazel was infringing this "gob feeding" patent, and
praying for an injunction against further infringement
and for an accounting for profits and damages. Without referring to the Clarke article, which was in the record only as part of the "file-wrapper" history, and which
apparently was not then emphasized by counsel, the District Court dismissed the bill on the ground that no infringement had been proved. 39 F. 2d 111. Hartford
appealed. In their brief filed with the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the attorneys for Hartford, one of whom had
played a part in getting the spurious article prepared for
publication, directed the Court's attention to "The article
by Mr. William Clarke, former President of the Glass
Workers' Union." The reference was not without effect.
Quoting copiously from the article to show that "labor organizations of practical workmen recognized" the "new
and differentiating elements" of the "gob feeding" patent
owned by Hartford, the Circuit Court on May 5, 1932,
held the patent valid and infringed, reversed the District
Court's judgment, and directed that court to enter a decree accordingly. 59 F. 2d 399, 403, 404.
At the time of the trial in the District Court in 1929,
where the article seemingly played no important part, the
attorneys of Hazel received information that both Clarke
and one of Hartford's lawyers had several years previously
admitted that the Hartford lawyer was the true author of
the spurious publication. Hazel's attorneys did not at
that time attempt to verify the truth of the hearsay story
of the article's authorship, but relied upon other defenses
which proved successful. After the opinion of the Circuit
Court came down on May 5, 1932, quoting the spurious

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

article and reversing the decree of the District Court,
Hazel hired investigators for the purpose of verifying the
hearsay by admissible evidence. One of these investigators interviewed Clarke in Toledo, Ohio, on May 13 and
again on May 24. In each interview Clarke insisted that
he wrote the article and would so swear if summoned. In
the second interview the investigator asked Clarke to
sign a statement telling in detail how the article was prepared, and further asked to see Clarke's files. Clarke replied that he would not "stultify" himself by signing any
"statement or affidavit"; and that he would show the records to no one unless compelled by a subpoena. At the
same time, he reinforced his claim of authorship by asserting that he had spent seven weeks in preparing the
article.
But unknown to Hazel's investigator, a representative
of Hartford, secretly informed of the investigator's view
that Hazel's only chance of reopening the case "was to get
an affidavit from someone, to the effect that this article
was written" by Hartford's attorney, also had traveled to
Toledo. Hartford's representative first went to Toledo
and talked to Clarke on May 10, three days before Hazel's
investigator first interviewed Clarke; and he returned to
Toledo again on May 22 for a five-day stay. Thus at the
time of the investigator's second interview with Clarke on
May 24, representatives of both companies were in touch
with Clarke in Toledo. But though Hartford's representative knew the investigator was there, the latter was unaware of the presence of the Hartford representative. On
May 24, Hazel's investigator reported failure; the same
day, Hartford's man reported "very successful results."
Four days later, on May 28, Hartford's representative reported his "success" more fully. Clarke, he said, had been
of "great assistance" and Hartford was in a "most satisfactory position"; it did not "seem wise to distribute
copies of all the papers" the representative then had or

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

243

Opinion of the Court.

to "go into much detail in correspondence"; and Hartford was "quite indebted to Mr. Clarke" who "might easily have caused us a lot of trouble. This should not be
forgotten. . . ." Among the "papers" which the representative had procured from Clarke was an affidavit signed
by Clarke stating that he, Clarke, had "signed the article
and released it for publication." The affidavit was dated
May 24-the very day that Clarke had told Hazel's investigator he would not "stultify" himself by signing any
affidavit and would produce his papers for no one except
upon subpoena.
Shortly afterward Hazel capitulated. It paid Hartford
$1,000,000 and entered into certain licensing agreements.
The day following the settlement, Hartford's representative traveled back to Toledo and talked to Clarke. At this
meeting Clarke asked for $10,000. Hartford's representative told him that he wanted too much money and that
Hartford would communicate with him further. A few
days later the representative paid Clarke $500 in cash;
and about a month later delivered to Clarke, at some
place in Pittsburgh which he has sworn he cannot remember, an additional $7,500 in cash. The reason given for
paying these sums was that Hartford felt a certain moral
obligation to do so, although Hartford's affidavits deny
any prior agreement to pay Clarke for his services in connection with the article.
Indisputable proof of the foregoing facts was, for the
first time, fully brought to light in 1941 by correspondence files, expense accounts and testimony introduced
at the trial of the United States v. Hartford-EmpireCompany et al., 46 F. Supp. 541, an anti-trust prosecution
begun December 11, 1939. On the basis of the disclosures
at this trial Hazel commenced the present suit.
Upon consideration of what it properly termed this
"sordid story," the Circuit Court, one Judge dissenting,
held, first, that the fraud was not newly discovered; sec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ond, that the spurious publication, though quoted in the
1932 opinion, was not the primary basis 'of the 1932
decision; and third, that in any event it lacked the power
to set aside the decree of the District Court because of
the expiration of the term during which the 1932 decision
had been rendered. Accordingly the Court refused to
grant the relief prayed by Hazel.
Federal courts, both trial and appellate, long ago established the general rule that they would not alter or set
aside their judgments after the expiration of the term at
which the judgments were finally entered. Bronson v.
Schulten, 104 U. S. 410. This salutary general rule
springs from the belief that in most instances society is
best served by putting an end to litigation after a case
has been tried and judgment entered. This has not
meant, however, that a judgment finally entered has ever
been regarded as completely immune from impeachment
after the term. From the beginning there has existed
alongside the term rule a rule of equity to the effect that
under certain circumstances, one of which is after-discovered fraud, relief will be granted against judgments
regardless of the term of their entry. Marine Insurance
Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch 332; Marshall v. Holmes, 141
U. S. 589. This equity rule, which was firmly established
in English practice long before the foundation of our Republic, the courts have developed and fashioned to fulfill a
universally recognized need for correcting injustices
which, in certain instances, are deemed sufficiently gross
to demand a departure from rigid adherence to the term
rule. Out of deference to the deep-rooted policy in favor
of the repose of judgments entered during past terms,
courts of equity have been cautious in exercising their
power over such judgments. United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61. But where the occasion has
demanded, where enforcement of the judgment is "mani-

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

245

Opinion of the Court.

festly unconscionable," Pickford v. Talbott, 225 U. S. 651,
657, they have wielded the power without hesitation.'
Litigants who have sought to invoke this equity power
customarily have done so by bills of review or bills in the
nature of bills of review, or by original proceedings to
enjoin enforcement of a judgment.2 And in cases where
courts have exercised the power, the relief granted has
taken several forms: setting aside the judgment to permit a new trial, altering the terms of the judgment, or
restraining the beneficiaries of the judgment from taking
any benefit whatever from it.' But whatever form the
relief has taken in particular cases, the net result in every
case has been the same: where the situation has required,
the court has, in some manner, devitalized the judgment
even though the term at which it was entered had long
since passed away.
Every element of the fraud here disclosed demands the
exercise of the historic power of equity to set aside fraudulently begotten judgments. This is not simply a case
of a judgment obtained with the aid of a witness who, on
the basis of after-discovered evidence, is believed possibly
to have been guilty of perjury. Here, even if we consider
nothing but Hartford's sworn admissions, we find a deliberately planned and carefully executed scheme t6 defraud
not only the Patent Office but the Circuit Court of ApSee, e. g., Art Metal Works v. Abraham & Strauss, 107 F. 2d 940
and 944; Publicker v. Shallcross, 106 F. 2d 949; Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co. v. Callicotte, 267 F. 799; Pickens v. Merriam, 242 F. 363;
Lehman v. Graham, 135 F. 39; Bolden v. Sloss-Sheffield Steel & Iron
Co., 215 Ala. 334, 110 So. 574, 49 A. L. R. 1206. For a collection of
early cases see Note (1880) 20 Am. Dec. 160.
2 See Whiting v. Bank of the United States, 13 Pet. 6, 13; Dezter
v. Arnold, 5 Mason 303, 308-315. See, also, generally, 3 Ohlinger's
Federal Practice pp. 814-818; 3 Freeman on Judgments (5th ed.)
§ 1191;
Note (1880) 20 Am. Dec. 160, supra.
8
See 3 Freeman on Judgments (5th ed.) §§ 1178, 1779.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

peals. Cf. Marshall v. Holmes, supra. Proof of the
scheme, and of its complete success up to date, is conclusive. Cf. United States v. Throckmorton, supra. And
no equities have intervened through transfer of the fraudulently procured patent or judgment to an innocent purchaser. Cf. Ibid.; Hopkins v. Hebard, 235 U. S. 287.
The Circuit Court did not hold that Hartford's fraud
fell short of that which prompts equitable intervention,
but thought Hazel had not exercised proper diligence in
uncovering the fraud and that this should stand in the way
of its obtaining relief. We cannot easily understand
how, under the admitted facts, Hazel should have been
expected to do more than it did to uncover the fraud.
But even if Hazel did not exercise the highest degree of
diligence, Hartford's fraud cannot be condoned for that
reason alone. This matter does not concern only private
parties. There are issues of great moment to the public
in a patent suit. Mercoid Corporationv. Mid-Continent
Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661; Morton Salt Co. v. G. S.
SuppigerCo., 314 U. S. 488. Furthermore, tampering with
the administration of justice in the manner indisputably
shown here involves far more than an injury to a single
litigant. It is a wrong against the institutions set up to
protect *and safeguard the public, institutions in which
fraud cannot complacently be tolerated consistently with
the good order of society. Surely it cannot be that preservation of the integrity of the judicial process must
always wait upon the diligence of litigants. The public
welfare demands that the agencies of public justice be not
so impotent that they must always be mute and helpless
victims of deception and fraud.
The Circuit Court also rested denial of relief upon the
conclusion that the Clarke article was not "basic" to the
Court's 1932 decision. Whether or not it was the primary
basis for that ruling, the article did impress the Court, as

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

247

Opinion of the Court.

shown by the Court's opinion. Doubtless it is wholly impossible accurately to appraise the influence that the
article exerted on the judges. But we do not think the
circumstances call for such an attempted appraisal. Hartford's officials and lawyers thought the article material.
They conceived it in an effort to persuade a hostile Patent
Office to grant their patent application, and went to considerable trouble and expense to get it published. Having
lost their infringement suit based on the patent in the
District Court wherein they did not specifically emphasize the article, they urged the article upon the Circuit
Court and prevailed. They are in no position now to dispute its effectiveness. Neither should they now be permitted to escape the consequences of Hartford's deceptive
attribution of authorship to Clarke on the ground that
what the article stated was true. Truth needs no disguise.
The article, even if true, should have stood or fallen under
the only title it could honestly have been given-that of
a brief in behalf of Hartford, prepared by Hartford's
agents, attorneys, and collaborators.
We have, then, a case in which undisputed evidence filed
with the Circuit Court of Appeals in a bill of review proceeding reveals such fraud on that Court as demands,
under settled equitable principles, the interposition of
equity to devitalize the 1932 judgment despite the expiration of the term at which that judgment was finally entered. Did the Circuit Court have the power to set aside
its own 1932 judgment and to direct the District Court
likewise to vacate the 1932 decree which it entered pursuant to the mandate based upon the Circuit Court's judgment? Counsel for Hartford contend not. They concede
that the District Court has the power upon proper proof
of fraud to set aside its 1932 decree in a bill of review proceeding, but nevertheless deny that the Circuit Court possesses a similar power for the reason that the term during

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

which its 1932 judgment was entered had expired. The
question, then, is not whether relief can be granted, but
which court can grant it.
Equitable relief against fraudulent judgments is not of
statutory creation. It is a judicially devised remedy
fashioned to relieve hardships which, from time to time,
arise from a hard and fast -adherence to another courtmade rule, the general rule that judgments should not be
disturbed after the term of their entry has expired. Created to avert the evils of archaic rigidity, this equitable
procedure has always been characterized by flexibility
which enables it to meet new situations which demand
equitable intervention, and to accord all the relief necessary to correct the particular injustices involved in these
situations. It was this flexibility which enabled courts
to meet the problem raised when leave to file a bill of review was sought in a court of original jurisdiction for the
purpose of impeaching a judgment which had been acted
upon by an appellate court. Such a judgment, it was
said, was not subject to impeachment in such a proceeding because a trial court lacks the power to deviate from
the mandate of an appellate court. The solution evolved
by the courts is a procedure whereby permission to file the
bill is sought in the appellate court. The hearing conducted by the appellate court on the petition, which may
be filed many years after the entry of the challenged judgment, is not just a ceremonial gesture. The petition must
contain the necessary averments, supported by affidavits
or other acceptable evidence; and the appellate court may
in the exercise of a proper discretion reject the petition,
in which case a bill of review cannot be filed in the lower
court. National Brake Co. v. Christensen, 254 U. S. 425,
430-433.
We think that when this Court, a century ago, approved
this practice and held that federal appellate courts have
the power to pass upon, and hence to grant or deny, peti-

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

249

Opinion of the Court.

tions for bills of review even though the petitions be presented long after the term of the challenged judgment
has expired, it settled the procedural question here involved. Southard v. Russell, 16 How. 547.4 To reason
otherwise would be to say that although the Circuit Court
has the power to act after the term finally to deny relief,
it has not the power to act after the term finally to grant
relief. It would, moreover, be to say that even in a case
where the alleged fraud was on'the Circuit Court itself,
the relevant facts as to the fraud were agreed upon by the
litigants, and the Circuit Court concluded relief must be
granted, that Court nevertheless must send the case to
the District Court for decision. Nothing in reason or
precedent requires such a cumbersome and dilatory procedure. Indeed the whole history of equitable procedure,
with the traditional flexibility which has enabled the
courts to grant all the relief against judgments which the
equities require, argues against it. We hold, therefore,
that the Circuit Court on the record here presented ' had
See also Tyler v. Magwire, 17 Wall. 253, 283: "Repeated decisions
of this court have established the rule that a final judgment or decree
of this court is conclusive upon the parties, and that it cannot be reexamined at a subsequent term, except in cases of fraud, as there is
no act of Congress which confers any such authority." (Italics
supplied.)
5 We do not hold, and would not hold, that the material questions
of fact raised by the charges of fraud against Hartford could, if in
dispute, be finally determined on ex parte affidavits without examination and cross-examination of witnesses. It should again be emphasized that Hartford has never questioned the accuracy of the various
documents which indisputably show fraud on the Patent Office and
the Circuit Court, and has not claimed, either here or below, that a
trial might bring forth evidence to disprove the facts as shown by
these documents. And insofar as a trial would serve to bring forth
additional evidence showing that Hazel was not diligent in uncovering
these facts, we already have pointed out that such evidence would
not in this case change the result.
Moreover, we need not decide whether, if the facts relating to the
fraud were in dispute and difficult of ascertainment, the Circuit Court
587770--45-

20

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

both the duty and the power to vacate its own judgment
and to give the District Court appropriate directions.
The question remains as to what disposition should be
made of this case. Hartford's fraud, hidden for years
but now admitted, had its genesis in the plan to publish
an article for the deliberate purpose of deceiving the Patent Office. The plan was executed, and the article was
put to fraudulent use in the Patent Office, contrary to law.
U. S. C., Title 35, § 69; United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315. From there the trail of
fraud continued without break through the District Court
and up to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Had the District Court learned of the fraud on the Patent Office at
the original infringement trial, it would have been warranted in dismissing Hartford's case. In a patent case
where the fraud certainly was not more flagrant than
here, this Court said: "Had the corruption of Clutter been
disclosed at the trial . . ., the court undoubtedly would
have been warranted in holding it sufficient to require
dismissal of the cause of action there alleged for the infringement of the Downie patent." Keystone Driller
Co. v. Excavator Co., 290 U. S. 240, 246; cf. Morton Salt
Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., supra, 493, 494. So, also, could
the Circuit Court of Appeals have dismissed the appeal
had it been aware of Hartford's corrupt activities in suppressing the truth concerning the authorship of the article. The total effect of all this fraud, practiced both on
the Patent Office and the courts, calls for nothing less
than a complete denial of relief to Hartford for the claimed
jnfringement of the patent thereby procured and
enforced.
Since the judgments of 1932 therefore must be vacated,
the case now stands in the same position as though Hartford's corruption had been exposed at the original trial.
here should have held hearings, and decided the case or should have
sent it to the District Court for decision. Cf. Art Metal Works v.

Abraham & Strauss, supra,Note 1.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

251

J.,. dissenting.

In this situation the doctrine of the Keystone case, supra,
requires that Hartford be denied relief.
To grant full protection to the public against a patent
obtained by fraud, that patent must be vacated. It has
previously been decided that such a remedy is not available in infringement proceedings, but can only be accomplished in a direct proceeding brought by the Government.
United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., supra.
The judgment is reversed with directions to set aside
the 1932 judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, recall
the 1932 mandate, dismiss Hartford's appeal, and issue
mandate to the District Court directing it to set aside
its judgment entered pursuant to the Circuit Court of Appeals' mandate, to reinstate its original judgment denying relief to Hartford, and to take such additional action
as may be necessary and appropriate.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

No fraud is more odious than an attempt to subvert the administration of justice. The court is unanimous in condemning the transaction disclosed by this record. Our problem is how best the wrong should be righted
and the wrongdoers pursued. Respect for orderly methods of procedure is especially important in a case of this
sort. In simple terms, the situation is this. Some twelve
years ago a fraud perpetrated in the Patent Office was
relied on by Hartford in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The court reversed a judgment in favor of Hazel, decided
that Hartford was the holder of a valid patent which Hazel
had infringed and, by its mandate, directed the District
Court to enter a judgment in favor of Hartford. This was
done and, on the strength of the judgment, Hartford and
Hazel entered into an agreement of which more hereafter.
So long as that judgment stands unmodified, the agreement of the parties will be unaffected by anything involved in the suit under discussion. Hazel concededly now

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

desires to be in a position to disregard the agreement to
its profit.
The resources of the law are ample to undo the wrong
and to pursue the wrongdoer and to do both effectively
with due regard to the established modes of procedure.
Ever since this fraud was exposed, the United States has
had standing to seek nullification of Hartford's patent.1
The Government filed a brief as amicus below and one in
this court. It has elected not to proceed for cancellation
of the patent.2
It is complained that members of the bar have knowingly participated in the fraud. Remedies are available
to purge recreant officers from the tribunals on whom the
fraud was practiced.
Finally, as to the immediate aim of this proceeding,
namely, to nullify the judgment if the fraud procured it,
and if Hazel is equitably entitled to relief, an effective
and orderly remedy is at hand. This is a suit in equity
in the District Court to set aside or amend the judgment.
Such a proceeding is required by settled federal law and
would be tried, as it should be, in open court with living
witnesses instead of through the unsatisfactory method
of affidavits. We should not resort to a disorderly remedy, by disregarding the law as applied in federal courts
ever since they were established, in order to reach one
inequity at the risk of perpetrating another.
In a suit brought by Hartford against Hazel in the
Western District of Pennsylvania charging infringement
of Hartford's patent No. 1,655,391, a decree was entered
against Hartford March 31, 1930, on the ground that
Hazel had not infringed. On appeal, the Circuit Court
1 United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315; 167
U. S. 224, 238.
2 The facts with respect to the fraud practiced on the Patent Office have been known for some years.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

253

J., dissenting.

of Appeals filed an opinion, May 5, 1932, reversing the
judgment of the District Court and holding the patent
valid and infringed. On Hazel's application, the time
for filing a petition for rehearing was extended five times.
On July 21, 1932, Hazel entered into a general settlement
and license agreement with Hartford respecting the patent in suit and other patents, which agreement was to be
effective as of July 1, 1932. Hazel filed no petition for
rehearing and, on July 30, 1932, the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals went to the District Court. Pursuant to the mandate, that court entered its final judgment against Hazel for an injunction and an accounting.
No such accounting was ever had because Hazel and
Hartford had settled their differences.
November 19, 1941, Hazel presented to the Circuit
Court of Appeals its petition for leave to file in the District Court a bill of review. Attached was the proposed
bill. Affidavits were filed by Hazel and Hartford. The
Circuit Court of Appeals heard the matter and made an
order denying the petition for leave to file, holding that
any fraud practiced had been practiced on the Circuit
Court of Appeals and, therefore, that court should itself
pass upon the question whether the mandate should be
recalled and the case reopened. Leave was granted to
Hazel to amend its petition to seek relief from the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The order provided for an answer by
Hartford and for a hearing and determination by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, on the basis of the
amended petition, the answer, and the affidavits, denied
relief on the grounds: (1) that the fraud had not been
effective to influence its earlier decision; (2) that the
court was without power to deal with the case as its mandate had gone down and the term had long since expired;
(3) that Hazel had been negligent and guilty of inexcusable delay in presenting the matter to the court; and

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

(4) that the only permissible procedure was in the District Court, where the judgment rested, by bill in equity
in the nature of a bill of review. One judge dissented,
holding that the court had power (1) to recall the cause;
(2) to enter upon a trial of the issues made by the petition and answer, and (3) itself to review and revise its
earlier decision, enter a new judgment in the case on the
corrected record and send a new mandate to the District
Court.
As I understand the opinion of this court, while it reverses the decision below, it only partially adopts the
view of the dissenting judge, for the holding is: (1) that
the court below has power at this date to deal with the
matter either as a new suit or as a continuation of the old
one; (2) that it can recall the case from the District
Court; (3) that it can grant relief; (4) that it can hear
evidence and act as a court of first instance or a trial
court; (5) that such a trial as it affords need not be according to the ordinary course of trial of facts in open court, by
examination and cross-examination of witnesses, but that
the proofs may consist merely of ex parte affidavits; and
(6) that such a trial has already been afforded and it
remains only, in effect, to cancel Hartford's patent.
I think the decision overrules principles settled by
scores of decisions of this court which are vital to the
equitable and orderly disposition of causes,-principles
which, upon the soundest considerations of fairness and
policy, have stood unquestioned since the federal judicial
system was established. I shall first briefly state these
principles. I shall then as briefly summarize the reasons
for their adoption and enforcement and, finally, I shall
show why it would not be in the interest of justice to
abandon them in this case.
1. The final and only extant judgment in the litigation
is that of the District Court entered pursuant to the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The term of the

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

255

J., dissenting.

District Court long ago expired and, with that expiration,
all power of that court to reexamine the judgment or to
alter it ceased, except for the correction of clerical errors.
The principle is of universal application to judgments at
law,' decrees in equity,' and convictions of crime, though,
as respects the latter, its result may be great individual
hardship' The rule might, for that reason, have been
relaxed in criminal cases, if it ever is to be, for there, in contrast to civil cases, no other judicial relief is available.
In the promulgation of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure this court took notice of the fact that terms of the
district court vary in length and that the expiration of
3
Bank of United States v. Moss, 6 How. 31, 38; Roemer v. Simon,
91 U. S. 149; Phillips v. Negley, 117 U. S. 665, 672, 678; Hickman v.
Fort Scott, 141 U. S. 415; Tubman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 190
U. S. 38; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S. 141, 151-2; In re Metropolitan Trust Co., 218 U. S. 312, 320; Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v.
Rellstab, 276 U. S. 1, 5; Realty Acceptance Corp. v. Montgomery, 284
U. S. 547, 549.
4 Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Sibbald v. United States,
12 Pet. 488, 492; Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart, 3 How. 413,
426; Central Trust Co. v. Grant Locomotive Works, 135 U. S. 207;
Wayne Gas Co. v. Owens-Illinois Co., 300 U. S. 131, 136; Sprague v.
Ticonic Bank, 307 U. S. 161, 169.
5 United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 67. In this case one Freeman was convicted in the District Court. After he had taken an
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals he filed, after the term had
expired, a motion to set aside the judgment on the ground that a
juror wilfully concealed bias against the defendant when examined
on his voir dire. After hearing this motion the district judge found
as a fact that the juror had been guilty of misconduct and that the
defendant and his counsel neither had knowledge of the wrong nor
could have discovered it earlier by due diligence. The district judge
was in doubt whether, after the expiration of the term, he had power
to deal with the judgment of conviction. The Circuit Court of Appeals certified the question to this court which, in a unanimous opinion, rendered after full argument by able counsel, held in accordance with all earlier precedents that, even in a case of such hardship,
"
the District Court had no such power,

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U.S.

the term might occur very soon, or quite a long time, after
the entry of a judgment. In order to make the practice
uniform, Rule 60-B provides: "On motion the court, upon
such terms as are just, may relieve a party or his legal
representative from a judgment, order, or proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. The motion shall be made
within a reasonable time, but in no, case exceeding six
months after such judgment, order, or proceeding was
taken. . . . This rule does not limit the power of a court
(1) to entertain an action to relieve a party from a judgment, order, or proceeding. . . ." Thus there has been
substituted for the term rule a definite time limitation
within which a district court may correct or modify its
judgments. But the salutary rule as to finality is retained
and, after the expiration of six months, the party must
apply, as heretofore, by bill of review,-now designated a
civil action-to obtain relief from a judgment which itself
is final so far as any further steps in the original action
are concerned.
The term rule applies with equal force to an appellate
court. Over the whole course of its history, this court
has uniformly held that it was without power, after the
going down of the mandate, and the expiration of the
term, to rehear a case or to modify its decision on the
merits.' And this is equally true of the circuit courts of
appeal.7
6Hudson v. Guestier, 7 Cr. 1; Jackson v. Ashton, 10 Pet. 480; Sibbald v. United States, supra, 492; Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart,
supra; Brooks v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 107; Barney v. Friedman,
107 U. S. 629; Hickman v. Fort Scott, supra, 419; Bushnell v. Crooke
Mining Co., 150 U. S. 82.
7Ex parte National Park Bank, 256 U. S. 131. "That court was
powerless to modify the decree after the expiration of the term at
which it was entered. If the omission in the decree had been adequately called to the court's attention during the term it would doubt-

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS, J.,

257

dissenting.

The court below, unless we are to overthrow a centuryand-a-half of precedents, lacks power now to revise its
judgment and lacks power also to send its process to the
District Court and call up for review the judgment entered on its mandate twelve years ago.' No such power is
inherent in an appellate court; none such is conferred by
any statute.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals is without authority
either to try the issues posed by the petition and answer
on the affidavits on file, or, to do as the dissenting judge
below suggests, hold a full-dress trial.
The federal courts have only such powers as are expressly conferred on them. Certain original jurisdiction
is vested in this court by the Constitution. Its powers
as an appellate court are those only which are given by
statute
The circuit courts of appeal are creatures of statute.
No original jurisdiction has been conferred on them.
They exercise only such appellate functions as Congress
has granted. The grant is plain. "The circuit courts of
appeal shall have appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal final decisions . . . in the district courts ...""
Nowhere is there any grant of jurisdiction to try cases, to
less have corrected the error complained of; or relief might have been
sought in this court by a petition for a writ of certiorari. The bank
failed to avail itself of remedies open to it."

(p. 133.)

The circuit

courts of appeal have uniformly observed the rule thus announced.
Hart v. Wiltsee, 25 F. 2d 863; Nachod v. Engineering & Research
Corp., 108 F. 2d 594; Montgomery v. Realty Acceptance Corp., 51 F.
2d 642; Foster Bros. Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board, 90 F. 2d 948; Wichita
Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 97 F. 2d 249; Hawkins v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 99 F. 322; Walsh Construction Co. v.
U. S. Guarantee Co., 76 F. 2d 240; Waskey v. Hammer, 179 F. 273.
8Sibbald v. United States, supra, 492; Roemer v. Simon, 91 U. S.
149; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247.
9
Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cr. 75, 93.
20 Judicial Code § 128 as amended; 28 U. S. C. 225.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

32215. S.

enter judgments, or to issue executions or other final
process.
". .. courts created by statute must look to the statute as the warrant for their authority; certainly they cannot go beyond the statute, and assert an authority with
which they may not be invested by it, or which may be
clearly denied to them." 11
This court has never departed from the view that circuit courts of appeal are statutory courts having no original jurisdiction but only appellate jurisdiction. 12
Neither this court " nor a circuit court 14 of appeals may
hear new evidence in a cause appealable from a lower
court. No suggestion seems ever before to have been
made that they may constitute themselves trial courts,
embark on the trial of what is essentially an independent
cause and enter a judgment of first instance on the facts
and the law. But this is what the opinion sanctions.
3. The temptation might be strong to break new ground
in this case if Hazel were otherwise remediless. Such is
" Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245. See Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How.
441,449; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1, 24.
" Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132, 137; United States v. Mayer,
supra, 65; Realty Acceptance Corp. v. Montgomery, supra, 549.
"IRussell v. Southard, 12 How. 139, 158, 159; United States v.
Knight's Adm'r, 1 Black 488; Roemer v. Simon, supra. In the Russell
case Chief Justice Taney said: "It is very clear that affidavits of
newly-discovered testimony cannot be received for such a purpose.
This court must affirm or reverse upon the case as it appears in the
record. We cannot look out of it, for testimony to influence the
judgment of this court sitting, as an appellate tribunal. And, according to the practice of the court of chancery from its earliest history to the present time, no paper not before the court below can be
read on the hearing of an appeal. Eden v. Earl Bute, 1 Bro. Par. Cas.
465; 3 Bro. Par. Cas. 546; Studwell v. Palmer, 5 Paige, 166.
"Indeed, if the established chancery practice had been otherwise,
the act of Congress of March 3d, 1803, expressly prohibits the introduction of new evidence, in this court, on the hearing of an appeal
from a circuit court, except in admiralty and prize causes."
"4Realty Acceptance Corp. v. Montgomery, supra, 550, 551.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

259

J., dissenting.

not the fact. The reports abound in decisions pointing
the way to relief if, in equity, Hazel is entitled to any.
Since Lord Bacon's day a decree in equity may be reversed or revised for error of law,"' for new matter subsequently occurring, or for after-discovered evidence.
And this head of equity jurisdiction has been exercised by
the federal courts from the foundation of the nation."'
Such a bill is an original bill in the nature of a bill of review. Equity also, on original bills, exercises a like jurisdiction to prevent unconscionable retention or enforcement of a judgment at law procured by fraud, or mistake
unmixed with negligence attributable to the losing party,
or rendered because he was precluded from making a defense which he had. Such a bill may be filed in the federal court which rendered the judgment or in a federal
court other than the court, federal or state, which rendered it.'
15 A bill filed to correct error of law apparent on the record is called
a strict bill of review and some rules as to time are peculiarly applicable to such bills. See Whiting v. Bank of United States, 13 Pet.
6, 13, 14, 15; Shelton v. Van Kleeck, 106 U. S. 532; Central Trust Co. v.
GrantLocomotive Works, 135 U. S. 207. Street, Federal Equity Practice, § 2129 et seq. With this type of bill we are not here concerned.
16Ocean Ins. Co. v. Fields, 2 Story 59; Whiting v. Bank of United
States, supra; Southard v. Russell, 16 How. 547; Minnesota Co. v.
St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; Purcellv. Miner, 4 Wall. 519; Rubber Co.
v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 805; Easley v. Kellom, 14 Wall. 279; Putnam v.
Day, 22 Wall. 60; Buffington v. Harvey, 95 U. S. 99; Craig v. Smith,
100 U. S. 226; Shelton v. Van Kleeck, supra; Pacific Railroadv. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 111 U. S. 505; Central Trust Co. v. GrantLocomotive Works, supra; Boone County v. Burlington & M. R. R. Co.,
139 U. S. 684; Hopkins v. Hebard, 235 U. S. 287; Scotten v. Littlefield, 235 U. S. 407; National Brake & Electric Co. v. Christensen,
254 U. S. 425; Simmons Co. v. Grier Bros. Co., 258 U. S. 82; Jackson
V.Irving Trust Co., 311 U. S. 494, 499.
27Logan v. Patrick, 5 Cr. 288; Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cr.
332; Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1; Truly v. Wanzer, 5 How. 141; Creath's
Adm'r v. Sims, 5 How. 192; Humphreys v. Leggett, 9 How. 297;
Walker v. Robbins, 14 How. 584; Hendrickson v. Hinckley, 17 How.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

Whether the suit concerns a decree in equity or a judgment at law, it is for relief granted by equity against an
unjust and inequitable result, and is subject to all the
customary doctrines governing the award of equitable
relief.
New proof to justify a bill of review must be such as
has come to light after judgment and such as could not
have been obtained when the judgment was entered. The
proffered evidence must not only have been unknown
prior to judgment, but must be such as could not have
been discovered by the exercise of reasonable diligence in
time to permit its use in the trial. Unreasonable delay,
or lack of diligence in timely searching for the evidence,
is fatal to the right of a bill of review, and a party may
not elect to forego inquiry and let the cause go to judgment in the hope of a favorable result and then change
his position and attempt, by means of a bill of review, to
get the benefit of evidence he neglected to produce.
These principles are established by many of the cases
cited in notes 16 and 17, and specific citation is unnecessary. The principles are well settled. And, in this class
of cases as.in others, although equity does not condone
wrongdoing, it will not extend its aid to a wrongdoer; in
443; Leggett v. Humphreys, 21 How. 66; Gue v. Tide Water Canal
Co., 24 How. 257; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Kibbe v. Benson,
17 Wall. 624; Crim v. Handley, 94 U. S. 652; Brown v. County of
Buena Vista, 95 U. S. 157; United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S.
61; Bronson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S.
3; White v. Crow, 110 U. S. 183; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276;
Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640; Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183;
Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; Knox County v. Harshman, 133
U. S. 152; Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589; North Chicago Rolling
Mill Co. v. St. Louis Ore & Steel Co., 152 U. S. 596; Robb v. Vos, 155
U. S. 13; Howard v. De Cordova, 177 U. S. 609; United States v.
Beebe, 180 U. S. 343; Pickford v. Talbott, 225 U. S. 651; Simon v.
Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254
U. S. 175.

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

"261

J., dissenting.

other words, the complainant must come into court with
clean hands.
4. Confessedly the opinion repudiates the unbroken
rule of decision with respect to the finality of a judgment
at the expiration of the term; that with respect to jurisdiction of an appellate court to try issues of fact upon
evidence, and that with respect to the necessity for resorting to a bill of review to modify or set aside a judgment once it has become final. Perusal of the authorities
cited will sufficiently expose the reasons for these doctrines. It is obvious that parties ought not to be permitted indefinitely to litigate issues once tried and adjudicated.18 There must be an end to litigation. If
courts of first instance, or appellate courts, were at liberty,
on application of. a party, at any time to institute a summary inquiry for the purpose of modifying or nullifying
18It has frequently been said that-where the ground for a bill of
review is fraud, review will not be granted unless the fraud was extrinsic. See United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61. The distinction between extrinsic and intrinsic fraud is not technical but substantial. The statement that only extrinsic fraud may be the basis
of a bill of review is merely a corollary of the rule that review will not
be granted to permit relitigation of matters which were in issue in the
cause and are, therefore, concluded by the judgment or decree. The
classical example of intrinsic as contrasted with extrinsic fraud is the
commission of perjury by a witness. While perjury is a fraud upon
the court, the credibility of witnesses is in issue, for it is one of the
matters on which the trier of fact must pass in order to reach a final
judgment. An allegation that a witness perjured himself is insufficient
because the materiality of the testimony, and opportunity to attack
it, was open at the trial. Where the authenticity of a document relied on as part of a litigant's case is material to adjudication, as was
the grant in the Throckmorton case, and there was opportunity to investigate this matter, fraud in the preparation of the document is not
extrinsic but intrinsic and will not support review. Any fraud connected with the preparation of the Clarke article in this case was extrinsic, and, subject to other relevant rules, would support a bill of
review.

262 *

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

a considered judgment, no reliance could be placed on
that which has been adjudicated and citizens could not,
with any confidence, act in the light of what has apparently been finally decided.
If relief on equitable grounds is to be obtained, it is
right that it should be sought by a formal suit upon adequate pleadings and should be granted only after a trial
of issues according to the usual course of the trial of
questions of fact. A court of first instance is the appropriate tribunal, and the only tribunal, equipped for such
a trial. Appellate courts have neither the power nor the
means to that end.
On the strongest grounds of public policy bills of review
are disfavored, since to facilitate them would tend to
encourage fraudulent practices, resort to perjury, and
the building of fictitious reasons for setting aside
judgments.
5. I think the facts in the instant case speak loudly for
the observance, and against the repudiation, of all the
rules to which I have referred. The court's opinion implies that the disposition here made is justified by uncontradicted facts, but the record demonstrates beyond question that serious controverted issues ought to be resolved
before Hazel may have relief.
In 1926 Hartford brought a suit for infringement of the
Peiler Patent against Nivison-Weiskopf Company in the
Southern District of Ohio. Counsel for the defendants
in that case were Messrs. William R. and Edmund P.
Wood of Cincinnati. About the same time, Hartford
brought a similar suit for infringement against KearnsGorsuch Bottle Company, a subsidiary of Hazel. Counsel
for Kearns were the same who have represented Hazel
throughout this case.
In 1928 Hartford brought suit against Hazel in the
Western District of Pennsylvania for a like infringement.
The same counsel represented Hazel. The Ohio suits

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

.263

J., dissenting.

came to trial first. In them a decision was rendered adverse to Hartford. Appeals were taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, were consolidated,
and counsel for the defendants appeared together in that
court, which decided adversely to Hartford (58 F. 2d
701).
In the preparation for the defense of the Nivison suit,
William R. Wood called upon Clarke and interviewed him
in the presence of a witness. Clarke admitted that Hatch
of Hartford had prepared the article published under
Clarke's name. In the light of this fact the Messrs. Wood
notified Hartford that they would require the presence
of Hatch at the trial of the suit and Hatch was in attendance during that trial. Repeatedly during the trial, Hatch
admitted to the Messrs. Wood that he was in fact the
author of the article. It was well understood that the
defendant wanted him present so that if any reference
to or reliance upon the article developed they could call
Hatch and prove the facts. There was no such reference
or reliance.
As counsel for the various defendants opposed to Hartford were acting in close cooperation, Messrs. Wood attended the trial of the Hartford-Hazel suit in Pittsburgh,
which must have occurred in 1929 or early 1930. (See 39
F. 2d 111.) One or other of the Messrs. Wood was present throughout that trial and Edmund P. Wood was in
frequent consultation with the Hazel representatives and
counsel. Hazel's counsel was the same at that trial as
in the present case. The Messrs. Wood told Hazel's counsel and representatives that Clarke had admitted Hatch
was the author of the article and that Hatch had also
freely admitted the same thing. Hazel's counsel and representatives discussed at length, in the presence of Mr.
Wood, the advisability of attacking the authenticity of
the article. Counsel for Hazel, in these conferences, took
the position that "an attack on the article might be a

264.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

boomerang in that it might emphasize the truth of the
only statements in the article" which he regarded as of
any possible pertinence. Mr. Wood's affidavit giving in
detail the discussions and the conclusion of Hazel's counsel is uncontradicted, and demonstrates that Hazel's counsel knew the facts with regard to the Clarke article and
knew the names of witnesses who could prove those facts.
After due deliberation, it was decided not to offer proof
on the subject.
The District Court found in favor of Hazel, holding
that Hazel had not infringed. Hartford appealed to the
Third Circuit Court of Appeals. In that court Hartford's
counsel referred in argument to the Clarke article and
the court, in its decision, referred to the article as persuasive of certain facts in connection with the development of glass machinery. The Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit rendered its decision in the Nivison
and Kearns cases on May 12, 1932, and the Third Circuit
Court of Appeals rendered its decision in the HartfordHazel case on May 6,1932.
Counsel for Hazel was then, nearly ten years prior
to the filing of the instant petition, confronted with the
fact that, in its opinion, the Circuit Court of Appeals had
accredited the article. Naturally counsel was faced with
the question whether he should bring to the court's attention the facts respecting that article. As I have said, he
asked and was granted five extensions of time for filing
a petition for rehearing. Meantime negotiations were
begun with Hartford for a general settlement and for
Hazel's joining in the combination and patent pool of
which Hartford was the head and front. At the same
time, however, evidently as a precaution against the
breakdown of the negotiations, Hazel's counsel obtained
affidavits to be signed by the Messrs. Wood setting forth
the facts which they had gleaned concerning the author-

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

265

J., dissenting.

ship of the Clarke article. These affidavits were intended
for use in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals case for they
were captioned in that case. Being made by reputable
counsel who are accredited by both parties to this proceeding, they were sufficient basis for a petition for rehearing while the case was still in the bosom of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. It is idle to suggest that counsel would
not have been justified in applying to the court on the
strength of them.
Had counsel filed a petition and attached to it the affidavits of the Messrs. Wood, without more, he would have
done his duty to the court in timely calling its attention
to the fraud which had been perpetrated. But more, the
court would undoubtedly have reopened the case, granted
rehearing, and remanded the case to the District Court
with permission to Hazel to summon and examine witnesses. It is to ignore realities to suggest, as the opinion
does, that counsel for Hazel was helpless at that time
and in the then existing situation.
But counsel did not rest there. He commissioned an
investigator who interviewed a labor leader named Maloney in Philadelphia. This man refused to talk but the
investigator's report would make it clear to anyone of
average sense that he knew about the origin of the article,
and any lawyer of experience would not have hesitated
to summon him as a witness and put him under examination. Moreover, the investigator interviewed Clarke and
his report of the evasive manner and answers of Clarke
convince me, and I believe would convince any lawyer
of normal perception, that the Woods' affidavits were
true and that Clarke would have so admitted if called to
the witness stand. Most extraordinary is the omission of
Hazel's counsel, although then in negotiation with Hartford for a settlement, to make any inquiry concerning
Hatch or to interview Hatch, or to have him interviewed
587770--45-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

when counsel had been assured that Hatch had no inclination to prevaricate concerning his part in the preparation
of the article.
The customary modes of eliciting truth in court may
well establish that in the circumstances Hazel's counsel
deliberately elected to forego any disclosure concerning
the Clarke article and to procure instead the favorable
settlement he obtained from Hartford.
In any event, we know that, on July 21, 1932, Hartford
and Hazel entered into an agreement, which is now before
this court in the record in Nos. 7-11 of the present term,
on appeal from the District Court for Northern Ohio.
Under the agreement Hazel paid Hartford $1,000,000.
Hartford granted Hazel a license on all machines and
methods embodying patented inventions for the manufacture of glass containers at Hartford's lowest royalty
rates. Hartford agreed to pay Hazel one-third of its net
royalty income to and including January 3, 1945, over
and above $850,000 per annum. At the same time, Hazel
entered into an agreement with the Owens-Illinois Glass
Company, another party to the Hartford patent pool and
the conspiracy to monopolize the glass manufacturing
industry found by the District Court.
In the autumn of 1933 counsel for Shawkee Company,
defendant in another suit by Hartford, obtained documents indicating Hatch's responsibility for the Clarke
article, and wrote counsel for Hazel inquiring what he
knew about the matter. Hazel's counsel, evidently reluctant to disturb the existing status, replied that, while
he suspected Hartford might have been responsible for
the article, he did not at the time of trial, know of the
papers which counsel for Shawkee had unearthed, and.
added that his recollection was then "too indefinite to be
positive and I would have to go through the voluminous
mass of papers relating to the various Hartford-Empire

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
238

ROBERTS,

267

J., dissenting.

litigations, including correspondence, before I could be
more definite."
The District Court for Northern Ohio has found that
the 1932 agreement and coincident arrangements placed
Hazel in a preferred position in the glass container industry and drove nearly everyone else in that field into taking
licenses from Hartford, stifled competition, and gave
Hazel, as a result of rebates paid to it, a great advantage
over all competitors in the cost of its product. It is uncontested that, as a result of the agreement, Hazel has
been repaid the $1,000,000 it paid Hartford and has received upwards of $800,000 additional.
In 1941 the United States instituted an equity suit in
Northern Ohio against Hartford, Hazel, Owens-Illinois,
and other corporations and individuals to restrain violation of the antitrust statutes. That court found that the
defendants conspired to violate the antitrust laws and
entered an injunction on October 8, 1942. (46 F. Supp.
541.) Hazel and other defendants appealed to this court.
The same counsel represented Hazel in that suit, and in
the appeal to this court, as represented the company in the
District Court and in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals
in this case. In its brief in this court Hazel strenuously
contended that the license agreement executed in 1932,
and still in force, was not violative of the antitrust laws
and should be sustained.
Of course, in 1941 counsel for Hazel faced the possibility
that the District Court in Ohio might find against Hazel,
and that this court might affirm its decision. Considerations of prudence apparently dictated that Hazel should
cast an anchor to windward. Accordingly, November 19,
1941, it presented its petition for leave to file a bill of review in the District Court for Western Pennsylvania and
attached a copy of the proposed bill. In answer to questions at our bar as to the ultimate purpose of this proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

ing, counsel admitted that, if successful in it, Hazel
proposed to obtain every resultant benefit it could.
In the light of the circumstances recited, it becomes
highly important closely to scrutinize Hazel's allegations.
It refers to the use by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Clarke article in the opinion and then avers:
"That although prior to the decision of this Court your
petitioner suspected and believed that the article had
been written by one of plaintiff's employees, instead of
by Clarke, and had been caused by plaintiff to be published
in the National Glass Budget, petitioner did not know
then or until this year materialand pertinent facts which,
if petitioner had then known and been able to present to
this Court, should have resulted in a decision for petitioner. [Italics added.]
"That such facts were disclosed to petitioner for the
first time in suit of United States of America v. Hartford,
et al., in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Ohio, and are specified in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
of the annexed bill of review, which is made a part
hereof.
"That your petitioner could not have ascertained by the
use of proper and reasonable diligence the newly discovered facts prior to the said suit, and that the newly discovered evidence is true and material and should cause a
decree in this cause different from that heretofore made."
In the proposed bill of review these allegations are
repeated and it is added that the new facts ascertained
consist of the testimony of Hatch in the antitrust suit and
five letters written by various parties connected with the
conspiracy and a memorandum prepared by Hatch which
were in evidence in that suit. The bill then adds:
"The new matter specified in the preceding paragraphs
4, 5 and 6 is material, it only recently became known to
plaintiff, which could not have previously obtained it
with due diligence, and such new evidence if it had been
previously known to this Court and to the Circuit Court

HAZEL-ATLAS CO. v. HARTFORD CO. 269
238

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

of Appeals would have caused a decision different from
that reached."
Neither the petition nor the bill is under oath but there
is attached an affidavit of counsel for Hazel in which he
states that in or before 1929 Hazel "had suspected, and I
believed," that the Clarke article had been written by
Hatch and that Hartford had caused the article to be
published, adding: "having been so told by the firm of
Messrs. Wood and Wood, Cincinnati lawyers, who said
they had so been told by Clarke and also by Hatch." The
affidavit also attaches the reports of the investigator above
referred to and refers to the exhibits and testimony in the
antitrust suit in Northern Ohio.
In the light of the facts I have recited, it seems clear
that if Hazel's conduct be weighed merely in the aspect of
negligent failure to investigate, the decision of this court
in Toledo Scale Co. v. Computing Scale Co., 261 U. S.
399, may well justify a holding, on all available evidence,
that, at least, Hazel was guilty of inexcusable negligence
in not seeking the evidence to support an attack upon the
decree. But it is highly possible that, upon a full trial,
it will be found that Hazel held back what it knew and, if
so, is not entitled now to attack the original decree. In
Scotten v. Littlefield, 235 U. S. 407, in affirming the denial of a bill of review, this court said that if the claim
now made was "not presented to the Court of Appeals
when there on appeal it could not be held back and made
the subject of a bill of review, as is now attempted to be
done." Repeatedly this court has held that one will not
be permitted to litigate by bill of review a question which
it had the opportunity to litigate in the main suit, whether
the litigant purposely abstained from bringing forward
the defense or negligently omitted to prosecute inquiries
which would have made it available."
29 Hendrickson v. Hinckley, supra, 446; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear,
supra, 806; Crim v. Handley, supra, 660; Bronson v. Schulten, supra,

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

And certainly an issue of such importance affecting
the validity of a judgment, should never be tried on
affidavits.'0
As I read the opinion of the court, it disregards the contents of many of the affidavits filed in the cause and holds
that solely because of the fraud which was practiced on
the Patent Office and in litigation on the patent, the owner
of the patent is to be amerced and in effect fined for the
benefit of the other party to the suit, although that other
comes with unclean hands 2' and stands adjudged a party
to a conspiracy to benefit over a period of twelve years
under the aegis of the very patent it now attacks for
fraud. To disregard these considerations, to preclude inquiry concerning these matters, is recklessly to punish one
wrongdoer for the benefit of another, although punishment has no place in this proceeding.
Hazel well understood the course of decision in federal
courts. It came into the Circuit Court of Appeals with a
petition for leave to file a bill of review, a procedure required by long-settled principles. Inasmuch as the judgment it attacked had been entered as a result of the action
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Hazel properly applied
22
to that court for leave to file its bill in the District Court.
The respondent did not object on procedural grounds to
the Circuit Court of Appeals considering and acting on the
petition. That court of its own motion denied the petition and permitted amendment to pray relief there.
417, 418; Richards v. Mackall, supra, 188, 189; Boone County v.

Burlington & M. R. R. Co., supra, 693; Pickford v. Talbott, supra,
658.
20
Jackson v. Irving Tryst Co., supra, 499; Sorenson v. Sutherland,
109 F. 2d 714, 719.
21 Creath's Adm'r v. Sims, supra, 204.
22 Southard v. Russell, supra,570, 571; Purcell v. Miner, supra,519;
Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, supra; National Brake & Electric Co. v.
Christensen,supra,431; Simmons Co. v. Grier Bros. Co., supra, 91.

SHAWKEE MFG. CO. v. HARTFORD CO.

271

Syllabus.

238

On the question what amounts to a sufficient showing
to move an appellate court to grant leave to file a bill of

review in the trial court, the authorities are not uniform.
Where the lack of merit is obvious, appellate courts have
refused leave, 3 but where the facts are complicated it is
often the better course to grant leave and to allow available
defenses to be made in answer to the bill.24 In the present
instance, I think it would have been proper for the court
to permit the filing of the bill in the District Court where
the rights of the parties to summon, to examine, and to
cross-examine witnesses, and to have a deliberate and
orderly trial of the issues according to the established
standards would be preserved.
I should reverse the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
with directions to permit the filing of the bill in the District Court.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join

in this opinion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE agrees with the result suggested in
this dissent.

SHAWKEE MANUFACTURING CO.

ET AL. V.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 423.

Argued February 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

Decided upon the authority of Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. HartfordEmpire Co., ante, p. 238.
137 F. 2d 764, reversed.
23

Purcellv. Miner, supra; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, supra.

24 Ocean Insurance Co. v. Fields, 2 Story 59; In re Gamewell Fire-

Alarm Tel. Co., 73 F. 908; Raflold ProcessCorp. v. CastaneaPaperCo.,
105 F. 2d 126.

