U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT
CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 589.

Argued March 28, 1944.-Decided May 1, 1944.

On an application to the Interstate Commerce Commission of two
carriers by motor vehicle for permission for one to purchase the property and operating rights of the other, the Commission found that
the proposed vendee was controlled through stock ownership by a
non-carrier. Held that by the proposed transaction the non-carrier
would "acquire control of another carrier through ownership of its
stock or otherwise," within the purview of § 5 (2) (a) of Part I of
the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the Transportation
Act of 1940; that § 5 (2) (b) required that application to the Commission for approval be made by the non-carrier; and that in the
absence of an application from the non-carrier the Commission was
without authority to approve the transaction. Pp. 37, 41.
52 F. Supp. 1010, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges
which set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 39 M. C. C. 271.

Mr. Daniel H. Kunkel, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Robert L. Pierce, Walter J. Cummings, Jr., and Daniel W.
Knowlton were on the brief, for the United States et al.;
and Mr. Charles E. Cotterill, with whom Mr. Harold G.
Hernly was on the brief, for the Coastal Tank Lines, Inc.
et al.,-appellants.
Mr. Robert C. Winter, with whom Messrs. George H.
Klein, Bigham D. Eblen, and Harry S. Elkins were on the
brief (Mr. Robert W. Williams entered an appearance), for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE SToNE

322 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On an application to the Interstate Commerce Commission of two carriers by motor vehicle, appellee Refiners
Transport Terminal Corporation and appellee Marshall
Transport Company, for permission for Refiners to purchase the property and operating rights of Marshall, the
Commission found that Refiners, the vendee-carrier, was
controlled through stock ownership by a non-carrier,
Union Tank Car Company, and that the proposed purchase would result in the acquisition by Union of control
of the property and business of Marshall. Construing
§§ 5 (2) (a) and (b) of Part I of the Interstate Commerce
Act, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by the Transportation Act
of 1940, 54 Stat. 905, 49 U. S. C. §§ 5 (2) (a) and (b), as
requiring the application to be made by Union, the noncarrier corporation controlling Refiners, the Commission
denied the application of the carriers for lack of power
in the Commission to approve the purchase.
The questions for our decision are (1) whether the acquisition of the property and franchises of one carrier by
another, which is controlled by a non-carrier, involves the
acquisition of control of the first or vendor-carrier by the
non-carrier for which the Commission's approval is required by § 5 (2) (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act; and
if so (2) whether the Commission rightly held that under
§ 5 (2) (b) of the Act it could not consider the propriety
of the transaction in the absence of an application by the
non-carrier for the Commission's authority to acquire
control.
Appellee Refiners holds certificates of public convenience and necessity from the Interstate Commerce Commission to operate as a common carrier, by motor vehicle,
of gasoline and petroleum products in Pennsylvania and
eight of the central states. Refiners, as the Commission

U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
31

Opinion of the Court.

found, is controlled through ownership of 82.6% of its outstanding common stock by Union Tank Car Company, a
non-carrier corporation. Marshall, a corporation, holds
a certificate of public convenience and necessity under the
grandfather clause, § 206 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
49 U. S. C. § 306, authorizing carriage, as a common carrier, of petroleum products, in bulk in tank trucks, over
irregular routes in Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, and Washington, D. C. By their joint application Refiners and Marshall sought authority of the Commission under § 5 (2) (a) for Refiners to acquire by
purchase the operating property and rights of Marshall.
After a hearing on the application, in which nine motor
carriers, co-appellants here, appeared as protestants, and
the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice intervened, Division 4 of the Commission issued its report
finding that the proposed purchase was within the scope
of § 5 (2) (a) and (b) and would be consistent with the
public interest. It overruled contentions of the protestants that the proposed purchase would result in the acquisition of control of Marshall by Union, the non-carrier,
through its control of Refiners, the purchaser, so as to require that Union join in the application. 39 M. C. C. 93.
On petition for rehearing the Commission reversed the
holding of Division 4. It concluded that as Union, the
non-carrier, already controlled one carrier, Refiners, the
purchase of the property and business of Marshall by Refiners would result in their control by Union, and that under §§ 5 (2) (a) and (b) and related sections this could not
be done without an application by Union for the Comnission's authority to do so. 39 M. C. C. 271.
Union having failed to apply for that authority within
the twenty days allowed for that purpose by the Commission's order, the Commission dismissed the pending application of Refiners and Marshall. Upon the suit of appel-

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

lees the District Court for Maryland, three judges sitting,
set aside the Commission's order, Circuit Judge Soper dissenting, 52 F. Supp. 1010, and the case comes here on appeal under 28 U. S. C. §§ 47 (a), 345.
Section 5 (2) (a) of the Act, makes it "lawful, with the
approval and authorization of the Commission . . .for

two or more carriers to consolidate or merge their properties or franchises . . .into one corporation for the owner-

ship, management, and operation of the properties theretofore in separate ownership; or for any carrier . . . to purchase . . . the properties . . . of another; . . . or for a

person which is not a carrier and which has control of one
or more carriers to acquire control of another carrier
through ownership of its stock or otherwise."
Section 5 (2) (b) provides that "Whenever a transaction
is proposed under subparagraph (a), the carrier or carriers
or person seeking authority therefor shall present an application to the Commission.

. .

."

And § 5 (3) provides

that "Whenever a person which is not a carrier is authorized, by an order entered under paragraph (2), to acquire
control of any carrier or of two or more carriers, such person
thereafter shall, to the extent provided by the Commission
in such order, be considered as a carrier subject to" specified
provisions of the Act, relating mainly to the keeping of
accounts, the making of reports, access to records, the

issuance of securities and the assumption of liabilities.
Section 5 (4) makes it "unlawful for any person, except
as provided in paragraph (2), to enter into any transaction
within the scope of subparagraph (a) thereof, or to accomplish or effectuate, or to participate in accomplishing or
effectuating, the control or management in a common interest of any two or more carriers, however such result is
attained, whether directly or indirectly, by use of . . .a
holding or investment company or companies, a voting
trust or trusts, or in any other manner whatsoever. . ..
As used in this paragraph and paragraph (5), the words

U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
31

Opinion of the Court.

'control or management' shall be construed to include the
power to exercise control or management."
In determining whether, under the non-carrier control
clause of § 5 (2) (a), Union, the non-carrier here, is required to file an application with the Commission, the
issue turns on the questions whether, within the meaning
of the statute, Union is by the proposed transaction attempting to "acquire control" of Marshall and, if so,
whether Union is within the requirement of § 5 (2) (b)
that the person seeking the authority of the Commission
to acquire such control shall present his application to
the Commission. In answering these questions the District Court thought that the several instances specified
by § 5 (2) '(a), in which the Commission is authorized
to permit acquisition of carrier control, are separate and
independent of each other so that, the Commission having full authority to authorize Refiners to purchase
Marshall under the merger and purchase provisions of
§ 5 (2) (a), its authority in that respect is not limited or
superseded by the non-carrier control provision appearing
later in the subparagraph and that provision is therefore
inapplicable.
In any case, the District Court concluded that these provisions are permissive only, giving the Commission authority to act with respect to any one without regard to
the restriction imposed by any other. Since Refiners' and
Marshall's application to the Commission for approval of
Refiners' purchase of Marshall's property and operating
rights are within the permissive authority of the Commission under the purchase provision of § 5 (2) (a), the
Court thought that it was not necessary for Union to
comply with the non-carrier provision and with the requirement of § 5 (2) (b) by joining in the application
even though the non-carrier provision would otherwise
be applicable to the transaction.
But this overlooks the fact, which the Commission
thought controlling, that the present transaction may fall

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

within both the purchase provision and the non-carrier
control provision of the statute since it involves not only
the purchase of Marshall by Refiners but also the acquisition of control of Marshall by Union, through its control
of Refiners. The question then is not whether the noncarrier control provision limits or supersedes the purchase
provision but whether, as the Commission thought, both
apply, and if so the extent to which they restrict the Commission's authority to approve the acquisition of control
by a non-carrier which has not filed an application pursuant to § 5 (2) (b).
As a matter of statutory construction it does not follow
that such parts of the proposed transaction in this case
as are subject to the requirement of the non-carrier control provision can escape that requirement because the
transaction also involves a purchase which falls within
and satisfies the requirement of the purchase provision of
the statute. Section 5 (4) prohibits each of the transactions enumerated in § 5 (2) (a) unless approved by the
Commission. And it is plain that if the proposed transaction involves Union's non-carrier control of Marshall within the meaning of § 5 (2) (a) appropriate application to
the Commission for its approval must be made in conformity to § 5 (2) (b). Hence our inquiry must be directed to the nature of the requirement of the non-carrier
control provision of the statute and to the question
whether if applicable it is satisfied by appellees' application to the Commission in which Union did not join.
It is not doubted that if Union, having control of Refiners, sought to acquire stock control of Marshall, Union
would be required by § 5 (2) (b) to apply for the Commission's authority to do so. But it is said that having
control of Refiners, Union may, by procuring Refiners'
compliance with the purchase provisions of the statute
alone, extend its control indefinitely to other carriers
merely by directing the purchase of their property and

U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
31

Opinion of the Court.

business by Refiners, without subjecting itself to the jurisdiction of the Commission as provided in § 5 (3), so long
as Union does not act directly as' the purchaser of the
property or of a controlling stock interest in such other
carriers.
We think that neither the language nor the legislative
history of the statute admits of so narrow a construction.
Section § 5 (4) makes it unlawful, without the approval
of the Commission as provided by § 5 (2) (a), for a person
which is not a carrier and which has control of one or more
carriers to acquire control of another carrier through
ownership of its stock or otherwise. Not only is this
language broad enough in terms to embrace the acquisition of control by a non-carrier through the purchase, by
a controlled carrier, of the property and business of another carrier, but the legislative history indicates that such
was its purpose.
Congress, by § 407 of the Transportation Act of 1920,
41 Stat. 480, amended the Interstate Commerce Act so
as to provide in § 5 (2) that the Commission should have
authority to permit a rail carrier or carriers to acquire control of another by lease or purchase of stock; by § 5 (8)
the carriers affected were relieved from the operation of
the antitrust laws, and by § 5 (6) the Commission was
authorized upon special conditions to approve the actual
consolidation of rail carriers. By the 1933 amendment
of § 5 (2), 48 Stat. 217, the Commission was given further
authority to permit unified control of two separate carriers "through ownership of their stock" and in 1940, § 5
(2) (a) was amended to read as at present by the addition
1 Such an acquisition of operating property, whether or not within
§ 5 (2) (a), would render the acquiring corporation an operating carrier within §§ 203 (a) (14)-(16) subject as such to the jurisdiction
of the Commission under Part II. Similarly the transfer of the
carrier's operating franchises would be subject to the Commission's
jurisdiction under § 212 (b).

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

of the words "or otherwise" to the phrase last quoted, and
the section was made applicable to motor carriers, 54 Stat.
905. Section 1 (3) (b) of the Act as amended in 1940
declares that "control" "shall be construed to include actual as well as legal control, whether maintained or exercised through or by reason of the method of or circumstances surrounding organization or operation, through or
by common directors, officers, or stockholders, a voting
trust or trusts, a holding or investment company or companies, or through or by any other direct or indirect means;
and to include the power to exercise control."
The Conference Committee Report on the Transportation Act of 1940, H. R. Rep. No. 2832, 76th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 63, points out that this definition of "control"
was added in order to make applicable to specified sections
of the Act, including § 5, the benefit of the interpretation
of this Court in RochesterTelephone Co. v. United States,
307 U. S. 125, 145-6, of the similar definition of "control"
in § 2 of the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1065,
47 U. S. C. § 152 (b). In that case this Court had emphasized the breadth of the statutory language as embracing every type of control in fact. It had declared
that the existence of control must be determined by a
regard for the "actualities" of intercorporate relationships
and that the Commission's determinations of fact, if warranted by the record, were conclusive.
Here the statute has declared that the non-carrier control to be approved by the Commission is control through
stock ownership "or otherwise." § 5 (2) (a). It has in
the broadest terms prohibited the effectuating of "control
or management . . ., however such result is attained,
whether directly or indirectly, by use of common directors,
officers, or stockholders, a holding or investment company
.. ., or in any other manner whatsoever." § 5 (4).
"Control or management" is defined to include "the power
to exercise control'or management." § 5 (4). The con-

U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
31

Opinion of the Court.

trol or management whose acquisition is prohibited unless
the approval of the Commission is secured is that which
is obtained "in any . . . manner whatsoever" "however
such result is attained, whether directly or indirectly,"
§ 5 (4). It includes "actual as well as legal control," § 1
(3) (b), and "the power to exercise control or management," § 5 (4).
Appellees argue that the Commission, in finding that
the proposed purchase of the property and franchises of
Marshall would be an acquisition of "control" requiring
the Commission's approval under §§ 5 (2) (a) and 5 (4),
disregarded the words of the statute which speaks only of
acquisition of control of another "carrier," defined in § 1
(3) (a) as a person, "natural or artificial," and not of
acquisition of control of its property. But such a literal
interpretation of the statute ignores its essential object.
What § 5 (4) read with § 5 (2) (a) prohibits, unless authorized by the Commission, is the merger by two or more
carriers of "their properties or franchises . . . into one
corporation for the ownership, management, and operation of the properties theretofore in separate ownership,"
and the acquisition by a non-carrier, having control of one
carrier, of control of another, or the effectuating in any
other manner of "the control or management in a common
interest of any two or more carriers."
The statute is thus concerned, not merely with the acquisition of control of one corporation by another, but
with the acquisition of control of a corporation which is
doing the business of a carrier, because such control is in
effect control of its carrier business. Control of that business, which may be effected by stock ownership, may also
be "otherwise" effected through a contract of a controlled
carrier to purchase the business of the other carrier, if
the purchase receives the approval of the Commission.
The power thus acquired over the vendor-carrier by the
contract of purchase is the power "to exercise control or

40

OCTOBER. TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

management" over its carrier business which, under § 5
(4), can become effective only with the approval of the
Commission. As the Commission pointed out in its
report, there can be no more direct or positive manner
of obtaining control than by outright purchase of another
carrier's business and property and the purpose of the Act
would be defeated if outright purchase, through the
medium of a controlled subsidiary carrier, of another carrier's property and operating rights, were exempted, while
control by purchase of stock of the other carrier through
the same subsidiary remained within the Act.
The Commission also emphasized the fact that, as the
motor carrier business is now organized, purchase of the
assets and franchises of carriers would be the usual and
in many cases the only feasible method of acquiring control of them. It pointed out that many of the businesses
are owned by individuals or partnerships, often possessing extensive operating rights. In the case of corporations
their stock is usually closely held and they are without
outstanding long-term debt obligations. In all these cases
a simple and usual method of acquiring control of other
carriers is by the cash purchase of their assets and operating rights and the assumption of their liabilities followed by liquidation of the vendor. The Commission concluded, "Proceeding thus through a controlled subsidiary,
a non-carrier holding company, or others, may expand at
will without becoming subject to our jurisdiction under
the construction adopted by the division. We cannot
agree to that construction of 'control' as used in the act."
39 M. C. C. at 275. For the reasons which we have stated
we think the Commission's construction of the Act in this
respect is correct.
The question remains whether the Commission had
authority to proceed in the absence of any application by
Union. By § 5 (4) any transaction within the scope of

U. S. v. MARSHALL TRANSPORT CO.
31

Opinion of the Court.

subparagraph (a) of paragraph (2) is unlawful except as
provided by that paragraph, which includes subparagraph
(b). Section 5 (2) (a), read with § 5 (4), requires the
acquisition of control to be with the approval of the
Commission. And § 5 (2) (b) requires the "person" seeking authority for a transaction covered by subparagraph
(a), here the non-carrier control of Marshall, to present
an application to the Commission. The Commission may
approve the application "subject to such terms and conditions and such modifications as it shall find to be just
and reasonable." The purpose of these provisions of
§§ 5 (2) (b) and 5 (4) is apparent when they are read
with § 5 (3), which authorizes the Commission, by its
order permitting non-carrier control, to require such noncarrier to be considered a carrier subject to the Act to
the extent provided in the order made in conformity to
5 (3).
The control over the non-carrier contemplated by § 5
(3) can be acquired only if the non-carrier subjects itself
to the jurisdiction of the Commission by filing its application with the Commission for its approval of such noncarrier control as is provided by § 5 (2) (b). The purpose
of § 5 (3) to subject the non-carrier, thus acquiring control, to specified provisions of the Act would be defeated
if the non-carrier were not to become subject to the Commission's order. That is avoided by making it unlawful
to acquire non-carrier control save on the non-carrier's
application to the Commission in conformity to § 5 (2)
(b). As appellees' application to the Commission involved the acquisition of non-carrier control of Marshall
by Union, Union was a person seeking authority for such
control and as such was required by § 5 (2) (b) to make
application to the Commission. To approve the transaction involving such non-carrier control without the application of the non-carrier would be to authorize
587770*--45----7

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

322 U. S.

Union's non-carrier control of Marshall without subjecting the former to the Commission's jurisdiction as required
by § 5 (3).
The Commission rightly concluded that it was without
authority to approve such control unless Union, the noncarrier, filed its application with the Commission, and
since Union failed to do so within the time allowed by the
Commission's order, the Commission properly dismissed
the pending application in which Union had failed to join.
It was therefore error for the District Court to set aside
the Commission's order and the judgment of the District
Court is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons given by the
District Court.

THE ANACONDA

ET AL.

v. AMERICAN SUGAR

REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 649. Argued March 29, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
The parties to an agreement for arbitration of disputes arising out of
a charter party can not by stipulation make unavailable the right

of the aggrieved party under § 8 of the United States Arbitration
Act to begin his proceeding by "libel and seizure of the vessel ...
according to the usual course of admiralty proceedings."
138 F. 2d 765, affirmed.

P. 46.

CEmTIORARI, 321 U. S. 758, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 48 F. Supp. 385, dismissing a libel in admiralty.
Mr. Cody Fowler for petitioners.
Mr. Henry N. Longley, with whom Mr. John W. R.
Zisgen was on the brief, for respondent.

