OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

398

Syllabus.

322 U. S.

State) in due form for taxes extinguishes all prior liens,
whether for taxes or otherwise. This rule is one of necessity, growing out of the imperative nature of the demand
of the government for its revenues." Auditor General v.
Clifford, 143 Mich. 626,630, 107 N. W. 287; and see Municipal Investors Assn. v. Birmingham, 298 Mich. 314, 325326, 299 N. W. 90, and cases there cited. The provision
of the drain statute upon which appellants rest their case
does not expressly purport to alter this "rule of necessity."
On its face it deals only with the levy of an additional assessment in the event that drain bonds are not paid in full
at maturity, and does not assume to deal with the manner
of selling tax-delinquent properties in drain districts or
the kind of title that can be conveyed at such sales. "The
language falls far short of subjecting lots which have been
sold to pay tax or assessment liens to an additional assessment for the deficit. Such a construction would defeat
the remedy of tax sales as a means of realizing the assessment lien." Municipal Investors Assn. v. Birmingham,
316 U. S.153, 159.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
L. P. STEUART & BRO., INC. v. BOWLES, PRICE
ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 793.

Argued May 2, 1944.-Decided May 22, 1944.

The power of the President under § 2 (a) (2) of Title III of the
Second War Powers Act to "allocate" materials includes the
power to issue suspension orders against retailers and to with-

STEUART & BRO. v. BOWLES.
398

Opinion of the Court.

hold rationed materials from them where it is established that
they have acquired and distributed the rationed materials in
violation of the ration regulations. P. 403.
140 F. 2d 703, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 761, to review the affirmance of
a decree dismissing the complaint in a suit to enjoin the
enforcement of a suspension order issued against the
company by the Office of Price Administration pursuant
to powers delegated by the President under the Second
War Powers Act.

Mr. Renah F. Camalier, with whom Mr. Francis C.
Brooke was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas I. Emerson, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Mr. David London were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Sec. 2 (a) (2) of Title III of the Second War Powers Act
(56 Stat. 178, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. III), § 633) provides
in part:
"Whenever the President is satisfied that the fulfillment
of requirements for the defense of the United States will
result in a shortage in the supply of any material or of any
facilities for defense or for private account or for export,
the President may allocate such material or facilities in
such manner, upon such conditions and to such extent as
he shall deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest and to promote the national defense."
By § 2 (a) (8) of the Act the President is granted authority to exercise that power "through such department,
agency, or officer of the Government as he may direct and
in conformity with any rules or regulations which he may
prescribe." That authority, so far as material here, was

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

delegated to the Office of Price Administration," which
promulgated Ration Order No. 11, effective October 22,
1942, providing for the rationing of fuel oil.' That order
recited the now familiar facts concerning the then critical
and acute shortage of fuel oil and other petroleum products in the eastern states due to the great war activity. It
stated that it was "essential to guarantee the continued
availability of adequate supplies of fuel oil for military and
naval use and for industrial and agricultural operations"
and that the "reduction of demand to the available supply
is sought to be achieved largely by a curtailment of the
use of fuel oil for heating premises and for hot water, virtually the only classes of uses which can be uniformly reduced without directly impeding the war effort." I The
order inaugurated "a system of rationing control" deemed
necessary in order "to provide for equitable distribution
of fuel oil in the areas of shortage." ' Fuel oil rations for
heat and for hot water were provided. Machinery was
established for the regulation of the flow of fuel oil from
suppliers to consumers. Only a few of those regulations
are relevant here. Transfers of fuel oil to consumers were
allowed only in exchange for ration coupons.' A dealer
obtaining fuel oil from his supplier was generally required
to surrender ration coupons within five days after the
transfer
Dealers were required, with exceptions not material here, to keep records of sales to consumers showing
their names and addresses, the date and amount of the
'Executive Order No. 9125, 7 Fed. Reg. 2719; War Production
Board, Supplementary Directive 1-0, Oct. 16, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 8418.
2 7 Fed. Reg. 8480.

2 Id., p. 8480.
4Id., p. 8480. Ration Order No. 11 initiated rationing of fuel oil
in thirty eastern, southeastern, and midwestern states and in the District of Columbia.
5§ 1394.5652.
8 §§ 1394.5707, 1394.5708.

STEUART & BRO. v. BOWLES.
Opinion of the Court.

398

transfer, and the coupons detached." Provision was also
made for "suspension orders" as follows:8
"Any person who violates Ration Order No. 11 may, by
administrative suspension order, be prohibited from receiving any transfers or deliveries of, or selling or using or
otherwise disposing of, any fuel oil or other rationed product or facility. Such suspension order shall be issued for
such period as in the judgment of the Administrator, or
such person as he may designate for such purpose, is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and to promote
the national security."
On December 31, 1943, a suspension order was issued
against petitioner, a retail dealer in fuel oil in the District
of Columbia. It was found that petitioner had obtained
large quantities of fuel oil from its supplier without surrendering any ration coupons. It was found that petitioner had delivered many thousands of gallons of fuel
oil to consumers without receiving ration coupons in
exchange; 'and that in some instances petitioner delivered
fuel oil to consumers without receipt of valid ration
coupons in exchange.'0 Petitioner was also found to have
§ 1394.5656.
1394.5803.

8§

And see 8 Fed. Reg. 2720.

The Office of Price Administration conferred on its Hearing Commissioners and Hearing Administrator the function of issuing suspension orders. General Order 46, 8 Fed. Reg. 1771. It also adopted,
Feb. 6, 1943, Procedural Regulation No. 4, which prescribed the pro-.

cedure to be used in the issuance of rationing suspension orders. 8
Fed. Reg. 1744. And see 9 Fed. Reg. 2558 for the revision of this
regulation, issued Mar. 6, 1944.
9 Some 328,000 gallons according to OPA, around 181,000 gallons
on petitioner's computation.

10 The OPA Hearing Administrator found "The record is replete
with proof that respondent did commit, with reference to transfers

to consumers, practically every sort of violation known to the regulations-making deliveries for expired coupons, unmatured coupons, no
coupons at all and making emergency deliveries in excess of the quantities permitted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

failed to keep the required records showing its transfers of
fuel oil to consumers. The suspension order prohibited
petitioner from receiving fuel oil for resale or transfer
to any consumer for the period from January 15, 1944 to
December 31, 1944, the date when the Second War Powers
Act expires. The order provided, however, that if petitioner furnished the Office of Price Administration with a
list of consumers to whom it had sold fuel oil from October
21, 1941, to October 21, 1942, and if it surrendered all void
ration coupons in its possession, it might transfer fuel oil
to any consumer to whom it had transferred fuel oil during
the year subsequent to October 21, 1941 " and receive fuel
oil sufficient for that purpose. The order finally provided
that if the Petroleum Administrator for War I should
certify that the fuel oil needs of the District of Columbia
could not be met by the supplies and the facilities of other
suppliers and dealers in the area and that it was therefore
essential to the welfare of the community that the provisions of the suspension order be modified, the restrictions might be wholly or partly removed," The suspension order was issued after notice and hearings as provided
in the regulations which govern the procedure in such
cases. 14
The present suit was brought in the District Court for
the District of Columbia to enjoin the enforcement of the
suspension order. A temporary restraining order was issued. Respondents moved for summary judgment. That
motion was granted and the complaint was dismissed.
On the appeal that judgment was affirmed. 140 F. 2d
703. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
""Ration
Order No. 11 became effective October 22, 1942.
2
Established December 2, 1942, by Executive Order No. 9276.
7 Fed. Reg. 10091.
's The suspension order also provided for an accounting by petitioner
of its fuel oil transactions since October 22, 1942.
14 Procedural Regulation No. 4, supra,note 8.

STEUART & BRO. v. BOWLES.
398

Opinion of the Court.

which we granted because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the rationing regulations.
The sole question presented by this case is whether the
power of the President under § 2 (a) (2) of Title III of
the Second War Powers Act to "allocate" materials includes the power to issue suspension orders against retailers and to withhold rationed materials from them
where it is established they have acquired and distributed the rationed materials' in violation of the ration
regulations.
We state the question that narrowly because of the
posture of the case as it reaches us. The constitutional
authority of Congress to authorize as a war emergency
measure the allocation or rationing of materials is not
challenged. No question of delegation of authority is
present. It is assumed, on petitioner's concession, that
the President has validly delegated to the Office of Price
Administration whatever authority he has under § 2 (a)
(2) of Title III of the Act. And no question is raised,
like those involved in Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S.
414, and Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, concerning
the authority of Congress to delegate to the President in
this way the power to allocate materials. No contention
is made that petitioner was deprived of fuel oil without
a hearing and an opportunity to defend. Nor is it argued
that, although the power to issue suspension orders exists,
that power was abused in this instance, so as to give rise
to judicial review, and the limits of the authority exceeded
by the specific provisions of the order which is before us.
And finally, no challenge is made of the findings which
underlie this suspension order. 5
The argument, rather, is that the authority to "allocate"
materials does not include the power to issue suspension
orders; and that no such power will be implied since sus15 The Government has conceded that there may be judicial review
of suspension orders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the .Court.

322 U. S.

pension orders are penalties to which persons will not be
subjected unless the statute plainly imposes them. See
Tiffanl, v. National Bank, 18 Wall. 409, 410; Keppel v.
Tiffin Savings Bank, 197 U. S. 356, 362; Wallace v. Cutten, 298 U. S. 229, 237. In that connection it is pointed
out that Congress provided criminal and civil sanctions
for violations of Title III of the Act. By § 2 (a) (5) any
person who wilfully violates those provisions of the Act
or any rule, regulation or oder promulgated thereunder
is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to fine and imprisonment. By § 2 (a) (6) federal courts have power, among
others, to enjoin any violation of those provisions of the
Act or any rule, regulation or order thereunder. It is
therefore contended that when violations of regulations under the Act are used as the basis for withholding rationed materials from persons, sanctions for
law enforcement are created by administrative fiat contrary to the Act in question and contrary to constitutional
requirements.
We agree that it is for Congress to prescribe the penalties for the laws which it writes. It would transcend both
the judicial and the administrative function to make additions to those which Congress has placed behind a statute. United States v. Two Hundred Barrels of Whiskey,
95 U. S. 571; Campbell v. Galeno Chemical Co., 281 U. S.
599; Wallace v. Cutten, supra. Hence we would have no
difficulty in agreeing with petitioner's contention if the
issue were whether a suspension order could be used as a
means of punishment of an offender. But that statement
of the question is a distortion of the issue presented on
this record.
The problem of the scarcity of materials is often acute
and critical in a great war effort such as the present one.
Whether the difficulty be transportation or production,
there is apt to be an insufficient supply to meet essential
civilian needs after military and industrial requirements

STEUART & BRO. v. BOWLES.
398

405.

Opinion of the Court.

have been satisfied. Thus without rationing, the fuel
tanks of a few would be full; the fuel tanks of many would
be empty. Some localities would have plenty; communities less favorably situated would suffer. Allocation or
rationing is designed to eliminate such inequalities and to
treat all alike who are similarly situated. The burdens
are thus shared equally and limited supplies are utilized
for the benefit of the greatest number. But middlemenwholesalers and retailers--bent on defying the rationing
system could raise havoc with it. By disregarding quotas
prescribed for each householder and by giving some more
than the allotted share they would defeat the objectives
of rationing and destroy any program of allocation.
These middlemen are the chief if not the only conduits
between the source of limited supplies and the consumers.
From the viewpoint of a rationing system a middleman
who distributes the product in violation and disregard of
the prescribed quotas is an inefficient and wasteful
conduit. If the needs of consumers are to be met and the
consumer allocations are to be filled, prudence might well
dictate the avoidance or discard of such inefficient and
unreliable means of distribution of a scarce and vital commodity. Certainly we could not say that the President
would lack the power under this Act to take away from a
wasteful factory and route to an efficient one a precious
supply of material needed for the manufacture of articles
of war. That power of allocation or rationing might indeed be the only way of getting the right equipment to our
armed forces in time. From the point of view of the factory owner from whom the materials were diverted the action would be harsh. He would be deprived of an expected
profit. But in times of war the national interest cannot
wait on individual claims to preference. The waging of
war and the control of its attendant economic problems
are urgent business. Yet if the President has the power to
channel raw materials into the most efficient industrial

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

units and thus save scarce materials from wastage it is
difficult to see why the same principle is not applicable
to the distribution of fuel oil.
If petitioner established that he was eliminated as a
dealer or that his quota was cut down for reasons not relevant to allocation or efficient distribution of fuel oil, quite
different considerations would be presented. But we can
make no such assumption here. The suspension order
rests on findings of serious violations repeatedly made.
These violations were obviously germane to the problem
of allocation of fuel oil. For they indicated that a scarce
and vital commodity was being distributed in an inefficient, inequitable and wasteful way. The character of
the violations thus negatives the charge that the suspension order was designed to punish petitioner rather than
to protect the distribution system and the interests of
conservation. Moreover, there is the following finding in
support of the limitation on the number of customers
which petitioner may hereafter service:
"We have no way of knowing how many customers the
respondent corporation can serve while at the same time
faithfully observing the rationing regulations. But we do
know from its clearly established violations from the very
inception of fuel-oil rationing that the number it then
served approached the upper limit of its capacity since
the fact is clear that it did not (whether it would not
or could not) thereafter both service this number and
simultaneously comply with the rationing regulations.
Additional customers, then, clearly impose a burden
which the respondent cannot bear."
None of the findings is challenged here. Taken at their
face value, as they must be, they refute the suggestion
that the order, was based on considerations not relevant
to the problem of allocation. They sustain the conclusion
that in restricting petitioner's quota the Office of Price
Administration was doing no more than protecting a com-

STEUART & BRO. v. BOWLES.
398

Opinion of the Court.

munity against distribution which measured by rationing
standards was inequitable, unfair, and inefficient. If the
power to "allocate" did not embrace that power it would
be feeble power indeed.
What we have said disposes of the argument that if petitioner has violated Ration Order No. 11 the only recourse
of the Government is to proceed under § 2 (a) (5) or § 2
(a) (6) which provide criminal and civil sanctions. Those
remedies are sanctions for the power to "allocate." They
hardly subtract from that power. Yet they would be
allowed to do just that if it were held that violations by
middlemen of the ration orders and regulations could
never be the basis of reallocation of fuel oil into more
reliable channels of distribution.
It is finally pointed out that Congress has seldom used
the licensing power "6 and that that power, when used,
has been employed sparingly. Thus one of the sanctions
of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 (56 Stat. 33,
50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. III) § 925) is the power to revoke
licenses for violations of maximum prices or rents. § 205
(f). That power may be utilized only in judicial proceedings; and licenses may be suspended only for limited
periods. § 205 (f) (2). That consideration would be
germane to the present problem if Congress had implemented the allocation procedure with a licensing system.
Then the question might arise whether revocation of the
license rather than the reallocation of materials by administrative action was the appropriate procedure in case of
violations. Congress, however, did not adopt the licensing
system when it came to rationing. And the failure to do
so is hardly a reason for saying that the power to "allocate"
is less replete than a reading of the Act fairly permits.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS
16

dissents.

See § 5 of the Act of August 10, 1917, 40 Stat. 276, 277.

