174

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

ing and accusing him. He was not sentenced to death,
but for a term that probably means life. He was defended by resourceful and diligent counsel.
The use of the due process clause to disable the States
in protection of society from crime is quite as dangerous
and delicate a use of federal judicial power as to use it to
disable them from social or economic experimentation.
The warning words of Mr. Justice Holmes in his dissenting
opinion in Baldwin v. Missouri,281 U. S. 586, 595, seem to
us appropriate for rereading now.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

join in this opinion.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. COUNTY OF
ALLEGHENY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 417. Argued March 1, 1944.-Decided May 1, 1944.
Pursuant to a contract with the United States for the production of
ordnance, a contractor installed machinery in his mill. In the
assessment of the mill for state taxes, the value of the machinery
was included. Held:
1. Whether the machinery was property of the United States was
a federal question. P. 182.
2. Title to the machinery was in the United States. P. 183.
3. The state tax law, so far as it purports to authorize taxation
of the property interests of the United States in the machinery in
the contractor's plant, or to use that interest to tax or to enhance
the tax upon the Government's bailee, violates the Federal Constitution. P. 192.
4. The claim in this case that immunity from state taxation was
waived is unsupported. P. 189.
(a) A provision of the contract requiring the contractor to
abide by the "applicable" state law was inadequate to waive federal
immunity. P. 189.
(b) A provision of the contract whereby the Government was
obligated to pay certain taxes of the contractor did not operate to
waive immunity. P. 189.

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

5. The invalidity of the tax was not dependent upon where its
economic burden fell. P. 189.
6. Local governments may. not impose either compensatory or
retaliatory taxes on property interests of the Federal Government.
P. 190.
7. The contractor, upon whom the tax was laid, and the Government, as intervenor, having made timely insistence in the proceeding below that the state tax law as applied violated the Federal
Constitution, and the highest court of the State having rendered
final judgment against the claim of federal right, this Court has
jurisdiction on appeal. Jud. Code § 237 (a). P. 191.
347 Pa. 191, 32 A. 2d 236, reversed.
APPEAL

from the reversal of a judgment which held a

state tax invalid under the Federal Constitution.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Judge Advocate General
Cramer,and Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, Alvin
J. Rockwell, and PaulF. Mickey were on the brief, for the
United States;. and Messrs. Elder W. Marshall and Carl E.
Glock submitted for the Mesta Machine Co.,-appellants.
Mr. Edward G. Bothwell, with whom Mr. John J.
O'Connellwas on the brief, for appellee.
By special leave of Court, Miss Anne X. Alpern, with
whom Messrs. Ray L. Chesebro,L. E. Latourette, William
E. Kemp, Richmond B. Keech, J. H. O'Connor, and
Charles S. Rhyne were on the brief, for the member cities
of the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers, as
amici curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JusTcE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are called upon to solve another of the recurring
conflicts between the power to tax and the right to be free
from taxation which are inevitable where two governments function at the same time and in the same territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

In arguing the case of McCulloch v. Maryland, Luther
Martin, Attorney General of Maryland, himself a member
of the Constitutional Convention, said, "The whole of this
subject of taxation is full of difficulties, which the Convention found it impossible to solve, in a manner entirely
satisfactory. The first attempt was to divide the subjects of taxation between the State and the national government. This being found impracticable, or inconvenient, the State governments surrendered altogether their
right to tax imports and exports, and tonnage; giving the
authority to tax all other subjects to Congress, but reserving to the States a concurrent right to tax the same subjects to an unlimited extent. This was one of the anomalies of the government, the evils of which must be endured,
or mitigated by discretion and mutual forbearance."
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 376. Where discretion and forbearance have failed, it often has fallen to
this Court to determine specific cases for which the Convention was unable to agree upon a general rule. Looking backward it is easy to see that the line between the
taxable and the immune has been drawn by an unsteady
hand.
But since 1819, when Chief Justice Marshall in the
McCulloch case expounded the principle that properties,
functions, and instrumentalities of the Federated Government are immune from taxation by its constituent
parts, this Court never has departed from that basic doctrine or wavered in its application. In the course of time
it held that even without explicit congressional action immunities had become communicated to the income or
property or transactions of others because they in some
manner dealt with or acted for the Government.1 In
1 See Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day, 11
Wall. 113; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401;
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Owensboro National

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

recent years this Court has curtailed sharply the doctrine
of implied delegated immunity.' But unshaken, rarely
questioned, and indeed not questioned in this case, is the
principle that possessions, institutions, and activities of
the Federal Government itself in the absence of express
congressional consent are not subject to any form of state
taxation. The real controversy here is whether, especially in view of recent decisions, taxing authorities of
the. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania have infringed this
admitted immunity.
Mesta Machine Company, an appellant with the
United States, exists as a corporation under the laws of
Pennsylvania and has a manufacturing plant in the
County of Allegheny, of that Cormnonwealth, the County
being appellee herein. It is engaged in the manufacture
of heavy machinery. In October 1940, the War Department desired to produce a quantity of large field guns. It
could have assembled an organization, created a Government-owned corporation, and erected a plant which
would have been wholly tax immune. Clallam County v.
United States, 263 U. S. 341. But for reasons of time and
policy it chose to utilize a going concern under private
management and ownership. Mesta's plant was not
equipped for the manufacture of ordnance. It was agreed
that certain additional equipment specially required for
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Jaybird Mining
Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609; FederalLand Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S.
374; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Leloup v. Port of Mobile,
127 U. S. 640; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570;
Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218; Graves
v. Texas Co., 298 U. S. 393.
2 See Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1; Graves v. New York
ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302
U. S. 134; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376.

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

the work should be furnished at Government cost and
should remain the property of the United States.
The basic arrangement between Mesta and the Government was provided for by three separate titles of a
single contract, made in October 1940. A title was devoted to each feature of the arrangement, being generally: procurement of Government-owned equipment at
Government cost; lease of such equipment by the Government to Mesta; and Mesta's undertaking to make and
deliver the guns at a fixed price each. In February 1941
a supplemental contract was made.
Under the first title of the contract, machinery was to
be procured in three possible ways: Mesta, as an independent contractor and not as agent of the Government,
could purchase it; Mesta could manufacture it; or the
Government at its option could furnish any part of it.
In carrying out the agreement Mesta manufactured one
machine, the Government furnished eight gun-boring
lathes and two rifling machines from its Watervliet Arsenal, and the rest Mesta purchased from other machinetool manufacturers. The machinery bought or built by
Mesta was inspected and accepted on behalf of the United
States, which thereupon compensated Mesta as agreed.
The contract provided that title to all such property
should vest in the Government upon delivery at the site
of work and inspection and acceptance.
By the second title of the contract the Government
leased this equipment to Mesta for the period during
which guns are manufactured by it under this contract or
later supplements. As rental Mesta agreed to pay the
sum of one dollar. Mesta was permitted to use the equipment "for the purpose of expediting the manufacture of
guns" and for no other, without consent, except that such
machinery as was "purchased or furnished to supplement
its existing facilities" might be used "for general purposes." Liability of Mesta for loss, damage, or destruction

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

of equipment was "that of a bailee under a mutual benefit
bailment." Mesta could not remove any of it without
permission, and at all times it was accessible to Government inspection. On termination of the gun-supply contract, unless a stand-by contract was made, Mesta agreed
to remove and ship the equipment according to Government directions, in good condition subject to fair wear and
tear and depreciation.
The leasing title of the contract made no mention of
taxation. The equipment-procurement title provided for
reimbursement of Mesta "in the performance of the work
under this Title" for payments "under the Social Security
Act, and any applicable State or local taxes, fees, or
charges which the Contractor may be required on account
of this contract to pay on or for any plant, equipment,
process, organization, materials, supplies, or personnel."
The gun-supply title recited that the contract price did
not "include any tax imposed by any state, county, or
municipality upon the transaction of this purchase of
guns. The Government shall not be liable, directly or
indirectly, for the payment of any such taxes, except that
if the Contractor after using every effort short of litigation
to procure exemption or refund, as the case may be,
should be compelled to pay to any state, county or municipality, any tax upon the transaction of this procurement,
an amount equal to the tax so paid shall be paid by the
Government on demand of the Contractor, in addition to
the prices herein stated." The Government admits liability to reimburse Mesta if it is obliged to pay tax by
reason of the assessment in question here.
The machinery was bolted on concrete foundations in
Mesta's plant on real property owned by it. It could be
removed without damage to the building.
The present controversy flared when the assessing authorities of Allegheny County revised Mesta's previously
determined assessment for ad valorem taxes. They added

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

thereto the value of the machinery in question, fixed at
$618,000. This included property acquired from other
tool manufacturers as above described, $444,000; that
manufactured by Mesta, $14,000; lathes brought from
the Watervliet Arsenal, $160,000. Mesta protested and
exhausted administrative remedies without avail, and on
July 30, 1942, paid under protest $5,137.12, the amount
of the tax attributable to this increased assessment.
Mesta took a timely appeal allowed by statute to the
Court of Common Pleas. The United States petitioned
to intervene, reciting that it would be required to reimburse Mesta by force of its contract. Intervention was
permitted against objection by the County, and the United
States has participated in the litigation since. Mesta attacked the assessment under both state and federal law,
claiming that under the State Tax Law property belonging to another was not to be considered a part of its mill
and that if construed to authorize assessment and taxation of this machinery, the statute violated the Federal
Constitution.
The Court of Common Pleas held that the State Act authorized the assessment, but that the machinery here involved was "owned by the United States" and so for constitutional reasons could not be included.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, on appeal of the
County, reversed, and reinstated the assessment. It held
that under the state law regardless of who held the title
to it the machinery constituted a part of the mill for purposes of assessment and was properly assessed as real
estate. It acknowledged that property held by the United
States is "beyond the pale of taxation" by a state, but this
assessment, it said, is not against the United States but
against Mesta, which is operating its mill for private purposes. If Mesta defaulted in tax payments, the Court held
that "the paramount rights of the Government in the

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

machinery could not be divested or in any way affected,"
hence the Government could suffer no loss. Evidence
that the machinery was not owned by Mesta it held to
be irrelevant and improperly admitted. Two Justices
dissented.
The United States and Mesta appealed and we postponed consideration of jurisdictional questions to the
hearing on the merits.
I.
It is denied that the Government has valid title to the
machinery. This contention is urged by the member
cities of the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers,
permitted to file a brief and to argue orally as amici curiae.
Their position is that "the Government is subject to the
legal rules applicable to private transactions." Under
Pennsylvania law transfer of title to personal property to
be good as against subsequent purchasers and lienors must
be accompanied by delivery of possession. They say that
inspection and acceptance by a contracting officer on behalf
of the United States at the Mesta plant did not under decisional law of Pennsylvania amount to delivery of possession to the United States and hence that its title is defective. The position of the County is less extreme. It argued earlier in the litigation that the machinery became
part of Mesta's real estate upon installation and that the
United States had only "a reversionary interest after the
termination of the contract." It later conceded that title
to the property was not in Mesta "except for tax purposes."
The Pennsylvania Supreme Court thought it immaterial
whether title was in the Government, but said, ". . . this
private arrangement between the Mesta Company, the
owner of the land and buildings and operator of the mill,
and the federal government, the owner of the machinery,
which treats the equipment as personal property and per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

mits the latter to remove it at the termination of the contract, can in no way change the legal effect of the Act of
Assembly which specifically designates machinery, under
these circumstances, as real estate for tax purposes."
We do not determine whether, under Pennsylvania law,
the retention of possession by Mesta would protect only
good-faith purchasers or lienors who relied upon it or
whether, as urged by the amid, it also makes the Government's title imperfect as against these taxing authorities,
who were fully advised of the Government's claim before
the assessment was made. Even if the latter were true, we
do not think the state law would be decisive of the question
of title.
The Constitution ,provides that "The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and
Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States . . ." Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2. It
also gives Congress the power "To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution"
all powers vested in the Government or in any department
or officer thereof, Art. 1, § 8, cl. 18, and it makes the laws
of the United States enacted pursuant thereto "the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State
shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or
Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding."
Art. VI, cl. 2.
Every acquisition, holding, or disposition of property
by the Federal Government depends upon proper exercise
of a constitutional grant of power. In this case no contention is made that the contract with Mesta is not fully
authorized by the congressional power to raise and support armies and by adequate congressional authorization
to the contracting officers of the War Department. It
must be accepted as an act of the Federal Government warranted by the Constitution and regular under
statute.

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

Procurement policies so settled under federal authority
may not be defeated or limited by state law. The purpose
of the supremacy clause was to avoid the introduction of
disparities, confusions and conflicts which would follow
if the Government's general authority were subject to
local controls. The validity and construction of con:tracts through which the United States is exercising its
-constitutional functions, their consequences on the rights
and obligations of the parties, the titles or liens which they
create or permit, all present questions of federal law not
controlled by the law of any State. Clearfield Trust Co.
v. United States, 318 U. S. 363; Jackson County v. United
States, 308 U. S. 343; Carpenter v. Shaw, 280 U. S. 363;
Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389;
United States v. Ansonia Brass & Copper Co., 218 U. S.
452; see D'Oench, Duhme & Co. v. Federal Deposit Ins.
Corp., 315 U. S. 447; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190;
Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Lumber Co., 314 U. S.
95. Federal statutes may declare liens in favor of the
Government and establish their priority over subsequent
purchasers or lienors irrespective of state recording acts.
Detroit Bank v. United States, 317 U. S. 329; United
States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210. Or the Government may
avail itself, as any other lienor, of state recording facilities,
in which case, while it has never been denied that it must
pay nondiscriminatory fees for their use, the recording
may not be made the occasion for taxing the Government's
property. FederalLand Bank v. Crosland,261 U. S. 374;
Pittman v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21.
We hold that title to the property in question is in the
United States and is effective for tax purposes.
II.
The County denies, however, that it is taxing property
belonging to the United States. First, it says it taxes only
the land, which the United States does not own; and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

machinery is not taxed, but is considered only as an enhancement of the value of the land to Mesta, its owner.
Secondly, it says the lien of the tax does not encumber
and the process of collection does not involve any sale or
other interference with the machinery. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court has upheld the questioned tax because upon these grounds it concluded that no interference
with the federal function resulted.
"Where a federal right is concerned we are not bound by
the characterization given to a state tax by state courts
or legislatures, or relieved by it from the duty of considering the real nature of the tax and its effect upon the federal right asserted." Carpenterv. Shaw, 280 U. S. 363,
367-68.
It is not contended that the scheme of taxation employed by Pennsylvania is anything other than the old
and widely used ad valorem general property tax. This
taxation plan involves the identification and valuation of
the variable individual holdings to be taxed, commonly
called the assessment, the application of a uniform rate
calculated on the need for public revenues, and the collection, in default of payment, by distraint and sale of
the property assessed and taxed. This form of taxation
is not regarded primarily as a form of personal taxation
but rather as a tax against the property as a thing. Its
procedures are more nearly analogous to procedures in rem
than to those in personam. While personal liability for
the tax may be and sometimes is imposed, the power to
tax is predicated upon jurisdiction of the property, not
upon jurisdiction of the person of the owner, which often
is lacking without impairment of the power to tax. In
both theory and practice the property is the subject of the
tax and stands as security for its payment.
The Pennsylvania statutes embody this scheme of taxation. They are a century old. The basic provision reads:

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

185

Opinion of the Court.

"The following subjects and property shall... be valued
and assessed, and subject to taxation."' Taxes are "declared to be a first lien on said property."' (Emphasis
supplied.) It is only under these legislative provisions
that the tax in question is laid.
The procedure of the assessors is consistent with no
other theory than that the machinery itself was being
assessed and taxed exactly as land was being assessed and
taxed. The Government-owned machinery was inspected
and itemized by the assessor, each machine was then
separately appraised by a machinery expert, and the aggregate full values of $618,000 were carried into the assessment. The assessment against Mesta was entered in the
books of the assessors as follows: "Land, $293,795; Buildings, $1,123,124; Machinery, $2,489,085; Total assessment, $3,906,004." The machinery item included the
value of the Government's property.
The assessors made no claim that the temporary presence of the Government's machinery actually enhanced
the market value or the use value of Mesta's land. The
assessors simply and forthrightly valued Mesta's land
as land, and the Government's machines as machinery, and
added the latter to the former. We discern little theoretical difference, and no practical difference at all, between
what was done and what would be done if the machinery
were taxed in form. Its full value was ascertained and
added to the base to which the annual rates would apply
for county, city, borough, town, township, school, and
poor purposes.
We hold that the substance of this procedure is to lay
an ad valorem general property tax on property owned
by the United States.
3 Penn. Stat. Ann. (Purdon) tit. 72, § 5020-201.
4 Id., tit. 53, § 2022.
587770--45----16

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

III.

It is contended, however, that Government title does
not prevent such state taxation, because the incidence of
the tax is borne by Mesta, not the Government, and the
taxation creates no lien upon its property or interference
with its function.
The Commonwealth certainly has broad powers and
choices of methods to tax Mesta, a corporation created by
it and domiciled and operating within its borders. The
trend of recent decisions has been to withdraw private
property and profits from the shelter of governmental immunity but without impairing the immunity of the State
or the Nation itself. Benefits which a contractor receives
from dealings with the Government are subject to state
income taxation.' Salaries received from it may be taxed.'
The fact that materials are destined to be furnished to the
Government does not exempt them from sales taxes imposed on the contractor's vendor.7 But in all of these
cases what we have denied is immunity for the contractor's
own property, profits, or purchases. We have not held
either that the Government could be taxed or its contractors taxed because property of the Government was
in their hands. The distinction between taxation of
private interests and taxation of governmental interests,
although sometimes difficult to define, is fundamental in
application of the immunity doctrine as developed in this
country.
Mesta has some legal and beneficial interest in this
property. It is a bailee for mutual benefit. Whether
such a right of possession and use in view of all the circumstances could be taxed by appropriate proceedings we
do, not decide. Its leasehold interest is subject to some
5James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134.
6 Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466.
7Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1.

V. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

qualification of the right to use the property except for
gun manufacture, is limited to the period it engages in
such work, and is perhaps burdened by other contractual
conditions. We have held that where private interests
in property were so preponderant that all the Government
held was a naked title and a nominal interest, the whole
value was taxable to the equitable owner. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Myers, 172 U. S. 589; New Brunswick
v. United States, 276 U. S. 547. But that is not the situation here, and the State has made no effort to segregate
Mesta's interest and tax it. The full value of the property, including the whole ownership interest, as well as
whatever value proper appraisal might attribute to the
leasehold, was included in Mesta's assessment.
It is contended the whole value of the property may be
reached since the impact of the tax is upon Mesta. In
support of this we are reminded that the tax, so the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held, falls upon the real
estate alone, because the lien thereof does not touch the
Government's property, which before or after tax default
may be removed. But renunciation of any lien on Government property itself, which could not be sustained in
any event, hardly establishes that it is not being taxed.
The fact is that the lien on the underlying land is increased because of and in proportion to the assessment of
the machinery. If the tax is collected by selling the land
out from under the machinery, the effect on its usefulness
to the Government would be almost as disastrous as to
sell the machinery itself. The coercion of payment from
compelling the Government to move its property and interrupt production at the Mesta plant would defeat the
purpose of the Government in owning and leasing it.
We think, however, that the Government's property
interests are not taxable either to it or to its bailee. The
"Government" is an abstraction, and its possession of
property largely constructive. Actual possession and cus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

tody of Government property nearly always are in someone who is not himself the Government but acts in its
behalf and for its purposes. He may be an officer, an
agent, or a contractor. His personal advantages from the
relationship by way of salary, profit, or beneficial personal
use of the property may be taxed as we have held. But
neither he nor the Government can be taxed for the Government's property interest. Rarely does a state or municipality pursue the Federal Government itself. Most of
the immunity cases we have been called upon to deal
with involved assertion of a right to tax Government
property against an individual. In United States v.
Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, this Court decided that improvements made upon lands to which the United States held
title but which were put in possession of Indians for their
benefit remained immune from taxation and that cattle,
horses, and chattels purchased with the money of the
Government and "put into the hands of the Indians to be
used in execution of the purpose of the Government in
reference to them" were likewise immune from taxation.
In Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, Tennessee
attempted to sell for state taxes lands which the United
States owned at the time the taxes were assessed and
levied, but in which it had ceased to have any interest at
the time of sale. There, as here, it was claimed the collection affected only private persons, whose equities in
the matter were at least doubtful, and that the United
States could suffer no harm. The Court held, however,
that the immunity protected the private owner, for the
tax had been laid against an interest of the Government
which was beyond the reach of state taxing power. See
also Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219; Lee v. Osceola Improvement District, 268 U. S. 643.
A State may tax personal property and might well tax
it to one in whose possession it was found, but it could
hardly tax one of its citizens because of moneys of the

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

United States which were in his possession as Collector
of Internal Revenue, Postmaster, Clerk of the United
States Court, or other federal officer, agent, or contractor.
We hold that Government-owned property, to the full
extent of the Government's interest therein, is immune
from taxation, either as against the Government itself or
as against one who holds it as a bailee.
IV.
We find no support for the claim that the immunity
has been waived. Congress certainly has not done so. It
is true that the contract requires Mesta to obey and abide
by the "applicable" law of Pennsylvania. But such language does not require Mesta to submit to unconstitutional exactions. It clearly is inadequate to waive federal
immunity, even if we assume a contracting officer had
power to do so. Likewise any contractual obligation of
the War Department to pay Mesta's taxes does not operate either to waive or to create an immunity. Nor is the
validity of the tax dependent upon the ultimate resting
place of the economic burden of the tax. We also think
it immaterial what, if any, right of reimbursement the
Pennsylvania law grants a lessee against a private lessor
in similar circumstances. State law could not obligate
the Central Government to reimburse for a valid tax,
much less for an invalid one.
Each party urges equities in its favor. The Government points to the exigencies of war, points to numerous
and increasing state efforts to tax such property, and
urges against the decision below that it is a precedent
for taxation of a substantial portion of property of the
Government valued at 7 billion dollars in the possession
and use of private contractors engaged in war production.
It owns property on private lands, under contracts similar to this, with a value approximating two billion dollars,
over $257,000,000 of it located in Pennsylvania.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Appellees, and especially the amici, on the other hand,
point for a different purpose to the amount of Government
property in war production. It is said that increased municipal services, to serve and protect the influx of war
workers, are required in all communities where large war
contracts of this type are placed; that such local services
rely heavily on real estate taxation; that to exclude property such as this, together with the large real estate holdings that have been and are being acquired by the Government, imposes this increased cost'on others. While validation of assessments of this character will measurably increase the cost of waging the war, it is argued that the
Federal Government may diffuse the cost throughout the
country instead of putting a back-breaking burden on local
governments where war plants are located. For these
reasons we are urged to hold the position of the Government "unsound, as well as inequitable."
Such considerations remind us of our heavy responsibility in deciding the issues but hardly provide a guide or alter the usual principles for decision. The equities in this
unfortunate conflict between the United States and one of
its most important industrial communities are not capable
of judicial ascertainment or equalization. Whether a
county loses more than it gains by such federal activity
and what other federal benefits ought to be considered if
a balance were to be struck between advantages and disadvantages, we cannot say. The adjustment of benefits
and burdens is for other departments, and studies to that
end have been undertaken.' We can only say that our
8

See Report on Federal Contributions to States and Local Governmental Units with Respect to Federally Owned Real Estate, House
Doe. No. 216, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (1943). This comprehensive report shows the impossibility of generalizing about the equities between
the Federal Government and a community in cases dealing with isolated properties. Much federally owned property is held for the
accommodation and service of the locality, such as the Post Office or

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

constitutional system as judicially interpreted from the
beginning leaves no room for the localities to impose either
compensatory or retaliatory taxation on Government
property interests. Their remedy lies in petition to the
Federal Congress, which also is their Congress.
V.
Our jurisdiction was questioned by appellee's motion to
dismiss, and its consideration was postponed to hearing of
the merits. The argument runs that the tax is laid only
upon Mesta and therefore only Mesta can question its
validity; that if Mesta does so, it can be only under the
Fourteenth Amendment; that no question has been assigned under this Amendment and hence the appeal should
be dismissed.
The questions in this case do not arise under the Fourteenth Amendment. They depend on provisions adopted
and principles settled long before the Fourteenth Amendment and which exist independently of it.
The United States was admitted to the case as an intervenor. Both it and Mesta raised these questions of taxability, as either may do. The United States may question
the taxation in order to protect its sovereignty over the
property in question. Mesta as bailee is under a duty
to protect the property and may protect itself from unlawful burdens put upon it because of its possession of the
the courthouses. Other is held for general administrative purposes
in which the locality has an interest or for the care of wards, such as
veterans, in which local inhabitants share with others. The report
considers all federally owned real estate and improvements, but not
personalty. It shows that the United States had within Pennsylvania on June 30, 1937, property costing $278,519,000, with market
value of $151,806,000. The estimated annual tax based on fair market value at local rates would be $3,152,000. But the average annual
federal aid to that State is reported to be: 1928-30, $6,834,000; 193133, $10,791,000; 1934-37, all kinds, $190,071,000 (excluding FERA,
CWA, and WPA: $23,118,000).

OCTOBER TERM; 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

property. The tax is calculated and imposed on the land
and machinery as a unit, the lien of the assessment on the
machinery becomes a lien on the land which can be taken
to pay the tax occasioned by the machinery. Since the
tax must be paid out of Mesta's property it is in a position
to challenge the validity of the tax, as was the case in Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, supra. Both Mesta and the Government made timely insistence that the Pennsylvania Tax
Law as applied violates the Federal Constitution. The
highest court of the State rendered final judgment against
the claim of federal right. We have jurisdiction by appeal. Judicial Code § 237 (a). The motion to dismiss
is denied.
The Tax Law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as
interpreted and applied in this case violates the Federal
Constitution in so far as it purports to authorize taxation
of the property interests of the United States in the machinery in Mesta's plant, or to use that interest to tax or
to enhance the tax upon the Government's bailee. The
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. Juscw BLACK and MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS concur in
the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I think the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is right and should be affirmed for the reasons
stated in its opinion.
If James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, were
not upon our books, or had been decided the other way, I
should agree to the opinion of the court. In that case, at
the insistence of the United States, this court held that
a state gross receipts tax upon payments by the United
States to a contractor for erecting structures on United

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

:ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

States property was valid because the tax was not laid
upon the contract, the Government, its property, its officers, or its instrumentality; was laid upon an independent
contractor and was nondiscriminatory. Although admitting that the payment of the tax imposed a burden upon
the activities of the United States because it inevitably
increased the cost of exercise of its functions, the court
nonetheless sustained the exaction. I then thought, as I
still think, that the decision overruled a century of precedents in this court.
It was not long before the Government repented its generosity. Four years later, it insisted, in Alabama v. King
& Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, that a state sales tax upon a purchase of building materials by a contractor who was to incorporate them into a Government project, and where,
upon delivery, inspection, and acceptance, they became
the property of the Government, was so direct a tax on
the Government as to infringe its constitutional immunity. The court, however, followed to its logical conclusion the decision in Dravo and expressly overruled earlier
decisions inconsistent with Dravo and King & Boozer.1
I concurred in that decision, feeling myself bound by the
Draw case.
In this case, as I think, the court necessarily reverts
to the test of burdensomeness by a form of words and,
as a result, again plunges the applicable principle into
confusion.
The truth is that the tax liability of Mesta in respect
of its manufacturing plant has been increased by the presence in the plant of machinery bailed to the taxpayer by
the federal Government. It is true too that, either as a
result of the express terms of the Government's contract
with Mesta, the Government's monetary obligation to
:PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218; Graves v. Texas Co.,
298 U. S. 393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

Mesta will be increased by the imposition of increased tax
or, as in the Dravo case, if the contractor is liable for an
increase of tax by reason of the fact that he is such contractor, the Government, in the long run, will have to pay
more for goods and services as a resulf of such increase.
In order to relieve the Government of this burden, the
court is now obliged to say that the law of Pennsylvania
is something different from what the Supreme Court of
the Commonwealth has declared it, and that a century of
State administrative and judicial construction is meaningless when the supposed necessity arises to unburden the
Government from the result of state taxation upon privately owned property.
The law of Pennsylvania is, and always has been, that
a tax imposed on real estate is enhanced in amount by
buildings and machinery placed upon the land with the
consent of the owner even though he does not own the
improvements but is a mere bailee. The lien of the tax
extends only to the land owned by the taxpayer and the
bailed improvements are neither under the lien nor subject to seizure or sale for payment of the tax. But this
settled law is brushed aside and it is said, notwithstanding these facts, that, in some indefinable way, Pennsylvania has in truth levied an ad valorem tax upon property
of the United States which is in the possession of Mesta
as bailee. This is nothing in substance but to say, in the
teeth of the Dravo and King & Boozer cases, that if a tax
levied upon a contractor of the Government imposes a
burden upon the Government's activities it violates the
constitutional immunity and must be stricken down.
Whereas, in those cases, the court accepted the tax for
what it was, viz., a tax upon the contractor and not upon
the Government, here, although under state law the liability to the State is that of the contractor and his property, and can, in no event, be the liability of the Government or its property,-except as the Government either

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

contractually assumes the burden or bears it as an incident of the contractor's burden,-the court announces
that the tax is laid on the Government's property.
I think the case was decided by the court below on a
nonfederal ground. The decision is pitched solely upon
the character and incidence of the real property tax of
the Commonwealth. As that court, in the light of a hundred years of history, defined the tax and the tax lien
neither was laid upon or collectable from the United
States or its property. As a result of that decision Mesta
became liable for an increased tax as a result of certain
transactions with the Government. Unless the doctrine
of immunity from consequent burden on the Government, as the other party to the contract, is to be reimported into our jurisprudence, the appeal should be
dismissed because the decision below was based upon an
adequate nonfederal ground.
MR. JusTICE,-RANKFURTER,

dissenting:

I should like to add a few words to the opinion of my
brother ROBERTS, with which, in the main, I agree.
This controversy is treated by the Court as though it
presented a challenge by Pennsylvania to the authority
of the United States. The case is not entitled, on the
facts as I understand them, to have such importance attributed to it. We are al agreed that a State must subordinate its policies to the constitutional powers duly
exercised by the United States. War of course evokes
powers of government not available in times of peace, but
it is no less true of the war powers of the Government than
of the peace powers that the Constitution and the laws
enacted in accordance with it are "the supreme Law of
the Land." United States Constitution, Art. VI.
Implicit in our federal scheme is immunity of the Federal Government from taxation by the States. After
having long been the subject of differences of opinion, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

extent of this implied immunity was greatly curtailed.
The basis of the doctrine was shifted from that of an
argumentative financial burden to the Federal Government to that of freedom from discrimination against
transactions with the Government and freedom from
direct impositions upon the property and the instrumentalities of the Government. The decisions in James v.
Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, and Alabama v.
King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, mean nothing unless they
mean that it is not enough that the Government may ultimately have to bear the cost of a part or even the whole
of a tax which a State imposes on a third person who has
business relations with the Government, when a State
could impose such a tax upon such a third person but for
the fact that the transaction which gave rise to it was
not with a private person but with the Government. So
much for the scope of the implied immunity of the Government from state taxation as I understand the decisions
to date. But in carrying on effectively the task committed to it, the United States can, I believe, go beyond the
judicial doctrine of implied immunity from taxation. I
have no doubt that Congress, by appropriate legislation,
could immunize those who deal with the Government
from sales and property taxes which States otherwise are
free to impose.
On the record before us, Pennsylvania has not challenged the implied immunity of the Federal Government
from taxation nor has she sought to tax that which Congress has said should be free from taxation. Pennsylvania has not taxed property owned by the Government.
Pennsylvania has not used her otherwise unquestioned
power of taxation to discriminate against one dealing
with the Government. Finally, Pennsylvania has not
tried to impose a tax which Congress, in order to facilitate
war production, has forbidden the States to levy.

U. S. v. ALLEGHENY COUNTY.
174

FRANKFURTER, J.,

197

dissenting.

Pennsylvania merely seeks to enforce a tax assessment
against the owner of lands and buildings in the manner
in which she has made such an assessment for one hundred years. She has assessed real property concededly
owned by Mesta at a valuation increased by the value of
the machinery made available to Mesta by various arrangements with the Government. But it is the realty
that is being taxed, precisely as other realty is taxed, and
by precisely the same method of determining the value of
other realty. If the machinery which has here been affixed to the land through arrangements with the Government had been machinery that belonged to Remington
Arms and Mesta had been.operating through Remington
as a sub-contractor for the Government, I suppose no one
would doubt that Pennsylvania could assess the value
of the land taxed against Mesta as it was here assessed,
quite regardless of the retention of the title by Remington
of the annexed fixtures, the value of which served to enhance the amount at which the land was assessed. It
cannot alter the nature of the tax as a tax against Mesta's
ownership of the land and buildings whether the enhancing fixtures belong to the Government or to Remington. Constitutional answers do at times turn on a nicety
but not on a nicety without at least a nice significance.
The case thus appears to me one that was decided by
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court on the settled construction of the Pennsylvania statute as a tax on realty, and
not at all as a tax on the only thing that belongs to the
United States, namely, machinery annexed to the realty.
Here also "there can be no pretence that the Court adopted
its view in order to evade a constitutional issue, and the
case has been decided upon grounds that have no relation
to any federal question." Nickel v. Cole, 256 U. S. 222,
225. The only interest which the State here taxed was an
interest within the power of the State to tax; it was not a

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

federal interest. See Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226, 232;
New Brunswick v. UnitedStates, 276 U. S. 547. The rate
at which that interest was taxed is equally a matter for
Pennsylvania to determine. In view of the Dravo case,
supra, and Alabama v. King & Boozer, supra, there is not
before us a constitutionally immunized burden of the
Government. Insofar as the financial burden has been
directly assumed by the Government it has been so assumed by arrangements which the contracting officers of
the Government saw fit to make with Mesta.
In respect to the problem we are considering, the constitutional relation of the Dominion of Canada to its constituent Provinces is the same as that of the United States
to the States. A recent decision of the Supreme Court of
Canada is therefore pertinent. In City of Vancouver v.
Attorney-General of Canada, [1944] S. C. R. 23, that
Court denied the Dominion's claim to immunity in a
situation precisely like this, as I believe we should deny
the claim of the Government.

UNITED STATES

E.T A.

v. WABASH RAILROAD

CO. ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 453. Decided May 8, 1944.
Nothing in the record or in the petition for rehearing requires decision in the present proceeding of the contention that, as a result
of changed conditions after the case was submitted to the Commission, the spotting service as now performed is not in excess of the
carriers' obligation under their tariff rates, and that its performance by the carriers without charge is therefore not unlawful. The
petition for rehearing is denied without prejudice to appellees'
presentation of the question in any appropriate proceeding before
the Commission and the courts. P. 201.
Rehearing denied.

