SHAWKEE MFG. CO. v. HARTFORD CO.

271

Syllabus.

238

On the question what amounts to a sufficient showing
to move an appellate court to grant leave to file a bill of

review in the trial court, the authorities are not uniform.
Where the lack of merit is obvious, appellate courts have
refused leave, 3 but where the facts are complicated it is
often the better course to grant leave and to allow available
defenses to be made in answer to the bill.24 In the present
instance, I think it would have been proper for the court
to permit the filing of the bill in the District Court where
the rights of the parties to summon, to examine, and to
cross-examine witnesses, and to have a deliberate and
orderly trial of the issues according to the established
standards would be preserved.
I should reverse the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
with directions to permit the filing of the bill in the District Court.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join

in this opinion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE agrees with the result suggested in
this dissent.

SHAWKEE MANUFACTURING CO.

ET AL. V.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 423.

Argued February 9, 10, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

Decided upon the authority of Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. HartfordEmpire Co., ante, p. 238.
137 F. 2d 764, reversed.
23

Purcellv. Miner, supra; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, supra.

24 Ocean Insurance Co. v. Fields, 2 Story 59; In re Gamewell Fire-

Alarm Tel. Co., 73 F. 908; Raflold ProcessCorp. v. CastaneaPaperCo.,
105 F. 2d 126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

CERTIoRAn, 320 U. S. 732, to review an order of
the Circuit Court of Appeals denying relief in a bill of
review proceeding commenced in that court.

Mr. William B. Jaspert for petitioners.
Mr. Francis W. Cole, with whom Messrs. Walter J.
Blenko, Edgar J. Goodrich, and James M. Carlisle were
on the brief, for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Shea, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Melvin Richter
filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Here as in Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-Empire
Co., ante, p. 238, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit has declined to set aside judgments entered at a
prior term. 137 F. 2d 764. Both this case and the HazelAtlas case involve the validity of judgments obtained by
Hartford-Empire adjudicating infringement of the "gob
feeding" patent No. 1,655,391 owned by Hartford. In the
Hazel-Atlas case, supra, we have held Hartford's proven
frauds in connection with obtaining and enforcing that
patent were of such nature that the decree of infringement against Hazel-Atlas should be set aside, and have
directed that appropriate orders be entered to accomplish that purpose. Nevertheless, it is argued that the
decrees rendered against Shawkee and others should be
allowed to stand because of certain differences between
their situation and that of Hazel-Atlas. These are the
differentiating facts:
Hartford's infringement suit against Shawkee and the
other petitioners was not begun until 1933 after the decision of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals the previous
year holding Hartford's "gob feeding" patent valid and

SHAWKEE MFG. CO. v. HARTFORD CO.
271

273

Opinion of the Court.

infringed by Hazel-Atlas. The District Court, having
been reversed by that previous decision, held Shawkee and
the others guilty of infringement. On appeal to the Third
Circuit Court of Appeals, that court did not again quote
from the spurious Clarke article but, like the District
Court, simply held in favor of Hartford on the authority
of the 1932 decision. 68 F. 2d 726. While the appeal was
pending final disposition in the Circuit Court, Shawkee's
counsel communicated with Judge Buffington charging
that the Clarke article was spurious; but at that time
Shawkee had no direct proof of its charge. That proof, as
pointed out in our Hazel-Atlas opinion, supra, was available only after the United States offered its evidence in
the anti-trust suit in 1941.
None of these facts, we think, should deprive Shawkee
and the others of relief against Hartford's fraudulent conduct. To obtain its judgment against them, Hartford
successfully used the judgment against Hazel-Atlas without disclosing its previous misconduct. Keystone Driller
Co. v. Excavator Co., 290 U. S. 240, 246-247. Hartford
can derive no aid from the fact that Shawkee reported to
the Circuit Court its belief as to the deceptive authorship
of the Clarke article. With that charge on the record,
honest dealing with the Court required that Hartford
should make a full disclosure of its fraudulent conspiracy.
Its failure to do so under these circumstances aggravated
the previous deception it had practiced on the Patent
Office and the courts.
The prayer for relief of Shawkee and the others was that
the court adjudge that Hartford did not come into court
with clean hands, and that they be fully freed from further
obligations under the judgments against them. This relief
should be granted. They further prayed that a master be
appointed by the Circuit Court of Appeals to render an
accounting of costs incurred in these and former proceedings, moneys paid by them to Hartford pursuant to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Dissent.

322 U. ยง.

challenged judgments, and damages sustained by them
because of Hartford's unlawful use of its patent. Whether
this type of relief will be granted must depend upon
further proceedings in the District Court which entered
the judgmehit of infringement.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed. The cause is remanded to it with directions to set
aside its 1934 judgment, recall the mandate, and dismiss
the appeal; and issue mandate to the District Court with
directions to set aside its judgment finding Hartford's
patent valid and infringed, deny Hartford all relief against
infringement of this patent, and permit Shawkee and the
others to bring such further proceedings as may be appropriate in accordance with their prayer for relief.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

For the reasons given in my dissent in Hazel-Atlas Glass
Co. v. Hartford-EmpireCo., ante, p. 251, I think that the
decree should be reversed and the cause remanded, with
directions to the court below to grant the petitioners
leave to file a bill of review in the District Court.
MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join
in this opinion.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

this dissent.

agrees with the result suggested in

