ALLEN CO. v. CASH REGISTER CO.
Syllabus.

111

is perfectly evident, not only from the provisions of the
Act as a whole but from the Senate Committee's Report,
that this phrase was added to prevent any misconception
of the provisions whereby employees were to be allowed
freely to combine and to be represented in collective bargaining by the representatives of their union. Congress
intended to make it clear that employee organizations

did not have to be organizations of the employees of any
single employer. But that qualifying phrase means no
more than this and was never intended to permit the
Board to designate as employees those who, in traditional
understanding, have no such status.
ALLEN CALCULATORS, INC. v. NATIONAL CASH

REGISTER CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 592. Argued March 28, 1944.Decided May 1, 1944.
Pursuant to the provisions of an earlier decree of injunction in a suit
by the United States against a defendant under the antitrust laws,
the defendant petitioned for and was granted leave on certain conditions to acquire stock of a competitor. The proceeding was adversary throughout and neither party appealed. The appellant here
had sought but was denied leave to intervene. Held:
1. Under Rule 24 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, appellant
was not entitled to intervene as of right. P. 140.
(a) No statute of the United States conferred an "unconditional right" to intervene. Clayton Act, § 16; R. C. P. 24 (a) (1).
P. 140.
(b) The appellant would not-be bound by any judgment in the
action. R. C. P. 24 (a) (2). P. 141.
(c) Appellant had no interest in "a distribution or other disposition of property in the custody of the court." R. C. P. 24 (a) (3).
P. 141.
(d) Missouri-KansasPipe Line Co. v. United States, 312 U. S.
502, distinguished. P. 141.
587770°-45-

13

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

2. Upon the entire record, it does not appear that the district
court abused its discretion in denying the appellant leave to intervene. R.C.P. 24 (b) (2). P. 142.

Where examination of the entire record leading to the court's
final order discloses that the issues were thoroughly explored and
that the parties were adequately represented, the action of the court
denying intervention should not be reviewed.
Appeal dismissed.

under the Expediting Act from an order of the
District Court denying leave to intervene in an antitrust
proceeding.
A PEAL

Mr. Murray Seasongood, with whom Mr. Frank R.
Bruce was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Hugh McD. Ritchey, with whom Messrs. Joseph S.
Graydon, GarrardWinston, and Chauncey B. Garver were
on the brief, for the National Cash Register Co., appellee.
SolicitorGeneral Fahy, Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge,
and Messrs. Charles H. Weston, Elliott H. Moyer and
Robert L. Stern submitted for the United States, appellee.
MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
By a decree, entered February 1, 1916, in a suit by the
United States against National Cash Register Company,
the latter was restrained, pursuant to the antitrust statutes, from acquiring ownership or control of the business
or plant of a competitor manufacturing or selling cash
registers or other registering devices. The injunction,
however, provided that, in case National should desire such
acquisition,
"a petition may be presented to this Court stating the reasons therefor, and if the Court upon investigation into all
the circumstances of the case and after notice of not less
than sixty days to the Attorney General shall determine
that such business or patents or plant so desired to be ac-

ALLEN CO. v. CASH REGISTER CO.
137

Opinion of the Court.

quired will supplement the plant, patents, machines, or
facilities of the defendant corporation and that the acquisition thereof is desired for that purpose and will not substantially lessen competition, then jurisdiction is reserved
to pass an order permitting the same upon such terms and
conditions as may be right."
National, desiring to acquire stock of Allen-Wales Adding Machine Corporation, petitioned for leave and gave the
required notice to the Attorney General. The Government filed an answer opposing the grant. The matter was
set for hearing in the District Court November 15, 1943.
On that day Allen Calculators, Inc., the appellant, presented a motion for leave to intervene. The United States
consented to the proposed intervention; National opposed
it. The District Judge granted intervention conditionally
and allowed counsel for the appellant to make an opening
statement and to take some part in the proceedings. Subsequently, but prior to the closing of the hearing, he ruled
that the appellant would not be allowed to intervene. Before making his ruling, he was advised, in answer to his
inquiry, that the president of the appellant would be called
as a witness by the Government. November 16 he entered
a formal order denying intervention.
The issues, which were tried upon evidence submitted
by National and by the Government, were whether the
purported acquisition would eliminate competition between certain products of National and Allen-Wales,
would eliminate potential competition between other
products of the two companies, and would, in other respects, be contrary to the purpose of the original decree.
The proceeding was adversary throughout.
December 4 the appellant filed its petition for appeal
from the order denying intervention. December 7 the
District Judge entered findings of fact and an order granting National's petition upon certain conditions which he

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

deemed necessary to insure compliance with the original
decree in the suit. Neither party has appealed from that
order. December 10 the Judge allowed this appeal with a
proviso that allowance should not operate as a stay of the
order granting National's petition. The appeal is to this
court under the Expediting Act.1
Rule 24 of the Rules of Civil Procedure 2 is:
"(a) Intervention of Right.-Upon timely application
anyone shall be permitted to intervene in an action: (1)
when a statute of the United States confers an unconditional right to intervene; or (2) when the representation
of the applicant's interest by existing parties is or may be
inadequate and the applicant is or may be bound by a
judgment in the action; or (3) when the applicant is so
situated as to be adversely affected by a distribution or
other disposition of property in the custody of the court
or of an officer thereof.
"(b) Permissive Intervention.-Upon timely application anyone may be permitted to intervene in an action:'
(1) when a statute of the United States confers a conditional right to intervene; or (2) when an applicant's claim
or defense and the main action have a question of law or
fact in common. In exercising its discretion the court
shall consider whether the intervention will unduly delay
or prejudice the adjudication of the rights of the original
parties."
The appellant insists that it was entitled to intervene
as of right, but we think that, in the light of the express
provisions of clause (a) the contention must be rejected.
No statute of the United States confers an unconditional
1Act of Feb. 11, 1903, c. 544, § 2, 32 Stat. 823, as amended March 3,
1911, c. 231, § 291, 36 Stat. 1167, 15 U. S. C. § 29. Cf. Act of Feb. 13,
1925, c. 229, § 1, 43 Stat. 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
2 28 U. S. C. A., following § 723c.

ALLEN CO. v. CASH REGISTER CO.
137

Opinion of the Court.

right of intervention, as required by (1). The appellant
relies on § 16 of the Clayton Act,8 but that section merely
authorizes private parties to sue for relief against threatened damage consequent upon the violation of the antitrust laws. It grants no privilege, much less an unconditional right, to intervene in suits under the Sherman
Act brought by the United States. The application did
not fall under (2) for the appellant clearly would not be
bound by any judgment in the action. Nor had it any
interest in the distribution or disposition of property in
the custody of the court so as to come under (3).
The appellant relies upon Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line
Co. v. United States, 312 U. S. 502. That case, however,
is to be distinguished. There the applicant on whose
behalf intervention was asked was named in the original
decree as one who should be heard in respect of its property rights in the event certain action was taken. Such
action was taken and, despite the terms of the original
decree, intervention was denied. Clearly, as to the intervenor, the action was final. We accordingly entertained
the appeal.
The appellant had standing to invoke the discretion of
the District Judge to permit it to intervene under (b) (2)
on the ground that its "claim or defense and the main
action have a question of law or fact in common." The
rule provides that, in exercising discretion as to intervention of this character, the court shall consider whether
intervention will unduly delay or prejudice the adjudication of the rights of the original parties. It is common
knowledge that, where a suit is of large public interest,
the members of the public often desire to present their
views to the court in support of the claim or the defense.
To permit a multitude of such interventions may result
8 15 U. S. C. § 2Q.

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

in accumulating proofs and arguments without assisting
the court. The record here discloses that the parties produced all data they and the court thought was available
upon the issues in the case. Moreover, the court invited
the Government to call the appellant's president to testify
as to his knowledge concerning the issues.
The challenged order is but an order in the cause and not
the final judgment. The exercise of discretion in a matter
of this sort is not reviewable by an appellate court unless
clear abuse is shown; and it is not ordinarily possible to
determine that question except in the light of the whole
record. If, in this case, National's petition had ultimately been dismissed; a review of the court's denial of
appellant's intervention would have been an idle gesture.
Where, as here, examination of the entire record leading
to the court's final order discloses that the issues were
thoroughly explored and that the parties were adequately
represented, the action of the court denying intervention
should not be reviewed. It was, inter alia,to prevent the
delay of unwarranted appeals by disappointed applicants
to intervene, which would suspend the ultimate disposition of suits under the antitrust acts, that jurisdiction to
review District Court decrees was not vested in the Circuit Courts of Appeals but solely in this court, and that
the statute limited the right of appeal to final decrees.The record shows that the District Court had entered
a final decree on the merits of National's petition prior
to allowing the present appeal; and, if we treat the appeal as taken from that final decree, as we think is
required by the Expediting Act,5 and as attacking that decree because the appellant had been wrongfully denied
intervention, we should have to affirm the judgment since
4 United States v. California Canneries, 279 U. S. 553.
0 United States v. CaliforniaCanneries, supra.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
137

143,

Syllabus.

it is not shown that the District Court abused its discretion in denying intervention.'
The appeal is
Dismissed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY dissent.

ASHCRAFT ET AL. v. TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 391.

Argued February 28, 1944.-Decided May 1, 1944.

1. Upon review here of a conviction of a defendant in a criminal case
in a state court, it is the duty of this Court to make an independent
examination of the defendant's claim that his conviction, alleged to
have been obtained through the use in evidence of confessions
coerced by law enforcement officers, was in violation of his rights
under the Federal Constitution. P. 147.
2. An independent examination by this Court of the defendant's claim
in such a case can not be foreclosed by the finding of the state
court, or the verdict of a jury, or both. P. 148.
3. The treatment of the alleged confessions by the two state courts,
and the trial court's instructions to the jury in respect of the alleged
confessions, make more important in this case an independent
examination by this Court of the defendants' claims. P. 147.
4. Upon undisputed evidence, this Court concludes that if the defendant Ashcraft made a confession it was not voluntary but
compelled, and that his conviction, resting upon the allfged confession, must be set aside as in violation of the Federal Constitution.
P. 153.
The uncontradicted evidence-inter alia, that Ashcraft had been
held incommunicado for thirty-six hours, during which time with6 Id., cases cited p. 556.

