UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.

65'

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 514 and 515.

Argued March 27, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.

1. Promptly and spontaneously after a housebreaking suspect had
been taken into custody by police officers and had arrived at the
police station, he admitted his guilt and consented to the officers' recovering stolen property from his home. Held that the admission
of guilt and the property thus recovered were admissible in evidence
in a criminal prosecution in a federal court, and that the admissibility
of the evidence' was not affected by the subsequent illegal detention
of the suspect for eight days before arraignment. McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332, distinguished. P. 69.
2. The power of this Court to establish rules governing the admissibility
of evidence in the federal courts is not to be used to discipline law
enforcement officers. P. 70.
138 F. 2d 426, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 756, to review reversals, in two
cases, of convictions of housebreaking and larceny.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Tom C. Clark, and Messrs. Robert S. Erdahl,Paul
A. Freund,and Jesse Climenko were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. James J. Laughlin for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Under each of two indictments for housebreaking and
larceny, the defendant Mitchell was separately tried and
convicted, but his convictions were reversed by the Court
of Appeals, 138 F. 2d 426, solely on the ground that the
admission of testimony of Mitchell's oral confessions and
of stolen property secured from his home through his
consent was barred by our decision in McNabb v. United

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

States, 318 U. S. 332. In view of the importance to federal
criminal justice of proper application of the McNabb
doctrine, we brought the case here.
Practically the whole body of the law of evidence governing criminal trials in the federal courts has been judgemade. See United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361, and Funk
v. United States, 290 U. S.371. Naturally these evidentiary rules have not remained unchanged. They have
adapted themselves to progressive notions of relevance in
the pursuit of truth through adversary litigation, and
have reflected dominant conceptions of standards appropriate for the effective and civilized administration of
law. As this Court when making a new departure in this
field took occasion to say a decade ago, "The public policy
of one generation may not, under changed conditions, be
the public policy of another." Funk v. United States,
supra at 381. The McNabb decision was merely another
expression of this historic tradition, whereby rules of evidence for criminal trials in the federal courts are made a
part of living law and not treated as a mere collection of
wooden rules in a game.
That case respected the policy underlying enactments
of Congress as well as that of a massive body of state
legislation which, wh.tever may be the minor variations
of language, require that arresting officers shall with
reasonable promptness bring arrested persons before a
committing authority. Such legislation, we said in the
McNabb case, "constitutes an important safeguard-not
only in assuring protection for the innocent but also in
securing conviction of the guilty by methods that commend themselves to a progressive and self-confident society. For this procedural requirement checks resort to
those reprehensible practices known as the 'third degree'
*which, though universally rejected as indefensible, still
find their way into use. It aims to avoid all the evil im-

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
65

Opinion of the Court.

plications of secret interrogation of persons accused of
crime. It reflects not a sentimental but a sturdy view of
law enforcement. It outlaws easy but self-defeating ways
in which brutality is substituted for brains as an instrument of crime detection. A statute carrying such purposes is expressive of a general legislative policy to which
courts should not be heedless when appropriate situations
call for its application." 318 U. S. at 344.
In the circumstances of the McNabb case we found such
an appropriate situation, in that the defendants were illegally detained under aggravating circumstances: one of
them was subjected to unremitting questioning by half a
dozen police officers for five or six hours and the other two
for two days. We held that "a conviction resting on evidence secured through such a flagrant disregard of the
procedure which Congress has commanded cannot be
allowed to stand without making the courts themselves
accomplices in willful disobedience of law. Congress has
not explicitly forbidden the use of evidence so procured.
But to permit such evidence to be made the basis of a
conviction in the federal courts would stultify the policy
which Congress has enacted into law." 318 U. S. at 345.
For like reasons it was held in the Nardone case that where
wiretapping is prohibited by Congress the fruits of illegal
wiretapping constitute illicit evidence and are therefore
inadmissible. Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379;
308 U. S. 338. Inexcusable detention for the purpose of
illegally extracting evidence from an accused, and the
successful extraction of such inculpatory statements by
continuous questioning for many hours under psychological pressure, were the decisive features in the McNabb
case which led us to rule that a conviction on such evidence
could not stand.
We are dealing with the admissibility of evidence in
criminal trials in the federal courts. Review by this

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Court of state convictions presents a very different situation, confined as it is within very narrow limits. Our
sole authority is to ascertain whether that which a state
court permitted violated the basic safeguards of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Therefore, in cases coming
from the state courts in matters of this sort, we are concerned solely with determining whether a confession is
the result of torture, physical or psychological, and not the
offspring of reasoned choice. How difficult and often
elusive an inquiry this implies, our decisions make manifest. And for the important relation between illegal incommunicado detention and "third-degree" practices, see
IV, Report, National Commission on Law Observance and
Enforcement (better known as the Wickersham Commission) (1931) pp. 4, 35 et seq., 152; and the debates in the
House of Commons on the Savidge case, 217 H. C. Deb.
(5th ser. 1928) pp. 1216-1220,1303-1339, 1921-1931, and
Inquiry in Regard to the Interrogation by the Police of
Miss Savidge, Cmd. 3147 (1928); Report of the Royal
Commission on Police Powers and Procedure, Cmd. 3297
(1929). But under the duty of formulating rules of evidence for federal prosecutions, we are not confined to the
constitutional question of ascertaining when a confession
comes of a free choice and when it is extorted by force,
however subtly applied. See United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S. 85, 88. The McNabb decision was an
exercise of our duty to formulate policy appropriate for
criminal trials in the federal courts. We adhere to that
decision and to the views on which it was based. (For
cases in which applications of the McNabb doctrine by
circuit courts of appeals were left unchallenged by the
Government, see United States v. Haupt, 136 F. 2d 661;
Gros v. United States, 136 F. 2d 878; Runnels v. United
States, 138 F. 2d 346.)

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
65

Opinion of the Court.

But the foundations for application of the McNabb
doctrine are here totally lacking. Unlike the situation
in other countries, see, for instance, §§ 25 and 26 of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872,' under the prevailing American criminal procedure, as was pointed out in the McNabb
case, "The mere fact that a confession was made while in
the custody of the police does not render it inadmissible."
318 U. S. at 346. Under the circumstances of this case,
the trial courts were quite right in admitting, for the
juries' judgment, the testimony relating to Mitchell's
oral confessions as well as the property recovered as a
result of his consent to a search of his home. As the issues
come before us the facts are not in dispute and are quickly
told.
In August and early October 1942, two houses in the
District of Columbia were broken into and from each
property was stolen. The trail of police investigation led
to Mitchell who was taken into custody at his home at 7
o'clock in the evening on Monday, October 12, 1942, and
driven by two police officers to the precinct station.
Within a few minutes of his arrival at the police station,
Mitchell admitted guilt, told the officers of various items
of stolen property to be found in his home and consented
to their going to his home to recover the property.' It is
1 § 25: "No confession made to a Police officer, shall be proved as
against a person accused of any offence."
§ 26: "No confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody
of a Police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a
Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person."
2 In both cases Mitchell denied the testimony of the officers that he
had in fact made prompt and spontaneous confession and consent to
the search of his home, and on the basis of such denial motions were
made to exclude the evidence. The trial judges ruled that whether
these statements were in fact made in the circumstances narrated
were questions of fact for the juries, As such they were left to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

these admissions and that property which supported the
convictions, and which were deemed by the court below
to have been inadmissible. Obviously the circumstances
of disclosure by Mitchell are wholly different from those
which brought about the disclosures by the McNabbs.
Here there was no disclosure induced by illegal detention, no evidence was obtained in violation of any legal
rights, but instead the consent to a search of his home, the
prompt acknowledgement by an accused of his guilt, and
the subsequent rueing apparently of such spontaneous
cooperation and concession of guilt.
But the circumstances of legality attending the making
of these oral statements are nullified, it is suggested, by
what followed. For not until eight days after the statements were made was Mitchell arraigned before a committing magistrate. Undoubtedly his detention during
this period was illegal. The police explanation of this
illegality is that Mitchell was kept in such custody without protest through a desire to aid the police in clearing
up thirty housebreakings, the booty from which was found
in his home. Illegality is illegality, and officers of the law
should deem themselves special guardians of the law. But
in any event, the illegality of Mitchell's detention does
not retroactively change the circumstances under which
he made the disclosures. These, we have seen, were not
elicited through illegality. Their admission, therefore,
would not be use by the Government of the fruits of
wrongdoing by its officers. Being relevant, they could be
excluded only as a punitive measure against unrelated
wrongdoing by the police. Our duty in shaping rules of
evidence relates to the propriety of admitting evidence.
juries, and we here accept their verdict as did the court below. Mitchell, it must be emphasized, merely denied that he made these statements and so did not contest the time of making them. While at
the trial there was a claim by Mitchell that he was abused by the
police officers, in the state of the record that issue is not here,

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
65

REED,

J., concurring.

This power is not to be used as an indirect mode of
disciplining misconduct.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS and Mu. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE con-

cur in the result.
MR. JusrIcE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUsTICE REED:

As I understand McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S.
332, as explained by the Court's opinion of today, the
McNabb rule is that where there has been illegal detention
of a prisoner, joined with other circumstances which are
deemed by this Court to be contrary to proper conduct of
federal prosecutions, the confession will not be admitted.
Further, this refusal of admission is required even though
the detention plus the conduct do not together amount
to duress or coercion. If the above understanding is correct, it is for me a desirable modification of the McNabb
case.
However, even as explained I do not agree that the
rule works a wise change in federal procedure.
In my view detention without commitment is only one
factor for consideration in reaching a conclusion as to
whether or not a confession is voluntary. The juristic
theory under which a confession should be admitted or
barred is bottomed on the testimonial trustworthiness of
the confession. If the confession is freely made without
inducement or menace, it is admissible. If otherwise
made, it is not, for if brought about by false promises or
real threats, it has no weight as proper proof of guilt.
Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 14; Wilson v. United
States, 162 U. S. 613, 622; 3 Wigmore Evidence (1940
Ed.) § 882.
As the present record shows no evidence of such coercion,
I concur in the result.

