OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

322 U. S.

Union's non-carrier control of Marshall without subjecting the former to the Commission's jurisdiction as required
by § 5 (3).
The Commission rightly concluded that it was without
authority to approve such control unless Union, the noncarrier, filed its application with the Commission, and
since Union failed to do so within the time allowed by the
Commission's order, the Commission properly dismissed
the pending application in which Union had failed to join.
It was therefore error for the District Court to set aside
the Commission's order and the judgment of the District
Court is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the opinion that the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons given by the
District Court.

THE ANACONDA

ET AL.

v. AMERICAN SUGAR

REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 649. Argued March 29, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.
The parties to an agreement for arbitration of disputes arising out of
a charter party can not by stipulation make unavailable the right

of the aggrieved party under § 8 of the United States Arbitration
Act to begin his proceeding by "libel and seizure of the vessel ...
according to the usual course of admiralty proceedings."
138 F. 2d 765, affirmed.

P. 46.

CEmTIORARI, 321 U. S. 758, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 48 F. Supp. 385, dismissing a libel in admiralty.
Mr. Cody Fowler for petitioners.
Mr. Henry N. Longley, with whom Mr. John W. R.
Zisgen was on the brief, for respondent.

THE ANACONDA v. AMER. SUGAR CO.

43

Opinion of the Court.

42

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

We granted certiorari because this case poses an important question arising under the United States Arbitration
Act.' The question arises in these circumstances. The
petitioner Smith-Rowland Company, Inc., as owner, chartered to the respondent, American Sugar Refining Company, the barge "Anaconda" for a voyage from Havana,
Cuba, to Port Everglades, Florida. After arrival at the
latter port, the respondent filed in a federal district court a
libel in personam against the petitioner with a prayer for
process of foreign attachment, and in rem against the vessel, which was seized by the marshal.
Smith-Rowland Company, Inc., appearing specially, excepted to the jurisdiction of the court, relying on a provision of the charter party which was: "Any and all differences and disputes of whatsoever nature arising out of this
charter shall be put to arbitration at the final place of discharge . . . pursuant to the provisions of the United
States Arbitration Act . . . except that the provisions of

Section 8 thereof shall not apply to any arbitrationhereunder." (Italics supplied.)
Section 8 of the Act is: "If the basis of jurisdiction be a
cause of action otherwise justiciable in admiralty, then,
notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the party
claiming to be aggrieved may begin his proceeding hereunder by libel and seizure of the vessel . . . according to the

usual course of admiralty proceedings, and the court shall
then have jurisdiction to direct the parties to proceed with
the arbitration and shall retain jurisdiction to enter its
decree upon the award."
The court treated the petitioner's exception as a motion
to dismiss, and ordered dismisal on the ground that it was
competent to the parties, while availing themselves of the
Act of February 12, 1925, c. 213, 43 Stat. 883; Title 9 U. S. C.
2 48 F. Supp. 385.
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

provisions of the Act rendering arbitration agreements
enforceable in courts of admiralty, to preclude resort to the
usual process of seizure as security for compliance with any
arbitral award. The respondent appealed from the order,
and the parties entered a stipulation for value pursuant to
which the barge was released from the marshal's custody.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment.'
We hold its action was right.
Within the spheres of its operation,-maritime transactions and transactions in commerce, interstate and with
foreign nations,-the Arbitration Act rendered a written
provision in a contract by the parties to such a transaction,
to arbitrate controversies arising thereout, specifically enforceable. Thereby Congress overturned the existing rule
that performance of such agreements could not be compelled by resort to courts of equity or admiralty.4
After declaring (§ 2) such agreements to be enforceable,
Congress, in succeeding sections, implemented the declared
policy. By § 3 it provided that "if any suit or proceeding
be brought in any of the courts of the United States upon
any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in
writing for such arbitration, the court . . . shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial . . . until such

arbitration has been had" if the applicant is not in default
in proceeding with such arbitration. The section obviously envisages action in a court on a cause of action and
does not oust the court's jurisdiction of the action, though
the parties have agreed to arbitrate. And, it would seem
there is nothing to prevent the plaintiff from commencing
the action by attachment if such procedure is available
3 138 F. 2d 765.
4See Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109; 120-121,

123.

5 The

sections have the same section numbers in Title 9 of the

United States Code.

THE ANACONDA v. AMER. SUGAR CO.
42

45

Opinion of the Court.

under the applicable law. This section deals with suits at
law or in equity. The concept seems to be that a power to
grant a stay is enough without the power to order that the
arbitration proceed, for, if a stay be granted, the plaintiff
can never get relief unless he proceeds to arbitration.
Section 8, that with which we are especially concerned,
deals with the admiralty jurisdiction. It has already
been quoted. If the cause of action is one cognizable in
admiralty, then, though the parties have agreed to arbitrate, "notwithstanding anything herein [i. e. in the Act]
to the contrary," the party claiming to be aggrieved may
begin "his proceeding hereunder by libel and seizure,"
"according to the usual course of admiralty proceedings,"
and the court may direct the parties to proceed with arbitration and retain jurisdiction to enter its decree on the
award. Here again the Act plainly contemplates that
one who has agreed to arbitrate may, nevertheless, prosecute his cause of action in admiralty, and protects his
opponent's right to arbitration by court order. Far from
ousting or permitting the parties to the agreement to
oust the court of jurisdiction of the cause of action the
statute recognizes the jurisdiction and saves the right of
an aggrieved party to -invoke it.
Finally we turn to § 4, which permits "a party aggrieved
by the alleged failure" of his opponent to arbitrate as
agreed, to petition any federal court of appropriate jurisdiction at law, in equity or in admiralty, for an order directing that arbitration proceed. Provision is made for
framing an issue and trying it as to whether the parties
are bound to arbitrate and the entry of an order accordingly. From this provision it is clear that the parties
may proceed in an admiralty case without the customary
libel and seizure. And it has been so held.
6 The Aakre, 21 F. Supp. 540.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Section 8 says the aggrieved party, "notwithstanding"
the right granted by §4, may begin a suit in admiralty by
libel and seizure. Our question is whether the Act contemplates or permits consensual elimination of the procedure thus saved by the Act and contractual confinement
of the aggrieved party's resort to a court to a petition for
an order to arbitrate under § 4. We think the answer
must be in the negative. Congress may have thought it
wise not to raise doubts under the admiralty clause of the
Constitution. It may have thought that in many causes
in admiralty if the aggrieved party could not seize the
ship of his opponent, an arbitral award would be wholly
unenforceable as the vessel might seldom or never again
be within the jurisdiction of our courts. But, whatever
its reasons, Congress plainly and emphatically declared
that although the parties had agreed to arbitrate, the
traditional admiralty procedure with its concomitant
security should be available to the aggrieved party without in any way lessening his obligation to arbitrate his
grievance rather than litigate the merits in court.
It is enough that Congress has so declared. We think
a party can not stipulate away such a jurisdiction which
the legislation declares open as heretofore.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

