GENERAL TRADING CO. v. TAX COMM'N. 335
327

Statement of the Case.

puts local industry at a competitive disadvantage with
interstate business. If there is a taxable event within the
State of the buyer, I would make the result under the Commerce Clause turn on practical considerations and business realities rather than on dialectics. If that is not done,
I think we should retreat from the view that interstate
commerce should carry its fair share of the costs of government in the localities where it finds its markets and adopt
the views expressed in the dissent in the Berwind-White
case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE also dissents. For his opinion,
see post, p. 349.

GENERAL TRADING CO., DOING BUSINESS AS MINNEAPOLIS IRON STORE, v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 441.

Argued February 4, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.

A Minnesota corporation which had not qualified to do business in
Iowa, and which maintained no office or other place of business in

Iowa, made sales of goods in Minnesota which were sent by common carrier or by mail to purchasers in Iowa. Orders, solicited in
Iowa by salesmen from headquarters in Minnesota, were taken
subject to acceptance in Minnesota.

Held that the tax imposed

by the Iowa Use Tax Act upon the use of such goods in Iowa, and
the requirement that the corporation collect the tax and pay it

to the State, did not violate the Federal Constitution. Following
Felt & TarrantCo. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359, and Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co.,
312 U. S. 373. Pp. 336, 338.
233 Iowa 877, 10 N. W. 2d 659, affirmed.

320 U. S. 731, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the State Tax Commission in an action
CERTIORARI,

to recover use taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Mr. Edward S. Stringer,with whom Mr. A. B. Howland
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Jens Grothe, Special Assistant Attorney General
of Iowa, with whom Mr. John M. Rankin, Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State Tax Commission of Iowa brought this suit
under the authority of the Iowa Use Tax Law which was
recently here in Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S.
359, and Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 312 U. S. 373.
The question now presented is, in short, whether Iowa
may collect, in the circumstances of this case, such a
use tax from General Trading Company, a Minnesota corporation, on the basis of property bought from Trading
Company and sent by it from Minnesota to purchasers in
Iowa for use and enjoyment there.
By the Iowa Use Tax Law a tax is "imposed on the use
in this state of tangible personal property purchased
• . . for use in this state at the rate of two percent of the
purchase price of such property. Said tax is . . . imposed
upon every person using such property within this state
until such tax has been paid directly to the county treasurer, to a retailer, or to the commission. . . ." § 6943.103,
Code of Iowa 1939. The use of property the sale of which
is subject to Iowa's sales tax is exempted from the use tax
(§ 6943.104 (1)), but the sales tax can be laid only on
sales at retail within the State. § 6943.075. The use tax
constitutes a debt owed by the retailer to the State.
§ 6943.112. But "Every retailer maintaining a place of
business" in Iowa must collect this tax from the purchaser
(§ 6943.109), and may not advertise that he will himself
absorb the tax. § 6943.111. Finally an offsetting credit

GENERAL TRADING CO. v. TAX COMM'N. 337
335

Opinion of the Court.

(see Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 584,
586-7) if another use or sales tax has been paid for the
same thing elsewhere is allowed, and if the tax "imposed
in such other state is two percent or more, then no tax
shall be due on such articles." § 6943.125.
A judgment in favor of the Tax Commission by one of
the lower courts was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Iowa, 233 Iowa 877; 10 N. W. 2d 659. The application by
that Court of its local laws and the facts on which it
founded its judgment are of course controlling here. From
these it appears that General Trading Company had never
qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in Iowa
nor does it maintain there any office, branch or warehouse. The property on which the use tax was laid was
sent to Iowa as a result of orders solicited by traveling
salesmen sent into Iowa from their Minnesota headquarters. The orders were always subject to acceptance in
Minnesota whence the goods were shipped into Iowa by
common carriers or the post. Upon these facts and its
holding that Trading Company was a "retailer maintaining a place of business in this state" within the meaning
of the Iowa statute, the Iowa Supreme Court held that
Iowa had not exceeded its powers in the imposition of this
use tax on Iowa purchasers, and that collection could
validly be made through the Trading Company.
We brought the case here, 320 U. S. 731, to meet the
claim that there was need for further precision regarding
the scope of our previous rulings on the power of States
to levy use taxes. In view, however, of the clear understanding by the court below that the facts we have summarized bring the transaction within the taxing power of
Iowa, there is little need for elaboration. We agree with
the Iowa Supreme Court that Felt & TarrantCo. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Ca.,
supra; and Nelson v. Montgomery Ward & Co., supra,are

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

controlling. The Gallagher case is indistinguishablecertainly nothing can turn on the more elaborate arrangements for soliciting orders for an intricate machine for
shipment from without a State as in the Gallaghercase,
compared with the apparently simpler needs for soliciting
business in this case. And the fact that in the Sears Roebuck and Montgomery Ward cases the interstate vendor
also had retail stores in Iowa, whose sales were appropriately subjected to the sales tax, is constitutionally irrelevant to the right of Iowa sustained in those cases to exact
a use tax from purchasers on mail order goods forwarded
into Iowa from without the State. All these differentiations are without constitutional significance. Of course,
no State can tax the privilege of doing interstate business.
See Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250. That
is within the protection of the Commerce Clause and subject to the power of Congress. On the other hand, the mere
fact that property is used for interstate commerce or
has come into an owner's possession as a result of interstate commerce does not diminish the protection which he
may draw from a State to the upkeep of which he may be
asked to bear his fair share. But a fair share precludes
legislation obviously hostile or practically discriminatory
toward interstate commerce. See Best & Co. v. Maxwell,
311 U. S. 454.
None of these infirmities affects the tax in this case any
more than it did in the other cases with which it forms a
group. The tax is what it professes to be-a non-discriminatory excise laid on all personal property consumed in
Iowa. The property is enjoyed by an Iowa resident partly
because the opportunity is given by Iowa to enjoy property no matter whence acquired. The exaction is made
against the ultimate consumer-the Iowa resident who is
paying taxes to sustain his own state government. To
make the distributor the tax collector for the State is a
familiar and sanctioned device. Monamotor Oil Co. v.

GENERAL TRADING CO. v. TAX COMM'N. 339
335

JACxSON, J., dissenting.

Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, 93-94; Felt & Tarrant Co. v. Gallagher, supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs. For his opinion, see
post, p. 349.
MR. JUSTICe JACKSON, dissenting:

This decision authorizes in my opinion an unwarranted
extension of the power of a state to subject persons to its
taxing power who are not within its jurisdiction and have
not in any manner submitted themselves to it. The General Trading Company is, in the language of the opinion,
made "the tax collector for the State." We have heretofore held, and I think properly, that the state may make
tax collectors of those who come in and do business within
its jurisdiction, for thereby they submit themselves to its
power. Such was the situation in both Monamotor Oil
Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, and Felt & TarrantMfg. Co.
v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 62. These are the only authorities
cited by the Court on this point, and they clearly are not
precedents to support this decision.
In this case, as the opinion points out, the General
Trading Company never qualified in Iowa and has no office, branch, warehouse, or general agent in the State.
From Minnesota it ships goods ordered from salesmen by
purchasers in Iowa. Orders are accepted only in Minnesota. The transaction of sale is not taxed and, being
clearly interstate commerce, is not taxable. McLeod v.
Dilworth Co., ante, p. 327. So we are holding that a state
has power to make a tax collector of one whom it has no
power to tax. Certainly no state has a constitutional warrant for making a tax collector of one as the price of
the privilege of doing interstate commerce. He does
not get the right from the state, and the state cannot
qualify it. I can imagine no principle of states' rights
or state comity which can justify what is done here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

322 U. S.

Nor does the practice seem conducive to good order in the
federal system. The power of Iowa to enforce collection
in other states is certainly very limited and the effort to
do so on any wide scale is unlikely either to be systematically pursued or successfully executed.
I recognize the pressure to uphold all manner of efforts
to collect tax moneys. But this decision, by which one
may not ship goods from anywhere in the United States to
a purchaser in Iowa without becoming a nonresident tax
collector, exceeds everything so far done by this Court.
In my opinion the statute is an effort to exert extraterritorial control beyond any which a state could exert if
there were no Constitution at all. I can think of nothing
in or out of the Constitution which warrants this effort to
reach beyond the State's own border to make out-of-state
merchants tax collectors because they engage in interstate
commerce with the State's citizens.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this opinion.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. ET AL. V.
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 355. Argued February 29, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.
1. An Indiana tax upon gross income, as applied to receipts from
the following classes of sales by a foreign corporation authorized to
do business in Indiana, was not precluded by the Commerce Clause

or the Fourteenth Amendment: (1) sales by out-of-State branches
to Indiana dealers and users, wherc delivery is taken at plants of
the corporation in Indiana; (2) sales to out-of-State buyers who
come to Indiana, take delivery there, and transport the goods to

another State; (3) sales in Indiana to Indiana buyers, where the
goods are shipped from out-of-State points to the buyer. Pp. 344346.
2. Neither the Commerce Clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment precludes the imposition of a state tax on receipts from an intrastate transaction, even though the total activities from which

