I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
487

Syllabus.

lar reasoning of these decisions as well as the separate
language and history of the two Amendments. See Boyd
v. UnitedStates, supra; Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra;
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; VIII Wigmore on Evidence, Third Ed. pp. 276-304, 368. Nothing this Court
has said with regard to the Fourth Amendment requires

that we now open the door which the Fifth Amendment
in 1791 closed to compelled self-incrimination.
I would reverse the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join
in this opinion.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
CITY OF JERSEY CITY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 767. Argued May 2, 3, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized a fare
increase from 8 cents to 9 cents. Upon finding that collection of
the 9-cent fare was impracticable, the Commission modified its
order so as to authorize a fare of 11 tokens for $1.00 or a cash fare
of 10 cents. The Commission later reopened the proceeding, but
only to consider the propriety and lawfulness of the modification
of its original order. Upon further findings, the Commission
authorized a fare of 11 tokens for $1.00 or a cash fare of 10 cents.
A petition of the Price Administrator for modification of the reopening order "in order that the said record be brought up to
date" was denied. Upon review of a decree setting aside the Commission's orders, held:
1. The Commission's findings of fact were supported by substantial evidence. P. 512.
2. Findings of the Commission so supported are conclusive.
P. 512.
3. The Commission's denial of a rehearing of the whole case
was not an abuse of its discretion and did not amount to unfairness such as would vitiate its orders. Pp. 514, 519.
4. It was the duty of the Commission to give full effect to wartime
conditions and the stabilization legislation. P. 519.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

5. Upon the record, it can not be concluded that the Commission
failed to give proper weight to stabilization considerations or that
it ignored the Price Administrator's contentions as to inflationary
tendencies of rate increases. P. 520.
6. The determination of the weight to be given to stabilization
considerations in relation to other factors was for the Commission,
not the courts. P. 522.
7. The Stabilization Act of 1942 did not give the Price Administrator standing superior to that of other litigants to ask the courts
to override the normal discretion of the Commission in granting or
refusing rehearings. Following Vinson v. Washington Gas Light
Co., 321 U. S. 489. P. 523.
54 F. Supp. 315, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree of a district court of three judges

which enjoined enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. John F. Finerty,with whom Messrs. JohnE.
Buck and Thomas A. Halleranwere on the brief, for the
Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Co., appellants.
Mr. Charles Hershenstein, with whom Mr. Charles A.
Rooney was on the brief, for Jersey City; and Mr. David
F. Cavers, with whom Messrs. Richard H. Field, Harry
R. Booth, Robert S. Keebler, and Herbert Sharfman were
on the brief, for the Economic Stabilization Director,
appellees.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Chester T. Lane filed
a memorandum on behalf of the United States, urging
affirmance.
MR. JuSrCE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a direct appeal by the Interstate Commerce Commission, whose orders the District Court of New Jersey
has set aside, and by the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

505

Opinion of the Court.

Company, whose rates axe subject to the enjoined orders.
Respondents are the City of Jersey City and the Price
Administrator, who intervened under powers duly delegated to him pursuant to the Emergency Price Control
Act of 1942' and the Inflation Control or Stabilization
Act of 1942.2
The Hudson & Manhattan -Railroad Company owns
about 8.5 miles of electric railway, of which all but 0.63
mile is underground. It has two double-track lines, one
of which, known as the "uptown line," connects Hoboken,
New Jersey, with Christopher Street, New York, by two
parallel tunnels under the Hudson River, and runs uptown
under Sixth Avenue from Christopher Street to a terminal at 33rd Street. The other line, known as the "downtown line," crosses under the river by two parallel tunnels
between Exchange Place, Jersey City, and Hudson Terminal, New York. It also extends westwardly in Jersey City
to Journal Square, where connection is made with the
Pennsylvania Railroad. The uptown and downtown lines
are connected on the New Jersey side by means of a line
paralleling the Hudson River. In conjunction with the
Pennsylvania Railroad the Hudson & Manhattan operates
a joint rapid-transit service between Hudson Terminal
and Newark. It carries only passengers.
The present controversy has its roots in a rate case
precipitated by the Company's effort to establish a 10cent fare on its downtown line in 1937.1 After full hear' Act of January 30, 1942, c. 26, 56 Stat. 23, 50 U. S. C. App., Supp.
II, § 901 et seq.
2 Act of October 2, 1942, c. 578, 56 Stat. 765, 50 U. S. C. App., Supp.
II, § 961 et seq.
8
Prior to 1920, the Hudson & Manhattan's rates had been 5 cents
on the downtown line and 7 cents on the uptown line. In that year

the railroad proposed a flat fare of 8 cents, but the Commission fixed
the fares at 10 cents for the uptown line and 6 cents for the downtown
line. Local Fares of Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Co., 58 1. C. C.
270. Those fares continued in effect until the 1937 proceedings began,
when the railroad sought to make the fare 10 cents on both lines.
587770°-45------36

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ings the Interstate Commerce Commission fixed an 8-cent
fare effective July 25, 1938.' The 10-cent fare was denied
chiefly on the ground that, while the Company might be
entitled to the revenue, such a fare would decrease its
patronage, and the Commission believed that an 8-cent
fare would produce more revenue. Commissioners Miller and Mahaffie dissented from denial of the 10-cent fare
on such grounds, holding it had been "amply justified"
as "reasonable and lawful for the services performed."
This Court held such grounds of denial to be sustained
by evidence and to be within the Commission's discretion.
Hudson & ManhattanR. Co. v. United States, 313 U. S.
98. The 8-cent fare remained in effect until the carrier
on June 27, 1942 filed a petition in the same proceeding
for further hearing, alleging changed conditions and increased costs in support of a 10-cent fare on the downtown line. Protests were filed by the City of Jersey City
and the Hudson Bus Corporation. The Commission
opened the proceeding and extensive hearings were held
in September of 1942. Counsel for the Price Administrator appeared, stating that it was not his intention to offer
evidence but that he reserved the right to make any motions and to file appropriate briefs. The hearings were
concluded on September 19, 1942.
The Inflation Control Act of 1942, passed on October
2d, contained a proviso that "no common carrier or other
public utility shall make any general increase in its rates
or charges which were in effect on September 15, 1942,
unless it first gives thirty day§ notice to the President, or
such agency as he may designate, and consents to the
timely intervention by such agency before the Federal,
State or municipal authority having jurisdiction to consider such increase." § 1. Thereafter the Price Admin' 227 I. C. C. 741. The 10-cent fare on the uptown line continued
in effect.

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

istrator 5 asked permission to and did file a brief opposing
any increase in the rates. On January 25, 1943, the hearing examiner recommended that the Commission find the
rate of 10 cents on the downtown lines to be just and
reasonable. Exceptions were filed by Jersey City and the
Price Administrator and argued by counsel for each, and
on June 8, 1943 the Commission made its decision.' It
reviewed the increases in operating costs since the 8-cent
rate had been fixed and the need of the railroad for additional revenue "in order to meet increased operating expenses and the interest on its bonds." It increased the
downtown fare from 8 cents to 9 cents, effective for duration of the war and six months thereafter, with permission
to any of the parties to bring to the attention 'of the
Commission additional facts if the revenue results should
prove materially different from the Commission's estimate. The Commission's opinion considered the arguments of the Price Administrator against any increase, but
said, "It seems to us that an increase of 1 cent in respondent's downtown fare is unlikely to have any inflationary
effect, and that the effect thereof upon the cost of living,
while a factor to be given consideration, will be so slight,
a maximum of about 12 cents a week and 52 cents a month
per passenger, as to be negligible. We believe, therefore,
that the increased fare herein approved will not be in
conflict with the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as
amended." Three Commissioners dissented, holding that
the Company had established its right to a 10-cent fare.
A month later the railroad filed a petition for reconsideration. Among other things, it alleged that it could
a By Executive Order No. 9250, 7 Fed. Reg. 7871, the President
designated the Director of Economic Stabilization to receive notice
of proposed rate increases pursuant to the statute. In the ensuing
proceedings in this case the Director was represented by the Price
Administrator.

6 255 1.C. C.649.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

not avail itself of the 9-cent rate because its fare collection
boxes could not handle the volume of coins necessitated by
the 9-cent rate and under war conditions could not be
replaced. It asked to charge a 10-cent fare until it could
secure tokens. Jersey City answered, asking that the
petition be denied and the 9-cent fare suspended. The
Price Administrator also answered. He advocated what
he called a feasible scheme to collect the 9-cent fare
through the use of paper tickets. The Price Administrator also asked that the fares go back to 8 cents in view of
alleged increased earnings and asked that in any event
before the fares were increased on the basis suggested by
the Company a further hearing be held. On August 3,
1943 the Commission issued a report and order.7 It found
that it would be impossible to collect a 9-cent cash fare,
and it authorized an alternative basis of eleven tokens for
$1.00 or a cash fare of 10 cents, provided the same alternative basis be put into effect on the uptown line. This
resulted, of course, in a rate of 9%,1 cents to token purchasers on both lines.
Thereupon Jersey City filed a complaint in the District
Court, asking that the Commission's order be enjoined "in
so far as such order permits the establishment of any local
interstate fare in excess of nine cents for transportation
on the downtown line." It alleged that in authorizing
downtown faxes "in excess of the nine cent fare" fixed in
the order of June 8, the Commission had deprived Jersey
City of its full day in court by refusing it opportunity to
cross-examine witnesses and present counter-evidence.
The Commission then reopened the proceeding on its
own motion, but only "to permit any party hereto to present evidence directed solely to the propriety and lawfulness of the modifications made by the Commission in its
report of August 3, 1943, on further consideration of its
prior findings and orders of July 11, 1938 and June 8,
7

256 I. C. C. 269.

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

1943" and to afford the right to cross-examine adverse
witnesses. The Conmission in its later report of November 2, 1943 referred to this reopening as being "out of an
abundance of caution." At the reopened proceeding the
Company offered testimony about the impracticability of
collecting a 9-cent fare, and as to the earnings that would
be derived from the proposed token and cash combination
fares upon the assumption, supported by testimony, that
90 per cent of the passengers probably would purchase
tokens. The examiner ruled that the basis of the 9-cent
fare fixed by the order of June 8, 1943 was not in issue and
confined evidence to the issues specified in the Commission's order. The Price Administrator offered a condensed
income statement for the Hudson & Manhattan for the
first seven months of 1943. The examiner declined to
receive it, because it went only to the Company's need
for revenue, an inquiry which was not reopened. The
Price Administrator previously had submitted to the Commission a similar statement for five months of 1943, as part
of its reply to the railroad's petition for modification of the
9-cent fare. The Commission in its report of August 3d
rejected this statement as being without probative value.
Neither of the statements showed the income of appellant
from its railroad operations, but included income of the
corporation from all operations, including the Hudson
Terminal buildings in New York City and other real estate
owned by it. The Price Administrator also petitioned
the Commission for modificaton of the reopening order
"in order that the said record be brought up to date."
The purpose of this was stated to be to show that as a
result of the war the earnings of the Company at an 8-cent
fare for the full year 1943 would exceed the amount the
Commission found adequate and reasonable in its 1938
order or in the order of June 8, 1943.
On November 2, 1943 the Commission issued its report
and order, allowing a 10-cent cash fare or eleven tokens

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

for $1.00 as the rate on both the downtown and uptown
lines. The Commission considered in its opinion the
request of Jersey City and the Price Administrator that
the limitations on the hearings should be removed and the
whole rate case thrown open again. It pointed out that
the complaint of Jersey City pending in the District Court
did not question the propriety of the Commission's authorization of an increase in the downtown fare from 8
cents to 9 cents but challenged only the increase from 9
cents to 9%,/ cents with tokens and 10 cents in cash.
It considered the offer of proof made in the hearings and
said: "Considering the contents of the motion now before
us, and the offers of additional evidence made at the recent
further hearing, we have no reason to believe that, if the
additional hearing sought were held, we would feel warranted in modifying our findings as made in the second
report. As will later appear, the alternative-fare basis
herein approved can not be expected to yield materially
better revenue results to respondent than we anticipated
at the time of the second report. Accordingly, we see no
sufficient reason for further reopening this proceeding at
this time, and the motion will therefore be overruled."
On the merits the Commission said:
"Upon the amplified record now before us, we find that
the following basic facts, as underscored, have been
established:
1. It is impracticable for respondent to collect a cash
fare of 9 cents.
2. There is available to respondent no practicable
method of collecting a fare of, or approximating,9 cents
except by the use of tokens.
3. The use of tokens only for the local downtown traffic,
while contemporaneously using cash fares for the other
local traffic of respondent, Es impracticable.

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

4. The use of an alternative-farebasis of 11 tokens for
$1 or a cash fare of a dime for local interstate passengers
on both the downtown and uptown lines is the only practicable method now available by which respondent can
reasonably be expected to obtain the financial benefits
contemplated by our findings and conclusions in the second report as necessary to insure adequate transportation
service.
5. The modification of our priorfindings as made in the
third report of August 3, 1943, is not in conflict with the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended by the
StabilizationAct.
6. A cash fare of 10 cents for the occasionalor irregular
passenger on the downtown line compares favorably with
the reasonablechargemade for similarservice on railroads
generally."
On the basis of these findings the Commission authorized a fare of eleven tokens for $1.00 or a cash fare of 10
cents, payable by a dime, as reasonable and otherwise
lawful for application during the war and for six months
after its termination.
Jersey City thereupon amended its complaint pending
in the District Court. It asked that the Commission's order of June 8, 1943, which established the 9-cent rate, as
well as that of November 2, 1943, which modified it as
stated, be enjoined, in so far as such order permitted any
fare on appellant's downtown line in excess of 8 cents.
The Price Administrator intervened, alleging that an increase over the 8-cent fare in effect on September 15, 1942
was in violation of the Stabilization Act. The United
States was named as a defendant but filed a neutral answer
because two government agencies were in opposition to
each other. The Commission and the railroad answered.
A statutory court of three judges was constituted and

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

an interlocutory injunction was granted November 26,
1943.
On January 12, 1944 a majority of the court below, one
judge dissenting, held both of the Commission's orders
invalid upon two grounds. It was of the view that the
Commission had denied a full hearing in refusing to reopen the whole proceeding to receive evidence relating to
the 1943 earnings of the carrier, and it held that the
Commission had brushed aside too lightly the economic
stabilization arguments of the Price Administrator. The
effect of the District Court's order is to disallow not only
the token and cash combination fare, but also the 9-cent
fare which the Commission found just, reasonable and lawful, and to continue the 8-cent rate fixed in 1938 and held
by the Commission to have become clearly inadequate to
the rights and needs of the Company.
Each of the findings of fact by the Commission appears
to be supported by substantial evidence. The court below
has not found to the contrary, nor do we. Reasonable
persons could no doubt differ as to whether it is probable that 90 per cent of the patrons will purchase tokens,
whether the revenues of the lines will increase more than
the operating costs, and as to various other features of
the contest. But when this same railroad came to us complaining of such predicative findings we refused to.review
the weight of evidence and held that being supported by
evidence the judgment of the Commission was final. Hudson & Manhattan R. Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 98.
Of course we cannot hold that the judgment of the Commission is less final merely because it has been exercised
on this occasion for relief of the Company.
"Moreover, the Commission's order does not become
suspect by reason of the fact that it is challenged. It is
the product of expert judgment which carries a presumption of validity. And he who would upset the rate order
under the Act carries the heavy burden of making a con-

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

513

Opinion of the Court.

vincing showing that it is invalid because it is unjust and
unreasonable in its consequences." Federal Power Commission v. Hope NaturalGas Co., 320 U. S. 591; 602. The
Commission considered that it had, and we find no reason
to doubt that it had, the evidence before it that was needful to the discharge of its duty to the public and to the regulated railroad. "With that sort of evidence before them,
rate experts of acknowledged ability and fairness, and each
acting independently of the other, may not have reached
identically the same conclusion. We do not know whether
the results would have been approximately the same. For
there is no possibility of solving the question as though
it were a mathematical problem to which there could only
be one correct answer. Still there was in this mass of facts
that out of which experts could have named a rate. The
law makes the Commission's finding on such facts conclusive." Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific
R. Ca., 222 U. S. 541, 550.
"So long as there is warrant in the record for the judgment of the expert body it must stand. . . . 'The judicial
function is exhausted when there is found to be a rational
basis for the conclusions approved by the administrative
body.'" Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307
U. S. 125, 145-46; Mississippi Valley Barge Line Co. v.
United States, 292 U. S.282, 286-87.
Unless, therefore, the court below is correct in holding
that a fair hearing has been denied or in holding that the
Commission misapprehended the effect of the emergency
legislation, the order of the Commission is entitled to
stand. We turn to those questions.
I.
The District Court has set aside for want of fair hearing
two orders of the Commission, one of which permitted an
increase from 8 cents to 9 cents in the rate and the latter
of which modified the 9-cent rate so far as to permit a
9%i-cent token rate and a 10-cent cash rate.

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

No claim is made that full hearing was denied as to the
first order. The original complaint in this action, as we
have pointed out, did not question the 9-cent rate order,
but only the subsequent steps to modify it. The contention as to the first order is that the Commission in the circumstances was compelled to give a full rehearing before
its order could become final. And it is urged that the
order after the limited rehearing is invalid because there
was a legal right to a wider range of inquiry before modification of the first order.
This raises an important but not a new question of
administrative law. The Price Administrator's contention is that this record is "stale" and that a fresh record
is important. One of the grounds of resistance to administrative orders throughout federal experience with the
administrative process has been the claims of private litigants to be entitled to rehearings to bring the record up
to date and meanwhile to stall the enforcement of the administrative order. Administrative consideration of evidence-particularly where the evidence is taken by an
examiner, his report submitted t6 the parties, and a hearing held on their exceptions to it-always creates a gap
between the time the record is closed and the time the
administrative decision is promulgated. This is especially
true if the issues are difficult, the evidence intricate, and
the consideration of the case deliberate and careful. If
upon the coming down of the order litigants might demand rehearings as a matter of law because some new
circumstance has arisen, some new trend has been observed, or some new fact discovered, there would be little
hope that the administrative process could ever be consummated in an order that would not be subject to
reopening. It has been almost a rule of necessity that rehearings were not matters of right, but were pleas to
discretion. And likewise it has been considered that the

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

discretion to be invoked was that of the body making the
order, and not that of a reviewing body.
Only once in the history of administrative law has this
Court reversed a Commission for refusing to grant a rehearing on the contention that the record was "stale." In
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S.
248, this Court held that because of changed conditions the
Interstate Commerce Commission abused its discretion
in denying a rehearing. The record in that case was closed
in September 1928. In February 1931, the railroads petitioned for rehearing and "pointed out the grave reductions, in traffic and earnings, from which they were suffering, that their net operating income for 1930 was over
$100,000,000 less than their average annual net operating
income for the five years preceding, and that their credit
was seriously impaired. At the time of this petition, the
order . . . had not yet become effective, but the Com-

mission stood upon the record of 1928 and, without
reopening the proceedings or taking further evidence, provided that its order should become effective on June 1,
1931." This, it was held, "was not within the permitted
range of the Commission's discretion, but was a denial of
right." 284 U. S. 248, 261-62.
The Court, however, promptly restricted that decision
to its special facts, United States v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 288 U. S. 490, and it stands virtually alone. In Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 389,
Mr. Justice Brandeis, concurring, said, "The Atchison case
rests upon its exceptional facts. It is apparently the only
instance in which this Court has interfered with the exercise of the Commission's discretion in granting, or refusing,
to reopen a hearing." St. Joseph Stock Yards v. United
States, 298 U. S. 38, arose under the Packers and Stockyards Act. The Secretary of Agriculture was upheld in
refusing to reopen the proceeding to take account of

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

changed conditions resulting from the economic legislation of Congress in 1933. Again, under the same Act, the
Secretary of Agriculture denied a request to add three
months' developments to the record, we refused to interfere, and the Court said, through MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS,

"The amended petition was filed about three months after
the original order issued. It is inconceivable that economic conditions had so altered in this brief period as to
demonstrate that the new schedule of rates, if just when
promulgated, had become unjust and oppressive. The
schedule should have been given a trial and any alteration
or modification should have been asked in the light of more
extensive experience. We are unable to find anything
arbitrary or unreasonable in the denial of the petitions."
Acker v. United States, 298 U. S. 426, 433.
This Court has held that the Interstate Commerce Commission did not abuse its discretion in refusing a request
for a new study as a basis for rate-making, although
changes were alleged consisting of a falling off in volume
of traffic, improvement of highways in the district resulting in diversion of traffic from rail to truck, decline in value
of the articles transported, reduction in wages and cost
of supplies, and curtailment of the amount of service rendered, and where the Commission decided that it was able
on the record before it to consider the effect of the factors
suggested by the appellants and that a new cost study was
unnecessary. Illinois Commerce Commission v. United
States, 292 U. S. 474, 480. Except that the trends are in
an opposite direction, the inquiry demanded here is of the
same nature. See also GeorgiaPublicService Commission
v. UnitedStates, 283 U. S.765, 769-70.
The Court has held that administrative tribunals "have
power themselves to initiate inquiry, or, when their authority is invoked, to control the range of investigation in
ascertaining what is to satisfy the requirements of the
public interest in relation to the needs of vast regions and

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

sometimes the whole nation in the enjoyment of facilities
for transportation, communication and other essential
public services." FederalCommunicationsCommission v.
Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S.134,142. Cf. American Bridge Co. v. RailroadCommission, 307 U. S. 486, 494.
Nor can a litigant insist that a commission may not take
a second step in a rate-making process without retracing
all previous ones. As put by the CHIIEF JUSTIcE, "The
establishment of a rate for a regulated industry often
involves two steps of different character, one of which may
appropriately precede the other. The first is the adjustment of the general revenue level to the demands of a fair
return. The second is the adjustment of a rate schedule
conforming to that level so as to eliminate discriminations
and unfairness from its details." Such procedure may be
adopted where it is appropriate to carry out the provisions
of an act. Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas
PipelineCo., 315 U. S.575, 584.
We have held that "The refusal to reconsider the issue
of domination in the present unfair labor practice hearing accords, in our view, with the Board's discretionary
powers." PittsburghGlass Co. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.
146, 161.
We have rejected the plea of railroad stockholders that
events subsequent to approval of a reorganization plan of a
very similar character to those alleged here, require its return for reconsideration. Group of InstitutionalInvestors
v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 318 U. S.523, 542-44;
Ecker v. Western PacificR. Co., 318 U.S.448, 506-09.
The rule that petitions for rehearings before administrative bodies are addressed to their own discretion is uniformly accepted and seems to be almost universally applied in other federal courts. United States ex rel. Maine
Potato Growers Assn. v. Interstate Commerce Commis8sion, 88 F. 2d 780, 784, cert. denied, 300 U. S.684; Mississippi Valley BargeLine Co. v. UnitedStates, 4 F. Supp.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

745, 748; Union Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 9 F.
Supp. 864, 873; American Commission Co. v. United
States, 11 F. Supp. 965, 972; R. C. A. Communications v.
United States, 43 F. Supp. 851, 858.
Central & South West Utilities Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 136 F. 2d 273, 275, involved an order

of simplification under the holding company act, in which
the petitioner moved for leave to adduce additional evidence. Denying the motion, the court said, "Petitioners
show that their financial position has improved somewhat
since the Commission held its hearings. Section 11 (b)
authorizes the Commission to revoke or modify its order,
after notice and hearing, in response to changed conditions, and there is no reason to assume that it will not
do so if sufficient occasion arises. Nevertheless petitioners
now ask leave, under Section 24 (a) of the Act, to adduce
their improved position as 'additional evidence' in the
completed hearings which led to the present order. We
need not decide whether supervening events of this general sort may sometimes be 'additional evidence' within
the meaning of Section 24 (a). If so, final administrative
disposition and judicial review may often be prevented altogether by the mere fact that they take time." See also
Koppers United Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission,
138 F. 2d 577; Colorado Radio Corp. v. FederalCommunications Commission, 118 F. 2d 24; Red River Broadcasting Co. v. FederalCommunicationsCommission, 98 F. 2d
282, cert. denied, 305 U. S. 625.
Various objections to the Price Administrator's contention are made, such as that the evidence he proposed to
offer was remote, or of no probative value, that the application to reopen did not conform to the Commission's
rules, that he became, along with Jersey City, estopped
from questioning the 9-cent fare by the original complaint
in district court, which raised no issue about it, and that

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

the parties did not proceed with due diligence. We do not
find it necessary to examine any of these contentions.
It is perfectly plain that unless the statutory authority
of the Price Administrator gives him a different standing
before administrative tribunals than can be claimed by
private litigants there is no ground for holding that the
denial of a rehearing constituted an abuse of discretion or
amounted to unfairness which would invalidate the Commission's orders. The authorities referred to above make
it abundantly plain that had the railroad's petition for
rehearing been denied we would have held it to be in the
sound discretion of the Commission and not reviewable.
The rule of administrative law should not change because
the shoe is on the other foot. There is no sufficient reason
for breaking down our decisional rules that protect the
administrative process against tactics to delay finality,
unless Congress has so ordered us, as to which we next
inquire.
II.
The court below gave as a second reason for setting
aside the two orders that the Commission "lightly brushed
aside" the economic stabilization phase of the case and
gave too little weight to the Price Administrator's contentions as to inflationary tendencies of rate increases. It
said, and of course we agree, that the "Commission here
is under a distinct duty in this particular case, to give
full effect to wartime conditions and the stabilization
legislation."
But that does not answer the real question, which is
what is the effect of the stabilization legislation. In seeking this answer we are inquiring as to the relative powers
and responsibilities of two federal agencies. Congress was
free to apportion their functions as it saw fit and to transfer
any part of the normal responsibility of the Commission
to the Price Administrator or other executive agencies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U.S.

Commerce Commission authorization of rate increases
could have been subjected to review or veto so far as any
objection of the Commission is concerned.
But Congress did no such thing. The legislative history of relevant provisions of the Act was reviewed in
Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144. It was
there pointed out that Congress rejected a proposal that
such rates should not be increased without consent of the
President. On the other hand it was assured by executive
representatives that rate advances already subject to
scrutiny on behalf of the public and to proof of reasonableness were not the source of the more substantial inflationary threats. Congress then adopted the provision
we earlier quoted.
In the light of such history this Court has been reluctant
to construe the emergency legislation as giving the Administrator standing to make mandatory demands upon other
tribunals or to strip them of their usual discretions. Under
this statutory plan, as we have said in the language of
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

"The Administrator does not carry

the sole burden of the war against inflation." Hecht Co.
v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321, 325, 331. At the same time, we
said that the discretionary action of other tribunals, even
of courts, "should reflect an acute awareness of the Congressional admonition that 'of all the consequences of war,
except human slaughter, inflation is the most destructive'
and that delay or indifference may be fatal."
No charge that the Commission ignored the Administrator's contentions can fairly be made on this record. Al8The Commission has shown in other cases that it is watchful
against inflation and charges itself with enforcing stabilization policy.
See Increases in Texas Rates, Fares, and Charges, 253 I. C. C. 723,
734: "We are not unmindful of the evil effects of inflation, and, in our
judgment, the inflationary tendencies of general increases in rates
constitute a factor which we may and should take into consideration
in passing judgment upon such increases ....

Increases in the gen-

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

503

though he intervened in the original proceeding, first on
his own behalf and then for the Stabilization Director, he
made no effort to offer any evidence either before or after
the hearing closed, despite the fact that nearly nine months
elapsed between the close of the hearing and the Commission's order.9 Nor did he even move for rehearing, until
after the railroad had asked for modification of the order.
He was then permitted to intervene, to file briefs and to be
heard in argument, to cross-examine and to offer evidence.
His desire to reopen the whole case was refused, because
the Commission, considering all that he offered to show,
said, "Considering the contents of the motion now before
us, and the offers of additional evidence made at the recent
further hearing, we have no reason to believe that, if the
additional hearing sought were held, we would feel warranted in modifying our findings as made in the second
report." And the Commission in its second report
weighed the contentions of the Administrator and decided
that they did not outweigh the needs for added revenue
eral price level ultimately affect the costs of rendering transportation
service and the value of such service to the public. Such considerations were in fact carefully weighed and reflected in the increases which
we authorized under Ex Parte No. 148." In Ex Parte No. 148, reported as Increased Railway Rates, Fares, and Charges, 1942, 248
I. C. C. 545, the railroads sought general increases of 10 per cent in
freight and passenger rates. The Office of Price Administration appeared but took no position with respect to the general increase sought,
and did not name the individual commodities with whose rates it
professed to be particularly concerned. 248 I. C. C. at 571. Nevertheless the Commission apparently took careful note of "the effect
upon the national defense of cumulated increases in production costs
of manufactured products" and as to specific commodities, after consideration of the financial position of the affected railroads, denied or
restricted the increases sought. 248 I. C. C. at 610.
9The Commission did have before it, however, traffic and gross
revenue figures for the first two months of 1943, which were incorporated into the record by stipulation at the oral argument on April
20, 1943.
587770'--45-

37

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

for the road. It said, "It seems to us that an increase of
1 cent in respondent's downtown fare is unlikely to have
any inflationary effect, and that the effect thereof upon
the cost of living, while a factor to be given consideration,
will be so slight, a maximum of about 12 cents a week and
52 cents a month per passenger, as to be negligible." Considering this among other findings of fact it concluded to
authorize the increased fare "to meet increased operating
costs and the interest on its bonds."
That the weight to be given to stabilization considerations in relation to other factors calls for an exercise of
judgment in any given case is not denied by the Administrator. Indeed in excepting to the examiner's report he
said, "We did not nor do we now suggest that this proposed
increase in fare [from 8 cents to 10 cents] will in and of
itself result in inflation. Such a suggestion would, of
course, be asinine." Who, then, in this case is to judge
the weight to be given such a factor? The opinion of the
Administrator is not, as we have pointed out, mandatory
on the Commission. Nor is such an economic judgment
the function of the courts unless all that has been established in administrative law concerning the limitation on
judicial review is to be thrown overboard. The decision
of such a matter by the Commission is clearly not reviewable by a court because it thinks differently of the weight
that should be accorded to some factors in relation to
others.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has responsibility for maintaining an adequate system of wartime transportation. It is without power to protect these essential
transportation agencies from rising labor and material
costs. It can decide only how such unavoidable costs shall
be met. They can in whole or in part be charged to increased fares, or they can be allowed to result in defaults
and receiverships and reorganizations, or they may be

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

Opinion of the Court.

offset by inadequate service or delayed maintenance. All
of these considerations must be weighed by the Commission with wartime transportation needs as well as avoiding
inflationary tendencies as a public responsibility. The
need for informed, expert and unbiased judgment is apparent. The problem is intricate, the carrier is one of
peculiar characteristics, its wartime traffic is of varying
density, with peaks and rush hours, the rates and carrying
capacities of competitors by bus and ferry are involved in
any estimate of traffic diversions or probable effects of
rates. What rates are required to meet actual and proper
operating expenses, what revenue must be available to
avoid defaults and sustain credit, what divisions should be
made on interchanged traffic are as complex problems in
rate-making as can readily be imagined. The delicacy of
the Commission's task in wartime is no reason for allowing greater scope to judicial review than we are willing to
exercise in peacetime. We think the weight to be given
to the Price Administrator's contentions was for the Commission, not the court, to determine. The scope of proper
judicial review does not expand or contract, depending on
what party invokes it. It is as narrow now as it was when
appealed to by the Company. Cf. Hudson & Manhattan
R. Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 98. If Congress desires
to grant its own agencies greater privileges of judicial
review than have been allowed to private parties it is
at liberty to do so, but it is not for the Court to set
aside, without legislative command, its slow-wrought general principles which protect the finality and integrity of
decisions by administrative tribunals.
As to the contention that the Stabilization Act gave the
Administrator standing superior to that of other litigants
to ask the courts to override the normal discretion of the
Commission in granting or refusing rehearings, we have
already spoken in Vinson v. Washington Gas Light Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

321 U. S. 489. There, as here, the Stabilization Director
insisted that he was "denied a fair hearing because the
Commission refused in the current proceeding to alter and
enlarge the scope of inquiry." There, as here, the controversy was "between two governmental agencies as to
whether the powers of the one or the other are preponderant in the circumstances." Here, as there, we decline to
invade the discretion of administrative tribunals to control their own rehearing procedure where the Congress has
not given the Administrator standing superior to that of
a litigant and has not divested the Commission of its
ordinary discretions. The judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JusTIn RUTLEDGE dissents.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK took no

part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS:
I would decide this case differently. I think this decision and Vinson v. Washington Gas Light Co., 321 U. S.
489, pretty well emasculate the provision of the Act of
October 2, 1942 (56 Stat. 765) which prohibits "any general increase" in utility rates unless notice is given to the
federal agency in charge of inflation control and that
agency is allowed to intervene in the proceedings. As I
stated in my dissent in Vinson v. Washington Gas Light
Co., supra,Congress intended by that provision that there
should be as great an accommodation as possible between
established standards for rate-making and existing wartime necessities. General rate increases were not to be
allowed unless, for example, it was shown that they were
necessary to preserve existing facilities under war conditions. I agree with Judge McLaughlin and Judge Meaney
of the three-judge court that this emergency legislation

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
503

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

required the Commission "to give full effect to wartime
conditions and the stabilization legislation." It was that
policy which was reflected in Executive Order 9328 promulgated by the President on April 8, 1943 (8 Fed. Reg.
4681, 4682) and providing as follows:
"The attention of all agencies of the Federal Government, and of all State and municipal authorities, concerned with the rates of common carriers or other public
utilities, is directed to the stabilization program of which
this order is a part so that rate increases will be disapproved and rate reductions effected, consistently with the
Act of October 2, 1942, and other applicable federal, state
or municipal law, in order to keep down the cost of living
and effectuate the purposes of the stabilization program."
That policy is once more disregarded. The Interstate
Commerce Commission proceeds to grant rate increases on
the basis of peacetime standards. It justifies the increase
under the Act of October 2, 1942, by saying that the increase per consumer is negligible. By the same token
every item in the list of consumer necessities could be
increased a like percentage. What was negligible item by
item would soon be substantial in the aggregate. That
which first appears as a small trickle may eventually
undermine the dam.
But though I disagree with the result reached, I think it
is precisely what Vinson v. Washington Gas Light Co. intended. That case and Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles,
321 U. S. 144, give preferred treatment to a few businesses
by allowing them to gain advantages from war conditions.
I would overrule them. But so long as they stand I do
not see how we can deny the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to do for the Hudson & Manhattan
Railroad Co. what another commission was allowed to do
for the Washington Gas Light Co.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY joins in this opinion.

