1'797!

'Agui

Tern.
.7..

,FEN <,R , P.lanttffiri Errr,:

W"

r.fus The UNiT'D.,ST.ATS.

FRIT of Error to the tircuit Court'for'tbe' Di'Mfri6 of
:'WV,New-Jerfey'.:O n th retur.n .ofthe Recrd; it appear'ed, ',that a*declarafi'on in cafe had been 'filed in this action, co-ntaining three -Counts :the firfl and -fecond'of which,' were fpe'cial Counts for a fraud 'and deceit, and the'third wais a general
Count,-for money-had and received-by the Defendant to the tife,
-)0df
the Plaintiff., Theflrfl -Count 6harged the Defendant Vith
an exprefs affumpfit, that in confideratio that the Comm iflioner
for fettling Continental accbunts, wbuld iffue a certificate for
ninetieths, he promifed his account againft the
4273 dollars
United States was juff for that fnun, and ckhibited -certain
vouchers to fupport it; that the account ought to bre allowed,
and that the vouchers were -true and lawful It averred, that
confiding in the raid promifes, the United States by their faid
-Commiffioner, did iffue the faid certificate : And it affigned as
'a-breach of the faid promifes, that the Defendant did not regard
-the-fame, but craftily deceived the United States in this, that
-'the faid cqrtificate ought not to have been iffued and delivered,
-that the account was not, nor was any part of it, for a jufA debt,
-b.ut'was deceitful, and that the account and vouchers were
not true and la.wftil; whereby the United States had been greatly deceived.--.Thefecond Count ftted, that whereas the Unitel States had before that time iffued and delivered to the Defendant the faid certificate, and had accepted and received from
'him as lawful vouchers for the iffuing and delivery thereof,
,the account aforefaid, -together with certain -paper writings in

U
CA4
4*,ukd. and^Adjmdg d in the
1797. the declaration fet forrh,.in c6nfidcration thereof he undertook
and faithfully promifed that the faid account was a.j uft and true
.account, and'that the (um mentioned in it was lawfully due
from the United States and ought to be fo certified, and
that the faid certain paper writings then and there exhi-.
bited as further vouchers for iffuing the faid certificate,
were regular and lawful vouchers : Neverthelefs, the Defendant did not regard fiis fait, laft menjti~nei-,pi:ifes, inafmuch

as the faid acounto was not true, nor was any part thereof due,
nor were the faid paper .writings lawful vouchers, by means
whereof the United States were by him deceived and greatly
injured. The third count having ftated an ayjumpfit in the
ufual form, for Sooo dollars received to the Plaintiffs ufe,
concluded that the .Defeiidani: o t'rFgardirig his feveral promifes, for making payment thereof, had not paid the faid fum of
money, but refufed and ftill refufes to pay the fame to the damage of the United States 8ooo dollars. The Defendant plead-

ed non affumpfit, whereupon ifflue was joined; and on the trial
.of the caufe, the'jury' found a fpeeiat!'v di6. of-the-f5l~loW~ig
tenor :-" The jury find that the tommiffioner named in the
firit and fecond counts, was the lawful officer of the United
States,, for .tranfa&ing the bufinefs therein mentioned;, and

'that certain regulations werernade by'.dongrefsj ;in relation
thereto, bn the 20th of Februarj,'j7$-., and the 3 d of--une,
17844 to which the jury refer.: That the Defendant, on: the

.'2d of Aukuf 1784; fraudulently exhibitedan account, claim-

ing a balanze'of 4.'I6o2: IT 7 3-4; equal to 4,273 49. o dc'1Jars, § due from 'he United States to him, which account
'o fraudulently. eihibited, and h? ,voticheis therefor, the jury
fd forth at large. That then and there the Defendant received,
through fraud arid impofition, from the. United States, the faid
balance, fo as afoefaid falfely pretendcd to be due to hini., in a
*.certificate, which 'the jury fet forth 'in its proper words and
figures. I'hat the Defendant gave a receipt, for the f'ame, in
the words and figures fet forth by thejjury. That according to
lJaw, the Defen'd'ant, on the 12th, Of.,ay, 179T, fubfcribe4 ard
'funded the faid certificate in the funds of the Utiited States, and
beccame a holdor"of the Rtock it produce dj amounting with,the
intereff, to 4893"8-Vo dollars; ant that he gave to the., Uni 'd
States a receipt for funded debt comprifing ,the faid certificate,
Whicl was thereupon deivered up aiid cancelled. BUT whether
the k.id fubficription, the fubfcquent funding of the faid 4273
4.9-9 ° dollars, with the intereft o(619 59-90 dollars.and the ftocic
acquired in virtue. thereof as aforefaid, oug;ht to.be allowed as
payment 6f the atnoifi't of the (aid certificate by the faid United
States to the. faid Defenjdant, the'.'fali 'jurors know not; .atid
:thereupon they pray the advice of the court here in the prenifes:

S uPkEf 4 2'6vA'

!oftbeJVUnitdd "States

9

fes: And',if.it duih to.be-all6wdi,, then.tiey faMie was. paid' 7,96
•d~e~ful aniount,.sto Wit4 4893 S,00 dolla.rs.-ANDthe'ju'rois L
further fiAd, that pior' tQ.the yer'.79i, th&I*nitkdiStates.had'
paidcpxirt-ofthe interef 'jue 6n.' the faid certificate, amou i'ng
-Thatthe Defendant on.the.2d.of-.A
tO IO25 5,9-90 dollars., -,
g-fl 1784, uider-took ""Id"promifed to the. United States, .that

the'.fid account was jufl' and true;, that the fiof 4 %7,3.49-9$
dollars was juftly duei.tocbim fr6m"the'.United,'States,,andougit
to 'be fo certified.; and.that the vouchers ,produced. ,by,him in
fupporto the faid-account were: regular ahd la'ful,'vouchets
for iluiing and deiieing. the :faid-centificat&:to him. . That the
nor was the .frum fpecifiedito"b.,due
faid account was not jufl,
thetein' or-any, part theieof,' juffly due, but the; faid' account
.was fraudulent, andtle' vouchers ptoduced'by him -in-fupport
thereof, were not regular and. lawful vo.u~chers. f.or.iffring and
delivering to him the faid certificate.. AND, whether on th6
whole matter by the j.urors fo as.aforefaid found, the Plaintiff
.6ugfit to'recover, agairift the Defendant, they are igiorant,'and
pray advice of thecourt. And if, upon the whole m atter &c.
it.fh'll appear, to the'court, that the. Defendant did affumne in
•manner_'and~form as the United States complain, then they fay,
he did:affume upon hirnifelf, &c..and they'aflfs the damages by
'reafon of the non-perforniance-oflhis promifes and affumpot0ns
aiforefaid, 3,939 701 00 dollars, befides coils and charges'; and'
.for colts and charges io cents:;'Bb.tif it appear to the court

.that..he did not affinie, &c. then they fay he did not affume, &c.
•A-D if upon the whole matteir aforefaid, by the jurors found
-inthe manner afore'flid, it fliall appear to the court that the
Defendant did affume as to the fum of 1025 58-9 o dollars fo as
aforefaid paid by the United States, in part of the intereff fo
due oi the faid certificate, funded as aforefaid, &c. then they
find he didIaffuzi'e, &c. -and afffsthe damages of the United.
Stales by reafon of the non-perforimanc of the promifes within
mentioned, befides coits and charges,,Ot 1023 64-IOO dollars*,
and for cofts and charges io cents:, But if upon the whole mat,ter, &c. itfhall appear to the court that he did not affume, in
confiruiion of law, in manner and form as the United States
complain, then ihey fav he did /(ot affume as to the faid' io25
58-90 dollars, &c."

"Upontlis verdia the'CIRCUIT COUaRT

rendered the following judgment, on the 2d of April 17.95:
"That the United States do' recover againf the' faid Thomas
Fenemore, :theirldam ,ges,at'6i'efaid, by the juiors aforefaid,' in
form aforefaid, 'affeffed at 4,965 34-oo dollars ; 'and, alfo,
x69 4"3-lo dollars, for, their coils ind charges, by the cburt
here
' There feeint to be a variance between the C ins, but no notice was
taken of itin the argument.

rCAS
ed' afld "ajudgkd in the

*3.6o

here to.the. Uiied_tates with ,their affent,.of inc'reAf adjudg

jed; whikh faid daiiages in, the. wholq anliount.to'5I34 77- 1ob
dollars: Aiid.the fai& Thomas in mercy, &c."
Thc caufe. was, frgued at the laff term, upon an iffuejoihed,
after'an' affignment.6f thl general errors, and the plea of. in
nulto ft erla'tu',, by Ingeifoll and E. Tilghman, for th Plaintiff in errors and by Lee (tho Attorney General) for the.United
Stares.L ItWas,',thdiI alledged in'diminution, 1ibiwever5 -that a
ruie had belen-aiade, by cotnfent, in-the'coUrt below, which
Was ottranfmsited'w.ith'the record, allowing-fpecial counts to
be added to.the~declaraiin, and agieeing " that no-obje&ion
fhould be rhadeltothem,. by reafhn of. their' beingoof fuch a nature, as rot' to be.joined with tbe.firft o'" any other coufits ;'
in confeqien'ci of wvhich the two fpecial counts above Rated
had been.added. A.certibrariwas, therefore, awarded, at the
inffance of the Attorney General, upon the return to which
at the'prefert term, tite rule was duly certified*.•
For the Plaintif in errori it was observed, that the obje6t
is to. compel 'Fenemore to-pay- the full value.of a certificate,
which the affion itfelf confidered as fraudulently obtained, and
,which, confequently, is a mere nullity. For fo much :cafh as
Ie had aaually received on accouit(of intereft, an aaion of affunofitray be regularly brought; but the remedy as to the
certificate is a bill in equity to compel him to furrender it;
or, .perhaps, an a&ion of deceit might be proper, but affumpfit
will nQt lie. Two queftions, however, .are fuggefted by the
Tpecial- verdia ;, ift, Whether- there has been a payment ofthe
amount by the United'States to Fenemor;? and 2d, Whether
he
• It became a queftion, whe ther the return to a certiorari (which was
clerk of the Circuit Court under his hand
made in this inftance, by ithe,
aid the feal of the Court) was withi

the rule eflablilhed at the lait

the return of writs of error?
It appear's to me, that the cafes are embraced by the

4em (ante p. 356.) relative to

CHats, )'yflice.

fanme principle ; and, therefore, that the return of the certiorari ought to
be allowed.
IRE LL, ~zoice,

I cannot think, that a regulation refpe&ing writs of
They are procefs whofe
error, extends, of courfe to writs of ertIirari.
t
nature and operation, are in fome refpelt s widely different. The prefent
cafe, therefore, feenis to require a'sew rule.
. I'#'
1 will not decide, whethar, generally fpeakllg,
PATERSOW,
wri't of error will include writs of c~tiorari.; bit as to the prefent object, theyti*re clearly within the principle of thefame rule.
4jflict. It is enough for th ,prefent purpofe, that the prinCus4irc,
ciple of the rule applies as ftrobsgly t8 th, return of a cetiorari, as to the

.return of a -vriti of errbr.
,ELSwORTH, %,tiCe-. Bj, the rsle, itwas'snmade the duty.of the clerk
of the Circuit 'o rt, to return the writ of erm'or, and as the writ of' error
'is not rettsrned, unlefs all the proceedings in Cte caufe accompany it,
Ihe return to thc prefent rcti,,a qcan only be co'Wldered as compleating
the duty impofed by the original rule, in purfuanv of a fupplemeartary
ardet frons this'court.

SUPRMt

COURTV of the United Slates.

361,

be affmed in the manner and form flated in the declaration? 1797,
In anfwering thefirf queftion, it is to be remarked, that in a
1pecial verdia nothing is to be intended, the prom ife whether
exprefs, or implied, rnuft be expref'sly found ; and as the fpecial verdia finds no confideration for charging Fenemore with
the "fum of 3,939 70- l 0 ° dollars, the certificate of ftock,
(which is full to be prefumed to be in his pof&ffion, which is
not proved to have been converted into cath, and which is,
indeed, of no value oin account of the fraud in obtaining it)
cannot be prefumed to be a payment either in fa6 or law ; and,
of courfe, there is no foundation for a promife either exprefs
or implied. In anfwering the/econd queftion, it is not denied,
that an exprefs prornife (eflentially the fame in both of the fpecial counts) is laid in the declaration; and it is fuppofed, that
an attempt was made to"'prove it as laid; but fiill the finding o
the jury does not fupport either the firft or fecond count ; for,
though the jury find the promi'e, it is not found upon the confideration laid in the declaration, which muff be the governing
principle. By wy of fupporting the third count, likewife,
the jury find all the circumifances of fubfcribing to the funding
fyffem ; (which do not amount to a payment) whereas they
were bound to find the a~fual receipt of the money, and the
only finding of an alual receipt of money, is the intereft of
1025 dollais on the funded flock.
But the fats arifing upon the cate, as fet forth in the Declaration, are inconfiftent; the Counts are of a nature fo different that they cannot be joined in the fame form of adion ; the
Defendant could not be apprifed of what he muft prepare to
try ; and he ought not to be entrapped-by the generality of the
Count for money had and received. The fpecial Counts are
in the nature of a deceit; which cannot regularly be united
with cafe upon promifes. Again: the firft and fecond counts
affirm the tranfa&ion, confider the certifAcates as the lawful
property of Fenemore, and bring this aaion to recover damages
for the breach of his engagemnent: but the third Count diflaffirms the tranf!a6ion, confiders the certificate as a nullity, and
brings this aetion to recover the money paid to Fenemore
under color of the certificate, as fo much money received by
him, for the ufe of the United States. The verdi6t and the
judgment are affedled by the fame incongruity; for, both parts
of the finding and judgment cannot be true , the firif part fuppofing the tranfadffion valid 1 and giving damages; while the
fecond part fuppofing it invalid, adjudges the money to be the
property of the United States. Thus, the Plaintiff prefented
an inconfiflent caufe of ation; the jury mixed the inconfiftent
ingzredients together ; and the Court below have unadvifedlv,
whole their fandion. But, if the inconfiftency ap",
given
VOL.theIII!
A'aa
pears

302

CASES

rued and adjudged in the

ears on the r~cord, this Court cannst undertake to decide, to
1797.
%"Afj which part of the finding the jury w'ould have adhered, had the
quef'jon been ieafonably propofed to them; and muff, therefore,
reverte the whole proceeding. The United States may, perhaps,
either affirm, or diffaffirro, the tranfaction; but they cannot
do both ; and they mufft make an eledion before they inftitute their action. .
The following authorities were cited, in the courfe of the argument for the Plaintiff in error - 3 7. Rep. 288. i T. Rep.
22. 3 BI. Corn. 158.' Doug. 39. I Efp. 97. Cowp. 44. Doug.
132. 4. 2 T. Rep. 289 . 143. Imp. Pr. 55. 3 Wils. 354. 2 Ld.
R~ayr. 825. Cowp. 88. 2 B!. Rep. 848. 9.
For the Defendant in error,-it was premifed, that there feemed to be no hefitation in admitting on the part of the oppofite
Counfel, that every principle of confcience and equity was oppofed to the conduct of their client; but they contended (and it
muft be agreed) that a Court of error can only decide on the
record, and the principles of law which are pertinent to it,
Confidering the cafe then, in the f1ricteft point of view, the
judgment ought to be affirmed. Though the verdict is certainly informal, and appears at firft to be imperfect; yet, every
material fact is found; and any unneceffiry refe'ence to the
Court will be difregarded as mere furplufage. The judgment
is for both the fums found by the verdidl ; and without giving
both, it is manifeft, thatjuflice could not be done to the United
States.

A contrad may be affirtmed, or diflaffirmed.

The

public policy of the Governmeirt required, that this contrad
The perfon who committed the fraud
lhould be affirmed.
ought not, however, to be benefited by it ; and,having recovered fiom him the value of the certificate, he will hirnfelf(afortiori every purchafer) be entitled in future to receive the principal and intereft from the United States. The gift, therefore, of thc enquiry is, whether it fufficiently appears on the

record, that the Unzited States have fuffered an injury by 'the
fraudulent condudt of the Plaintiff in error ? To this enquiry
it is immaterial, whether Fenemore paid,or received, any thing;
and even if'there had been no exprefs afunpfit laid in the l)eclaration, or found in the fp.cial veri'id, the Court were empowered to decide that there was an implied aJ/umpfit, upon

the reference of the fats"fr that purpofe, by the jiury : The
Jury having however, found an exprefs affunpfit; that ftubfequent
, CX:'HINc., )'. )hce. May not the nmoney be confidered as part of'the
damages Affeffrd under the fpecial counts, and fo avoid te objeftion of
a difafirmance ?
72/ghnMn. The finding ofthe jury negatives that idea. They leavc it
to, the coart to decide for xvbofe ufe ite intercft money was received,
aid tlhe court adjudge that it wvas received for the ufe of the United
States.

SXV1REME COURT of the

United Statet.

quent.rcfcrence to the Court.muft be confidered as furplufage. '1797"
Trials per Pats 269. 270. 169. Rob. 54"
But, it is urged, that the counts are inconfiftent, and cannot
be joined in .the fame declaration : to which, it is a)]fwered,
that wherever there can be the fame plea, and the famejud&.
ment, different counts may be joined ;'t T. Rep. 257. 2 JJ/il
321. and wherever there has been an expefs Warranty (which
extends to all faults "knoWn and unknown to the feller) affnmpfit is the proper form of a'6lioni. Doug. 19. The-re may,
however, be different forms of adlion for the fame injurv. 4
Co. 9-. In 3 Bi. Com.. 164. it is flated, that if any one fells
one comm6dity for another, an a6lion o-i the cafe lies agai'nft
him for damages, upon the contrac! which the law always implies, that every tranfaaion is fair and honeft. The fame
Commentator obfaves, that an affion of deceit alfo lies in the
cafes of warranty,, bef6re menti'n~d, and other p'erfonal injuries committed contrary to 'good faith and hondfty : But an
a~tion on the cafe for damages; in nature of a writ' of deceit,
is more ufually brought upon thefe occafions. Ibid. 166. Morg,
Efp. 342 to.35 9 ..
On the 7 th of Augu/t 1787, the Judges delivered their opi-.
nions, to the following elff'e:
CUASE, 'ujqice. The judgment of the Circuit Court ought
to be affirmed. Here is the cafe.of a plaia fraud. A man fets
up a claim,' exhibits colourable vouchers to fupport it, deceives
the public officer, obtains a certificate that his claim is juft,
and, finally, converts that certificate into transferable flock,
The tranfadion is rank from the 'beginning to the end ; and
the jury have properly.found'not only the fraud, but tha value
of the'certificate obtained by it, The United States, by adopting the prefent mode of proceeding, have precluded themrfelves
from ever difputing hereafter, the validity of the 'certificate;
and they -,will never, perhaps, be able to indemnify themfelves
againri the fiJi'bquent payments of ijterefi', unlefs Fenemore
remains folvent,, and acceffible to legal procefs. But, furely, it
ouaht never to have been a fubjed of argument in a court
ofjuffice, whether, onrfta ihg a manifeft fraud pradfifed upon
the public credit and treafury, the United Statas is entitled t6
recover an equivalent for thwpecuriiary 'injury, from the avowed delinquent.
IREDfLL, 7z flice. I am clearly of the fame opinion, U_
on (Iri& technical rules, I had, at firft, fome doubts,' whether
the inconfiffzncy of the counts in the declaration would not be
fatal: but on the appearance of the rule entered into by conient,
for the very purpofe of obviating objedions on that ground,
my mind was perfedly fatisfied. The only queftion, therefore, that remains to be decided, vurns upon the right of the

unitea,

364

CASES ruled 2nd adjudged in the

, 797. United States, to affirm the original tranfa&ion; and, if they
'

have that right, it follows, inevitably, that they ought to recover from the Defendant an equivalent for the value of the cer.tificate, which was furreptitioufly obtained. I have no difficulty in faying, that the right exifts; and that, the public in.

tereft, involved in the credit of a public paper'medium, required the exercife of the righ; in a cafe of this kind. The circulation of the certificate fhould be unimpaired; but the Defondant ought, at leaft, to be made refponfible in his purfe for
the fraud. The defence is, indeed, an extraordinary one: it is
an atempt to maike the ve-y aft of fraud, an infirument, or
thield, of prote&ion, But, I truff, no man will ever be ableto
defend hinfdfin an-American court ofj uiice upon the ground of
his own turpitude. As, therefore, every exception to form has
been obviated by confent, and as the fpecial verdi6t finds every material fa6t to jufitify the judgment of the court below, I
think that judgment ought to be affirmed;
The caufe is fufeeptible oflittle doubt.
CUSHING, 7Juflice.
The United States had a right to affirm theoriginal tranfadlon,
and to proceed, as they have done, for the recovery of the value
of the certificate and the inteieftE LSWORTH, Chief .ujice.. Giving a reafonable effe& to
the rule,, which the partie§ themfelve have ente red into, all ob,je&ion, as to the form and inconfiftencies of fhe declaration,
is obviated. Then, it is to be confidered, that the United
States had an option, either to affirm, or difaffirm, the original
contr'at ; and by the prefent a-ion they have chofen to affirn
it. The fpecial verdidi fairly authorifed the court below to
give judgmeot for the value of the certificate on the firft and
fecond counts, and for the amount of the money received as
intereff on the third coun't. With refpe&, however, to the
rightofdifaffirmance, I wifh to be underflood, as limiting it to
the continuance of the certificate in the hands of the original
party for, if the certificate had paffed into the hands of a bona
fide purchafer, even a court of equity wouldi I think, r'efufe
to invalidate it and, I am fure, public policy would forbid the
9,tempt.
As I joined in giving the judgment
PATERSOr, 7uflic.
of the Circuit Court, it gives me pleafure to be relieved from
the neceflity of delivering any opinion on the prefent occafion.
Putj though I have no doubt on the cafe'now to be decided, it
appears to me to be another, and a great, queftion, how far a
bill in equity Would reach all the points involved in the origi,

Judgment Affirmed.

