CASEs ruled and adjudged in tho

1797.

BROWN verfus VAN BRAAM,

RROR from the Circuit Court, for the Di3ri& of Rhode
17and. The cafe was as follows: On the ioth of
Marcb, i792, Brown and Francis, merchants, of Providence,
in Rhode Ifland, drew four fets of bills of exchange on Thomfas Dickafon and Co. merchants, of London, payable at 365
days fight, to Benjamin Page, or order, for the aggregate fi
of
&28th
Page being at Canton on the
oo terling,
of £.
endorfed thtre bills to Fan Braam, the DeA'larct ,793,
fendant in error; and on the fame day, as the agent of
Brown and Francis,drew another fet of bills of exchange, upon Thomas Dickafon and Co. payable, alfo, at 365 days fight, to
On the 9 th of
P'an.Braam, or order, for 4.3000 fterling.
April, 1793, Page, in the fame character of agent, drew a fimilar fet of bills, in favor of Fan Bream, or order, for (. 400
fterling. One bill of each fet was prefented to Thomas Dickafon and Go. in London, for acceptance, on the 3if of December,
1793, but were then protefted for non-acceptance, of which
Brown and Francishad noticeon the iftof)Jul, 1.79 4 ,though the
bills and protefts were notaclually returned to them. The bills
were again prefented for payment on the 15th of Yanuary, 1795,
(that is io days after they were afually due) and protefted
for non-payment, of which Brown and Francishad notice on
the ift of .4pril, 1795. This a6tion was inftituted in the Circuit Court of November Term, 1796, to recover the amount
of the protefled bills, with inter.efi, damages and charges ; and
the declaration contained a fpecial count on each bill, together
with a general indebitatus ajfumpfit for 40,ooo dollars, money
had and received by the Defendants, to the ufe of the PlainOn the return of the record it appeared, that. Francis
tiff.
had died fubfequent to the fervice of the original writ; that
Brown came into court ,and, after fuggefiing the death of
Francis, pleaded the general iflue; and that the Plaintiff having, likewife, fuggefted the death of Francis 11prayed judgThere
ment againft John Brown, the furviving ])efendant."
was no joinder in iffue, continuance, or other pleading ; but
imm~diately
E

J.2

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

immediately after the above prayer for judgment, the record I'797.
proceeds, in this form: ,cAnd the faid 7ohn Brown made de- '-,
" fault : Whereupon, this caufe being fubmitted to the court,
" and the court having fully heard the parties by their counff,
-and mature deliberation being thereon had, it is confidered
"by the court now here, that the faid Andreal E. Van Braam
' Houchgeeft, do recover againft the (aid 7ohn Brown, the
cc furviving partner as aforefaid, the Cum of thirty four thou" (and four hundred and fifty five dollars, and twenty feven
cents damages, and cofts of fuit, taxed at fixteen dollars and
fifty two cents." To the record of this judgment, the following memorandum was annexed: " 2Vota Bene.. ]'he above
" fum, as ordered by tle court, includes the principal arfd in" tereff from the 15th Yanuary, 1795, to the i 9 th November,
1796, and ten per cent damages, and twenty nine dollars,
" and twenty, two cents, charges of proteft."
Upon thi's record the following errors were affigned, and
argued by Howell and Robbins, of Rhode Ijand, and Dexter,
of Malfachufetts, for the Plaintiff in error, and by.Barnes, of
Rhode IJland, and Miflin, of Pennfylvania, for the Defendant
in error-

jft. That' after plea pleaded, there was a difcontinuance of
the caufe in the court below,and, therefore, no judgment could
be rendered.
2d. That io per cent. damages, and 6 per cent. intereft, are
included in the judgment, wher6 no damages at all ought to
have been given.
3d. That the court affeffed the damages, when they ought to
have been afkffed by a jury.
For the Plaintif in Error. Ift Error affigned :-It appears from the record, that there was a difcontinuance of the
caufe, by an orniffion of the Plaintiff below, and no verdi& or
The Defendant had come in,
judgment can cure the defe6.
and tendered an ifrue upon every count in the declaration; and,
without a joinder of iffue, or any fpecies of replication, the
fuggeftion of the death of Francis, is the only thing that occurs between the Defendant's plea, thus traverfing the whole
caufe of a&ion, and the judgment againif him by default. It
does not appear, that the Plaintiff himfelf was in court ; nor,
indeed, under all the circuinfances of the record can it be conclufively afcertained, for whom judgment ought to have been
given. It is true, that by the courtefy of the bar, the fimi'iter
might, perhaps, have been entered at any time, while the caufe
was depending in the original jurifdi&ion; but till it was entered, the Defendant by pleading had done every thing that law
or reafon could exadl from him ; and it is too late to enter it,
when the caufe is removed upon a writ of error. In deciding
Y yo
VOL. Il.

346'

CASEs

and adjudged in the
ruled
I

on this exception, the Court will be governed by the law of
Rbode-Tflandby virtue of the reference made in the 3 4 th. fection of the Judicial Ad, to the laws of the feveral States, as
rules of decifion in trials at common law, in the Courts of the
United States, where they apply. But the law of Rhode Ifland
muft not be conftrued to recognize any loofe fyflem of practice, introduced upon the principles of mutual indulgence for
By an ad of the
the perfonal accommodation of attornies.
flate it is declared, that in all cafes, for which the Legiflature
has made no pofitive provifion, the laws of England fhall fur
nifh the rule of decifion. If, therefore, any cuftom, ufage, or
pradice, fhall be in oppofition to an exprefs ftatute of Rhode
Wland; or where there is no Pcatute on the fubje&, if it fhall
oppugn the principles of the common law of England, it is
void, and ought to be difregarded, In the prefent inftance,
there is no exprefs ftatute; but the difcontinnance is fatal at
common law ; and, therefore, fatal by the law of Rhode I/land.
There can be no judgment by default, after an appearance,
much lefs after pleading ; but the Plaintiff (hould have entered thefimiliter, and then he would have been entitled to make
out his cafe before a jury, whether the defendant attended, or
not, to fupport his plea. As the record ifands it cannot be underflood what was tried, an iffue in fad, or a demurrer in law.*
!2d. Erroraj/igned. By the law of Rhode lfandt it is declared, " that when any bill or bills of exchange fhall be re" turned from' any parts beyond fea, duly protefted for non-.
" acceptance, or non-payment, the perfon or perfons to whom
"the fame was (or were) payable, fhall be entitled to have and
" recover of the drawer or drawers, endorfer or endorfers of
"the bill or bills of exchange, ten per cent! damages, over and
" above the principal furn, for which fuch protefced bill, or
" bills of exchange fo protefted, was or were drawn, and alfo
" lawful intereft from the time fuch bill or bills of exchange
" fo protefted, were purchafed, until final judgment for the
fame be obtained, and alfo legal charges of protefting faid
PAT~Rs~~,~s ft/ice. I fhall certainly confider myfelf bound in fome
cafes, by the praaqice ofthe State Courts ; and, therefore, I wifh to get
a praetical expofition of he (tature, to afeertain whether the judgment
by default can be confidered as good for nothing, after there has been
fuch a difcontinuanee -as the pyeftnt.
CHAsE,' uftice. I Ihall be governed, in forming my opinion, by what the
common law fays nmuft be the effeft ofa judgment by default; without
If, indeed, the pratice of the feve.
regarding the prafice of the State.
ral tates were, in every cafe, to be adopted, we fliould be involved in
an endlefs labyrinth of falfe conftrutions, and idle foms.
t "4 An act for afcertaining damages upon protefted bills of exchange,"
originally paffed in the year '743, but included in the revifed Code of
Rhode Illand Law (1776) page 19.
" bill

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

" bill (or bills) with coffs of fuit." It is agreed, that, under r79.
this law, damages might have been recovered upoi the proteft
for non-acceptance merely; but then the bills and proteft for
non-acceptance, muff have been returned in a reafonable time;
whereas they were not returned till a year had elapfed; the
bills were protefted for non-payment; and in point of fa&,
it is conceded, that the adion is brought upon the proteff for
non-payment, and not upon the proteft for non-acceptance.
The notice of the non-acceptance will not alter the cafe; for
the bills with the proteft fhould have been returned to the
drawers, fo as to put it in their power to take them up, and to
purfue their remedy over againft the drawee, in cafe he had
their affets in his hands at the time of proteft. Then confidering the cafe upon the proteff for non-payment, no damages
ought to be allowed, unlefs the bills were duly protefled; and it
appears, from the Plaintiff's own ihewing, that they were not
proteffed for ten days after they had become payable, which is
not fo foon as it might have been from the nature of the cafe,
or as it ought to have been according to the law of merchasts,
by which only three days- grace are allowed. It is true, that
this proteff may be in time for one purpofe at common law,
for infance, to maintain an aaion againff the drawer, who had
no affets in the hands ofthe drawee, at the time of proteff;
and yet the bills fhall not be deemed duly protefled for another
purpofe, by ftatute, for inftance, to entitle the payee to recover
damages.
It will be urged, however, that the allowance of damages,
only appears by the nota bene fulboined to the judgment of the
court below, and that this ouaht not to be taken into confideration as a part of the record. But what conftitutes a record, is
a very different thing, in different ftates. The mode of ftating
the judgment, or the reafons for it, will, likewife, admit of great
latitude and diverfity. If the purport of the nota bene had been
incorporated with the judgment, there would have been no,
ground for cavil ; and where is the fubftantial difference, whether the judge delivers the explanation himfelf, or dire~ls it
(which, for aught that appears, may be the fa&) to be entered
by the clerk ? If the court had confined its view to the mere
formal part of the record in the cafe of Bingham' Plaintiff in
error verfu4 Cabot, (ant, p. i9. ) the ground of reverfing the
judgment below could never have appeared; and if the nota
bene is reverfed here, it cannot be determined what has been
tried by the court below, But, after all, the allowance of damages muff neceffarily be inferred from the record, independent
of the nota bene. Thus, the declaration fets forth and demands
the principal intereft, coft and damages, accruing by virtue of
cetiiji bills of exchange i and thq demand being reducible to
certainty

348
1797.
k

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

certainty by figures, this court can .follow the court below,
and by mere calculation, from data exifting on the record,
corre6t any error that has been committed. Since, then, there
is a judgment for more than the principal, intereft, and cofts
upon the billsof exchange, the furplus muft be error ; and the
nota bene only ferves to explain how that furplus .has arifen.,
3 d. Erroraffigned. The damages ought not to have been
afleffed by the court. It is admitted, that where a demand appears to a certainty upon the record, or may be reduced to a
certainty by the ufe of figures, the court may itfelf make the
calculation, or refer it to the proper officer to be done. 3 Leon.
23.1 Hen. Black 54 I . if, therefore, the declaration had demanded nothing more than appears on the face of the bills,
the prefent exception could not prevail ; becaufe the fpecific
fum to be adjudged might be conclufively afcertained by adding, upon a fimrple procefs of figures, the amount of the intereff to the principal ; though even that dcLrine has been controverted in a very recent cafe, 4.. 7" Rep, 275. But. the
demand is not only for the principal and intereft, but, likewife,
-for damages, which are altogether uncetain; depending upon the fadf, that the bills have been returned duly protefted;
and that faa involving a complicated inveftigation into the period of the return, as well as into the time and mode of proteft.
Even, indeed, with refped to the intereft, a fimilar uncertainty arifes under the provifion of the Rhode Ifland law; fince
intereft is to be allowed from the time of purchafing the bills;
and, therefore, the time of purchafing the bills was a faat to be
afcertained, before any calculation could be made. But exclufive of thefe points, neceflarily conneifted with the bills, the
Defendant under the general iffue, which he had tendered,
was entitled to bring a great variety of matters into his defence. As there is much diverfity in the laws on this fubjel, forne allowing 2o per cent. others only IQ per cent
damages, and fome no fpecific damages at all, the place of
drawing the bills may be material. Nor can it be faid, that
the judgment by default, even if it had been regularly entered,
would admit all that is demanded in the declaration ; it admits
the caufe of ation as ftated, but does not admit the quantum
of the demand. The Defendant might, therefore, have fhewn
aa endorfenment after the bills werediflhonored, and a fubfequent
paymen, on the principle laid down in TermnReport, 82. for, an
endorfement in fuch cafe is not conclufive againft the drawer.
2. Mod.

It is not contended, that, under the principles of the Englifh
law, or the ula ge of New England, the form of a writ of enq]uiry is indifperifable, to afiertain damages upon every judg.,
plet by default; but wherever matters of fat can be feparated

" UPRtEME COURT Of the United Siatet.

1349

ted from matters of law, it will be agreed to be a general and
favorite pradice, to allot the affefsment of damages to a jury.
The ancient authorities are, it is true, exceedingly crude in
relation to the diftribution of jurifdiaion" between judges and
juries; but we have received the dodrine in its modern, perfe&, itate; and as fuch, are deeply interefted in adhering to it.
So forcible is the modern example of the Englifk courts, that
the judges have refifed even to value foreign money; 4 T.
Rep. 493 ; and a motion for referring a bill of exchange, drawn
for Iri/h fterling, to the mafter, in order to fee what was due,
for principal intereft and coils, has been recently rejedted in
JJ'ethninfierHall. 5 7.Rep. 87. It is here, indeed, to be

1797.
\.....-.J

remarked, that the bills of exchange, in the prefent inflance,
were drawn for Britif fterling money; which is, furely, as
much to be denominated foreign money in an American court,
as Irih flerling can be fo denominated in an Engiilb court.*
Befides, it is to be confidered, that in England damages are
compenfatory; while in Rhode Ifland, in moft of the other
1la.tes in the Union, and in many foreign countries, damages
are in the nature of a penal fum, given by ftatute ; and not a
folitary authority can be produced, where any court has referred a bill of exchange to the Prothonotary, to add by way of
damages, any fum beyond the precife computation of intereft.
The dodtine having, then, been thus fettled in England, the
queflion grifes, whether the ftatutes of Rhode Iand have made
any difference in the common law ? By the adt, regulating
the proceedings in the courts of that State (page 59.) it. is provided, " That in all cafes, both at the inferior and fuperior"
" courts, where judgment thall pafs by default, difcontinuance,
".nihil dicit, non fum informatus, or demurrer, where damages
are to be enquired into and affeffed, damages flall be enquir"ed into and affeffed by the court, or otherwife, by a writ of
'his provifion
enquiry, at the difcretion of the courts."
may be regarded in twopoints-of view; ift, Confidering it,
upon the ground of the oppofite conftrudion, whether it furnifhes a rule for the Federal Courts, from which they can derive any new authority; and 2d. Confidering it, upon the
ground of our -contrudfion, whether the aflieftinent of the
damages ought not to have been referred to a jury. iff.
On the firfi of thefe grounds of confideration, there is no key
to an explanation, but the ad of Congrefs ; which declares
" that
* PATERSON, 7uijice, The value of foreign money,

generally fpeak-

ing, is uncertain ; bat it may be rendered certain by adopting the coin
There was a refolution of'Congrefs
and fixing its value by law.
adopting the pound fterling and fixing its value in dollas : and the vahue of the principal foreign coins has been fixed by an act of Congrefs
(of-vh Auguft, 1790, f. 56. P. 23o.) fo faras relates to the payment of
duties.

350

CASEs ruled and

adjudged in the

1797. " that the laws of the feveral States, except where the Confiitu" tion, treaties or ftatutes of the United States fhall otherwife
require or provide, fhall be regarded as rules of decifion in
" trials at common law in the courts of the United States, in
"cafes where they apply." Now, though this is an adoption
of the laws of Rhode Iftand, where they apply, it cannot be
confidered as a recognition of all the modes of praaice, which
may have been introduced to determine the rights of a party,
compelling the Federal Courts, whatever may be the extravagance of thofe modes, to be in all refpe&s as erratic as the
courts of the States. For inifance; though where the State
law regulates the defcent of real property, the Circuit Court
muft decide conformably to the lex loci ; yet if the State Legiflature had inftituted the ordeal, or trial by battle, to afcertain
who was thQ right heir, the Judges of the Circuit Court would
not, furely, ere& themfelves into fuch a tribunal, and prefide at
fuch a mockery. If the Federal Courts fhould attempt to alter
the fundamental laws of defcent, the citizens of Mafachufetts,
or Rhode I land, would have reafon to complain, and the complaint would certainly be heard ; but if., difdaining to fan6Sify
the errors of clerks, and the blunders of yearlings (to whom too
often the bufinefs of keeping and'making up a record is confided) the Federal Courts f£hould difcountenance and rejeft the
errors and irregtqlarities of the pradice of the State Courts,
every fuitor would gratefully acknowledge the obligation.
There is, perhaps, occafion to lament, that errors in juriprudence have too long kept the citizens of the Eaflern States in
darknefs, ignorant of their. rights and duties ; and it is one of

the beneficial confequences, that may be fairly expe~ed from
the eflablifhment of the national government, that fuch amendmerits will every where be introduced into the praaice of the
law, as are confillent with fubflantial juftice, legiflative ats,
-and ancient ufages, approved by experience, or favored by local
peculiarities, Take the law and pra6tice of Rhode Ifland,,
however, to be fuch as they are dedcribed by the oppofite counfel, they cannot prevail over an exprefs law of Congrefs.. In
this cafe, there can be no deriial that the plea tendered an'iffue
in fa'a; anl all trials of iffues in fact muft, fays the judicial
act, be by jury. 2d. But it is not neceffary to infift further- on
this ground, fince a true confiruaion of the Rhode Ian4 law
itfelf, muft give the affeffinent of damages to a jury. The
law fays that, in certain cafes, " damagesf(hall be enquired into
and affeffed by the court, or otherwife, by a writ of enquiry, at,
the difretionof the courts." If,then, difcretion here means a
found legal difcretion, and not mere will, whim and caprice, it
muft be applied to a difcernment and correfponding allotmentf

of the cafes, ir; Which thp law a.uthories a court to fix the quan-%
tit!

SuPREME CotURT

of the United 8tates.

turn of debt, and in which it demands the interference of a jury r79 7.
for the affeffment of damages. The oppofite conifruttion leads
to the abfurdeft confequences. The Judge might, at pieafure
fubmit a promiffory note to a jury for the mere calculation of
intereft ; and undertake himfelf to affefs the damages in an action for a libel, when judgment has been Liven on demurrer
for the Plaintiff. In the latter inflance, he would be obliged to
try the truth of the allegation and the credibility of the witneffes, and to decide the extent of the injury which the libel has
produced; and if a judgment thus prepofteroufly rendered,
thould be brought hither, this court would be bound to affirm
it : But there is furely no cafe, confiftently with the fcope of
the judicial ad, where the Circuit Court can decide a point of
law, without affording an opportunity upon the record, for its
'being examined, affirmed, or reverfed on a writ of error. In
equity caufes, it is provided, that the fads on which the decree
of the Circuit Court is founded, fliall be made to appear upon
the record ; and in common law caufes the principle equally
applies, that a Judge ought not to be allowed to travel over
ground, where he can never be traced. Then, if the difcretion
mentioned in the Rhode I#and ad is a legal difcretion to afcertain the diffributive jurildidion between Judges and Juries,
and not an authority for the former to blend and ufurp the
powers of the latter ; and if the Judges in this cafe have decided what the Jury 6ught to have affeflkd ; it is an error in point
of law, which this court is competent to corred. Whatever
may be the pradice of the lawyers of Rhode Ifland, it is but a
conftru&ion of the law, and not the law itfelf; and if it is an
erroneous conifrudion, this court, fo far from being bound to
adopt, is bound to reje&, it. Nor is the error cured by any
ifatute of Jeoffaile. The cafe from 7 Vin. Adbr. p. 308. P1. 24only fhews that the want of a formal writ of error was cured,
where the damages appeared to have been, in fa&, affeffed by
ajury: but there is no reafon in the cafe itfelf, or in thecafes
there cited, that if damages had not been affeffed at all, or had
been affeffed by an improper tribunal, the error would not be
fatal.

For the Defendant in error. ift. Error affigned.-It will
be proper to prernife, on general principles, that great difficulties muft have arifen in organifing the Federal Courts, fo as to
prevent an injurious clafhing with the jurifdidqion and pradice
of the various State Courts. From thefe difficulties there
could be found no other mode of efcaping, than by adopting,
for the government of the Federal Courts, the fame law and
pradice that prevailed in the refpedive States, in which thofe
courts, from time to time, exercifed their fun&ions. The policy of the meafure was likewife fupported by its tendency to
make

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

352
1797.
7

make the new government fit eafy on the public mind, and to
facilitate the adminiftration of juftice throughout the Union'.
For, as the law and forms of the refpedive'State Courts had
been adopted in order to accomplifh fubifantial juilice, according to the peculiar and local circumfiances of each State ; and
as the people were content under the operation of thofe municipal rogulations ; it was natural to prefume, that by adopting
the fame rule for the Federal 'Courts, the fame falutary effeft
would be produced. But, on the other hand, it is obvious that
any projea for a gleneral-fyftem of jurifpiudence, co-extenfive
with the Union, could only, have engendered difcontents, and
mull have been abortive. To have attempted a theory of law and
praf-ice entirely novel, would have occafioned endlefs perplexity;
and to have fuperfeded the fettled pra6lice of fome States, in order to introduce the practice of others; to compel, for inflance,
the lawyers of Maffachufetts, to ftudy and enforce the pra6lice
of the lawyers of South Garolina, would have occafioned endlefs jealoufy and inconvenience. From thefe confiderations
the Congrefs wifely enaced, " That the laws of the feveral
States, except where the conftitution, treaties, or ftatutes, of
" the United States fhall otherwife require or provide, fhall be
regarded as rules.of decifion in trials at common law in the
courts of the United States, in cafes where they apply." This
adoption of the State laws, extends as well to the unwritten, as
to the written law ;-ro the law arifing from eftablifhed ufage
and judicial determinations, as well as to the law created by
pofitive a~s of the Legiflature. And the a6f for regulating
procefs, in language equally general adopts" in each State refpec" tively, fuch forms and modes as are ufed or allowed in the
Supreme Courtsof the famel'." 'The only queftion, therefore, to afcertain the legal correctnefs of the prefent record, iswhat are the laws and modes adopted by the State of Rhode
I/land, in relation to the controverted points ? It is immaterial, how far the anfwer hall be inconfiftent with certain dogma
of the Englifh comnmon law, or at.variance with the municipal regulations ot any other State ; it is enough to fhew that
fuch are the laws and modes of Rhode fland, and that they are
competent to all the purpofes of juftice.
With refped, then, to the affignment of error, becaufe
there was a difcontinuance of the fuit, a reference to the uniform pra~Lice of Rhode Ijiand, muff furnifh a decifive refutation. Both in the Court of Common pleas, and the Superior
Court of that State, the Court proceeds-to call the parties in
the a6tions depending on the Docket. Ifeither party negle6ts
to appear, in whatever ftate of the pleadings, his non-appearance
W See

the aeh of the 29 th of September 1789, and 8th of May, 1792.

SUPRAME COtiRT

Cf thd United States.

353

is ri'tedby'the clepk, ar~d judgment .is rendei'ed for the other 1797y.
party.- If,as 'inthe prefent inftance, a plea, has been pleaded ; ,
and, or) calling over the Docket, the Plaintiff appears, and the
Defendant does not, the judgment is entered for the Plaintiff
without regarding the plea. -If, on the other hand, the Defendant had appeared, and the Plaintiff had not~judgment would
have bein entered, in favor of the former, for cofts. But, if
both had appeared, whenever called by the Cofirt; thefimniliter
could be entered at any time, and it is ufual to enter it at the
time.of qualifying the Jury. Even,: however, where an ii'iue
has been regularly joined, .the Court never proceed to try it,
unlefs both parties appear; but enter judgment, as above fiated,
againft the delinquent.* - Thus, it is plain, that the .non-attendance of the Defendant, is confidered in the praffice of Rhodei/land zs an abandonment of his plea : Nor is the prai~fice with-out fanction from the books of Engljh law; which fhew how
a departure of a party in defpite of the Court, will be recorded, and how in almoft any ftage of a fuit, it may be a ground
,for rdndering udgment againft him. 7 Ain. Abr. pa-e 450. pl.
3.5. 1I. ibid. p. 473. pL io. Ibid.p. 474. pl. 19. Iid.p. 4 7 6.
pl. 7. lb. p.487.pl. 2. . Stra. 267. It is material, too, that
the judgment is exprefsly rendered upon the Defendants making
default. 5 Com. Dig. ii.
* 2d. Error affigned. The allowance of damages only appears
on the nota benie annexed to the record, which was an act of
fupererogation on the part of the clerk, and ought to be treated as mere furplufage. If, however, the Court were right in
afteffling the damages themfelves, the affeffment ftands in the
place of a writ of enquiry; and furely the principles on which
a Jury give their verdict, can never be the foundation for a
writ of error. 'Bills of Exchange add Protefts are coeval with
the 13th, century; and-from the time of introducing a Proteft
to the prefent day, its only ufe has been to enable the drawer
of the ptotefted bill to take his funds out of the hands of the
Drawee: but if no funds were in the hands of the drawee, then
the fate of the bill mufl have been anticipated, no injury can be
done to the drawer, and no notice will be neceffary. It is true,
that if the Drawee had failed with effects in his hands, between
the time of the bills becoming due, and the time of-proteft, the
Drawer would be difcharged from any refponfibility to the holder of the bills; but this fact, operating as a difcharge, muft
'be proved on the part of him, who wifhes to take advantage of
it; finceprimafacie, whatver may be the date of the proteft,
At the fuggeffinn of the Court, Mr. Barnet reduced this ftaterrient of
the prae7'ice of Rhode-JanJ to the furm of a certificate, and iled it in

te ,Clerk's Qffice.

VoL. IIz

the

354

. CAgEs rulied ar.dadjudged in,the

r797. the drai,,er is rerpnfibleforthe amount pof'thebils. " Ld. Ray~imbnd -'Mod.'15 .'Shbw. 317. Con. B.oFE. 9: r Terni Rp..4.o 5
Dohg,5 5.'6 54 . But, 'independent of this general 15rinciple,:the
bills wcre idly protefred, in time and: manner, according to the
law -of merchant ; and as the Rkodc4fland act does not de,
fignate any pa rtituIar .prbeefs.of'proteft, that law'mull' have
been, contenplated as furriiffhifig a rule to decide the queftion.
It is' manifefti theb, frbm. all' the authorities as well as from the
-order-to be duly protefted according
re'afon of the cafe;that iri
to" fhe law 6fnerchauts, it is. not neceffary to 1e.done..within
,the three days of grace, or any othzr fpecific term; .The ufan.
ces on Bills of Exchange differ, in different countriies ; and the
cafe in Showers'. Reports p* . proves that a bill 'may be duly
protefted'even 30 days After it has become due, if the drawer
.does not ffiew, that he.has fuftainrd. fbme daniage by thedelay.
3 4 Error af tgned, It may be thought by fome to be a
fubjed for rearer, that Rhode /7and has not difcovered. the fuperior meritsof the fyftems refting on the EigliJh common law,
or invented b.y the jiirifprudential fkill of her fifter flates; but,
,s it has fo happenedl it will not be difputed, that within her'jurifdi-ion Whatever is her law, and not what is.the. law qfpther'
•c6untries or ftates, muft furnifl the rule for decifion. O6 the
cafes in which there exifis a necefiity of employing writs ofenquiry, the diverfity of theory and pralice has been great, at different periods of juridical hiftory, and at different places, in.fluenced by the principles of the Bi-itijh laws. In fome of
the States, writs.'of enquiry are executed on every occafion,
'even to fix a mer comptitation of intereft, but in New Enkland, and cfpecially in Maffachbufetts and Rhode Ifland, a
writ of enquiry never iffues, but at the requeft of the parties, or by the diizretion of the court, in whofe prfence it is
-invariably executed. No language can be more forcible to
'exclude the oppofite conftruotion, than the language of the
Rhode Iflnd ael which declares, "1 that in all cafes where
Judgment fhall pafs by default, &c. where damages are to be
enqured, into and afcffeid, it fhall be done by the court, or
otherwife, at their difcietion." The pradice founded on this
law, and co-eval with it in commencement, furnifhes the beft
expofition. Thus, the judges affign a day, after every term,
to affefs damages in defaulted cafes; and, however prepofterous it may be deemed by thofe who pradice upon another
plan
C HA,
"1'Uflice.4
Yowifurely need ni6t labour that point. The Draw
er would notr
'ieank'wtrable for any thing-not for the principal and

of cdurfe, not for the da inages,-if the Payee had pot dqne his duty:.
but *,vhat diftharges the .Drawer, he is furely bound to fliew, 'and not hi
Sdverfary.
ueXIta. This is not the ground of our argument .- we contend that
!the Payee is not entitled to damages under a politive law, becaufe the

Vilts have not been d/v protqted within the meaning of the law, -

SU.PREME. COUkT' of thi United 'States.,

A,/55

.plan;.,
the!lefs
iruti,.that':they.
coiftantly-exdrcif&
the
_,p~eie itis,.not
of %ffeffment
in'trove[,
"ia as of
-fpe~' Cdnv&
rd .'1797.
even in a6lions of flander. SupoofeIthat.,.thejtftut hd",a ."
.in exEicit-t~rm, iecthc.
Cra
lla.fefs damaesa.d .otra~jsiry,
could a writ of inquiry be iffued ? And if the E eQiflature cosld
ive.h .jurifdi.ion to the court, thduniform c6hftni&ior*:that,
,they baveigiven it, except where a-writ ofienqury is' aw:rd-ed
Sby.theirown.:di.fcreti~nf :6r reqweftqed. y d pr tyfou ht not to
bearb itrarilyrejeded. Then, if the State Court had the powmr,
-theCircuit: Court-.,fittin in",Rbode IjTand; iilfto.p.tofldffed it;
.andiintheir
difcretioni were: bdu nd.ithertb ex.rciCc. iRtihei .-felves, or to refeir it tb.a jury.: ,Neith~r-partydifked for, ahwrit
iofenquiry,; .but, i in the' words bf the record, " tbe coaufe b6inig
ftibmittcd to -the.court,'." .the cou rt;
faw no m6it reafon to.iflhe
a writ of enquiry tG afcertairi thedamagesfpr.ifcally. ,en by
la, _hnt -6 ifcer~tin the. intcref at.the'1egal rate ; and 'after
the judgnihent by default, nothing could be fubmitted to the
-court, but, the damages:. This, therefore,, was, thenm,tter tW;id
,'and itsfufficiently, appears,.without the"aidof, the exerefceht
nota bene. Befides, on this polit, as iVella'o-n tlie"poin'i 'f
difcontinuance, the Englijh authorities countenance the Rhode.
Iftand law and prafliee. Thus, on a demurrer in law, the
juftices may award damages for the party by their di'fcretion,
'oraward a writ to enquire of damages at their eleffion. 7
Fin. Abr. p, 3Q1. pl4- Where judgment -isby default, the
court may give the damages, without putting the party to the
trouble of a writ of enquiry: lbidp. 308. pl. 2-2. The court
may not only affefs damages originally, but increafe the dama.
ges previoufly affefthd by a jury. Ib,p. 270. Pl. 7"9. It is
the courfe of thi. coprt to givq.iaxterqR fpr damages upon a firgle bill, or bills of exchan'e,
r &¢; ' aniid
there needs no writ of
enquiry. Ibid. p. 307. p1. I6. Nay, a writ of enquiry is
confidered, in fome c~fes merely founding indamages, as a mere
infirument to inform the 'onfcience o'f
the court, " who, if they
pleafe (fays Chief guf/ice AVILMOT) may themfelves aff's
the damages." 3 Wif. 61. *2 lilf 1244. S.P. The modern
cafes, likewife, hew the latitude to which the court extend
this part of their jurifdiction ; and it is the eftaliffhed praftice
to refer it to the Prothonotary, to afeertain damages and cofts,
and'calculate intereft on.a promiffory notd oibili of exca?.nge,
after judgment by default, H..BL 252. 541. 559".. 4 1. R qp.
B. of E.
.7:5:
Baity z B. of E. 66. 67. Appendix 5."Kid o,;
i55. Buti, after all, when judgment has been enteredby * PATERSON, Ti/ce. Is it the ufual way of making tIp a record, -where
neither party demands a writ of enqairyx, to fa' -the canfe is fubrnitte,
to the court ?

".8rres.Yes: It is the conflant practice.

CAS S ruled and-adjudged in the,

356

. 1797,

fault, the wafit of a writ~ofcriquiry is aided by the ffatutes'of
.7eoffaile. Fitz. 162. 3. 7. i'h.,p. 308: P1.24. 2 Ste. p. 8,78.
.S. C. 2. L. Rayrn 397,. S. P.
On the i3 th of Februry, I'9 7 WILSO J9u/ie, delivered
the.opinioliof the oiiri6
-. ' .
- -" i7 ,;,
'By tHE:COURT :4."W6 are, unanimoufly of opinion, that
under the lawsi and the pradical conftrution of the eourts,
of Rhode Ij2and, the judgfnent of the Circuit Court ouiht,.o
be affirmed.t
W.ith. refpe& to th entry of this affirmance' interel i's
'o
be calculated to the prefent tinie, 'upon the aggregate..fum'of
prificipal and intereft- in thejudgment below; but no furthee.
We cannot extend the calculation to 7une Term nextwwhen
the mandate will operate in the Circuit Court, as the pairty bs
a right to pay the money immediately.
The Judgment affirmed, with fingle cofts.
•t'CHAs Eiyiict, obfer-ed, that he concurred in theopiniOn of thecotirt;
butth-t it was on cbfnmon law principles, and not in cgmpltnpe'w~k
*b.~
..... 1.A
practicc of the ftate.,

M -E C.o U RT,

SPR

Febriary 13 th, 1797.

r is

Ordered, BY THr

'CouRrT, That the Clerk of the

oCouri to which any Writ of Error fhall be dire ed'rnay
make return of the fame, by trarn[mitiing a trud copy bf-the
Record, and of the Proceedings in the Caufe, under his hand,
'and the Seal of te Court.

Augwg

