CAs Ep ruled and adjudged in tbq

;Cq9
1799

on .Corporations,1 Vol. 449, 450, ^59, 2 6 3. Indeed, the court
could not infer an irmphied promfe trom'the fafts fRated; as the
affumption, whether cxqef?, or implied, mift'be found by the
ju'ryi and the proper retrtiedy, if the Plaintiffhad fuffered any
jnur', was an a6tion of trefpafs agaipfI the agreffors.
,THE COpU'r, 'on the day fucceeding the arument, delivered ani unanimo6us opinion, :that 'on'this fpecial verdi6 the
Plaintiff could not recover, in the prefent form' of affion, againft the Defendants, as a corporation: And, therefcioe, thd
deemed .it. unneceffary to decide the other queftions in thd
caufe.
cu
i
judgment for the Defendants.
E. TiLghnzan and Nopkins, for the Plaintiff.
M'Kean ,nd G.Smith, for the Defendants
Lewis, !ngerfl/l,

DALLAS,

Secretary, &c. vefus CHALONER5s Fxecutors,

-HIS was an aion of Debt, inflituted inthe name of the
.T. Secretaryo~r the Commonwealth, on an official bond;
wnch the teAator had given, with two fureties, for the faithfut
d;,fcharge of his duty as a puli 1u~ioeer, ar d for we and
duly performimig the terms aind 'payinent inpofed y laW. ,,
Dall. Edit. 777 4t'the time of Gbalone's 'death,= a'confide rable funi was due iothe 0ubl c, fdr duties on ¢4 'esat Audioni
nor had he accounted to nally of his creditors, for the procee4s'
of the goads, whidh they refpeaivdl, depfited ,vith hir.' The
zadion,'howe'ver, was inflituted" by the Attornedy-Geheral, fot
ihe State; and jud ment was entered fbr the pen;11ty, by confent 6f all parties, to fdtiSy'the amounrdf the dutie's, referving
the fubfequerit'clam of the creditors.'
But Lewis ahd Rawle,on behalf of aames rard,one of the
creditu'2, now contedcd, that the State was 'notentitled to
recover"

.SUPRAIVI

CQXJRT of PCnnfy

lvan
a

nia.

rccover more than the duties accruing during 4 term of thFee
months ; and that the jud'gment rendeiked upon an official bond
muft enure;to the ben'efit of thofe, who flall prove themfelves
injured and entitled. ^I By the firf: A& of Affembly, iMpo
fing a tax on iales t audi6iiit is exprcfsly declared, that iftan
udioneer does not once in every three ionthsaccount for, and
pay into the Treafury, the duties arifing from his fales, he fhall
be difcha'r'ged from his plaee, and his official bond fnall 'be pu't
immediately infuit. I ol. 'p. 85. Dall.Edit. And this regulation is recognized and confirrsed by every 'ubfequent law
on the'fbjea. ' 2 Vo. 55. 68o. Ibid. 777" At the expiratin of
three m;Onths, therefore, the tefator, fhiilng in his'publi pay:
he'lien of the
ments, ought to have been remo.ed arid fued
State on the bond then ceafed; and if Ihe:aftbrwrds fuffered,
it was byIher own la che's. ;On the other 'handI there'is n6
Lult impitable to' the cred itors the'law comn pelled 'them to
fell their goods by apublic auctioneer ; arid the teffator's continu4 ce inof ce, was primq facie evidence, that he had faithrully accounted to the Trealurer, ltis a plami prir ciple ir
quity, that whenever a man,who had originally' a legal remeiy,impairs it by his own negle6, oromiffion, he (hall be
p°poned to another more vigilail't claimant : And that the
f,egi/iature entertained 'thefame equitable fentiment, may be
blle'-ed from the relief, which they afforded to the fureties
bf an'aui6ioneer, under firilar cjrcumftanices. 3 Vol p. 131.
DeduCing, therefore, the amdunt of the duties, that wer6
payable during the three mon~ths, in whiqll the teftator became
firfl a defaulter, the refidue of the penalty and judgment belongs
to the creditors ; if they can prove themfelves, at all, entitled
to the iridemnily'of the o1cial bond, which is a queftion now
fub judice, in another a&ion, between them and the Executor
'of one'of Chaloner's fureties.
The Attorney-General obferved, that whatever might be
the ground of equity in favor of a furety, who complained that
the principal had not been compelled to account agreeably to
the ftricti ule of the law ; there, furely, could be no pretence
for fuch a plea, in favor of the principal himfelf. This is a
fuit to recover from the eftate of the delinquent ; and the only
doubt that o.ccurred was, in What form it ought to be inffituted,
by action Of debt on the bond, or by a general indebitatus
fuinp/t. Either courfe, however, is available ; and it does
not
" M'lEA
K

Chief _7rice.

It is an eflahlifhed principle, that the perfon

who firit fues, and obtains .Judgminent, on an offiCial Bond, is entitled to
iake the wh'ole of the penalty, if his demand amounts to fr much) isa
"Xclu on of every other'claimant.

SPo
1799.1

CASXI ruled and adjudged in the
1799.
I

not lie with a third party to fay, that, in the courfe which is
the State fhall not recover from her debtor.
M'KEAN, Chief Jffite. This is an aftion brought upon

Jpurfued,

the official bond of a public aufioneer, to recover the amount
of the duties payable t51t}Qe State. It is true, that thL law direas auclioneers to be difplaced, and" their bonds to be put in
fuit, if they -do not, once in three months, pay the duties into
the Treafury: but there is no provifion for annulling the bonds,
or forfeiting the remedy of the State upon them, in cafe that
direction f(hould not be complied with. As to the delinquent
himfelf, fuch a provifion would have been abfurd ; and as to
his fureties, it is enough to obferve, that their cafe is not at
prefent before the Court; nor is the objeffion made with a
view to their relief,
Let the Judgment be entered in favor of the Commonwealth
for the amount of the duties, with intereft from the time when
the money ought to have been paid into the Treafury.

Yune

