SUPrEME COURT of the

Undertaking;

411

United Satd;

The charge then, of the Judge, that 11they

f7994,

rhight be expLained by parol teftimon ," expeefled as a general

"..

rule, and without any qualificatiosi or reflri6lions, was too
broad ; and rmay have mifled the jury. On this ground there'
muff be a reverfal.
3. It is, therefore, Unifneceffary t6 decide the remaining queftion-hethee the two letters didi of themfelves, import an
undertaking or guarrantee ? It may be proper to' figgeftj
however, that a majority of theCdutt, at prcfent, incline to
the opinion that they do not.0
Judgment reverfed, and a' efhire de iov- awarded4

SimS Lefe verfus

IRVINE.;

tRRoR f'ronm th'e Circiit Couirt for the PFennfy1Irania ifr6i.
Ar ejedment being inftituted in the infericr Court, by the Leffee of Sims vs.' Irvine, the Jury found a !"ecial verdi&, upon
Which judgment was rendered for the Plaintiff, by confrent, and
this writ of error was brought to fettle the title. The parts
6f the fpecial verdi& material to the points in controverfy were,
in fubffance, as follows.'
PLAiNTiFF's TITLE.

' The jury find that the prefihifes in difpute was called Montour's Ifland, fituated in the river Ohio, on the fout'h-eaft fide,
within the original limits of the Virginia charter, granted in

.i6o9, and within the limits of the territorial diftri& in difpute
between Virginia and' PennfylVaniai for feVtera years prior to
the !i3d. of Sept. i786, when thofe flatesentered , info the following cdnpaa relative to their boundaries i as it is infertedin
the Journals of the general Afflembly of Pennfylvania ; and af-,
terwards ratified by a law paffed the Iff. of April, 1784. . vol.
P. 207, Dallas's Edit.

"Refolved, That althhdugh the conditions annexed by the
Jegiflature of Airginid, to the ratification of the boundary line
agreed to by the cotnmiffioners of Pennfy1va'nia and Virginiai
on the thirty-firff day of Aiguft, 1779, may tend to countenance fome unwarrantable claims, which rniay be made Under

the flate of Jirginia, in confequence of pretehded piitchafesi ore
fettleiefits pending the t6ntroierfy, yet this flatei detetmn'ing t6 giYe to th World the moft uineciivocal proof oftheirde-'
fire to promote peae and har'nony with a fiffei flats; fo neceffary during this, gteat conteff agairnif. the commnon,.enemy, dOagree to the conditions propofcd by the hate of. Jirginia, in
their refolves of the .23 d of June lafl to witi .
That

Iii-

"I have underfiood ti iat the
'*ere for rhe affirmative; aind
IoN,

Cai r- J bST CF, and C':r a IN
IRErELL,

7uhlres, were for the negativ,

tvwei

PA'rzersbr6,
e

and

/e

WASHJN

ihird queftien

,J.

t

tx~fs ruled aid adijudged ini "t
That the Agreement made on tIhe ihirtY-riirhf d 6f'xi-"
T'
gi"A, .1779, betweer james Madifon and Robert ,fndrews, Cor-i.
miifloncrs for the commononwealth of iqrginia,.apd'George iryin),Yo'bn Ewih'g; anrd David Rittenhoufe,bCornmiffiners fQr
the cominonwealth of Pennfylvania, be ratified and finaly cQn-'
firmed; to wi't, Tha't the line commonly called Mqavobns and,
b;x07 4 line; be ixtended due weft five degrees of longit.ude.
.tb be computed 'from fhe r.iver Delaware, for the f6uthern
boun'd'ary of Penh" lva'nit; and that a meridian line drawn from
the Weftern extremity thereof to the northern limnits f the faid'
flates refpelively, be ihe ~ftern boundary of Pennfylvahia
for ever. On condition, -that the-private property and rights
of all perfons acquired under, founded on,or recognized by the
laws of either country, previous-to the datehereof, be aved and
confirmed to them, although they. fhould be found to fall within the other, an Ithat in the decifion of difputes thereon, prefeience ( all be given to the elder 6r ,prior ri.ghit, which ever of
the faid "tates the'fame fhall !hale been acqui'ed uhiler, fuch perfhs paying, to the hcate within whofe boundary their-laridsi"hatl
be included, the fame purchife or confideration money, which
would have-been dtiefrom them to the hfteunder w.hich they
claimed the right ; and where any fuchpurchWfe or confideration
moncy. hath, fince the .declaration of 2lmerican independencej
been recdived by either hrate for lands, *hich,.accotding tothe be?
'fare recited ati' rtiient,fhall fall withinthe'territory of ihe other,
ihe faibe flhall'be reciprocally refunded and repaid ; and that-the
inhabitants 6f the difptted territory, now eddd to the hlate 61f
'Penhyvania, fhall not, before the firif day of December in the
pr'fcnt year, be fubje- to the payment of any-tax, nor at any
'tit.,e to the pyment of arrears of taxes or imnpofitionshereto.fore laid by either hate."
" And -we dohlreby accept and filly ratifythe faid.reciteld
e:ndition, and the boundary line formed thereupon."'
" Refolved, That the prefident and council of this-flatelbe,
and they are hereby"empowered to appoint two commifoners on
'the part of this fl-ate, in conjunction with commiffioners to be
app ,inted by the itate of Virginia,to extend the line commorlly called Mlafon's and Dixon's line, five degrees of longitude
from Delaware river, and from the weftern terminati6n of the
'line fo extended,.-to run and mark, as foon as may be,a meridian line to the Oh1o river, the rem;inder of that line tobe run as
f) as the prefident and council, taking into their cdnfidera'tion the difpofition of the Indians, 'fhaalthink it prudent,. And
•the piefident -and eotmcil are hereby authorized to give to the
'faid commiffiondrs fuch ifitruitions in the premifes' as they
fhall think fit."
S"The

4UPIME'

COURT of the* United 9tates'.

.,R

The Jury find that Fillam-Douglas.was a field officer in
the fervice of the king of Great-Britain, in a regiment raifed
in the colony of New-Jerfey, who continued in fervice during
.the war between France and Great-Britain, which termirated
in 1,763-; and .that. the. (aid king gave to him, his heirs and affigus by proclamation, a right to 5000 acres of wafte and unappropriated lands in America ; the part of the .proclamation re'atingto the gift being expreffed in thefe words ;
St' And whereas we are defirous upon all occafions; t'o teltify

.c. our royal fenfe and approbation of the conidu& and bSravery,
. of the officers and foldiers of our armies, and to reward the
" fame, we do hereby command and cmppwer our governors
"of
our faid three new colonies, and other our governors of,
our fieveral provinces on the continent of YNortb-America, to,
".'grant, without fee, or reward to fuch reduced officers as.
'.
having ferved in Aorth-America, during the late war, ajid'
" are aaually refiding, thcre, and £hall. perfinally apply for the
" fame, the following quantities of land, fubje&t, at the expi" ration of ten years, to the fame quit-rents as other lands are
" fubje& to in the province within which they are grant ed, as
, alfo fubje& to the fame conditions of cultivation and improveCC

ment : viz.

" To every perfon having the rank of a field oficer, 5coOacres.
"To every captain, 3000 acres.
" To every fubaltern or ftaff officer, aooo ecres..
"
"
"
"
"

"

To every non-cominiffion officer, 2Co acres,
To every private, 5o acres.

" We do, likewife, authorize and require the governors andcommanders in chief of all our faid colonies.upon the continent of .North-.merica,to Prant the like quantities of land,,
and upon the fame conditions, to fuch reduced officers of our
navy of like rank, as ferved on board our fliips of var in
North-America, at the times of the redu4lion of 41.oui urg,
N

•." and Quebec in the late war, who fhall .perfonally apply to
'- our reipeaEve governors, for fuch grants."
" The J ry find that the faid WV. Do4uglas, for a valuable con-,
fideration affigned on the i 7 th. of January 1779, to ceprles Sims,
and hi s heirs, all his right and title to the fiid bounty of 5oc0,
acres of.land; that C. Sims was born in Virginia,before the year
476o ; that he was an inhabitant thereof fince his birth that
he is the leffor Of the Plaintiff and a citizen of Virginia; that
JYilliam Irvine, the Defendant- below, is a citizen and inhabitant of Pen fylva;nia; and that the, lands mentioned in the deglaration exceed the value of 2ooo dollars."
(k Thv,

The proclamation alfo contains a provifion, prohibiting any gran t vtt

purchafe of lands occuicd by the Indians. Ste, the . nnual Rcegitre

'a

a,799.

IPCASE'S ruled

,s

1799-

and adjudged in the

The "Jury find, in ]awc verba, "alaw of Firknia enacqed in.
May 1779, entit edA An Ait, for adjuffing and fettling the titles
,' of claimers to uippatpnted lands, under the prefent, kind former
." gqvernment, pre'iious to the eftablifhment of the Common" wealth's Land-Office;" the material parts of which law are
expreffed in the following termsg
$' .An A1d for adjufling andfettling the titles of claimers, to unpatented lands under the prefent and former Government,previous to the .f/ablijbmentoftke omannwcqlth' Land.Offce.
" I. WHE3EAS the various and vague claims to unpaf' tented lands under the former and prefent Government,
previous to the eftablifhment of the Commonwealth's Land5' Office, may produce tedious and infinite litigation and dif" putes, and in the mean time purchafers would be difcourag5' ed from taking up lands upon the terms lately-prefcribed by
0' law, whereby the fund to be raifed in aid of the taxes fdr
,' difcharging the public debt, would be in a great meafure
' fruitrated; and it is juft and neceffary, as Well for the pea~e
" of individuals as for the public weal, that rome certain rules
' flould be eftablifhed for fettling and determining the rights
f' to fuch lands, and fixing the principle5 upon' which legal
-.' nd juft claimers fliall be entitled to fue out grants; to the
F'end that fubfequent purchafers and adventurers may be en5' abled 'to proceed with greater certainty and fafety: Be it en,
5' ae7ed by the General AJffembly, that all furveys of wafte and
' unappropriated land made upon any of the weftern waters ben

of 7anuary, in the year 1778, and upon
waters at any time before the end of this
Affetnbly, by any county furveyor 'corn"Iniffioned by the mafters of [illiam and- Mary college, a61" ing in conformity to the laws and rules of government then
in force, and founded either upon charter, importation rights
" duly proved and certified according to the ancient ullge, as
" far as relates to indented fervants, and other perfons not be-

5'fore the firil day
' any of the eaftern
5' prefent feflion of

5' ing convias, upon treafury rights for money, paid the Re-

ceiver General duly authenticated upon entries on the wefOtrober,

5' tern waters, regulaily made before the 26th day of

in the year i703, or on the eaftern waters at any tirmce before
5' the end of this prefent feffion of the Affembly, with the fur-

,' veyor of the county for tracqs of land not exceeding four hun'Ydred acres, according to ad of Affambly upon any order of
f' Council, or entry in the Council books, and made during
5 the time in which it flall appear either from the original or
5' any fubfequent order, entry, or proceedings in the Council
f5tbo.ks, thhtt fuch order or entry remained iii force, the terms
4'of

SURSEME COURT

of the United Srates.

424

of which have been dornplied with, or the time for'peiform1799.
ing the fame unexpired) or upon any warrant from the Go-'
vernor for the time being for military fervicc, in virtue of
'ny proclamation either from the king of Great Britain or
- any former Governor of Virginia, ihall be, and are hereby
"declared good and valid; but that all furveys of wafte and
" unpatented lands made by any other perfon, or upon any
" other pretence whatfoever, fhall be, and are hereby declaredA-'null and void, provided that all officers or foldiers, th(ir heirs
1 or aflgris, claiming under the late Governor Dinzv;ddie~s
proclamation of a bounty in lands to the firfl: Virginia regiment, and having returned to the Secretary's-Office, fur" veys made by virtue of a fpecial commiflion fiom the Prefi.,
" dent and Mafters of William and Mary college, ihall be en" titled to grants thereupon on payment of the common office'
fees; that all officers and foldiers, their heirs and affigns un" der proclamation warrants for military fervice, having locat" ed lands by a&ual fiirveys made under any fuch fpecial com" miflion, ffiall have the benefit of their faid locations, by tak" ing out warrants upon fuch rights, re-furveying fuch lands
adcording to la4, and thereafter proceeding according to the
" rules and regulations of the Land-Office.
All and every
" perfon or perfons, his, her, or their heirs or affigns, claiming
" lands upon any of the before recited rights,
and under fur" veys made as herein before mentioned, againfi:which no ca"veat f(all have been legally entered, (hall upon the plats and
" certificates of fich furveys being returned into the Land-Office, together with the iights, entry, order, warrant or au" thentic copy thereof upon
which they were refoedlively
founded, be entitled toa grant or grants for the famc in mai-.
ner and form herein after dire&ed.
II. PROVIDED, that fuch fiurveys and rights be return" ed to the faid office within twelve months next after the end
" of this prefent feffion of Affembly, otherwife they [iall be
" and are hereby declared forfeited and void.
All peifons,
" their heirs or afligns, claiming lands under the charter and
" ancient cuftom of Jirginia, upon importation rights as
" before limited, duly proved, and certified in any court of re" cord befbre
the pafling of this act; thofe claiming under
treafury, rights for money paid the.Receiver General duly
authenticated, or under proclamation warrants for military
"fervice, and not having located and fixed fuch lands by a6lual
furveys as herein before mentio'ed, fhall be admitted to
warrants, entries, and grants for the fame, in manner direaed
"by the aal of Affembly entitled An aJ- for fablij/hing a
"Land-Office) and afcertaiking tha terms and manner of grant"CingP
"

"
"

CASis

9.

ruled and ndjudged. in the-

" ;ng wae and unappropriatedlands, upon producing to. the,
" Regifter of the Land-Office the proper certificates,, proofs;.
or warrrants, as the cafe'm'ay be, for their refpeqive rights
" within, the like fpace of twelve months after the. end of this
" prefent feffion of Affimbly, and not afterwards.
All certi-.
fi~atesofimport~tion rights proved before any court of record
" according to the ancient cuflorn, and before the end of this
prefent feffion of Afferfibl);, are hereby declared good and
"9 valid: And all other claims for importation rights not fo
11proved'. fhall be nutl and void; and where any perfon before
" the end of this. prefent feffion of Affembly, hath made a.re." gulzr entry according to at of Affembly, with the coun.
" ty furveyor for any tra& of land not egceedinz four hundred
'" acres, upon, any of the eaffern waters, ,which bath not been
furveyed or fo rfeited,, according to the laws and rules of go" vernment in force at the time of making fuch entry, the fhr", veyor of the county where fuch, land lies, f1hall after adver" tiing lezaI notice thereof, proceed to, furvey the fame a
P",cordingly, and hall. deliver to the proprietor a plat and cer' tificate of furivey' thereof within, three morhs;, and if f!joh
" perfon fball fail to attend at the time and- place fo appointed
' for making fuch furvey, with chain. carriers -ind a perfon to.
'c mark the lines,' or lhatl fa.il to deliver fuch plat and, certific, cate into the Land, Office, according to the ris and regu.
cc latiois of the fame, together with th'e Auditor's certificate
of the Treafurer's receipt for the compofition' money herein.
C after mentioned, and pay the office fees, he or fle fhall for" feir his or her right and title ;, but' upon performance of thefe
requiRtions, flf 1lbe entited to a granit for, fuch trad of; land.
" as in other cafe..
".III. ,2VD be it enaa7ed, that all orders of Coinci1 or en-.
tries for' and ini the Council books, except fo far as f4ch orC ders or entries refpe-.ively have been. carried into execution
C by aaual (urveys in manner herein kefore mentioned, fha|t
be, and they are hereby, declared void and o5i no, 'ed;; and
41except alfo a certain order of Council, for a tra' .of fun-ken
I grounds, commonly called the Dfnal w'amnp,jizq the fouthSeaftern part of this commonwealth; contiguous to.tbe. or thCarolinaline,. which faid order of. Council yithlthe pnoceedc, ings thereon and the claim derived from it, hall hereafter be
cc laid before the Genera'.l Affembly for their fuyther order
(C therein.
No. claim to land within this, commonwealth for
S, military fervice founded upon the king of GIreat.Brit~ains,
CC proclamation,
(hall hereafter be allowed, except a warrant
C for the fame fhall' have been obtaiined'
from 'thbe Governor of
J Virginia, durin, the.frrner goyernment a befmo mentions

TgUtlfthE '060T dr the tVnited

~aes.

.4
ed,;or where fuch fervice was ,performed by .an inhabitant
"of ('irginia, or in rome regiment Pr corps aaually raifed in

he~fame; in eiiher of which Lafes thle claimant makina ddiC
"proof in any court of record, and 'producing a certa'icate
"

. thereof to the Regifter if the Land Office within the faid
time of twelve months, fhall be admitted to a warrant, entry
' and grant£or the fame, in-the manner herein before menti"oned; but nothing herein contained flall be coi,ftrued or CX-*
" tend to give any perfon a title to land for 'ferviceperformed
*, in any company.or detachment of militia,"
The juryfind in herc verba, another -law of Jirginiaenacted-alfo in Vay, 1T77, entitled "An Ad for eftblifhing a Lani
"Office and "afcertaining the terms and manner of granting
ik wafte and unappropriated lands.;" the material parts of which
law are expreffed in the following terms:
CC Se7. 3. And be it enaled. that upon application of any per-.
,tfon, their heirs or affigns, having title.towa{fteor unappropriat"ed lands, eitler -by military rights, -or treatury rights, and
"lodging -in the Land Office a certificate thereof, the Regi.
44fter.of the faid ocffiehall grant to fuch perfon, or perfons, a
4 printed -warrant under his hand and the feal.of his office, fpeci..
'

t(fying the quantity of land and the right upon which it is due,
4authorifing any furveyor duly qualified according to law, to
-"clay off and-furyey the fame, and (hall regularly enter and :re
tc cord'in the books of his office, all fuch certificates.and the
4 warrants iffued thereupon, .which warrants fliall be always
U good and valid until executed -by acualfurvcy, or-exchangi ed in ihe manner hereinafter dire&ed,&c."
Ibid. Ainy perfon holding a land warrant upon- any.of.the
.before mentioned rights, may have the fame.executed in one
- or more furveys, and in fuch cafe, or where the lands on
" which any warrant-is located 'gall be unfufficient tofatisf'
. fiich Warrant,, the.party may -have the warrant exchanged by
" the 'kegifter 6f the'Land Office for others of the fame aSmouit in the whole, but divided-as beft may anfwer the pur.pofes of the partv, or intitle'him.to fo much lard.elfewhere
Al as .will make good the deficien.cy, &c."
Ibid. Every peribn having a land .warrant, founded on
S"
Sny

of the before mentioned rights, and being defirous of

". locating the fame, on any particular wa(fe and unappropriated lands, (all lodge fuch warrant with the chief furveyor Qf
the'Cointy, wherein the'faid lands or thegreater part of them
lie, who &all give a receipt for the fame, if required. The
'
party (hall di re"t the location thereof-fo fpecially.and .precifea
"t.ly as that otheas may e enabled withGeratZiily to locate

CASES ruled and adjudged in tie'

*"32
499.

other warrants on the adjacent refiduum ; which locai6d
flail bear date the day on which it (hall be made, and fhaff
c be entered, by the Surveyor, in a book, to be kept for that.
it 1urpofe, in which there (hall be left no blank leaves or fpaces
it between the different entries, &c.;'
Ibid. No entry or location of land (hall be admitted'
, within the county and limits of the Cherokee Indians, or on
" the North-Weft fide of the Ohio river, or in the lands re:c ferved by ad of Affembly for any particular nation or tribe
c of Indiansi or on the lands granted by law, to Richard Henc, derfon & Co. or in that trad of country referved by refolucc tion of the General Affembly, for the benefit of the troops
c, ferviny in the prefent war, and bounded by, &c; until the fur" ther order of the General Affemblk, &c."
" Iid. All perfons, as well foreigners as others, f(hall
c have right to affigfb or transfer warrants or certificates of furc' vey for lands ; and ari, foreigner'purchafing warrants for lands
,. may locate and have the fame furveyedi 'and after rqturncc ing a certificate of furvey to the Land Office, Iall be allowC ed the term of i8 months, eithei to become a citizen, or to'
cc transfer his right in fich certificate of furvey to fome citizen
cc of this, or any other of the United States of America."
I The Jury find in hac verba another law of Virginia,'enadted
in Otober f!79, entitled " An at for explaining and amend-;
(I ing an adt entitled an ad for adjifting and fettling the titles of
Ctclaimers to Unpatented lands under the prefent and former goa ver'nment, previous to the efablithment of the CommonThe law is expreffed in the follow(4 wealth's Land-Office."
" ing terms:
gI. BE it ena led By t/e General Xlembly, That whereas.
doubts have arifen concerning the manner of proving rights
for military ferVice, under the pffdcfimation of the King of
Great Britdin, in the year one thoufand feven hundred and fixty-three, whereby great frauds may be committed : Be it declared and enaCled, that no perfon, his heirs or affigns,.other
than thofe who had obtained warrants under the forme government, fhall hereafter be admitted to any warrant for fuch mili-'
tary fervice, unlefs he, fhej or they, produce to the Regifter of
the Land Office, wiflin eight months after the paffingof this ady
. proper certificate of proof made- before frme court of record
within the commonwealth, by the oath of the party claiming 1
or other fatisfadSory evidence that fuch party Was Uona fide an
inhabitant of this commonrwealth, at the time of palling the
"faid recited a&, or thiet the perfon havin'g performed fuch mili-,
tary fervice, was an officer or foldier in rome regiment or corps
(other than militia) adtually railfed in Virginia befrre the date
of the faid proclamation, a.,d had continued to ferve until the"

fame

§UtPRtME C'UtR'T of

3

the Unlted Stte

fa'ike was difban&d, had been difcharged on account of w6unds
or bodily infirmity, or had died in the fervice, diftigUifhing
iarticiilarly in what regiment or corps fuch fervice,. had been
performed, difcharge granted, or death happened; and that the
Party had never before obtained a warrant or certificate for
fuch military fer'ice ; Provided,. that nothing in this a&fhall
be conrfrued in any manner to aff'e&; change, or alter -he title
of.any perfon under a Wariant.heretofore iffued..,
" II. And whereas the time limitted in ihe before ieeited a6t
to the commiffioners for adjuftirig arid fettling ihe claims to
unpatented lands within-their -refpedive diftrids, may be too
hort for. that purpofe Be it further en6ted; that all the poweis givea to the faid e6mmiffioners by the faid recited a&,(hall
be continued arid remain in force; for and during thefurther
term of two months, from and iafter'the epiration of the time
preferibed by,the faid ad; and rio longer." And where it (ball
appear to the faid omrmiffioners that any perfoi; being an inhabitant of their. iefpe&ive dift,-ids, and entitled iothe. pre.nmption of iertaiii lands, in confiderationi of 4n adual fettlemeit, is unable to aidance the fum required f6r the payrmeni
a the ftite prce, previous to die iffug of a warrant for furVeying fuch land, the fAid cdmrniflioners. thall certify ihe fame to
the Regifter of the Larid.Office; who fball thereupon iflue fucN
pre-emptionk wirrant to the party entitled thereto; upon twelve
months dredit for the purchafe money, at. the ftate price; from
the date of the warrint., The faid Regifler fhall keep an exa&
account of all fich warrants iflted upon credit; and .hall not
until
tadether~ipon
C'eriificates are
iffue grants upon f'ruen
produced to him from, the Auditors ot public accounts of the
payment of the purchafe miney refpe&iVely due there6n into.
the treaflury and if the fame (ball not b.e paid within the faia
ierrm, the warrant; furvey, r.nd title forind d thetconhi ialI be Void
and thereafter hny tther petfoin ma' obtain a warrantl entry;
arid grant, for fuch land; in the fame manner as forian)' other
Wafte and inippropriated land i Provided, that tiothing h ere.:'
Mn contained fhall be cdtftrued to extend, t6 any perfon claimig right to the pre-emption of any land for hawnz buit an.
houfe or hut; or made any improvements tiefreon; other that{
an a-tual fettlement ag deferibed in the flid recited ad. Nd
ctrtificate of tight t6land' for adtual fettlererit dr of pf-e-emp-"
tion ight fhall hereafter be granted by the faid commiffiondrs;
inleifs
the perfon entitled theret6 hai taken the oath of fidelity td
faid c6mor
this commonwealih, oe (hall take fuch oath before tide
miffi6nrsi which ihey are hereby empoweitd anid dire6ted t6
the larticular cate of
eicept only it;
kender and adminifter
the inhabitants of the territory in difpdte between this common,ealth and that of Pepnfylvania, who fhall be entitled to
,ti
cates
1 k
K

I?99:

6,
1799"
,s,

CASrg

rul.

and adjudged in the,

tificate§ upon, taking the oath of. fidelity to, the Utnited.,Stqtep,
of Amerita.
•".1. And be it further enad/ed, that. all perfons, their heir'm
or affigns, claiming lands by. virtue of any order of Council, upoen any of the eaftern waters, under aaual furvoys made by the
furveyor of the county in which the land lay, may upon the
plats and certificates of fuch furveyors bei.ng returned into the
Land Office, together with, the Auditor's certificate of the
Treifurer's receipt for the compofition money of thirteen
hillings and.four pence per hundred acres due thereon, obtain
grants for the fame according to the rules, and regulations of
the faid office ; notwithftanding fuch fu-rveys or claims have
not been laid before the Court of Appeals. And all other
claims for lands upon furveys made by a county fur.veyor,: duly
qualified, under any order of Council, fhall by the refpe&ive.
claimers' be laid before the Cort of Appeals, at their next
fitting, which fhall proceed thereupon in the manner direded
by the before recited'adl. Any perfon claiming right to land
furveyed for another before the eftabliffiment of the commonwealth's Land Office, may enter a caveat and proceed thereupon in the fame manner as is dire6ted by the af of Affembly
for eftabliflhing the faid office, and upon recovering judgment,
fhall, be entitled to a grant upon the fame terms, and under the
fame conditions, rules, and regulations, as are prefcribpd by the,
ftiid ad in the cafe of judgments upon other cayeats, upon pro-.
dtzcing to the Regifter a certificate from the Auditors of, the
Treafurer's receipt for the compofition money of .thirteen
iillings and four pence per hundred, acres due thereon."
" The Jury find that the Court of the County of, Prince
id/illam, in Virginia, iffued a Ccrtificate in.favor of the faid
Charles Sims, in the words followina :
"
PRINCE WILLIAM, CQtRT the 4 tb day of Apfril, i78o."
, Charles Sims, gent. produced to the Court'a commiffion
from Francis Bernard Efy. formerly Governor of the Pro*inc.e, of New.Jerey, with the feal of that province affixed,
aryd dated the 15th day of March 1759, appointing ,William
Dauglas Major of a regiment of Foot, to be raifed in the
Province of New- ery, whereof the honourable Peter-Schiyler was Colonel.- .f-e alfo produced the affidavit of the Reverend David Grijfith, taken before Williani Ramfay, Ejf. a
Jufticz of the peace for the 'County of Fairfax, the firft day
of this inftant, that 9Tiliam Douglafs, commonly called
Major Douglafi, who formerly refided on Staten 'jland, did
adually ferve as an Officer, in the corps of Provincials raifed
by the Province of New-,4rfey, in the late war between
Great Britain ,andFrance; anO a certain George Beardmor, in
open,

SUPREME COURT

of the United -Stalees.

. + 5

;799-'
open Court, upon his oath faith, that he ferved as a foldier a
campaign with the.faid Douglafs, in the'late war of Great
Britain with France, and hath reafon to blelieve the faid Douglafi ferved the time for which th (aid Regiment was raifed.
The faid Charles -Sims likewife produced to the Court an
affignment, indorfed on the back of (aid Commifiion,-dAtbd the
16th dayof j7anuary r779, figned lk/illiam Doug'lafs, in thefo
words. " In confideration of the furn of Z.ioo) current money as well as for other good caufes of confideration ; I Y/.
liam Douglafs, of the ftate of New-jerfey, do make over; affign, transfer, and convey unto 6harles Sims, of the flate of
Virginia, all my right, title and intereft, to the lands which.I am
entitled to, by virtue of the within comrhiffion under the King
of Great Britain,and his proclamation iffued in the year 1763.
Given under my hand and feal, this 16th day of January 1779."
The (aid Charles Sims made oath that he believed the faid
lf/illiam Douglafs, who made the before aflignment, is the
fame perfon whom the Reverend David Griffth mentionis in
his affidavit, and that the (aid affignment was made to hi'm for
a valuable confideration, and that he has never before made any
claim nor received any lands in confequence of the before
mentioned affignment; and the fame is ordered to be certified "
,4nd the Cou'rt doth further certify ihat the (aid Charles Sims,
is, and hath always been from the time of his birth, an inhabitant of this itate.
Tfte,
ROBERT GRAI4AM, Ck. Court.

"The within is a copy taken horn one of the vouchers;upoa
which a military warrant, No. 915, iffued to 4 harles Sims,
the 7th day of 4pril, 1786.

July 2f1,179,6,,

WM.

PRICE, Re. L. Of.

4LThe jury find that the Regiffer of the FirginiaLand Ofice, on the 8th of May, I78O, iflued to the (aid Charles Sims,
affignee of the (aid William Douglafs, one military warrant, in
the u'ual form ;.that the faid 'harles Sims delivered the warrant on the 3oth of Z'aY, 1780, to the Surveyor.of Yohagany
county (within which Montour's ifland lay) in Virginia, and
directed it to be cntered and located on feveral: pareels of land,
Of which Montour's ifland aforefaid was one that the faid,
Surveyor did on the fame day and year l.a~f mentioned, enter
and write in his book, kept by him as Surveyor, the faid warrant on the (aid parcels of land, and indorded the'faid entry and
location, on the faid original warrant; and that the (aid two
fevera,] papers (or minutes) refer to and mean one and the fame
warrant, though the warrant is dated on the 8th of May, 1780,
and the record in the Regifier of the Land Office is under date'
f 7thof
1pil,
1780.
.
The,

CAsrs' ruled and adjudged in the
" The Jury find that thegovernor of T7rginiatranfmitted iij
.s the yea" 1784, a juf 'a'nd true lift of the enitries of land made
bnderthe
heirginia
u'h'or'ity of
in the difputed territory, to the
Exedptive of ?ennfylvania, which lift, among others, contained
the f6lloving item in relation to the military warra'nt of -the
raid Q. Sins:

30 May 17r8.. Charles Sims, Military, 5ooo.. Racoon.!
,' 30 4 .y 1780. C harles Sims, Militarywarrant 3oo. Racoon"
" The Juiy find that the laid lift of entries, included the faid
entry and location of the leffor of the Plaintiff's, and was tranfnitted to the Land Office of Pen!fylvafnia, in the faid year
1784;'and'that upon the faid entry of the leffor of the Plaintiff

witlh
t,

eet 'to ;0ocq acres' ot Racoon creek, a furvey was

made, and a patcnit, dated 6th January, 1795, had been iffued
under the uthot iiy of Pennfy vania.
" ['he Juiy filnd, in hVc -erba, another law of.'irginia,enmaedofi th. 20,h. of June, '178q, at a feflion which commenced dn'ffhe ift.,of May preceding, entitled, cc An a& for giv' ins further time to obtain warrants upon certificates for preenpion
I
rights, and returiing 'certain furveys to the:Land
Office, and for other purpofes ;'; the material parts of which

law, aie expef.ed in the followin)g terms:
" W\hereas the time fixed b), an ad entitled A. aeifor adjufling and fettling' the titles of claimers t o unpatented lands
under the prefint and former governments, previous to .t14
, eflablifhment of the' Comnonwealth's Land Office, for furvey-

5' ing and returning furveys to th6 Land Office upon entries
Smade

with thel furveyor of" a county;, before the twent '-fixth

Ccday of June,'one thoufand feveti hundred and feventy-nine;
a for lands lying upon the eaftern W.aters, and fp.r returning

the plats of legal furveys made upon the weftern waters under the former government, and exchanging military w.rrafnts
g'ranted under the royal proclamation of one thoufand feven
hhundred and fixty-three, and not yet executed, will fliortl.
' expire, 'and many perfons be thereby dpriVed of the benefit
" of ftich warrants and fu rve)ys ;'Be it therefore enafted, that
i, all perfons having fuch warrants, fhall be allowed until thd
(
fifl day of Jidy one thoufand fevin hundred and eighty one,
to exchangefuci warrants ; and that thelike time fhall-be al-'
" loweA for returning ftch furveys to the Land Office, to fuch
, who were efititled to land 'for' military fervice, for Which cer& tifi'cates'have not yet been obtained.
'V.. ', d'be it further enafled, that the further time of,
"

'

#56i

,feen rntlsbe given*toall perfons who may obtain cer-'

& ti'fiates from the aid commi fioncrs for pre-emptions on their
" obtaining wairants from the Regifter of th'e Land Office to
,",enter'

SUPREME CcIURT, of the United States.

43,

0 enter the. fame with the furveyor of'the refpeaive-counties in
1799
" which their cjaiins were adjufted: .Provided.that th. courtof %.evj
cornmiffioners for the- diftri& of the countie .ofMonongalia,
'. rohogania, and Ohio, do not ufe or. exercife any jurifdi&ion
' refpe~tipg claims.to lands within, the territory in difpute be" tween the flates of Virginia and Pennfylvania north of Majfon's and, Dixon's line, until~fuch difpute (hall be finally ad
C"jufted and fettled.
, V. And be it further enat5ed, that all furveys upon entries,.
" the execution of all wArrant's,' and the'iffuing of patents for
5" lands within the (aid territor.yhall alfo be fufpended until the
f(aid difpute. hall have been finally adjufted and fettled ; but
. that fuch fufpenfion fhall not be conftrued in any manner to
injure or, affe&'the title of any perfon claiming fueh lands.
" And whereas the bufinefs of fuch commiflioners for fettling
the claims of unpatented lands, will be much leffened in the
t' counties of Monongalia, and Yohogania, and Ohio, &c."
" VII. And whereas fone doubts have arifen upon the con-,
ftrudion of the a6ts- dire&ing the granting warrants for laud due,
for military fervice under the King of Great Britain's proclamation in.the year one .thoufand feven hundred and fixtythree: It is hereby declared that no officer, his heirs, "executors, adminiftrators, or affigns, fhall be entitled to a warrant
of furyey for' any other or greater quantity of land than was
OJue to him, her, or them, in virtue of the higheft commifflon
or rank in which fuch officer had ferved, nor in virtue of more
than one fuchcommiffion for fervices in different regiments or
corps, nor flhall any non-commiffioned officer or foldier be entitled to a bounty for land under the (aid proclamation, for his
fervice in more than one regiment or corps."
VIII. And it is further declared, that the Regifter (hall
not-iffue to any-perfon or perfons whatever, his or their, heirs
or affigns, a grant for lanfi for more than, one fervice, as above
defcribed, nor to thofe who have received warrants for fervices
fince Ot7ober, one thoufand feven hundred and fixty-three, notWithftanding a warrant or warrants may have been heretofore
iffued, and the land furveyed, unlefs the claimant (hall within
fix months from the end bf this prefent fefFion of Affembly,
produce to the faid Regifter the Auditor's certificate for the
payment of the ftate price of forty pounds per hundred, for the,
tluantity of land in fuch warrant or warrants ; and if fich
money is not fo paid, that then thef,aid warrants or fur'./eys
(hall be to all intent and purpofes void ; and that the Regifter may be able to comply with this law, he is hereby dire&ed
to make out, and keep an alphabetical lift of all military warrants iffued under the former as well as the prefent government ;

k33

C"ASS ruled ,nd adjudged

Tn lrie

ment; 'incafe'of any aig'igment, makin'th~ri.h'eriie of
179q.
'o~y. "the'affignor; and the feveral furveyors with Whon~'military War,

rants obtained tund~r the fornier government, have beeb lodged
or located, are direc6ed to tranfmit to the Reg'ifter in the month
of NoveMber next; or before 'that time,a lift of all fuch
war rahts."
,The jury find a variety of'6rders iffued by the late Stipreme
Executive Council of Pennfylvania; and of pr6ceedings iritered into by the Board of property, in relation to rUnningthe
boundary, and to the lift '6f Virginia claims and enteis bn lands
within the difputed territory, &c. a variety ofpatint iffued by
Piirgipia, for i'fla'tds in the Ohio; fundry treaties with the Indians, and ceffions made by them,'phrtieularl" at Fort St:rmnwix
on the 15d of November, 1768, and oi the 3 oth of 'OTober,
1784; and they find the Conftitution. itid Latws of. irgihia,
refpeding the right of purchafing lands'occupied by the Indians'; but which findings it does not feem ntceffary to fet forth
more, particul)ly.
that PreJy Nzv.il and Malthew. Ritchie,
", Tile Ju'ry find,
two deputy ft rveyors, received from' the Surveyor General a
lift of entries made under the authority of iFWginia, which faid
lift included ;he entry for the land in the declaration mentiofied ; that their commiion was dated the 4th 6f April, 1785, appointing' them deputy furvlybrs, 'ofill that art -of Wafhbington,
county, lying within thc fpecified boundlaries; and that on the
i 3 th of A;Ypril 1787,, they furveyed, Alontour's ifland, and returned the furvey in hec verba, into the Surveyor General's
office fometime in Mapah 1788.; the return of the furvey fe'tof locaWlSims, affigne;
ting forth, that it was made forCharleswarrnt,
entry and
liam Douglas, and under the Virginia
tion.
" The Jury find;thaf before the pear 1779, the Indian tribes,
in confequence of hoffilities between them and' the United,
States, retired to the north-wef fide of the Ohio riyer, having.
abandoned and relinquifhed all the lands, except on the nprth- ,
weft fide of the faid Ohio river; and' that by various treaties
fince made With the United States of America, the boundary,
line of their hunting grounds is very difant from the nrth.
weft fide of the Ohio riyer aforefaid.
" The Jury fihd, that according to the pradice of irg;inia,
no money was required tobe paid fince the paring the faid ad,
entitled " An Ad for giving further time to obtain warrants
" upon certificates for pre-emption rights, andreturning cerStain furveys into the Land-Office, and for other purpofes,".
by the holder of a military warrant for lands, except where.
more than one warrant is iffued for the fan~e fervice.
,The

SUPREME COur of.the,

Ulied State..

F The Jury find, that the Defendant William Irvine'had actual notice of the claim of the leffor of the, Plaintiff, fometim,
.before the '5 th of December, 1783, which was before the faid
Defendant made any payment of money to Pennfylvania, whofe
C283 13 6, on the
filrft and. only payment was of the fum of£
x8.th of April, 17S7."
II. DEFEND-ANT'S TITLE.

c The.Jury find a law of Pennfylvania, ena6ed the 2,4 th, of
4eptember, 17'83, entitled " AnA4 to grant the right of pre"'emption to'an ifland known by the name of Montour's Ifland
' in the Ohio.river, tq. Brigadier General William r ine"
which law is. e xpreffed, in the following terms:
1" SECT. I. WHEREAS Brigadier General William lr"'vine, during his feparate command at Piitjburgh, hath ren1 dered effential fervice to this ftate, particularly the frontier
t-fettlements thereof: In confideration whereof,
c SECT. 11. Be-it naI7ed and it is hereby. enafled by the.
"Reprefentatives of the Freemen "fthe Commonwealth of Pennt'.flvania in General AJembly met, and by the authority of the
'fame, That the ifland, fituated in the Ohio. rivr, below
".Pittfburgh, known by,the name of Montour's ifland, and
" every part thereof, .be, and the fame is hereby, granted unto the faid lJ'illiam Irvine in fee, to have and io hold the
" fame unto him, his heirs and affigns, for ever; fibje& to
'5 fuch purchafemoney asa future houfe ofAffembly may diret.
SECT. Ili. And be *itfurther enafled Iby the authority
" aforefaid, That the Supreme Executive Council be, and
" they hereby are, empowered to direc the Surveyor Gene" ral of this ifate, at the propep coff and charge of the faid
William Irvine, to lay out the faid ifland, and cautfe it to be.
W
" returned into the office for confi mation.
" SECT. IV. Provided always, That nothing in this aS
fball be taken, or deemed to b.ar any perfon or perfons, their
".heirs or.affigns, who may have obtained any juft or lawful
" right to the faid ifl.and, or any part thereof, before 'the pafof this a6t.
fing
t
The jury find another law of Pennfylvania, ena6led on the
Sth of 4pril, ;785' entitled 4 An A& to provide'further regu' lations whereby to fecure fair and equal proceedings in the
Land Office, and in the furveying lands,;" which a& contain-,
a feaion in thefe words:
". SEC, I. Whereas the time for opening the Land-Office
of this ftate, for the lands contained within the purchafe lately made by the commonwealth, of the Indian natives, of all the
'efidueof wafe,lands within the charter bounds of Pennylvania, as the fame. have been adjufted between this flate and the
ifare

p99-

46 ,
1799:

-%

'C'As's-ruled,and adjudged in the

fate of Firginia,is fixed to be from, and after the firft da' of
lay next, when it is probable that numerous ajplicatioris will
be made td the faid Laid-Office at the faid time, for lands
within the bounds of the faid late. purthafe; and the officers of
the Land-Officemuf neceffarily be obliged to give preference
to fome perfons, before others whofe applications, may be mad6
equally early, and thereby greaitdiffatisfaaion'muft arife unlefs
fome provifion be made bv law to regulate the fame." &c.
" The Jury find, that the Defendant onthe , th, of -,AprI;
1787, having previoufly returned a-furvey into the office of
the Surveyor General of Pennfylbania;'of the lands in the de-'
claration mentioned, obtained a patent for, the farie) in,dud
form, dated the 19 thof April, 1787.
of The jury'find another law of Pennfylvania ena~Led the2-6'tlh
of March 1785, entitled " An a& for the limitation of aaion
to be brought for the inheritance or pofleflion'of real property!
or upon penal acts of Affembly " which law contains the followin_ fedion:
"SEC. V. Andbe itfurther enagled by th6 authority'aforA-'
faid,That no perfon'or perflns that now hath or have any claifi
to the poffeffion of any lands, tenements or heredita'ents, or
the pre-emption thereof, from the commonwealth, fotinded iipon'
any prior warrant, whereon no furvey.hath been made; or ir
confequence of any prior fettlement, improvement or occupation, without other title, fhall hereafter enteror bring afiy a&iori
for the recovery thereof, unlefs he, fhre or they, or his, her or their
anceffors or predeceffors, have had the quiet and peaceable poffefi-'
on of the fame within feven yeais next bt fore fuch entry, or bring-'
ing fuch adion: Providedalways,That if any perfon or perfons fi
claiming as aforefaid hath been forced or driven away'from his,
her or their poffellions, by the favages, or by the terror of them, oi
any other perfons, or by any other means, except. by- the judicial authority of the ifate, hath quitted the fame, during the late
war, then fuch perfon or perfons, and his, her or their heir or
heirs, fhall or may, notwithftariding the faid feven years be ex-'
pired, bring his, her or their ation, or make -his, her or theie
entry, within five years from the paffing of this adff."
"And the jury find the leafe, entry and oufter, in the decla 2
ration mentioned. And if upon the whole 'matter, &c.,
"
After an affignment of the gene'al errors, in nullo et e'rratym'
plcaded, and iffue joined, the caufe was argued by Lewis, .,
Tilghman, and Dallas, for the Plaintiff in error; and by Lee'
Ingeftll, and Rawle, for the Defendant: The forme contend-'
ed thut the title of the Leffor of the Plaintiff was defe&ive both
in law and-equity; but admitting that it was an equitable title,
they infifted that the remedy was in equityi and not at law.
I. The

'pREME

of the" United Statesi

CU P

I. The title of the Leffor of the Plaintiff is defeUive, becaufe,

4"4

.99
ift. The fpecial verdi l does, not find, that, William Douglas L..J
Was entitled to the bounty under the proclamation of i 6", as
being an officer within the defcription, and complying with the
conditions of the gift: io be enitled, he muff hav9 beena- reduced
pffier-he muii have ferved durinzg the war of i 7 63-the fer
vice muff have been ih America-he muff have been refident
there-and. he muff have made, a perfoial application for the
clearly
benefit of the bounty. Not one of thefe requifites, is.
itated-in the verdia,, and fome of tlem are entirely omitted,
ref'ed to fpecial, verdi&s'sis, that they muff find
witheviden'ce
The rule,
.fads,
not the
of fa&s , and, no implication, however
Pregnant will be allowed. In Trover, for inftanceltie jury
Pnuff find, an aLual convdrfion, finding a deui'and and a refufaJ,
though thefe are evidence of a converfion, will not be fufficient.
Here, fome of the facs are found, but not all of ihem; a nd fetting forth the proclamation, in hwc verba, ,vOll not cure the partial findig 7 Pac.. Abr. p. 6. Ph. 5. P-74. (newv edit.) it is
onee
ofthe
t
particularly important, that a perfnalapplicationof
fhou!d have been found; fince the inducements. the government in making the gift in that form; independent of an acknowledgnment f-rpaft-fervices, evidently arofe from the poliry of enfuring the fettlement of military men.-on an expofed
frontier and a defire to prevent fraudIs and fpetulaiion.
2d. If the rpecial verdi6t does not find the fats, which were
ndifpenfible tQ entitle William Douglas to the bounty of the
proclamation, it foilows, of courfe,- that nothing paffed by the
aflignmpnt of his right to Charles Sims.,. Itis true, that flilbe conl2m Douglas had a juft claim to the bounity, and mightapplica,
fidered as having a right to it, even before ,a prfonal
tion; but without a perfonal application he could never reduce
it to poffeffion and enjoyment himfelf, nor fell and transfer it to
one perfon
for,
another, : An affignment is not a fubifitution
to the
theof affignor
another, but a transfer of fomething from

affignee

,
.

.

....

,.

.

-

.

, .

..

,. The aflignment fromW. Douglas to C.Sim. was made
on the. 16th of January 1779, before any law.was enaCted ia
Jirjina,in relation. to claims and righi" of this defcription;
and, therefore; its.ratidity and operatiot muffdepend Upon th,
".conditions of the broclaration; unlefs iiiall be
terms and
found, tlie Legiflature of the 'ate afterwards altered, and
improved thecondition of the atignee: this; therefore, muff
.
be in(,efliiated.
act of the Pfrgi;ia Legiflature upon the f'ub: 4th. The firft
je&, paflfd in May. 1779, ufes the terms " Al.perfons, their
heirs op afligns" claiming lands under proclaniation warrants
to

VOL.' 1iT

L1 II

42.
1799.

CAsr-s ruled and adjudged in the
for military fervice, fhall be admitted to grants for the fame as

Sin other cafes: but whether the claim wag by the Donee, or his

affignee, the provifion (if at all applicable to the bounty of the
proclamation of 1763) can only be expounded to embrace claims
th'at were fairly vefted by the Donee's making perfonal zpplicalion, and proving a conformity to the other conditions of the
gift. This part of the law, however, has a variety of other
cafes upon which it muff attach, and which were unqueffiona-bly of an affignable nature. It cannot, therefore, be regarded
as creating or recognizing an affignable quality in the bounty
of the proclamation, which the proclamation itfelf does not create, or fipport; and, if no affignment could take place under
the proclamation, unlefs there had been a previous perfonal application by the Donee, the word, " heirs and affigns" coupled
in the law with the D6nee, muff be confrued to refer to cafes,
in which .the Donee has duly obtained warrants and furveys.
But the material fefion, (fec. 3.) in the aft of May 1779,
provides that no proclamation claim to lands hall hereafter be
allowed except in the foll6wing cafes: ift. Where a warrant
had been obtained during the former government ; Or 2d.
where the military fervice was performed by an inhabitant of
Virginia.; or 3d. where the military fervice was performed in
fome i)giniacorps: And, in either cafe, the claimant muff make
due proof in a Court of record, and produce a certificate of it
to the Rcgifter of the Land-Office within 12 months. Now,
it is manifef that the cafe of the Leffor of the Plaintiff i's not
within any of thefe provifions: A warrant had not been obtained for W Douglas's bounty under the old government;
William Dopuglas had never been an inhabitant of Virginia ;
nor were his military fervices performed in any Virginia corps.
IFiiliam Douglas himfelf, theiefore, would not have been entitled under the law ; and fo far, likewife, the claim of his affignee
can only be maintained vpon his title. By the revolution, Virginia within the boundaries of the flate, acquired all the territofial rights, with greater powers, than the King of Great
,iritain previoufly poflcfled : The King was bound by his gift,
and could neither defeat, oirmodify, the rights of the Donee;
but Firginia, with the eftablifliment of her independence and
fovereignty, became the abfolute proprietor of the unappropriated foil ; and was at liberty to impote conditions, to give the
law, in relation to antecedent, inchoatei gratuities and grants of
the Britifi) monarch, In the exercife of this authority, Die
opened her Land-Ofce t6claim's for old military fervices, upon
the reafonable fipulation, 'that a warrant ihould already have
iffued, or that the fervices fhould have been performed by a
perfon inhabiting the ftate, or in a corps belonging to it.

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

44'

t799.
5 th. But by the' preceding law, it Is evident, that two things
Are ambiguoufly expreffed:-[t is not clearly defined, who is
meant by the claimant in the 3 d fedion; and it is not a fcertained to what period the inhabitancy, of the perfon performing
the military fervices, refers,-to the time of the fervice, or to
the time of the claim. Hence arofe the neceffity of introducing the law of OgThber, 1779, which was paffed (as its title declares, and great refpe& has been paid to a title in coniftruing an
ambiguouslaw, Hob. 232-) cfor explaining and amending" the
ad that has juft been examined ; and th doubts, that had arifen, are recited in the preamble to the firft fedfion,-" doubts
.concerning the nianner of proziing rights for military fervice,
under. the proclamation of the king of Great Britain in the
year 1763, whereby great frauds may be committed."
T he firf enading words are " that no perfon, his heirs, or
affgns, other.than thofe who had obtained warrants under the
former government, ihall be hereafter admitted to any warrant
for fuch military fervice, unlefs he, ihe, or they produce, &-.
a proper certificate of proof, &c. by the oath of the party claiming, or other fatisfaffory evidence," ift, 'hat fuch party was
bona fide an inhabitant of Firginia, at the time of paffing the
preceding law (Maj 1779) or 2d, That the perfon having performed the military fervice was in a. Yirginia corps before the
date of the Proclamation, and continued in it till the corps was
difbanded, or he was difchargcd or died. Now, in order to a fair
underflanding and expofition of the law, it fhould be remembered,
that it contains no repealing claufe or expreffon ; and, confequentlv, the two laws, being in pari materia, muft be fo conitrued 'as to be rendered confiftent and operative in all their
parts. i B. C. 82. * Under this impreflion, the ad of Oober,
1779, is evidently a reftraining, and not an enlarging, ftatute.,
By the adt of May 1779, the donee, claimine under the Proclamation, muft have been an inhabitant of Virginia, or have
ferved in a Virginia corps ; and the adt of O 7ober, 1779,vwithout impairing or altering that requifite, in the cafe of the donee himfelf, only fixirig the period of his inhabitancy to the
paffing of the former ad, fuperadds that in the care of an affignmet, the affisnee, or claimant, muft likewife have beerh
an inhabitant of Virginia. William Douglafy would not, it is
clear, be entitled under either law; and is it no* extravagant
to infiO,..that~the affignee fhall take, when the affignor is excluded ?
When the ad of Oc8ober, 1779, fpcaks of " the party claiming," it muff, indeed, intend a party who can legally claim, but
it by no' means defcribes who fhall be a legal. laiimant: And
,hen it fpzaks of lifuch party,'7 the reference (which is not
always

.44.
1799.
-v

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

always to the next immediate antecedent. T8 [in. dbr. Hard.
77.) muff, inorder to preferve the fenfe of the context, be'applied to the donee, or to the heirs and affigns of a donee, duly
entitled, :according io' the requifites of the Proclamation and
law 0 . 'Befides,"he fatmnd fe&ion provides for proof being made,
" th t the party Had never before obtained a warrant or certi-I
ficatd for fuch "'ilitar, fervice;" whikh rnuft b 'applied to
ihe p.arty perform irig the'fervice, fince , itI would not furely be enough to 'prove that an affignee had not,i' thoukh the 'affignor
might'have'before bhtaiied a warrant.' And itiay be obfervi.
ed,- by 'the bye,' that'the fpecial 'verdi& does not find the fao;
that n6 warrant had iffued on Douglas's claim, before tlhe war-!
rant which'iffied'to the leffor of the Plaintiff.
6th. 'In 'attion to the exceptions' already flated, another ob,jeelion irifes'tip6n the Firgnialaw, ena6led the 2oth ofJunC,
.780; -which 'provides; thal only one'varrant fhall iffue to
6
ne'perfbri, founded 'oh claims for military fervice; nor fhail
even one warrant iffue, unlefs the claimant fhall within fix
months 'from the end of" the feion, in which'the law was ena&ed,"prove a 'payment of C.ao per .hundred fdr the quantity
of. land in* the warrant. This pajmerit is not found by the
fpecial verdi&, nor has it ever, in fa&, been made 'either to
Virginia, Or to Pennfylvania, acquiring 'all the rights of fr-r
ginia under the dompal6 ; but in aid of this defe&, the verdi&
finds; that'it was not the pra6ice of Virgini'a to require the
money to be paid by the holder of a military w,rrant for lands,
except where more than one W-arran t iffued for the fame
fervice. This finding, however, that the money was not required to bc paid in J/irginia,cannot prove that it was not
due and payable to Pennflvania ; and a mere praaic of Office in one State (which could not have been a praffice of,
i'lon'g continuance wheh the compa& took effed) is not fufficient to controul the plain provifions of a law, or to affea the
ights'of' an6ther State.' 'Whatever, therefore, might previou(ly have eeii the preientions of the Leffor of the Plaintiff,
bis h6n-compliance with the flipulated payment, is an abandon-.
iment;6r forfiture'of -his claim.
7 th. But M/ntour's Iflan'd lay within the diJfriel of country
occupied by t-he' hdiaiis, and5 therefore,'i could hot be the fu'b-'
jeq 'of locdtio'n',' fof' fatifying-a ir'iyate'claim'to6 lands. The
Proclam'aioih of, 1763' the C6nftitution and Laws' of Jirginia,
and the Law's bf Penhfylvania,'all cncur on this point. It is'
true,
"

fuch" applies to the ]aft anC. I. The rule is, that
uniefs the fehfe' of'the paffage requires a different con fruc-

ELLSwOT!R,

tcc'd'ent

SUPreMg COURT-Of the United States,

44-

true, the [pecial verdid finds, that before the year 1779, the
1799.
Indian tribes had retired to the North-weft fide of the Ohio, '
having abandoned and relinquifhed allthe land, except on the
North-wee fide of the river, and that by various treaties, fince
made with the United States, the boundary line of their hunting grounds is very diftant from the North-weft fide : but, it
is to be remembered, that itis alfo found by the fpecial verdict,'
that the retreat of the Indian tribes was, t in confequence of
" hoftilities between them and the United States."
A retreat,.
under fuch.,circumftances is neither a derelidion, nor a ceffion."
Acquifitions of territory, in confequence of hoftilities, -do not
pafs in full fovereignty ; the transfer is not complete unlefs
confirmed by the treaty of peace ; and even if it was an acquifition in war, it was a national acquifition, and enured'to
the ufe of the United States. It appears, however, that the
abandonment of the lands was owing to the neceffities of war;

and not with a view to a'direlidion; for,afterwards, at the treaty
at Fort Sttnwix, in the year 1784, this very property is ceded
1
y the Indians, and the.cefflon ismade to P';nnfylvania', not to
gizrgnia. There may be an appropriation (which, it is faid,
is the effe&l of a warrant and furvey) of an equitable eflate
but, in the prefent cafe, the entry of the Surveyor, in the year
787, was, the entry of the Public Officer, not of the agent of
jhe Leffor of the Plaintiff; it did not conflitute an acEtual
.poffeflion ; and could not be effe&ual for any other purpofe,
than creating an
I appropriation of an equitable, or executory,
eftate.
8th. Though the treaty, or compa&, between Virginia and
SPennfylvania, ought to be held facred, it cannot be fo conftrued as to'change thle pre-exifting ftate of property ; rendering
that perfeat which was before imperfe6t, and making valid
what was before void. The compat fecures private property
of every defcripltion ; but it does riot convert claims into
rights, nor equitable rights intolegal eftates. The rights confirmed' are thofe which would have been good againif Virginia:
complete rights are confirm-ed, without any at to be done by
ihe party ; and incomplete rights are confirmed in the precife
fituation, in which they were, at the date of the compa&, to be
rendered complete according to the law of the State, acquiring
ihe jurifdi&ion and fovereignty. It mut be conceded, that
the warrants granted by Virginia on lands, which proved to
belong to Pennfylvania, were ipfo faao void ; though it was
reafonable and juft to recognize them on a:fettlement of the
territorial controverfy. Reafon and juftice do not require,
kiowever, that fuch a recognition fhould be confirued into a
confirmation of the title (Co. Litt..295.) giving to the cornpaa

_46
1799.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

pa& the legal operation of a patent, without exprefs words tb
produce that effec, Nor can the State be regarded as a truftee
under the cornpa&,'for the ufe of the Ieffor of the Plaintiff;
for, fhe had granted the pre-emption right to the Defendant ;
and the Defendant, in a Court of Equity, would have been iegarded as the Truftee, if any truft could be raifcd by' implication.
What, then, were the circumftances of the parties at the
4ate of the compa&, and afterwards? So .early 'as the 'ear
1783, the Defendant had procured an aa1ual furvey of the premifes.; and, according to the adverfe.dodlrine, was thereupon
in poffeffiion. -But the leffor of the Plaintiff never attempted
to procure a furvey till-the year 1787; (which could not'diveft
the Defendant's previous poffeffion) and he refted fimply on his
Firginia, warrant and entry;-though a furvey was furely.requifite, if not-to locate the land (inafmuch as"naming the'ifland
might, in that refpea, be deemed a fufficient defignation) at
leaft to afcertain, the quantity. It is to be con'fidered, indeed,
that in the very lift of entries in the Lan Office, trai.frmitted
by the executive of.firkinia to the executive of Penflyvania,
there is no fpecific mention of a location, on Montour's ifland;
and though the fpecial verdidt finds that Nevil and Ritchie received a lift of Firginia entries, including an entry for the
lands in the declaration ,rnientioned, the lift is not fet forth in
ra~c
verba; and the entry, for aught that'appears, may have
been made fubfequent to the compa&, 9r it may be in favor of
the Defendant.
Beflides, there was a general prohibition as to furveying
iflands in the Ohio; z Foi, Pennf Laws, p. 317.f 13. (D4/l.
Edit') and the furvey of Nevil and Ritchie, was, in tat, unauthorifed by their cormiffion, which circumfcribes their diftrid to limits, not including Ioantour's ifland. The comnif•fion authorifes them to furvey in a Diftridt formed of a part of
Vaflhington County: now, Montour's ifland lay, originally,
within WJ/'noreland County; it lies at prefent withi A&lleghaney "founty; but itL never was at any time included in
Waib ington County. i.Pol. Pennf Laws, 874. (Dail. Edit.)z ol. Pennf Laws 595 It,
then, the furvey itfelf is not 1awf6l,
it cannot be brought in aid of the title of the leffor of the
Plaintiff.
, 9 th. It only remains, on the queflion of title, to fhew, that
the Pennf~yivania adft of limitations, is a bar to the claim of the'
)effo.r of the Plaintiff. The adi was paffed on the 26th of.
.March, 1785; and it declares, ."that no perfon having a claim to
lands,. or to. th.e pr.Q-emption thereof, founded upon any prior'
warrant whereon no furvey, hath been made, &c. fhall herefter
en ter

SUPR'EME C6uR'" of the United States.

44

1799.
enter, or bring any adion for the r'ecovery'thereof, tinlefs he,
or his ancefors, or predeceffors, had the quiet. and peacea- t
ble poffeffion within feven years before fuch entry, or bringing fuch alaion." The prefent'cafe, it is infified, is plainly
defcribed in the law; and the right of Pennfylvania to legiflate, in relation to all the lands within her territorial boundary, cannot be denied on general principles, and is not impaired by the terms, or meaning, of her compa6l with /irginia.
I. From this review, it was conlcuded, that the title of the
Leffor of the Plaintiff was defedive both in law and equity;
but admitting, that it was a'requitable title, the Counfel for
the Defendant urged, that the remedy was in equity, and not
at law.
The title of the Leffor of the Plaintiff refts on the Virginia
warrant, and entry, coupled with the Pennfylvania : furvey no
patent has been iffued by either State; and the compa6 be-.,
tween them, though it gave a right to have the title completed,
did not ipfofaTo complete. it. On this flatement, therefore, it
is contended, that the legal eftate has not yet been veffed in the
Leffor of the Plaintiff; and that a court of equity is alone competent to fupply the defe-t of the conveyance. It is true, that
in Pennfylvania, where no Municipal Court of equity exifrs,
neceffity has compelled the judges to apply a legal remedy in
every inflance of an equitable title; but the fame neceffity doesnot occur in a cafe before the federal tribunals, which have an
equitable, as well as a legal, jurifdidio n ; and the.a-t of Congrefs, that adopts the laws of the feveral States, as rules of decifion, does not'adopt their forms ofadion, nor their modes of
74.f 3 4 .(Swift's Edit.) A contra& made
J
proceeding. Vol.p.
in Pennfylvania may furnifh a fubjed for litigation in any
country upon earth; and though the law of Pennfylvania would
be regarded in ex:pounding the contradt, wherever-the litigation took place, the remedies of that place, and not the judicial
remedies of Pennfylvania, would be applied to invefligate and
enforce it.
. If it isonly ah equitable title, will the 'egal procefs of an ejedment afford a plain, adequate, and compleat remedy? I vol.
Laws of Cong. p. 95. f 16. (Swift's edit.) Ejeament is
merely a poffeffory adion: a judgment in favor of the Leffo r
of the Plaintiff will not cure the defedt in his title. But'a.
Court of equity could'decree the D)efendant to convey to the
Plaintiff; the only remedy that can be compleat
It will be faid, however, that a warrant and furvey con(titute a legal title in Pennflvania: burthe pofition is incorredly taken, by confounding the nature of the eftate, with the neceffity which compels the ue of a legal remedy, for effectuating

In the
.The'application'of a legal remedy to proteA

CAEs rtiled aid adjudged

179

tuating jufice.

'an equitable efiae, ftill leayes the eftate an equitable one. The
principle applies to a variety of cafes, as well as-to the prefent' Thus, where an eftate is-held finmply, by.articles of agreeMent, covenantig to convey, the widow of the covenantee fhall
be endowed.by the law of Pennfylvania.!wheie the Truftee fells
he .efatfe.for a valuable confideration, 'vithotit notice of the
truft the grantee ihall hold it ! And, generally, where there is
an equitable eftate, it fhall aefcend like a legal eftate>, Dall.
Rep. 205. , But never was. it concei ed' that a legal efate, and
an equitable eftate, were fynonimous terms in Penn ylyania
or that a warrant and furvey . came Within, the former, defcription. A Wariant was merely a diretion from theProprietary
authoriftng a furvey of, the "lands tpecifed" It contained no
words of grant ; and after the. furvey was made an.d, retuin- '
ed, a patent became effential; not only to the title of the
Patentee1 but to declare and fecure the proprietary purchafe
money, quit-rents, refervations of .mines &c.. Till the patent
iffued, the terms of the bargain were not fettled j nor had the
proprietary parted with the fee And is It juft or legal to con-,
tend, that the proprietary, could never, evi.miwarrantee' who
refufed to pay- the price of the laids and to entei" into ihe tifual
aipulations of the patent; or that the legal eftate could exift in.
two perfons, the proprietary and th e warrantee; at the fame.
time ? Tlhe p~ra&ice of Pennfylvania, in the application of legal rernediesto equitable rights, has, given rife; perhaps, to a
feeming confi'fion of ideas aid ex'reffions, in the decifions that
have occurred o. the fubje& ; but it doesnot appearin the report of Fotbergill's Le]i 7)s. Stover, i Dall Ret. 6. whether
the Defendant's was a legal or an equitable iitle; and in -M"
Curdy vs. Potts et al. ! Dal. Rep. '98. it is probable that the
words i'leaI pofrej/in" were inadvertantly ufed by the Judge,
or the Reporter, inflead of the words "lawful poffefion," fince
ihe cafe naturally, points at the latter; and a poffeffion may;
certainly be lawful, without being legal.,
Upon the whole, it wa irififted, thai the Leftor 4i the Plain->
fift had no right that cbVild in law or equity diveft the poffeffioni
bf the Defend.ant, whfd tit was complat in all its partsa Legiflative grant carried into effe& by a regular furC'ey and
patent.
The Counfel for the Leffor of the Plaitiff anf

eied the ob.

je&ions to his title, and to his remedy, iinder the follovini
general confideriations: ifW. His rights before the ompaa between Virginia and Pennfylvania: 2d. The true conftruction of that compat: 3 d. The right of the Lefror of the Plain-,
ticf to be reliev'ed iii the prefent form of a6lion.'
I. Thc

S U iEME CO .URT

of the United States'.

~

I. The rightof the Leffor of the Plaintiff before the corbetween Pirginia and Pennfylvania, is undoubtedly,
founded on the previous right of 'WilliamDouglas, under the
:Proclamation of 1763; but the right of William Douglas is no
*a-

loger qieftionabe, fnce the f'pecia) Verdi&eiprefsly finds the
fa6, that " by thie Proclamratioa the Kinjg gave to him, his
heirs,aid affigns, a ri ht to a bounty of oo acres 9 f land."
When it Is found that he took b, virtue of th Proclamition,
it follows that he 6lad' onpnlied with all the iequifites.; for'
oiherw if he could not fo hae tak'en. It i agreed, that if a
Jury cblie6 the contents ofd a Aced, anid find them, and then
find' the deed; 'in c q)erba, the Court iiufl regaid the deed
itfelf, and not the coznruftion ; becaufe, the Jury are .not to
of" their finding
iinie
judge of, he law ; rind th very aircdm
the verdoi ipecially; fliewS that they clflairn judg in'g of the
, law, id iiibmit it to the C urt Vaugh. 77. But ,hen a deed
Contains c rtAih 'a'ts; ,ihbut which the party cannot tae, t6;
'fiidingthat he did take, .and the'd'd that fhewv he could 'not
have taken exglufively of thofe fa6s,1s a fihding of the fad$
,th m'elves: If upon am inpetiori of lte .Proclamation, i
flhould appear to contain no words implyin~ga grant, or to be
ietpe, is A natter 6f law on
infuificenfly eipreffed in ihai
'which the Court willjudge ; though always with a a ouiable
'ointeinance to fup ort the verdi"l. ibb. 54. i. Burr. 700.
Butih'e te' rs of the grant are ineqivocal ; tie power of thq
* Cr6vn i 'iiake the grant was iicontrov'ertible; ih& defcriptioii
bf the 1ertrons to receive it, is com0r,ehenfive and'plain; ahd
the finding of the Jury fettles the right of the Leffor 'of the
1
1 .
I I
Plaintiff.
Haviig c6nfileied ihe operaiiori of the Proclamation, 'on-

•he~ted with the finiding f tle ipecial verdi6, to veil a right in
J.Yilliam Douglas, the next ifep i's io trace the courfe of the
title frohn him to .the Leffdr o the Plaintiff, tindei the fanfioni
'f tlle as 6" irginia ; Which, eieri ahei'the Revoiution,
.fulfilled the intentions of the Royai donor, with .liberality and

juftice:

#I

Pe'. 40.

Wqajgton's kep. 230.

For thv

genexal gift of the Proclamation was not reduced to fpecifie appropriatioi until the Royal authority had ceafed; and until k'irginia; had the been unjuft, o even unhgenerous; might have
refufed ii ioiihpliance:.
The firfl and fepond laws of JVirgini6 , both ena4ed in May,
i 7 7 9 , beiore tie Leftor of the PlaintiA, had taken otit a warrant, ought t5 be conridei'ed togethei: The firft law, it is true,
ixcludes claims flor military ferv'iies; inlefs the fervice was
performed bv an inhabitant of 'irginia, or in a Virginiacorps:
but the fpecial verdic does n6t exdtide the pofibility that
1V~ . Il't,
1MI
mm
Doug;j

4I4
1799.
.

CAt
A

r79q.
%..j

f.ruled and adjudged in the

ouglai was an inhabitant of Pirginia,although it finds that
the corps. in which he ferved was raifed in .New- erfiqy It is
not neceffary,. however, to iefort to this hypothefis, fiq)ce the
meaning of the inh'abitancy here fpoken of, is expounded. in
the fecond law, fo as'to meet precifely the cafe of the Plairttiff',
but the firA law fubftantiates, at leaft, the arignability of military rightsi iriafitich as the firif f16ion, after clafling, charter
or importation iights, treafury rights, and military rights,exprefsly entitles the heirs and affigns of each clafs, to take out
and-locate warrants. " The principle runs throughout the law
The 5th feSion'provides that officers, &e,or their ajfignees
may locate their claims on wafte and unappropriated lands ;
and the inth fe6lion provides, that certain regulations ihall
not extend "c to officers, foldiers, dr their afignees, claiming
lands for military fervice." * Thefe paffages embrace all military rights ; and whatever may have beei the neceffity of a
perfonidl application of the Donee, under, the Proclarnatin of
the Britiffi King, it is thus obvioufly difpenfed with by',the
L~giflature of 11irginia.
Under an erroneous interpretation of the firA law, however,
inhabitants of J/irginia had paid their 'money, in numerdus
iniftances, for whatmight be denominated foreign rights,rights of perfons, who never inhabited the State, and. neVer ferved in a corps belonging to it, Difcovering the error,

the Legiflature deemed it juft and politic to eome to the aid of
the purchafers, being herown citizens ; and b'y the fecond law
Virtually ratified their purchafes. Without keeping this policy
in view, without admitting fuch claims, as the claim of the

Leffor of the Plaintiff, fome words of the law 'f O6?o1'r,i 7 7 %
will be nugatory.. A Virgiiian, ferving in a Neso-jerfey
corps, or a citizen of New-Jerfey ferving in a Virginia corps,
would have been entitled under the preceding law ; but a third
defcription was to be favoured, the Jirginiapurchafers of military rights ; and hence the phrafeology of "1he, fie, or they,"
which cannot refer to the officers-or foldiersibut to their al/igns,'
Soon after the law of Oa5ober, 1779, was paffed, within the

period of eight months, the Leffor of the Plaintiff obtained his
warrant, and entered it, with a location on M"'ontour's ifland,
in the Regitaer's office, The warrant, entry, and location, are
all in conformity to the laws and pracice of Firginia, The
defeription of the ifland poffeffes fufficient.certainty ; and it isr
found by the verdi& to be on the north-weft fide of the Ohio,
not Within any prohibited diftri6& of country. From the 2oth
of June 178o, when the law enaled that all proceedings to
execute warrants on the difputed territory, fhould be fufpended

until ete compaa and ceffliou to Pe;,'.4!vania, it was impoffiblq
for

SUP EME' COURT of the United'State;.

for the Leffor of the Plaintiff to purfue any meafures for effectuating his title - but his rights were not impaired, nor was
the warrant annihilated, becaufe it was not executed and return
ed; and the fubfequent furvey of Neville and Ritcbie amount-.
ed to an entry and polkffilon on behalf of the Leffor of the
Plaintiff. There is, perhaps, no decifion in Virginia that places
footing of a legal title ; but a
a warrant and location on thee
military warrant has always been deemed a good equitable
right. Xythe's Rep. 40. Wajington's Rep. 230.
It has been contended, however, that the non-payment of
[. 40 per hundred acres, either to Pirginiaor Pennfylvania,
within the flipulated period of fix months, amounts to an
abandonment or forfeiture of all the pre-exifting rights of the
Leffor of the Plaintiff. But the fpecial verdid finds a ufage"
dire6ly oppofed to this conftru&ion ; and ufage is a fafe exp6fitor of the law. The fraud intended to be guarded'againft
was the iffuing of two warrants for one claim ; and the Couft
will aot prefume that more than one had iffued upon the profent claim, in which care the . 4.o was never required, or exa&ed, for a warrant founded on military fervices.' But it is
impoffible to confider the provifion as applying to lands in this
predicament for the following reafons : Ift. Before the expiration of the fix months which the law, paffed'on the 2oth of.7une,.
1780, (2 Fol.St. L. 208. Dal. Edit.) allowed, the lands, and
the right to the price, were ceded by kirginia to Pennfylvania,
to wit---on the 2 3 d of 7une, 1789. From the time of her
ceflion f'irginia had no right to the price ; and Pennfylvania
never fixed atimefor paying it, nor impofed a penalty for a negle&, or refufal. If, then, the performance of a condition becomes impoffible by the ad of the party, he fhall never himfelf
take advantage of the failure. Doug. 659. 2d. By fufpending
the powers of the Commiflioners, in relation to the execution
of warrants, within the difputed territory, thofe lands were virtually excepted from thle general provifion of the ad., It is
harfh, indeed, to fubje& a man to a penalty for not paying for
lands, which he could neither loca!e, nor pofiefs. If the forfeiture does not apply, the refult is, that the money, if payable
/irginia
at all, muft be paid, before a patent can be obtained.
thought the warrant flill in force, for, it was certified in the
lift tranfmitted by her Executive; andPenpfylvania has, alfo,
manifefted her opinion on the fubje&, by iffuing a patent for
the lands located on Racoon creek, under circumftances exadly
fimilar. It is here proper to add, that, although the law was
pafled during a feffion, which commenced on the ift of May
17 8o,it was not., in fad, ena&ed till the 2oth of 7un. 178Q;
fo that it can have no effea to invalidate the w,1aran,t and location

45)

1799.

CAS.Es ruled and adjudged in the

45;
79

~ tion,.which
made by the Leffor of the Plaintiff' -n. the
Sth,'anid othwere
of May,.refpe&ively.

3
The relation of laws to
the firft day of 'the feffion' of the Legiflature, is a legal fidion,
which will. ne'ver be allowed to Work an injury. GobC,. 431.
1 Mod. 31'0.
But it is another obje6lion, that Montour's Ifland lay within the country which belonged to 'the Indians; and could not,
therefore, be the fibje6 of a lawful location under a private
Warrant. Without confefling the'aborigihal title of the Indian tribes, it is enough for the leff6r of the"Plaintiff to'alledge,
upori the finding of the fpecial verdid, that bef6re the year.
1779, they had abandoned and relinquifhd'all 'tel lands except on'the north-weft fide of the Ohioi' ahd' that in purfuance
bf teeaties,they have fince receded very difiantlt3rbm tha boundary.. ' Linds may be acqbired by conquefR; 'anid'a.'relinquifh-.
fient, in confequence of hoftilities, is tantamount'to conqueft,.
1/:6. 9. 'The lands are, likewife, found' toas have
royfar as been
ivithin the' chartei-bondaries of Virginia ; fo that
al jurifdi6iion, and Indian furrender, are involved,''the'f6ve-'
l'eignty and property "of that ifate were complete. It is itd,
however, that after this der'eli&ion, poffefflon fhould have been'
taken; and here too'the fpecial verdi& meets the objetion,' b'
finding that the lands mentiohed in the declaration were includ."
ed in the bounds of Yohagany Ctunty.
It is not honorable to 'the 'haraqer', nor confiflent with the
pradice, bf 'P'nnfy'lvania, to urge the treaty at Fort Stanwix
in the year'I 84, as a'proof that the Indian title had not been
prievioufly c'xti'nguifhed. 'Rather, let it be faid, that ihe purchafed'tranquility from the Indians,' for the benefit of all, who
held lands within their hunting grounds ; and that the deed enured to their ufe, for their rtfpeaive pr6poifions, and to her,
ufe onl for the refiduum.' Bfides"' the Virginia rights were
original ciarges on the land, which'fh6 vias bound to fupport
and,'defend; and the fuccefs of her operation's, whether by
treaty ' or'by arms,'could never'aridg2 or deffroy them. It
does- not now lie'with her to difpufe the rightof Firginia,even"
if ufurped; for' fhe is eftopped by'h'er own ad.
1I. This :leads fo a fec6iid 'g'eheral confideration,-what is
the -rue con iftiuon 'of 'th'e Comp'id'betwcee irginia
and Pennf Ivania ?"The coimpa'd I as 'atifie'd' by the' former
the 23 d'6i une 1780, b'y' the "latter on the 23d ' of September 178 o; when it b~carine inutually' obligatory, and neiiher
6tate could afterwards difable lierfelhf from complying with" its
ternis.

C. 7. The finding of the jury is that the lands became
% is i9 matter fromreiwhat chife. -

Et.LSWOR's1,

ijg:° Jct , ,ail

SUPREME, COURT

of the 'United Statas,

453

terms. On the contrary, indeed, each party was bound to 1799.
the other, and to the individuals concerned, that every necef., S',
fary aa fhould be performed to effeduate the objeas of the.
agreement and ceffion, That no private right, antecedently
,acquired, fhould be diminifhed or deftroyed, was exprefsly
contemplated; and with that view, the liii of cntries in the.
Land Office of Virginia, was tranfmitted by the executive of
that flate to the executive'of Pennfylvania; with. that view
the lift was communicated to the Land Officer.s and furveyors
of Pennfylvania; with that view all the precautions were taken,
which appear in the ricords of the executive council and of
the board of property; and with that view Neville and Ritchie
furveyed and returned a draft of the ifland in favor of the leffor
of the Plaintiff. Prev'ioufly, however, to the Pirginia lift of
warrantees, though after the Compa&, the legiflature of Pennfylvania, by a law, enaaed the 2,th September, 1783, had
'granted the pre-emption of Mkiontour's Ifland to the Defendant;
but in doing this, it muft hav6 been remembered, that the prerriifes lay within the difputed territory; and, therefore, with a
ladableycaution, a provifi was inferted, " that nothing in the
" a&.fhall be taken or deemned to bar any perfon, 9r perfons,
,t'their heirs or affigns, who may have obtained any juft or
"i'lawful right to the fid ifland, or any part thereof, before the
"pafring of the a6L" 2 Tl'ol. 5o. f 4. (DalL. Edit.) It is
faid, that h e lift tranfmitted by ihe 'Governor of Firginiadoes
not fpecif' the location of Montour's Ifland; but it i? found
that 'the lift on which Neville and Ritchie made their furvey for
the leffor'of the Plaintiff, did comprife the lands mentioned in
the dedlaration; and the Defendant had full notice of the Fir,.
;inia claim, before he paid any part of his purchafe money.
'Having,' theii, precifely afcertained the fpot by the location,
(and in 'the prefent cafe, a furvey was unneceflary, either to
identify the ifland, or to afeertain the quantity of land it conrained) the leff6'r of the Plaintiff required a right under Firginia, which ,wanted no other form or a& than the ratification
of the compa l, to make it complete. That ratification is accordingly given on the exprefs condition " that the private pro" perty and rights of all perfons acquired under, founded on, or
" recognized by, the laws of either country, previous to the date
"hereof, befaved and confirmed to them, although they fhall be
The right of the Leffor of
" found to fall within the other."
the Plantiff, it is repeated, was acquired under, founded on, and
iecognized by the laws of Virginia, and that right is not only
faved, but cofirmed by a covenant or law of Pennfylvania. That
a new warrant was not necefla'ry after the cefiion, is proved by
and
thearoceedings on the kirginialocation upon Racoon creek;there

454-

C-AEs rukd and adjudged in"
the
there is no magic in the defcription of a patent, *hich may not

79.
-

be fupplied by fomething equivalent ; as, in the prefent cafe, by

a folemn compad. The property of the ifland originally belonged to one or other of the fiates ;-,one of them grants it to
theLeffor of the Plaintiff; and the other confirms the grant;what form of conveyance can be more effeiual and conclufive?
(r.) Ibid. 3Ol. b. lb. 302. a. 2 Dall. Rep. 98.
Co.InLitt.2
this view b.t5
of the fubjed, it is eafy to difpofe of other

obje6tions that the Defendant's counfel have fuggefted . Thus,
the a6t of limitations (2 I/oi. 282. Doll edit.) relates only to
Ptennfylvania warrants, or improvement rights; whereas the
Leffor of the Plaintiff claims entirely under a Virgi.ia warrant.
Again: the refervation and exception of iflands in the Ohio
from applications for warrants aid furveys, can only operate
where the iflands belong to Pennfylvania; they are referved
and excepted from applications under a particular feCtion of the
law, but not from applications founded on a previous lien; and
-there is a faving of the Defendants pre-emption right, which
is virtuallyarnd by reference to the provifo in his grafit, a faving
of the right of the Leffor of the Plaintiff.
With refpea to the title of the Defendant, (though the Leffor of the Plaintiff muft fucceed upon the ftrength of his own
title, and not by the weaknefs of his antagonift's) it may be
permitted generally to obferve, that it is founded on a grant
maJe out of the ufual courfe; that it is made fubjec& to all previous rights ; that the patent was taken out with exprefs notice of thet'-irginiaright: and that, under fuch circumifances,
if the Leffor of the Plairitiff has a good titl.e the Defendant's

patent muff be merely void.
I1. But it remains to confider the right of the Leffor of the
Plaintiff to be relieved in the prefent form ofadtion: And it is

furely extraordinary, after his fuit has adually been difmiffed in
equity, becaufe his remedy in P-ennfylvania was at law, that he.
fhould now be told, that he mutt fail at law, becaufe his'remedy
is in equity--doomed to be forever fufpended between the two
jurfdi6tions, like Mahomet's coffin between heaven and earth !!
Bat the title of the Leffor of the Plaintiff is a legal title ;.and
even ifit were only an equitable title, the remedy by eje6)niert
is the only one ira
Pennfylvania.*'
'The 3 4 th feaion of the judicial a6 l (I Fol 74. Swift's, edit.)
adopts the laws of the feveral ftat6s, as rules of decifion in trials
at
[tit:
trte, that tde cattfe was originally inftituted on the equity ide
nr the Court, bjut owing to frme obie~tiunon account of the citizen-

Ihip of the parties,.as well as to an opinion, that a legal reniedy was

apjic blc toan equitable title in t'enn hIvani7, the Bih"Was difinlfi'd.

SUPREME COURT of the United States.
at common law: Now, as in England the laws are defined to
be general cuftoms, local cuftoms, and ads, of Parliament;

.
the laws muft be defined to bje
z B1. . 6 3. fo in'Pennfylvania,
the common lawi as modified by pra6lice, and, 6tslof the General Affembly. If, therefore,'a plain, adeqate, and complete
remedy'can be had at law, according to the lawsof Pennfylva.nia,- the Leffor of the Plaintiff is not entitled to' refort to a
Court of Equity. Such a remedy can be'had, to theextent of
the.prefent demand. A Plaintiff may (confiftently with the
principles of.law) frame his demand for the whole, or for a part,
of his right: he may claim a portion of it, as poffeffion of the
eftate, at law; and, if he thinks it necefrary, he may refort to
equityfor a conveyance, or an injunaion, to fqrtify and fecure
his poffeffion' 'The Lefibr of the Paint iaf.rts a legal right
a.poffeffory remedy.
of poffeffion; and an adion-of eje&ment is.
3 BI.. C. a95. r8o. x Burr. It is immaterial, how minute his
intereft is, if it is a legal intereft; Run. 9 .,and it may eafily be
flewnthat the title is a legal title in.Pennfylvania, againft the
'tate, and againft all claimers under the flate. By the charter
of Pennfylvanla, the fyftemof feudal tenures was recognized;
and lands were held in fQccage, fo that feizen was a techpicAl
principle priginally incorporated into the tenure of our eftates.;
but what conftitutes a feizen, is, perhaps,ftill as unlcertain, as it
was formerly thought to be by Lord Mansfield, who fays in a
general definition, that " feizen is a technical term, to denote
the completion of that invefliture,,by which the tenant was admittedinto the tenure; and without which, no freehold could
be conflituted or pafs." i Burr. 60. 107. To effeduate this
feizen, fhorter and eafier modes by deeds executed, zcknowledged, and recorded, were foon adopted in Pennfylvania, than
feoffnments at common law, or conveyances under the flatute of
ufes: i Vol. Penn. Laws. p. iii. f 5- (Dall edit.) Ibid. in Appendix. p. 27. 8. And though thefe modes alone are adopted
by pofitive ftatutes, long ufage has given the fame force and
effe& to other evidences of title ;-as a warrant and furvey ;-a
contra& to purchafe lands, and payment, or tender, of the confideration ;-which give a legal eftate, and produce all the confequences of a feoffinent ; namely, dower, tenancy by the curtefy, forfeiture, efcheat &c. 2 Dall. Rep. 98. But the title of
the Leffor of the Plaintiff, though it fprung from the Proclamation, and though it is fortified, by the ufage of Penn/ylvania
will be found, on ftill higher ground, to be a legal title: it emanates from the Legiflature, and therefore from the Commonemphatically, a Law, and, therefore, fuperior to
Wealth ; it is,
any mere Executive exemplification: it is a public covenant ;
it muft be conftrued as a patent from the fovereign ; and whereever

1799"
.- j-4

. 56
•I79..

5bA SEs ruled aiid adjudged in

the

ver two conflru~ions arife on any iftdmen of grant or /o.2
,Jfirmation, thi which gives effed toit flall prevail. 9 Go. xjt
a. to Co. 67. K 9'Co. :7. b. 6 Co. 6. a.
From this 'de of granting, it is, alfob to be reriiaied, a le-gal title only-c.3ztbe deriied ; for, where a title of an equitable
-nature arifes, iJrn oft be fupported by an exprefs; d impiCd
truit in the grantor 'and in relation to a foereigii; or to aC?poration, 'the firi- iules bf the 66mmon laww-ill.not allow eiBac. A'br. rA
,tler to ltand,in'the' predicament of a truftee.
tit. " Corporation"' (Sih edit.) Gilb. 1. Ufes thd trujls. 5. 170i

Founding thei rights of the Leffor of the Plaintiff dn legal
,principles, thee is no pretence for cdnfialering ihe Defdndant
*as his trufteef undera patent afterwards obtained, and Which is
merely void. :But 1w6rds of grant ufed in the Legiflative a&
of a Republicai 'G6vernment, fuch as the compad, muf al .
ways be, coriftriied tW pafs the legal, eftate, unlefs a trufee N
exprefsly appoird1eih.
,
1
r
* The CHIEF Jtrs'itc , on th laff daiy of the tbrhi deliver.
of the court as follows:
ed the: opinion
EL.S~oTI-iCbie~t;lice.
,Itappe rs that Wi'tlliath Dou 'I
iLLSWORTH Chief7t
E
Juc.
'I aper
lafs, for fervices rendered, acquired under the Kirig's,ProclaL
;mation of 1763, i right to
0ooo-acres of unappropriited land
in America; which right he affigned to Charles Sini the leffor
of the Plaintiff belo: . And altiough by the terms of the pro*
clamation, the perondi application of Douglafs was re-quifite
to obtain a land warrant dn the faid right, yet the laws bfP irginia, paffed fubfequent to her independence,' difpe'nfed'vith
fuch perfonal applicalfion, and r.ade a w~iiant'iffuable 6o the
affignee, Signs, he being an inhabitant 6f that ftate 6n ihe. gd
of May, 1779. A warrant he accordingly obtained, ard 'the
fame duly located on Montour's Ifland, the land in queftion;
'which his warrant wag more than fuffient to'coveri and which;
from its defcriptioin as an ifland, was perfeetlv pir.ted aiid diftinguifled fiom all other land: By Which means Simn'i abquir..
ed to the fI'id ifland a complete equiiWble title; and one which'
needed ofily.a patent of confirmation to reider it a cbmplete legal title. A confirmation of this' equitable title, as effe&Lual as
that of any patent could have been, was afterwards zoniprifed
in the cormpa& beteen Firginia a:id Pknnfylvania, and in th&
ratification of the fame by the legiflative aft of the latter: The
terms therein of " relerve and confirmation" of the " rights
which had b en previoufly acfired under firginiai in the ter-'
ritory thereby relinquiihed to Pennfylvaniai muff, from the
Ptture of the tranl-adion, lie expounded favorably for thofe
rights, aiid fo that titles, before ffbIfantialy good; ihould not
lfter

tuijirgm

Cduwit'

f the Othid St,eXe-

btter a chaige 6f J.arifdition, be defeateidt-r qteftln1d fifikmrin deftsi d rafttfi-the pprs, that .'im-S 1ince the faid compa
tification, has, without any laches that would lrejudice hi's
dLaim, 6talrieda legal ftrvey of the faid lWnit uider Penhfyldn7a : in vtihikh ffe,
i~l.t; or gs in this' cafe coxfideriti6h- pa1td, aid fPdrVte, th ilgh 6nac6mapanidd.by apateht, gi,
ai l
i/'r t dftr.y,
edri
,hi .. s fifficfient i ejement. Wh
66Yla5
I6z ad.udkedf t6 give futh right,, whether fro/i a
deee: 6f ia iry p, Wers dr for other reafons of policy o
iihaterial. The righi onhce having becobe.
j~sfh,
i 6t n
...
•dI 4I
flbqiJh'd eifl"ti'ih't, "rid haP.ihg, incorporated itfelf as fueh4
WIffh prperty ahd tdiwre'si it rer6ins a legal right notwithItanding any new diftributioh of judicil po',ers, and mufA be
efad'd by t&e orfitMoA faw courts of the Uiitd State4 i
Peinfylvainia7, as a rule of decifibh;
i" offthd Cir&fit Couiit affirmed:'
' the'3bi5C
. ht itt,.Yuiie. Thbugb Iconcr %itli theljudgel
,t the Cdet iii affirming the judgment bf thp Circdit Couft;
t
in the idafdns for aflIrmance, I think
y-t is. I differ from the&
it fPudpQ
my opinion
tt partiulally.
e 't"diiire
iis ne - frary.
to,to.fate
f*Jt~
d th'With
I* Wttr ti &ldthis &ih th greaterdiftiitiefs
it"
according
title is ceffr to
elint I flo~ili bferVe tipon (the ntur'e of this
try idih' ldf it; frorm its origin t6 wfhat dmay be-deemed its'con,*tIiirhtafidh6 at leafA foi the.uroote of maintaining this eje6tmefit.
.My obfe~aiti s theefdrd; will be undet the fllo 'WingheaCrs
ptg
-6f iriqtkiry;
if. whetleIt- it fuffidcentily i-eas that Wilidm Douglai
W9§ enrtitWd to a militi'y riht, fuch as it wasi under the PI'o.
Ulafhti6ii , t .x76i.
,..
I'd. .Wh-tth

the right of

ozgIas, iii c1fhe'vas fo entitled/

4h§ af.fl.f ble unde" the, kpoal Go~,enment, 6 fince..

Wether the Lefior.of the Plaintiff in the ejecment,
ji'd a titlr ah4d if dinya of what nature it was; under the laws
g Prgii.
4th . W IRet he niid'. an titki ftibftqueni ie the c6mpga i
itide the lt. of Pennfylvdnia.
tIi; lV&fi& i f he had a titk;-it Was fitch as; Was fuflicieint
-ib
rihniwi~i this' eje rnent.
Thi
N in
VOL; I.-,
3 d.

flIfion of the pniori
, it h
O
Js
t16F
ioferv6d
diiF
4Tht
indifptltion prevdncedqhis a'tbf thd Court, that Judge IREELL,whofe
rendance). conturred in thle refult, but fdr r'eafqns, in fdm~e .rd

'o6tAs, dlr? .retit trorit ti&fi' thich iaa ,e'n 6ffrktd.

t I h vd fiUd

I fI oud thirk tkd
,b'e~d favored with a copy of Judge IRIDELt't note$-,
them.
ieport of he cafe ianpcrfeft without puibfhinz

CAsEs ruled ard adjudged in the
The firfi queflion is,
• I. Whether it fufficiently appears that JI 7illiam Douglas was
entitled to a military right, fuch as it was, under the Proclamation of 17 63 ?
Though the finding be not altogether fo corredl as it might
have been, yet I think-it may be fairly inferred that lWillian
Douglas had all the requifites to entitle him to a military right
.under that Proclamation, efpecially as the Jury have faid gene-'
raly that the King gave to him the right in queftion.by that
:Proclanation, which could not have been in fa6d true' had any
of the requifites been wanting, and though a geiieral finding
inconfiftent with a particular one cannot ftand(, vet I am of
opinion a particular finding confiftent 'with a general one may.
I " I
The next queftion is,
2. Whether the right of Douglas was aflignable under the
Royal Government, or fince ?
The grant was general 'to all who were the objects of it,
and'req'uired 'only evidence of pr6per fe'rvicei and the ufual
fIleps towards obtaining a -grant 'under any of the then Provinives. The'Royal faith was pledged, that. in fich a cafe a grant
fhould iffue.' It was immaterial, at that time, in what province
.the grant-was obtained, as allbelonged equally to the Crown.
The grant was for meritorious fervices already performed, and
'therefore i't
iva§,an intereft, though in rome degree indefinite in
it's nature, fandlioned by every principle of moral obligation,
and fuch as the party entitled might, on the moft folemn.principles
.ofpublic juftice, confidently demand.:' Upon a large fcale, the
;Crown was certainly a truftee for all thofe perfons to 'whom
its faith was pledged ; and, therefore,fo far as nopa.rticularpre•r6 gative of the Crown interfered, it was rational to confider it
-in the light of any other truft. It has been doubtful whether
the Crown could in any cafe be a truftee, fo as to be the objed
.of'any municipal decifion but the law could never prefume
(holwever the fad may be) that the Crown would not faithfully
perform any truft belonging to it. The only difference be:tween that and a priVate truft, is, that the. latter is clearly
enforcible by a Court of Equity ; the former perhaps muft be
Jeft to the confcience of the Crown itfelf. But this makes no
difference in the nature of the intereft. If this had been a
'private truft, it-w'ould at leaft have amounted to.what
in Equity is called a poffibility, and it hasbeen long fettled that a pofi.bilfty is aflignable in Equity for a valuable confideration. I fee
no reafon Why that pr'inciple cannot applyhere. The neceffL'ty of a p'er(onal applicati6n was undoubtedly indifpenfible
.under the Royal government ; but the two things are, in my
opinion, perfedtly compatibic. Suppofe fuch an affignment
had

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

had been made, a perfonal' application4'was flill neceffary, and
very probably for the judiciou s reafons affigned at the Bar ; but
after the grant, obtained on fuch perfonal application, if the
intereft had been fairly affigned before, the 'affignee would have'
been entitled to a conveyan"ce, If none had been made, which'
would have been an acknowledgment of, the fairnefs of the
tranfaafion, Chancery only could have been applied to, to compel
a conveyance. The affignor or his heir would then have had toy
anfwer on oath, and an examination of all particulars might
have been made, after which, if the Court had-entertained the
leaft doubt of the fairnefs of the tranfation, they would lnot
,have ordered a conveyance. This wovld be a fuflicient guard
againfl fraud. Butthe affignment previous t6 an a~qual grant
might have been neceffary even to favean officer from fiarving.
Howy hard would have been his condition, if he could have
made no immediate ufe of a bounty of the Crown, exprefsly
intended as a provifion for him, but which circumfiances might

prevent his receiving for years ?
' Thus the 'cafe flood, as I conceive, under -the Royal govern-'

ment. By the Revolution, the circumrfances of it were; in
fome degree, changed, but not fo as, in my opinion, materially
,to alter the nature of the' title in this refped. The duty of.
the Crown, flubftantially, devolved on the feveral States, who
became poffeftfd of the territory formerly belonging wholly to
the Crown; but as it might be an unreafonable thing to htrden any one State with the whole of thefe provifions, 'fome
modification of the title might be expeited fo as to prevent
this injury. This, however, does not feem to afford any reafon
why it Ihould 'not rem.in an affignable intereft, fubje& to the

reftri6tion I mentioned before, in cafe a perfonal application
was fill infifted upon, which it was undoubtedly optional in the
States to require, or not.' I therefore am of opinion, that the
intereft ftill remained affignable, fubje& only to fuch regulations as each State might think proper to require.
The next fubject of enquiry is,
3 d.. Whether the Leffor of the Plaintiff in the ejeinent had
a title, and if any, of what nature it was, under the lawsrof Virginia?
I confefs I have had great difficulty in conftruing the two
Virginia a6ts, of May, and O&Tober, 1779, and if the latter za6l
had admitted of fuch a conftru~tion that 'I could, without abfurdity or manifeft injuftice have confined the words "or affigns"
in that a t, to mean only the heirs or affigns of thofe fpecially
named in the former, I fhould undoubtedly have preferred that
'conftru(Hion; becaufe in the laft adtbf May, 1779, the Virginia
Legiflature exprcfsly defignated the obe6ts, for whom they
mearY

459
1799.

46P
.799.

,C~sf, r vjed-Mand adjodged in ,the
me-nt -to prQvide; and wh~tever Xmight.th,iqk of .that provi.j
,one) 'I thoul,
fion (though I am far from thinking ita i Aunjpl
deem it unwarr.Ianted to extend itto any otherls by cu ruftio6
f a fwbfequent law, without plain words .of extepfion, unle
there was an irrefiffible implication to authorife .it. ,Such an
implication, I think, exifts here. The firit a6t fpecifies the
t. Thofe.whp had.obtairied
various obje&s of its provifion': fL
•Warrant from the Governor of Yi'ginia, under ,tbe fqrmer
oveirnent. 2d. Wheri the fervicc was p'er(rmed .by pin
irginia. .3.1.Where the fervice was per-.
oreabiant f
or corps adually raifcd in Virginia.
regiment
in
foe
formed
'TheaA of Oa~ober, 1779, introduces a new prqv, fiopn for tot-ne
perfons or other, viz. a re dence in Virginia att the pqafi ngf tkp
former;af (the 3 d ofMay, 17 7c) but they exprPfsycppt from
'the qpmration of 'this provifiqn thofe who had obtained warr.ants
.under the former government, 'and 'ihofe wl o hd performed
military fervice in rome regiment or corps act~ally raifed in
Virginia, and had ferved under the circumf.anIces parIiculartly
defcribed in the'a&. They alfo except perfons vwbo h;ad qbtlt'i
do-not, 4?owqver,
ed a title under any former warant.. They
whp rerd
manner one deferip.tion 9f p, fopi,
except in any
inhabi
were
Wo
pefos
viz.
provided for in the formerlaw,
tants of V-irginia, and had performed military fervice" in frme
ether than a Virginia regiment or corps unlqfs they. o(on
perfons clain ing inder 'them'had 'prexc,,oufly obtqjneda {yarranj,
for it. But the a~taffokds ho'indicqtion .'rom whic h wI-.hivea
right to infer, that the Legiflature ment to rqaeai any Pf thq
provifions ini the tormer 1aW ; Ojf thy di-d ,ot,. hpnipipon
the coniflruioin of the Council forthe Plainjif0'in Error,.Ihe
provifion,as to the perfoi)s I have lqff meptiop.1d, in plain. n,
We art willing to;rewv.ard -the ferW
glifh would fland thus
:' vices.of any of ithe iiahitant3 of our own .partzqi!lar jf~e,
whe under :Vhe Royal gov'ernme-nit by.giving foil e @"Yfl
the Royal proclamat.iqn, by which the faith "f the o-i,,,er
".goverhment was pledged, provided.the,prfo;, his ei.s, or
o/]fi s, a6lual/y re/ided iy Vir ;niq on the _dof.gAy, P.H79.
Oy.or
.tore that
thitsState
f'{'B2.t if f~uh perfo.n nzoved out of
died 'nd left heirs or afigns, who"eith*r never refided il;Vi
' ginia, or did iot,aalually refiide there,on' ihe aufpiciot 3 d of.
M.4ay, " 779, he, ihe,'.r the iall receive ,'othingfior'cbfe,." vie.' 8ich a piovifion wo(uld u.qbted.ly:be highlyredictjous, for the grant under the procamation was for fezvce
,aeyit,'Iy~p, ferv,ices of ahighlymreritorious p!at ire, the rif.que
t 'life,.and 'acrifice of priv. te ,eafe,-by entering -into the army
gta tiric,. periqd,"for.the dfeqnc- of their.cqntry; aid.t
fwph pertlonas-'ria.:iifly n adioa! mciit could atta'ah hyn
refide ce

SU P REDE Co.R

. of lhe UVnKed tatej,

7
'ay, i.
IIfthe,refar7:an
Tefigence in Virali on the 3 d
compelled, upon principles 'of refpe t to the egifqture, to
ba idon ibis 6on11ru~iqio; and then there remains nto mher'bu .t
tq fuppofe, that they meaht.t9 provide by implicati.Qn for.a, ne yv
defcriptipn of perfons (thoygh under npoative, informq.1, apdljncorr.eal words,) yiz". pep.s who .had fairly biai'n 8 titles yn'4er any military grant, though not of tie fpecial de crirptiow
before enumerated,,f fulch perfon,hs heirs, or affns,.autliy
efid4d in Virginia on the,3d of May 779. Waillng, in thor?
to coqfirm all'fair purchafds made by permabnent, not ocafional
refideoits in Virgi ti- (of.which te refidence
11~ at that
£1iI be a teft) when t ey q igh_-nn9cgltly haye fippofed'
eiier that Virginia wits bond to provide for ail mtitary'rights
prcfented or would be di(pofed upon ajarge and liberal 'cale to
do f6, an.d ._ah tbu.s laid 9ut .teir poney fr9.. a kind of indeinite confid-ence.in the future c9ndua of 'their own Legiflatur.e,:
tiented' upVi(
And the word f hereafter" that. has bean
6? 3 d fe.in, of the aQf the 3 d..of ,AY, X779,) and thFi,
prpefs fving iq the a&-'fbdqtber, 177 'of all titles underwarrants formerly ifful, indepdegt of die faying ,of. titles under
warrants from the former gpyerntyn, feemArongly_ . fayppi.r
this conft'u&on". yconrvijng, he a(%in this manner, hough
Iorme di ffuties"yet remain, they arp, in ,my opifoion, fewr rtin
.are it ore
C..t
other
conftru~ion;
andfenfe,
as they
upon-the
I'deern
my"confi
duty as
:4
jtifti'ce,
anid common
wiih' equity,

._Juige,

to

fupport, the conifruaion 'which ,will 'tolerate'thefe, in

prefe,rence to one .which is att~nded .w.th greater .dlffic~uiie.,
nd accpmpani~d with abfurdity andinjn~cel efpecially, asthat
jrnmaiI;
eqnfrw~on will make ,both aas confitent in " ther

,°b'eas,! and the other (without

.any.
indication.,from the appa-.

ryent meaning of the .Legiflature) would an~iount to an expi-ef~s
y'epeal of an ,impprta.jt provifion; .and nearly .in ef
revoke a grant ad7lually ,mae, which, if within the coihpe~r
tence of 'a Legiflature, is undoubtedly one ot" the moil odious
als of its ,power, .and .which ..nqthip,g butab.folute necelity
Alhpuldl faorce us to fay they intended.
2.Bea
""Thetit.le, therefore, fo.fjar, under the laws of J'rginia,I thirik
.was a veiled right. 'But it feemns t p me now material to envquire, whether the title under thle laws of Virginia was complete or incomplete. It is admitted, that a patent was regularly
neceffary to complete .the .title, even had a-furvey been m~de,,
.and it is at 1 ail doubtMu whether'a. warrant and fyrvy~would
'have given any legal right of: 'poffelion' at all. 'But in 'this
W9 eacafe, it is contended, a fuirvey was not n. ce~ffa~, 'for tw
,fons: i. Be'caufe the location of an ifl; nd was' certain,.and the
, hp[e i~lzd y.9nud not exceed .the ,uaptit.y iews. entitled to.

4A:

.62
1799.
x

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

2. Becaufe no money was to have been paid upon it.

Thefe
reafons do not fatisfy me that a furvey was unneceffary. A furvey I confider in all inflances to be highly ufeful, in order that
it may be officially afcertained, and officially known', not only
what land in particular is taken up, but alfo its exad quantity,
fo far as it is material to fpecify it, for the information of the
public, from whom the grant isto be obtained, as well as that
of any individual who may have interfering claims or pretenlions, The private knowledge of a few particular perfons who
may know the fpot thoroughly, is by no means equal to the authentic information which an adual furvey, a regular report, and
a corred record, c.an convey ; and the inflances are fo very few,
where exa& information can otherwife be obtained, that there
is no occ'afion for the fake of thofe to make an exception : It
would do no good, and might lead to endlefs difficulties. I
think, therefore, the neceflity of a furvey ought to be deemed
general and indifpenfible, and there being none in this cafe previouas to the compacff made with Pennfylvania, the title fo far
was incomplete. But I admit, had a furvey been unneceffary,
and had fuch fteps been taken in Virginia as would, of courfe,
have intitled the Defendant in error to a patefit, then the compaa and the a& of confirmation in confequencd might have been
deemed'a complet e and perfed affurance of it, and as effe&ual
as if a patent had been adually granted before the compad un
der the laws of Virginia.'
With refpe& to the payment of 44o. it is clearto me,
that as that was meant as full purchafe money for land, to which
the perfon who entered had no right before, it never can apply
to a cafe where the grant was for fervice already performed,
unlefs the Legifliture had wanted both common fenfe and common honetly. -Ihave not hefitated a moment to rejed that
conftru&ion, the words in no manner requiring it, and eafily
admitting of the 6onfrudion given by the counfel for the Defendant in error.
The finding in this cafe, I think, fiufficiently eftablifh es a relinquifhrnent of the !ndiah title. previo us to the year 1779, fo as
to authorize an entry and location in the river Ohio, at the times
the entry and location on behalf of the Defendant in error took
place, without a violation of any duty either toa particular
State or to the United States.
I come now to the next head of inquiry,
4. Whether the Defendant in error had any title, fubfcquenrt
to the compad' under the' laws of Pennfylvania ?
I do not confider that this compad, and the ad in confirrn.tion of it, inimediately converted all inchoate and impel f&
sights under 'Virginia into abfolute and perfed ones under
Penijflvania,

SUPRE ME COURT of the United States.

Pennfylvania,.but that the intention was, fuch as the title was 1799.
inder Virginia, it fhould fubfa'nrtially'be under Pennfylvania,
in preference to any younger right that might 'have been. obtained in any manner inder Pennfylvania. if the manner of
proceeding on both fides was the fame, then the F/irginidclaimant had nothing to do, but to proceed under the laws of the lat.ter, as if his original title had been obtained from Pennfylvania.
If the manner of Oroceeding in both'States had been different,
then I flhould have fuppofed it would have been proper for Pennfylvaniia to pafs a hew law adequate 'to this new cafe, that the
faith of the State might have been duly obferved. But I conceive under both States a furvey was indifpefifible, the fame
reafons which I haveuiged on this fubje&, in confidering the
cafe of the Virginia right, applying equally.to both States.' The
furvey that was accordingly had under the State of Pennfylvania
I think was a valid one, notwithftanding the obje6tion as to the
'bed 'of the river, for as the law is general, (fuch at leaft it appears to me) that where'two cbuntries, or two counties, border on a navigable" river, the middle of the bed of the river is
the boundary line, 1 fee nothing in this cafe to prove it an excepti6n,' and confenquently the furvey appears to have been
'nade by' the praper authority. With regard to the objedion
that in the 9 th finding it is ftated, that the Governor of Vrginia
1,tranfimitted in 1784 a jt.!? and true lift of entries made under
the authority of Virginia in the difputed territory, in which
lift the ifla.nd in queftion is not comprehended, and therefore
the verdi& impliedly excludes it, I anfwer, if, If the Governor had or had riot tranfmiitted a perfed lift, this could not
have deprived any party really entitled of fhewing a title which
hiad been omitted, either defignedly (though that could not be
prefumed,.but [flate it as t'he frongeftrcafe) or inadvertently, oil
the part (fthe Governor, where at leaft an adverfe claimant under Pem'wjylvania was'.not prejudiced by fuch omiffion;'but had
early and tufficignt notice of.the prior right, before he had completed his own. 92d. -It m'ayb'e a true lift, fo far as it goes; but
not perfeit for want of a complete knowledge of allparticulars,

Ibme of which might hav been omitted to be afcertained in the
ufual and proper manner. 3d. The implication in this cafe
cannot have the effef contended for, becaufd the iota finding
refers to that lift, as including the entry and location of the De'fendant in error, and the 4 th finding declares, that two Deputy
Surveyors under the Surveyor General of Pennfylvania did in
1785 receive from the Surveyor* General's office, a lift of entries made under the authority of Virginia, which lift included
the entry for the land in the declaration mentioned.
The furvey being in my opinion good, though it Was fubfequent

:64
i7j.
Srelate

CASEs ruled arid Adjudgdd in ftie
tequent to the grant to the Plainti- in error, liall be deefnid t6
to the time of taking out the warrant, not Only in confel
quence of the coiipa&, which fecured all prior rights of firginia, and th6 a& in confihnation of it, but alto on account of
the exprefs faving of all prior rights in the grant to the Plaintiff in error by the commonwealth of Pennjvania, who teem
to have guarded with folicitude againfl any ruppored breach of
public faith, and therefore it is immaterial to enquire, what
would have been the cafe had Pennfylvania exprefsly violated
it. But where a Legiflature has conttitutional authority t6
pars any law, I can conceive a manifeE diffin&ion between
right and fewver; between the obligation on the part of the Legiflature, upon piiriciples of morality, to give ee6 to a folemm
compal, and their, in faa, making a law in violation of it, which
it is the duty of the Courts to 6bey. Thie Legiflature is reIfrialed indeed in this particulai by the conflitution of the United tares ; and a treaty of the United States ig, by its own authority, defalo, as well as morally, binding, while it continues
in force, becaufe it fhall be the fuprehie law of the land. tut
until this conrfitutiorr did patsv I fhould doubt very much,
whether if the Legiflature had a~tuall violated the compaA,
the Court could here fet up the compa& againfi the law, upon
principles which I hqve ftated at large in myrargutment on the
ubje& of the Britih debts, and to which I beg leave to refer*
as it is now publifhing in Mr. Dallas's Reports.* I fay this
only incidentally, on account of obfervations on this fubjea at
the bar, in which I by no means acquietce.
The warrant and furvey being thus by me deemed complete
and unexceptionable, under the commonwealth of Pelnnfylva
nia, the only remaining enquiry is,
3. Whether if the Defendant in error had a title, it was fu6h
as was fufficient to maintain this ejeament ?
Two objections are flated under this head.
t. That the title, fuch as it is, is only an equitable, not a legal one, and therefore will not maintain an ejeament.
2. That it is not brought within proper time, but is barren1
by the Statute of limitations.
As to the firfi objedfion, did this title fland merely as an equitable one, I fhould fArongly incline againif it, if not deem it altogether infufficient. It is of infinite moment, in my opinion,
that principles of law and equity fhould not be confounded,
otherwire inextricable confufion will arire; neither will be proterly underftood - and inftead of both being adminiftered with
ufeful guards, which the policy of each fyftem has devifed againff
abufe, an heterogenums mafs of principles, not intended to affort with each otier, Will be blended-together, and the fubf.ance

Of

-* Ant. r . :,56 .

SUPRfME- COuVrr

of the' tUnitad' S&ates.

1,

Sjuffic wi'll'foon, follow the.formns cakulatedt-flecure it. T

1799.

tbtally rejef' all thermoder.n cafes.introduced by LordA4'anf

6

'field, and fupported Iby fome other judges, but lately, wifely.
as iconiceive, difcountenainced', by the prefent Court of.King's
Bench,-of taking notice'of a..GC/,u0i qua rufiat all in' any other
r'igk 'than as, holding, in faa pofeffion, with the concurrence of,
il:e.§l Trufee. So, far, corififtent with legal, principla, a

Coutiay go, but not, as I conceive, one feep. further, and that,
it yiolaie _ the moft important princip!es of the common law
to confider'a. Gefui que trufl as having an iota-of legal right,
ag4.Iinft the Truftee himfelf. Whatever excufe a Court may
have for, doing this , when the want of a Court of equity may
urge them to pi'ocure fubilantial ju{*ice, by a deviation fior le'gal ftrianefs as to form, I (hould hefitate long, before I fhould
?deen myfelf warranfted in affenting to fuch a pradice, when
both powers ire Veftel in the very fame Court, but each has
different modes of proceeding prefcribed.to it. But Ithinl.k
are relieved from any dilemma of Nhis, kind; by ftrong andluni
'equivocal declarations of highly refpcable gentlmen of,'1Ilf
experie. ce in this Stalte, -that a warrant and furvey, where no
IMoney remained to b6 paid, and a patent was only to afcertain
that a previous requifites had been complied with, has been
"uniformlv deemed a legal title, as oppofed to an eqidtmble one;
And has 11 the confequences as fuch, even as to Dower, which
affordsa Afrong prefumption in favor of the fuppofied legal title,
for it, has been. fo long held '(thotzgh I think erroneoufly at
firfi) that there fhould be no Dower of a truft eftate, that perhaps no Judge would be warranted in a Court of Chancery in
allowin- it. Whether this opinion was originally right or not,
,e'thavirig been the ground of many titles it would be improper in the Court to (hake it. I am not certain, alfo) but it may
properly be cdnfidered; that the proprietor under a warrant
"and furvey (according to long ufage) is at leaft in the nature
of a teiant at will to the piublic, and as fuch has a right of poffeffion againti'all others, except fome perfon having a better right,
claiming un der the public; which better right does not, for the
reafonsI haVe given; exift in this cafei in the Plaintiff in error,
This point, however, I merely intimate,. it not being neceffart
to deliver an opinion upon it.
Another circutmfiance has occurred to me, which I fuggefl,
with diffidence, as it was not fpok'en to at the bar, that though
the compaa and confirming aa- did not render a furvey unnecefFlary, yet when a furvey was made, it being a right derived
from compact alone, the title ought to fland on that grouni
alone, and not depend on a patent, which imports a grant by the
State
0 0.o
Vol. II.

j66
1799.
-

CASES

ruled and adjudged &c.

Stateat its own difcretion, of property of its own, and feems to
imply that the State is the fole agent in the conveyance of the
title.
With refpe& to the objeffion from the ifatute of limitations,
it is fufficiene to fay, that that a6* in my mind, clearly contemplates other objeas, and neither in its letter, or fpirit, is to be
applied to this new and peCUliar cafe ; but admitting that it
did, the fas in this cafe do not come within the provifions of
it, the're appearing to have been no fuch laches as the aa contemplated to prevent;

Supreme

