SUBJ.EME COURT of the United State$.

339
U2.97-.

flUGER

e al. verfus Sourf

C AROLINA.

D ILL in Equity. A fubpcena had been iffued in this caufe,

agreeably to the rule; and an affidavit of the fervice was
now read, in which it was fet forth, that a copy had been de.
livered to the Attorney General i and that a copy had been left
at
under the authority of the United States* and agreeably to rh'e pira&ice of nations, and in the mode required, at the fpecial inftance of the Libellants,
by their public Conful, refident in ihe raid diftri(t of Rhode Iflan'.,
2d. That the cuflody of the proceeds of the prize had come to the
Marfhal in due conrfe of law, and not under the authority of the court
-therefore the difpofal thereof was not undir its jurifdiaiofi.
3d. That the fale of the prize having been made on land, Admiralty
a.ad nojurifdi&ion.

4th. That there was an adequate remedy at common law, by an a&ioa

agaluft the Marfhal for money had and received.
5th. That the prize was made from Britilh fubjeLs in open'war, on'the
iigh feas, by the crew of the fchoone Sanfparei i , belonging to citizens of
the French Republic, commanded by a French citizen, manned with
more than two thirds of her crew by French feamen and marines, and
bearing a commifflion ofwar under the French Republic.
Concludes to the jurifdi&ion on6i, prays that the court will take no
further cognizance, but that the libel be difmifl'ed.
No replication or further pleadings appear on the record, the decree of
the Difirict Court appears to have been given on the libel and plea only,
and is in the following words :
•Nov. 6th, 1794. 4 Upon mature c 9 nfideration of the allegations in the
£ libel contained, and of the pleaof the claimants againft the jurifdiction of the court thereon, and of the arguments of the counfel, &c. it
appears to me that the reafons ailigned, or moft of them, are to the mef rits of the caufe, and not to the jurifdiffion of the court, that they are
f altogether infuflicient to take the cognizance and jurifdictioA of the
court from the prefent caufe as fet forth in the laid libel, and therefore

4I do ftiftain the jurifdiction of the court thereon.'
Afte
By documents annexed to, and mahing a part of the retard, it appears, that
,evious to this uit being inl~ituted, the Libellamts, reprefen:ed by the Br.ih conful,
preferred the fame complaints that are contained in their.libed td the Governor of
Rhode 1fland, who, ii confe7 uence of the faid complaint, and in purfance of ifituc.
tionsfrom the Executeve of the United States, which ae alfo annexed to the record,
4 /idhear the merits of the faid complaint in a folennjudicialform, upon evidence produced and examined on both fedes, andfinal y dif,nifftd the fid roiqlaint, on tho
groend of its being unfipported Iy c*¢i4t,¢c.

CASES ruled and adjudged in' the
1797.

at the Governor's houfe, where the original had, likewife, been
fhewn to the Secretary of the State.
IREDELL
After this decree no rule to anfwver over appears to have been prayed by
the libellants, no further pleadings appear upon the record, but imnmediately after the faid decree, an entry is made in thefe words :
This caufe was continued to the next February term, to'be heard cN
f the merits.'
The caufe is then continued fucceflively, by eonfent of the parties, to
Auguft term 1795, when the judge pronounced his final decree ; the re-cord of which is as follows.
'This cauife having been continued, by confent of the parties, from
term to term, ever fince November term, in the year one thoutand feyen hundred and ninety-folir, for trial upon the merits-it was now
.further moved by the counfel for the libellants,.tha't the' fa'me he furrther continued to next November term, to procure further evidence,
this motion was oppofed by thecounfel for the claimant;, fur that the
'caufe
had been continued three terms, beyond which a further indulC gence would be unreafonable.
Upon a full hearing thereof, it feemed
f to the court, that the caufe ought not to be further continued, and the
'judgment of the court was, that the faid motion for a continuance b
over-ruled.-Whereupon thv caufe being called for hearing upon the
' merits, the libellants declined and
refufed to offer any proofs or argu-.
icents in fuppurt of their faid libel, and thereupon I do adjudge, that
the laid libel he difrniffed, :,nd do further adjudge, order and decree,
that the proceeds ariling from tbpe fales of the laid brig Perfeverance
I and her cargo, in the hainds of the faid William Peck, amounting to
'.5oa8 dollars, be by him, the faid William Peclk, reftored, given up,
'and paid to the fain John Baptifte Bernard, clhimant in the faid caufe,
and refpond ent to the laid libel, firft deducting therefrom the duties paid
into the cullorn-inufe on the faid cargo, and the cominiflion arifing on
the fales of Laid brig and cargo, together villh fuch other expences as
thi$ court nqay alloA; or decree.--and I do further order, adjudge and
decree that the faid libellats pay to the Laid John Baptifle Bernard,
clainmant in t 1 is caufe, as damages occafioned by the detention of faid
monies' arifing from the"falen of the faid brig Perfeverance, after laid
deduction fo to be made asaforefai l, the intereff of the fame from the
24th day ofSepterrber, in the year 1794, to the day of the date of this
dccree,,at the rate of fix per cent. per annurp, as the fame flha'll be caft
and reported by the clerk of this court, upon the finm to be reftored and
4 paid by the Laid William Peck, together with 3co dollars in fu'l! of ali
. other damagp, a.nd rofts fuflained or expended in atsd qbout this caufe."
Firft Monday in Augufl, 1795.
Vppn w,hich an appiaI was inteipofed by the Libel/ants.
PROCEEDINGS IN THE CIRCUIT COURT.
The firfi proceedings in this court are on the 2oth of June 1796, when
Louis Arcambal, Vice Conful of the Freuch Republic, appears' in the
eaufc and files hi 5 aiim,
praying that the libel be d-ifmiffed,- and the
proceeds o? the prize be delivered up to him with damages and coffs.
Iq is admitted as claimant without any oppotition. No further pleadings appear to have taken place il this court. On the 2 5 th of June,
1796, tise court proceed to decree on the appeal in thefe words :
Decreed, that fio much of the decree of thp. Diftrift Court as decreed
that the libel be difmiffed, be and hereby is affirmed, and th:ithe refi.
due of the aid detrree be and hereby is reverfed-aid it is further or(dered and decreed, that the proceeds arifing from the fales of the Laid
f brig Perfeveranee in the hands of William Peck, amounting to oa8
f dollars, be by him reftored and paid to Louis Arcambal, Vice Conful
i ffhie Vrench 1;epublic, adrmittef by this court as claispant in this

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

34!

IREDELL and CHASE, 7 uflces, expreffed fome doubt,
whether fhewing the original to the Secretary of State, would
have

9caufe for the ue ofrthe owners,

officers, and crew of the armed fchoo4 ner Sanfpareil, firft deducting therefrom the duties paid into the cufI tom-houfe on the Laid cargo, and the cornmifion on the fales-it is fur' ther ordered and decreed, that the faid libellants pay to the faid Louis
4 Arcambal for the ufe of the owners, officers, and crtew aforefaid, for
damages occalioned by the detention of the Laid monies arifing from
I the fales f the laid brig Perfeverance and her cargo (after the deduc4 tion aforefaid) 8oo dollars, and alfo the intereft, at the rate of fix per
I cent per annum, on the money in the hands of the faid William Peck,
(after the deduaions aforefaid) from the 24th of September, J794, to
the d"ate of this decree, together with the colts in the Diftri& Court, and
this court.'
Whereupon a writ of error is prayed by Thomas Jennings and Johna
L. Venner, and allowed.
No affignment of errors appears to have been filed in the Court below,
*
according io law ; the fads on which the Circuit Court founded their
decree, do not appear either from the pleadings and decree itfelf, or from
a ltatement made by the parties or by the court.
It is intended by the Defendants in error to obje& to any error in fagl
being affigned or argued by the Plaintiffs, agreeably to the 22d fection of
"thejudiciary act, and for the follo.wingreafons :
i. That it was the duty-of the Plaintiffs in ertor, to fee that the facts
were made to appear on the record, otherwife the court will prefume
that the fatts found by the Circuit Court were fuch as warranted the inference of'law, which they thought proper to draw from them. That on
the authority of the cafes of the United State; v La Vengeance, Pintado v.
.L'eia~d, and #ifcart v. Dauchy, determined at the lafi Supreme Court, this
court cannot, without the confent of the parties', go into the examination
of the evidence annexeg to the record.
2. That the Defendants cannot give their confent to going to a hearing
upon the evidence, becaufe this matter has been kept depending in variots fhapes, for a period of almoft three years, at, the initance of the
Plaintiffs, who have had three hearingg upon the merits'. sit. Before
the Governor of Rhode Ifland. 2d. Before the Diiri(t Court. 3d. Before the Cifcuit Court.
3. Becaufe the Executive of the United States, had edmpetent authority, by the ufage of nation's and the law of the land, to decide,
whether or not there was ground for reflitution in the prefent cafe ; and
whether its jurifdi&ion be exclulive of, or concurrent with, the judicial
Courts, its decifion, obtained on the application of the libellants, is a
bar to the prefent fuit, and even if the Governor of Rhode Ifland, had
ho legal jurifdiffion or cognizance of the cafe, his deciflou ought to be
final, as the award of an arbitrator, or amicable ju4ge, agrexi upon by
the parties.
If, neverthelefs, the Court fhould be of a contrary opinion, the caufe
will remain to be examined on the evidence, which is annexed to the re,
cord, and is too lengthy to admit of an analyfis in this flatement, and
from that evidence the following points will arife.
ift.Apoint of facT: Whether the charges exhibited in the libel are
fupported, and if fo,
2d. The point of lau : Whether the fafs fo ftated in the libel are a fufficient ground in law for a judicial reftit-ution.
Upon the whole, the Defendants in Error pray that the decree of the
Circuit Court may be affirmed with coils and damages for the delay,
to
The generalerrorhas heen aftnedfince tl~e record came up.
pro turc,

4admitted nunc

1797.

ruled and,ajudged in the

'34ts;s,
7.97..

~

haye b.eei .a eryice of.the p.ocefs, conformably.to.the rAle,.without leaving a copy at the ,Governor's houfe: but they agreed
wih the refl of THE COURT, in deeming the fervice, under
the prefent circumftances, to be fufficient in ftritnefs of conflruffion, as well as upon principle.
-The fervice of the fubpoena being thus proved, the Complainant -was ntiea to proceed ex parte; and,, accordingly, moved for and obtained Commiffions, to 'take the examination
of witneffes i 'feveral of'the' States.

CLERKE Plaintiffin Error v'erfus HAR'WOoD.-

''HIS was a writ of Error t6 the'Wigh Court of Appeals, of
. the State of'cZiaryland,.'to remnove the proceeaings in a
eaufe, involving a conftru&ion of the treaty of peace between
the United States and Great Britain,which that Court ha'd de,
cided agajnft the title claimed under the Treaty, by rev erfing
and annulling a previous judgment given in the General Court
of the State, in fayor of the claim. The only obje&ien arifing
On the record, was-whether a paper morey payment ofa BritidA debt into the treafury of Maryland,during the war, by virof a law of the Rate) was a bar to the creditor's recovery at this
jime , And the rolemrn adjudication in Ware vs.' Hylton er al. ant.
p. 99, having fetfl.ed .hat point, )?allas,' for the Defendant in er,
ror, fvbmitted the cafe, without argument, to theCourt, who, in
general terms, reverfed the judgment of the High Court of Appeals, .nd affi,-med the judgment of the Generai court.

It

to wit, the lawful interefl of' the State of Rhode Itfland, being fix per
centuin per annum, on the balance in the hands of the Marflital of the
faid diftri&, and alro. on the fum of eight hundred-dollars awarded as

damages by the faid Circuit Court, to be computed from the 25 th of
June, 1796, the date of the faid decroe.
SiI dekhi

ASHER ROBBTNS,
PETER S. DUPONCEAU.
6th Fbroay, 179 t,

Of Counfe/ witk
the Defndats.

