SUPI.EME COURT

of the United $tates:

1796.

February Term, 1796.

("N

the 4 th of February, a commifion, bearing date the

2 7 th of January, 1796, was read, appointing SAMUEL
CHASE, one of the juffices of the Supreme Court.
.

O

N the 8th of March, a commiflion, bearing date the 4 th
of March, 1796, was read, appointing 'OLIVER ELLSE-

WORTH, CHIEF JUSTICE.

HYLTON, Plaintiff in Error, verfus the UNITED STATES.

r-jHIS was a writ of Error direted to the Circuit Court

Tfor

the Diftrif of V/irginia; and upon the return of the
the
following proceedings appeared. An adtion of
record,
debt had been inftituted to May Term, 1795, by the attorney
of the diflrrid, in the name of the United States, againft Da-

niel I-ylton, to recover the penalty impofed by the'a& of Congrefs, of the 5 th of June, 1794, for not entering, and paying
the duty un, a number of carriages, for the conveyance of perfons, which he kept for his own ufe. The defendant pleaded
nil debet,' whereupon iffue was joined. But the parties, wa-

ving the right of trial by jury, mutually fubmitted the controverfy to the court on a cafe, which flated " That the Defendant, on the 5 th of June, 1794, and therefrom to the laft day of
September following, owned, poffeffed, and kept, 125 chariots
for the conveyance of perfons, and no more : that the chariots
were kept exclufively for the Defendant's own private ufe,
and not to let out to hire, or for the conveyance of perfons for

hirs

17;z

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the'

1796. hire: and that the Defendant had notice according to the a& of
Congrefs, entitled " An a6t laying duties upon carriages for
L
thE conveyance of perfons," but that he omitted and refufed to
make an entry of the faid chat iots, and to pay the duties there,
upon, as in and by the faid recited law is required, alledging
that the faid law was urnconflitutional and- void. If the court
adjudged the Defendant to be liable to pay the tax and fine for
not doing fo, and for not enterinv the carriages, then judgment
fhall be entered for the Plaintiff for Ooo 'dollars, to be difcharged by the payment of 16 dollars, the amount of the duty
and penalty; otherwife that judgment be entered for the De'fendant." After argument, the court (confifing of WILSON
" ufiices) dtlivered their opinions; but. being equally
&
divided, the defendant, by agreement of th8 parties, confeffkd
judgment, as a foundation for the prefent writ of error; which
(as well as the original proceeding) was brought merely to
trythe onftitutionality of the tax.
The caufe was argued at this term, by Lee, the Attorney
General of the United States, and Hamilton, the late Secr~tar,

of the Treafury, in fupport of the tax ; and by Campbell, the
Attorney of the Virginia Diftri6, and Ingerfoll, the Attorney Generll of Penrfvlvania, in oppofition to it. The arguiment turned entirely upon this point, whether the tax on carriages for the conveyance of perfons, kept. fot private ufe,. was
a dire6t tax ? For, if it was not a dired tax, it was ,dmitted
to be rightly laid, within the firft claufe of the 8th fedion of
the if article of the Confflitution, which declares " that all
duties, impoffs and excifes, Ihall be unifrmn throu ghoit the
United States :" But it was contended, that if it was a diredl:
tax, it was unconftitu;:ionally laid, as another claufe of the fame
fedion provides, " th.t no capitation, or other direa, tax fhil!
be laid, unlefs in proportioh to the cenfus, or enumeration, of
the inhabitants of the United States."
THE COURT delivered their opinionsferiatim in the follow,
ing terms.*
CHASE, Juflice. By the cafe flated, only one queftion is
fubmitted to the opinion of this court ;,-whether the law 'of
Congrefs,

of the 5th of Yune,

1794, entitled,

"

An a& to

lay duties upon carriages, for the conveyance of perfons,"
unconflitutionaland void?

The principles laid down, to prove the above law void, are
thefe : Thut a tax on carriages, is a direR tax, and; ther'efore,
by'th conftitution, muff be laid accfrding to the cenfus, dire&ed
The CMifiqlice E-Lsw fTwas Cworn into office, in the morning;
but not having heard the whole of the arganietit, he ded1ine, taking
,riy parl i the decilion of this caufe.

SUPREME CO'URT of the United Stakes.

ed by the conflitution to be taken, to 'afcertaiA the number of 1796.
Reprefentatives from each State : And that the tax in queftion,>.-.,on carriages, is not laid by that rule of apportionment,but by the
rule of uniformiiy, preferibed by the conftitiition, in the caf6
of duties, impofls, and excifes; and a tax on carriages, is not
within either of thofe defcriptions.
By the 2d. fe~ion of the ift. article of the Conflitution, it is
provided, that diret taxes fliall be apportionedamong the. feveral States, according to their numbers, to- be determined by
the rule prefcribed.
By the 9 th feffion of the fame article, it is further provided,
That no capitation, or other direr7 tax, fliall be laid, ufilefs in
proportion to the cenfus, or enumeration, before ditecqed.
By the 8th fecfion of the fame article, it was declared, that
Congrefs fhall have power to lay and collea taxes, duties, impojts, and exc fes ; but all duties, impoy/s, and exc fes, ihall be
unifrrm throughout the United States.
As it was incumbent on the Plaintiff's Council in Error, fo
they took great pains to prove, that the tax on carriages was a
'direatax ; but they did not fatisfy my mind. I think, at leaft,
it maybe doubted; and if I only doubted, I lhould affirri the
judgment of the Circuit Court. The deliberate decifion of
the National Legiflature, (who did not confider a tax on carriages a direa taxi but thought it was within the defcription of
.a duty) would determine me, if the cafe was doubtful, to receive the conftru1ion of the Legiflatusre : But I am inclined to
think, that a tax on carriages is not a diret? tax, within the
letter, or meaning, of the Conflitution.
The great bbj e of the Conflitution was, to give Congrefs
a power to lay taxes, adequate to the exigencies of governmerit; but they were to obferve two rules in' impofing.'them,
namely, the rule of zlnfoniiity, when they laid dutiesi imboJls,
or excfes ; and the rule of apportion1tent, according to the
cenfus, whven they laid any direfi tax.
If there are any other fpecies of taxes thft are not direcT, and
not included within the words duties, impoj'i, or excifes, they
may be laid by the rule of uniformity, or not ;I as Congrefs (hall
think proper and reafonable. If the framers of the Con.ftitu
tion did not contemplate other taxes than direR7 taxesi and du:
ties, impo/is, and excifes, there is-great inaccuracy in their language,--f there four fpecies of taxes were all that were meditated, the general power to lay taxes Was unneceffary. If
.it was intended, that Congrefs ffiofild have authority to lay on-.
ly one of the /our above enumerated, to wit, diree7 taxes, by
the rule of appornmefit, and the other three by the rule of
unformity, the expreflons would have run thus : "Congrefs
fhall have power to lay and collet 4ire. taxes, and duties, im-

z74

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

1796. pos,*and excifes; the firfl fhall be laid according to the cenand the three laft hall be uniform throughout the United
. .fJus;
States." The power, in the 8th fedion of the iftarticle, to
lay and colledSt taxes, included a power to lay direR taxes,
(whether capitation, or any other) and alfo duties, imports, and

excifes ; and every other fpecies or kind of tax whatfoever, and
called by any other name.

Duties, impofis, and excries, were

enumerated, after the general term taxes, only for the purpofe
of declaring, that they were to be laid by the rule of unformity. I confider the Conftitution to ftand in this manner. A
general power is given to Congrefs, to lay and collet taxes, of
every kind or nature, without any reftraint except only on ex-

ports ; but two rules are prefcribed for their government, namely, uniformity and apportionment: Three kinds of taxes, to

wit, duties, impofts, and excifes by the fiut
rule, and capitation, or other direc? taxes, by the fecond rule.
I believe fome taxes may be both direRt and indirect at the
fame time. If fo, would Congrefs be prohibited from laying
ingfuch a tax, becaufe it is partly a direR'tax ?

The Conflitution evidently contemplated no taxes as direa7
taxes, but onlyfuch as Congrefs could lay in proportion to the
cenfus. The rule of apportionment is only to be adopted in
fuch cafes where it can reafonablyapply; and thefubjefi taxed,

muff ever determine the apFlication of the rule. c'
If it is propofe to tax anyfpecific article by the rule of appor,
tionment, and it would evidently create great inequality and in-.
juftice, it is unreafonable to fay, that the Conftitution intended
Juch tax fhould be laid by that rule.

It appears to me,.that a tax on carriagescannot be laid by the
rule of apportionment, without very great inequality and injuftice, 'For example: Suppofe two States, equal in cenfus, to pay
8o,ooo dollars each, by a tax on carriages, of 8 dollars on
every carriage ; and in one State there are ico carriages, and
in the other iooo. Thp owners of carriages in one State,
,would pay ten times the tax of owners in the other. A. in one
State, would pay for his carriage 8. olla-s, but B. in the
other ftate, would pay for his carriage, SQ dollars.
It was argued, that a tax on carriages was a direa1 tax, and
right be laid according to the rule of apportlonnient, and (as I
tinderffood) in this manner : Congrefs, after determining on
the grofs.fum to be raifed was to apportion it, according to the
ce;?As, and then lay it in one State on carriages, in another on
horfes, in a third on tobacco, in a fourth on rice ; and fo on.1 admit that this mode might be adopted, to raife a certain fumn
in each State, according to the ccnfus, but it would not be a
tax on carriages, but on a number of fpecifir articles ; and it
f"qms to Me that it would be liable to the.fame objedion of

abufe

SUPReME COURT'of the United States.

abufe and oppreffion', is a feledion of 'ry one article iln'all the
States.
I think, an annual tax on carriages, for the conveyance of
perfons, may be confidered as Within -the power granted tc
Congrefs to lay duties. The term duty, is the mbit compre-'
henfive next to the genericalterm tax; and prallcaly in. Great
Britain, (whence. we.. take.. our general" ideas of taxes,

duties, impojis, excifes, culom,,c. emhrac

taXd on tamp,

tolls for paffage, &c. &c. and is not confine'd.to taxes" on in-'
portation 'only.
It feems to me, that a tax on expence is an indire. tax';and

I thihk, an annual tax on a cdrriage for the'conveyance of per-,
fons, is of that kind ; becaufe a carriage is a cojumehble corn-.
modity ; and fich annual tax. on it, is on the expence of the
owner.

I am inclined to think, but of this I do not give a judicia '
opinion, that the dire17 taxes contemnplated by the Conftitution, are only two, to wit, a capitation, or pcll tax, fimply,
without regard to property, profefon, or any other circumfiance;
and a tax on LAND.-I doubt whether a tax, by a general affefTent of perfnal property, within the United States, is in-

cluded within the term direfi tax.
As I do not think the tax on carriages is a dire-q tax, it is
unneceffary, at this time, for' me to determine, whether this
court, conflitutionally poflffes the power to declare an ad of
Congrefs void, on the ground of its being made contrary to,
and in violation of, thle Conflitution; but if the court have
fuch power, I am free to declare, that I will never exercife it,
but in a very clear cafe.

I am for affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court.
PATERSON, juflice.--By the fecond fe6tion of the firft
article of the Conifitution of the United States,.it is ordained;
that reprefentatives and direct taxes fhall be apportioned among
the ftates, according to their refpecdive numbers, which (hall
be determined by adding to the whole number of free perfons,
including thofe bound to fervice for a term of years, and including Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other perfons.
The eighth fedtion of the faid article, declares, that Congrefs fhall have power to lay and colile& taxes, duties, impofts,
and excifes; but all duties, impofis and excifes, (hall be uniform throughout the United States.

. The ninth fec'tion of the fame article provides, that no capitation or other direct tax fhall be laid, unlefs in proportion to
the cenfus or enumeration before direed to be taken.
Congrefs paffed alaw on the 5th of June, I 7 9 +,entitled, " An
a&t laying duties upon carriages for the conveyance of perSfoils."

.

Daniel

1796.

176
1796.

,

CA§Ej

rixlcd -and adjudged in the

:Davzie Lawrence Hiltv on the 5th of ,7me., 1794, and therea
from to the laft day of September next following, owned, pof-4
feffed, and kept bne hundred and twenty-five chariots for the
conyeyance of prfous, but exclufively for his wn feparate
ufe, and.not to let outto hire, or for the conveyance of perfons
for hire.
. The queftion is, whether a tax upon carriages be a dire6l:
tax ? If it be a direct tax, it is unconftitutional, 'becaufe it has
been laid purfuant to the rule of uniformity, and not to the rule
of app.6rtionment. In behalf of the Plaintiff in error, it has
been :urged, that.a tax on carriages does not come within the
defeiption of a duty, impoft, or excife, and therefore is a dire&
tax. It has, on the other hand, been contended, that as a tax
on carriages is not a dire& tax.; it mufl fall within one of the
claffifications juft enumerated, and particularly muff be a duty
or excife. The argument on both fides turns in a circle; it
is not a duty, impoff, or excife, and therefore mufl be a direa
tax; it is not tax, and therefore muff be a duty or excife.
What is the natural and common, or technical and appropriate,
meaning of the wQrds, duty and excife, it is not eafy to afcertain.
They prefent no clear and precife idea to the mind. Different
perfons will annex different fignifications to the terms. It was,
however, obvioufly'the intention of the framers of the Conffitution, that Cofigrefs fhould poffefs full power over every
fpecies of taxable property, except exports. The term taxes,
is generical, and was made ufe of to veft in Congrefs plenary authority in all cafes of taxation. The general divifi6n of
taxes is into dire& and inditea. Although the latter term is
not to be found in the Conflitution, yet the former neceffarily
implies it. Indirea flands oppofed to direfi. There may,
perhaps, be an indired tax on a particular article, that cannot
he comprehended Within the defcription of duties, or impofis,
or excifes ; in fuch cafe it will be comprifed under the general
denomination of taxes. For the term tax is the genus, and
includes,
i. Direa taxes.

2. Duties,-impofts, and excifes.
3. All other claffes of an indire6q kind, and not within. any
of the claffifications enumerated under the preceding heads.
The queftion occurs, how is fuch tax to be laid, uniformly
or apportionately ? The rule of uniformity will apply, becaufe
it is an indire 'f tax, and dire& taxes only are to be apportioned. What are dire6l taxes within the meaning of the Conflitution ? The Conifitution declares, that a capitation tax is a
dire& tax ; and, both in theory and practice, a tax on land is
deemed to be a direai tax. In this way,.the terms dire& taxes,
and capitation and other dire&l tax, are fatisfied. It is not neceffary

SUPREMF COURT of the United

States.

ccflfry to determine, whether a tax on the produ& of land be 1796.
a dire& or indire& tax. Perhaps, the immediate produa of
land, in its original and crude frate, ought to be confidered as
the land itfelf; it makes part of it ; or elfe the provifion made
againfe taxing exports would be eafily eluded. Land, independently of its produce, is of no value. When the produce
is converted into a manufature, it affumes a new thape ; its
nature is altered ; its original flate is changed; it becomes
quite another fubjeq, and will be'differently confidered. Whether direst taxes, in the fenfe of the Conftitution, cornprehend any other tax than a capitation tax, ad tax on land, is a
queftionable point. If Congrefs, for inifance,. flould tax, in
the aggregate or mals, things that generally pervade all the
Rates in the Union, then, perhaps, the rule of apportionment
would be the mofe proper, efpecially if an affeffment was to.
intervene. This appears by the pradice of fome of the flates,
to have been confidered as a dire&t tax. Whether it be fo under the tonffitution of the United States, is a matter of fome
difficulty; but ,s it is not before the court, it would be improper to give any decifive opinion upon it. I never entertained a doubt, that the principal, 1 will not fay, the only,-obje6Is,that the framers of the Conflitution contemplated as falling
within the rule of apportionment, were a capitation tax and a
tax on land. Local confiderations, and the particular circumfrances, and relative fituation of the flates, naturally lead to
this view of the fubje&. The provifion was made in favor of
the fouthern States. They poffefed a large number of flaves;
they had extenfive traasof territory, thinly fettled, and not
very produdive. A majority of the ftates had but few flaves,
and feveral of them a limited territory, well fettled, and in a
high ftate of cultivation. The fouthern fhates, if no provifion
had been introduced in the Conflitution, would have been
wholly at the mercy of the other 'fates. Congrefs in fuch
cafe, might tax flaves, at difcretion or arbitrarily, and land in
every part of the Union after the fame rate or meafure: fo
much a head in the firft inftance, and fo much an acre in the
fecond. To guard them againhf impofition in thefe particulars,
was the reafon of introducing the claufe in the Conftitution,
which direcqs that reprefentatives and dirzft taxes fhall be ap
portioned among the hlates, according to their refpe&ive num_

bers.
On the part of the Plaintiff in error, it has been contended,
that the rule of apportionment is to be favored rather than the
rule of uniformity; and, of courfe, that the inftrument is to
receive fNch a conifruffion, as will extend the former and reflrid the latter. I am not of that opinion. The Conflitution
has been confidered as an accommodating fyftem ; it was the
effed
A a
VOL. I1I.
'

1

8

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

1796. effe& tf mutual facrifices and conceffions; it was the work
of comprornife. The rule of apportionment is of this nature; it is radically wrong; it cannot be fupported by any
folid reafoning. Why flhould flaves, who are a fpecies of
property, be reprefented more than any other property ? The
rule, therefore, ought not to be extended by conftrution.
Again, numbers do not afford a jufl eftimate or rule of
wealth. It is, indeed, a very uncertain and incompetent
fign of opulence. There is another reafon againrlk the extenfion
the principle laid down in the Conftitution.
The of
counfel on the part of the Plaintiff in error have further
urged, that an equal participation of the expenfe or burden
by the feveral iRates in the Union, was the primary objec,
which the framers of the Concitution had in view; and that
,this obje& will be effeded by the. principle of apportionment, which is an operation upon ifates, arid not on individuals ; for, each ftate will be debited for the amount of its
quota of the tax, and credited for its payments. This brings
it to the old fyftem of requifitions. An equal rule is doubtlefs the beft.

But how is this to be applied to Rates or to

individuals ? The latter are the objets of taxation, without
reference to Rates, except in the cafe of direft taxes. The fif.
cal power is exerted certainly, equally, and effedtually on individuals; it cannot be exerted on flates. The hiffory of the
United Netherlands, and of our own country, will evince the
truth of this pofition, The government of the United Stater
could not go on:under the confederation, becaufe Congrefs
were obliged to proceed in the line of requifition. Congrefs
could not, under the old confederation; raife money by taxes,
be the public exigencies ever fo preffing and great. They
had no coercive authority-if they had, it mufr have been exercifed againtf the delinquent fRates, which would be ineffe6tual,
or terminate in a feparation. Requifitions were a dead letter,
unlefs the fRate legiflatures could be brought into a&ion ; and

when they were, the fums raifed were very difproportional.
Unequal contributions or payments engendered difcontent, and
fomented Rate-jealoufy. Whenever it fhall be thought neceflhry or expedient to lay a dire& tax on land, where the objea is one and the fanfie, it is to be apprehended, that it will be
a fund not much more produ&iv, than'that of requifition under the former 'governwent. Let us put the cafe. A given
fum is to be raifed from the landed property in the United
States. It it eafy to apportion this fum, or to affign to each'
itate its quota. The Conffitution gives the rule. Suppofe
the proportion of North GaroEina to be eighty thoufaud dollars. This fum is to be laid on the landed property in the
flate, but by what rule, and by whom ? Shall every acre pay

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

the fame rum, without regard to its quality, value, fituation,
or produdivenefs ? This would be manifefily unjuff. Do the
laws of the different flates furnifh fufficient data for the purpofe
of forming one common rule, comprehending the quality, fituation, and value of the lands ? In frme of the ifates there has
been no land tax for feveral years, and where there has been,
the mode of laying the tax is fo various, and the diverfity in
the land is fo great, that no common principle can be dduced,
and carried into pradice. Do the laws of each flate furnifh data, from whence to extra& a rule, whofe operation fliall be
equal and certain in the fame ftate ? Even this is doubtful.
Beides, fub-divifions will be neceffary; the apportionment of
the ftate, and perhaps of a particular part of the flate, is again
to be apportioned among counties, townflhips, parifhes, or difIrifs. If the lands be claffed, then a fpecific value muff be
annexed to each clafs. And there a queffion arifes, how often
are claffifications and affeffinents to be made ? Annually, tri,
ennially, feptennially ? The oftener they are made, the greater
will be the expenfe ; and the feldomer they are made, the greater will be the inequality, and injuftice. In the procefs of the
operation a number of perfons will 'be neceffary to clafs, to
value, and affefs the land ; and after all the guards and provifions that can be devifed, we muff ultimately rely upon the
difcretion of the officers in the exercife of their funitions.
Tribunals of appeal muff alfo be inftituted to hear and decide
upon unjuft valuations, or the affeffors will a(t ad libitum with,
out check or control. The work, it is to be feared, will be
operofe and unprodu(ive, and full of inequality, injuftice, and
oppreffion. Let us, however, hope, that a fyftem of land taxation may be fo corre~ted and matured by praStice, as to become eafy and equal in its operation, and produ~tive and beneficial in its eff'eas. But to return. A tax on carriages, if
apportioned, would be oppreffive and pernicious. How would
it work ? In fome ftates there are many carriages, and in others
but few. Shall the whole fum fall on one or two individuals
in a ftate, who may happen to own and poffefs carriages ? The
thing would be abfurd, and inequitable. In anfwer to this
objetion, it has been obferved, that the fum, and not the tax,
is to be apportioned; and that Congrefs may felec' in the different ftates different articles or obje~ts from whence to raife
the apportioned fum. The idea is novel. What, Thall land
be taxed in one flate, flaves in another, carriages in a third,
and horfes in a fourth; or fhall feveral of thefe be thrown together, in order to levy and make the quotaed fum ? The
fcheme is fanciful. It would not work well, and perhaps is
utterly impraticable. It is eafy to difeern, that great, and
perhaps infurmountable, obftacles mvR arife in forming the fub.ordinatQ

1796.

Ito

ASES

ruled and adjudged in the

7796. ordinate arrangements neceffary to carry the fyffetn into effe&
toy% mhen formed, the operation would be flow and expenfive, unequal and unjuft. If a tax upon land, where the obje& is
fimple nnd uniform throughout the flates, is fcarcely pradticable, what flall we fay of a tax attempted to be apportioned
among, and raifed an d colleded from, a number of diffimilar
obje&s. The difficulty will increafe with the number and
variety of the things propofed for taxation. We f(air be obliged to refort to intricate and endlefs valuations and affeffirents,
in which every thing will be arbitrary, and nothing certain.
There will be no rule to walk by. rhe rule of uniformity,
on the contrary, implies certainty, and leaves nothing to the
will and picafure of the affefflr. In fach cafe, the objed and
the fum coincide, the rule and the thing unite, and of courfe
there can be no impofition. The truth is, that the articles
taxed in one flate ffiould be taxed in another ; in this way the
fpirit ofjealoufy i3 appeafed, and tranquillity preferved ; in this
way the preffure on induftry will be equal in the feveral ifates,
and the relation between the different fubjeds of taxation duly
preferved.

Apportionment is an operation on ftates, and in-

volves valuations and affeffmincts, which are arbitrary, and
hould not be reforted to but in cafe of neceflity, Uniformity is
ain inftant operation on individuals, without the intervention
of aifeff'ients, or any regard to flates, and is at once eafy, certain, and efficacious. All taxes on expences or confumption
are indired taxes. A tax on carriages is of this kind, and of
courfe is not a direa tax. Indired taxes are circuitous modes
of reaching the revenue of individuals, who generally live according to their income. In many cafes ofthis nature the individual may be faid to tax himfelf. I fhall clofe the difcourfe
with reading a paffage or two from Smith's Wealth of Natioils.

The impoflibility of taxing people in proportion to their
revenue, by any capitation, feems to have givcn occafion to
" the invention of taxes upon confunable commodities ; the
" ftate not knowing how to tax dire&ly and proportionably the
" revenue of its fubjeds, endeavours to tax it indired~ly by tax" ing their expence, which it is fuppofed in moft cafes will be
nearly in proportion to their revenue. Their expence is tax"ed by taxing the confumable commoditities upon which it is
' laid Out.
3 IVol. page 33.
" Confdimable commodities, whether neceffaries or luxuries,
" may be taxed in two different ways; the confumer may either:
" pay an annual fum on account of his ufing or confuming
. goods of a certain kind, or the goods may be taxed while
" they remain in the hands of the dealer, and before they are
i delivered to the confumer. The confumable goods, which

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

laff a confiderable time before they are confumed altogether, 1796.
are mof properly taxed in the one way; thofe of which the
"confumption is immediate, or more fpeedy, in the other:, the
" coach tax and plate tax are examples of the former method of
" impofing ; the greater part of the other duties of excife and
"Ccufoms of the latter." 3 Pd. page 341.
I am, therefore, of opinion, that the judgment rendered in
the Circuit Court of Virginia ought to be affirmed.
IREDELL. jugice.-I agree in opinion with my brothers,
who have already expreflid theirs, that the tax in quefion,
is agreeable to the Conftitution ; and the reafons which have
fatisfied me, can be delivered ina very few words, fince I think
the Confitution itfelf affords a clear guide to decide the controverfy.
The Congrefs" poffefs the power of taxing all taxable objelts,
without limitation, with the particular exception of a duty on
exports.
There are two reftri6tions only on the exercife ofthis authority:
i. All direft taxes mufl be apportioned.
"

2. All duties, impolts, and excifes muft be uniform.

If the carriage tax be a direii tax, within the meaning of the
Conftitution, it muf be apportioned.

If it be a duty, impofl, or excife,, within the meaning of the
Conflitution, it muf be uniform.

If it can be confidered as a tax, neither dire6. within the
meaning of the Conflitution, n6r comprehended within the
term duty, impo/1 or excife ; there is no provifion in the Confli-

tution, one way or another, and then it muf be left to fuch an
operation of the power, as if the authority to lay taxes had been
given generally in all inifances, without faying whether they
ihould be apportioned or uniform; and in that cafe, I fhould
prefume, the tax ought to be uniform; becaufe the prefent
Contlitution was particularly intended to affe6t individuals,
and not flates, except in particular cafes fpecified : And this is
the leading diftin&ion between the articles of Confederation
and the prefent Confitution.
As all dire6t taxes muf be apportioned, it is evident that the
Conflitution contemplated none as dired but fuch as could be
apportioned.

If this cannot be apportioned, it is, therefore, not a diree?
tax in the fenfe of the Contlitution.,
That this tax cannot be apportioned is evident. Suppofe I0
dollars contemplated as a tax on each chariot, or poll
chaife, in the United States, and thelnumber of both in all
the United .,tates be computed at 1o,

Prokntativcs in Congrefs.

the number of Reo
P1olls.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

.182

Dolls. Cts,

X796,

This would produce in the whole
1505
The fhare of Firginia being 19-105 parts, would
- Dollars 19o
be

The fhare of Connedicut being 7-105 parts,
would be

70

Then fuppofe Virginia had 5o carriages,
Connetlicut

-

-

2.

The fliare of Virginia being i9o dollars, this
muff of courfe be colleaed from the owners of carriages, and there would therefore
be colleded from each carriage

-

each
The flare of Connetlicut being 70 dollars,
carriage would pay

-

-,

-

3 80

35

If any ftate had no carriages, there could be no apportionment at all. This mode is too manifeftly abfurd to be fupported, and has not even been attempted in debate.
But two cxj~edients have been propofed of a very extraordinary nature, to evade the difficulty.
I. To raife the money a tax on carriages would prbduce,
not by laying a tax on 'each carriage uniformly, but by fcle6ling different articles in different ftates, fo that the amount paid
in each ffate may be equal to the fum due upon a principle of
apportionment. One ftate might pay by a taxon carriages,
another by a tax on flaves, &c.
I fhould have thought this merely an exercife of ingenuity,
if it had not been preffed with fome earneftpefs; and as this
was done by gentlemen of high refpe6ability in their profeffion,
it deferves a ferious anfwer, though it is very difficult to give
fuch a one.
r. This is not an apportionment, of a tax on Carriages,
but of the moneya tax on carriages might be fuppofed to produce, which is quite a different thing.
2. It admits that Congrefs cannot lay an uniform tax on all
carriages in the Union, in any mode, but that they may on
carriages in one or more fRates. They may therefore lay a tax
on carriages in 14 fiates, but not in the I 5 th.
3. If Congrefs, according to this new decree, may fele&
carriages as a proper obje6f, in one or more flates, but omit them
in others, I prefume they may omit them in all and feled other
articles.
Dolls. Cts.
Suppofe, then, a tax on carriages would produce ioo,o~o
And a tax on horfes a like fum
-.
100,000
and a hundred thoufand dollars were to be apportioned accord,
ing to that mode. Gentlemen might amufe themfelves with
calling this a tax on carriages, or a tax on horfes, while not a,

SUrRAP

CouR-r of the United 'States.

ingle carriage, nor a fingle horfe, was taxed throughout the 1796.
Union.
4. Such an arbitrary method of taxing different flates differently, is a fuggeftion altogether new, and would lead, if practired, to fich dangerous confequences, that it will require
very powerful arguments to fhew, that that method of taxing
would be in any manner compatible with the Conifitution, with
which at prefent I deem it utterly irreconcilable, it being altogether dertruaive of the notion of a common intereft, upon
which the very principles of the Conflitution are founded, fo far
as the condition of the United States will admit.
The fecond expedient propofed, was, that of taxing carriages, among other things, in a general affeffment. This
amounts to faying, that Congrefs may lay a tax on carriages,
but that they may not do it unlefs they blend it with other fubje&s of taxation. For this, no reafon or authority has been
given, and in addition to other fuggeftions offered by the
Counfel on that fide, affords an irrefragable proof, that when
politions plainly fo untenable, are offered to countera6t the
principle'contended for by the oppofite counfel, the principle
itfelf is a right one ; for, no one can doubt, that if better reaforis could have been offered, they would not have efcaped
the fagacity and learning of the gentlemen who offered them.
There is no neceffity, or propriety, in determining what is.
or is not, a dire6, or indire&, tax in all cafes.
Some difficulties may occur which we do not at prefent forefee. Perhaps a dire6t tax in the fenfe of the Conftitution, can
mean nothing but a tax on fomething infeparably annexed to
the foil : Something capable of apportionment under all fuch
circumitance s.
.i land or a poll tax may be confidered of this defcription.
The latter is to be confidered fo particularly, under the prefent Conifitution, on account of the -flaves in the fouthern.
ftates, who give a ratio in the reprefentation in the proportion of 3 to 5.
Either of thefe is capable of apportionment.
In regard to other articles, there may poffibly be confiderable doubt.
It is fufficient, on the prefent occafion, for the court to be
fatisfied, that this is not a diret tax contemplated by the Conftitution, in order to affirm the prefent judgment; fince, if it
cannot be apportioned, it muff neceffarily be uniform.
I am clearly of opinion, this is not a dire& tax in the fenfe
of the Conftitution, and, therefore, that the judgment ought to
be affirmed.
WILSON, Jullice. As there were only four Judges, ineluding royfelf, who attended the argument of this caufe, I
fhould

CASES ruled and'adjudged in the

184

1796. ffaould have thought it proper to join in the decifion, though I
.ky--.d had before expreflfid a judicial opinion on the fubjed, in the
Circuit Court of Virginia, did not the unanimity of the other
three Judges, relieve me from the neceffitv. I fhall now, however, only add, that my fentiments, in favor of the conftitutionality of the tax in queftion, have not been changed.
CUSHING, Juflice. As I have been prevented, by indifpofition, from attending to the argument, it would be improper to give an opinion on the merits of the caufe.
BY TIE COURT.
Let the judgment of the Circuit Court

be affirmed.

HILLS et al Plaintiffs in Error; verfus Ross.

T

HIS was a writ of error direded to the Circuit Court for
the Diftri& of Georgia. On the return of the record,

fcveral errors were affigned; but the only one, now relied on,
flated " that the fads on which the Circuit Court had founded
their decree, did not appear fully upon the record, either from
the pleadings and decree itfelf, or a ftate of the cafe agreed to by
the parties, or their council, or by a ftating of the cafe by the

court," as required by rhe I 9 th fedlion of the judiciary at.
On examining this record, it was found, that noftatement of
fads had been made either by the court or the parties, nor did
it appear from the pleadings and decree, upon what fadets the
decree of the Circuit Court had been founded. But it appear-.
ed, that a number of witneffes had been produced and fWorn,
(the record did not fay examined) at the hearing before the

Circuit Court, whofe teftimony had not been committed to
vriting ; while, on the other hand, the depofitions of the witneffes who had been examined before the Difri1 Court, were

annexed to the proceedings returned. It was acknowledged
by the council 'for the Defendants in error, that the teffimony
of the witneffes produced in the Circuit Court, had been taken
viva vwe, according to the 3 oth fedion of the judiciary ad,
and that their depofitions had not been committed to writing.
It was conceded by the council on both fides, that without

9ther aids than fuch as were to be derived from this imperfed
record,

