SUPREME CbouRT of the United States.

* 1796.

DEL COL verfus ARNOLD.

LBEL .was filed in the Diftri&c Court of South Carolina, by the Defendant in error, againit Del Col, and
others, the owners of a French privateer called La Montagne,
and of the fhip InduJtry and her cargo, a prize to the privateer, lying in the harbour of Charleflon, which the Libellant
had caufed to be attached. The cafe appeared to be briefly
this :-The' privateer had captured, as prize, on the high feas,
an 4nmrican brig called the Grand Sachem, commanded by
Ebenezer Baldwin, and owned by the Defendant in error. At
the time of taking poffeffion of the brig, a fum of 9993 dollars was removed from her into the privateer, a prize-mafter
and feveral mariners were put on board of her,* and they were
direded to fteer for Charli/qon. Jufr, however, as they hove
in fight of the light-houfe, the Terpfichore, a Britijh frigate,
captured the privateer, and gave chace to the prize: whereupon the prize-mafter run her into fhoal water, and there (he
was abandoncd by all on board, except a failor originally belonging to her crew, and a paffenger. In a fhort time, fhe
drove on fhore, was fcutled and plundered. When the Marfhal came, with'procefs againft the brig, (he was in the joint
poffeffion of the Cuftom-houfe Officers, and the privateer's
men ; the latter of whom prevented the execution of the procefs. The Indtflry and her cargo were then attached by the
Libellant, and an agreement was entered into between the par-'
ties, that they thould be fold, and the proceeds paid into court,
to abide the iffue of the fuit.
On the evidence, it appeared, that the Grand Sachem, had
been engaged in a finuggling trade at New Orleans, the Spani/h
Main, &c, and for the purpofe of carrying it on, fhe had procured a regifter in the name of a Spanih fubje&, and failed
A

under Spanifl colours. Befides other fufpicious circumffances,
f(ie had on board, at the time of her capture, a variety of ac,
counts

334
q96.
k

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

counts defcribing her as Spani/h property; and a trunk containing her papers (among which, it was alledged, there was a
Spanifi regifter) had been collufively delivered up to the owner, the Defendant in error, by one of the failors. The money removed from her, and taken in the privateer by the BritiJh frigate, had been condemned in Yamaica.
The Diftri& Court pronounced a decree, in favor of the
Libellant, for the fum of 33,329 dollars 87 cents (the full value
of the GrandSachem, and her cargo) with intereft at io per
cent. from the 8th of .4uguj9, I1795, the day of capture;
declared " that the proceeds of the fhip IndujIry and her cargo, attached in this caufe, be held anfwerable to that amount;"
and dire&ed, that the Defendant in error fhould enter into a
flipulation to account to the Plaintiffs in error, for the money
condemned as prize to the Briti/b frigate, or any part of it,
that he might recover, as neutral property. This decree
was affirmed, in the Circuit Court, and thereupon the prefeat
writ of error was inftituted.
The cafe was confidered in four' points of view:-ift.
Whether there was fufficient probable caufe for feizing and
bringing the Grand Sachem into port for further examination,
and adjudication ? 2d. Whether, if there was fuch fufficient
caufe, the captors can, at aill, be made liable for the confequent
injury and Iofs ? 3 d, Whether if the immediate captors, who
run the veffel into fhoal water, and fcutled her, are refponfi-,
ble, that refponfibility can be devolved on the owners of
the privateer, 'who had not authorifed, or contributed to the
niifconduct ? And 4 th. Whether the Indujiry and her cargo
could, before condemnation, be attached,, and made liable in
this fait, as the property of the captors ?
The firft and fecond points were argued, at the laft Term,,
by Dallas and Reed (of South Carolina) for the Plaintiffs in
error, and by Pringle (of South Carolina) for the Defendant ,
and the third and fourth points were argued at the prefent
Term, by the fame counfel for the Plaintiffs in error, and by,
Ingerfoll and Lewis for the Defendant.
THE COURT delivered, at different times, the following
opinions :
On theflrft point, that there was a fufficient probable caufe
for fei7ing and bringing the Grand Sachem into port.
On thefecond point, that the right of feizing and bringing
in a veffel for further examination, does not authorife, or excufe, any fpoliation, or damage, done to the property ; but that
the captors proceed at their peril, and are liable for all the
confequent injury and lofs.
On th'c third point, that the owners of the privateer are re(noinfible for the, condutct of their agents, the officers and crew,

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

33S

to all the world; and that the meafure of fuch refponfibility is 1796.
the full value of the property injured, or deftroyed.*
On the frurth point, that whatever might, originally, have
been the irregularity in attaching the Indujiry and her cargo,
it is compleatly obviated, fince the captors had a power to fell.
the prize ; and by their own agreement, they have confented
that the proceeds of the fale fhould abide the iffue of the prefent fuit.
The decree of the 'Circuit Court affirmed,
*CASFatid IREDELL, yieflices, agreed that the owners were refponfible, but differed as to the extent, obfcrVing that the privateer's melt
were juftifiable in abandoning, to fave themfelves fiom captivity ; but
that the revoval of the money into the privateer, and the fgbfequent
fautling of the brig, were unlawful acts.

AUGUST TERM, 1796,

O

RULES.

RDERED, That when procefs at common law, or in
equity, fhall iffue againft a flate, the fame fhall be ferv-

ed on the Governor, or Chief Executive Magiftrate,, and,
Attorney General of fuch ifate.
ORDERED,

That procefs of fubpana iffuing out of this court

in any fuit in equity, fhall be ferved on the Defendant fixty
days before the return day of the faid procefs: And, further, that, if the Defendant, on fuch fervice of thefubpaena, fhall not appear at the return day contained therein, the Complainant fhall be at liberty to proceed ex
parte,

