CASES ruled and'adjudged in the

184

1796. ffaould have thought it proper to join in the decifion, though I
.ky--.d had before expreflfid a judicial opinion on the fubjed, in the
Circuit Court of Virginia, did not the unanimity of the other
three Judges, relieve me from the neceffitv. I fhall now, however, only add, that my fentiments, in favor of the conftitutionality of the tax in queftion, have not been changed.
CUSHING, Juflice. As I have been prevented, by indifpofition, from attending to the argument, it would be improper to give an opinion on the merits of the caufe.
BY TIE COURT.
Let the judgment of the Circuit Court

be affirmed.

HILLS et al Plaintiffs in Error; verfus Ross.

T

HIS was a writ of error direded to the Circuit Court for
the Diftri& of Georgia. On the return of the record,

fcveral errors were affigned; but the only one, now relied on,
flated " that the fads on which the Circuit Court had founded
their decree, did not appear fully upon the record, either from
the pleadings and decree itfelf, or a ftate of the cafe agreed to by
the parties, or their council, or by a ftating of the cafe by the

court," as required by rhe I 9 th fedlion of the judiciary at.
On examining this record, it was found, that noftatement of
fads had been made either by the court or the parties, nor did
it appear from the pleadings and decree, upon what fadets the
decree of the Circuit Court had been founded. But it appear-.
ed, that a number of witneffes had been produced and fWorn,
(the record did not fay examined) at the hearing before the

Circuit Court, whofe teftimony had not been committed to
vriting ; while, on the other hand, the depofitions of the witneffes who had been examined before the Difri1 Court, were

annexed to the proceedings returned. It was acknowledged
by the council 'for the Defendants in error, that the teffimony
of the witneffes produced in the Circuit Court, had been taken
viva vwe, according to the 3 oth fedion of the judiciary ad,
and that their depofitions had not been committed to writing.
It was conceded by the council on both fides, that without

9ther aids than fuch as were to be derived from this imperfed
record,

StPREME

CouRT 6f thle United .Statei.

record, it would be impoffible to obtain a fair reviev of the i 96.
proceepings of the Circuit Court in this caufe. But Cox and
Duponcedu, for the Plaintiffs in error, contended for a reverfal
of the decree. Reed (of South Carolina) E. Tilghman and
Lewis for the Defendants, infifted on the other hand, that the
decree ought to be affirmed, unlefs it was (hewn to be erroneL
ous ; that the omiffion on which the Plaintiffs relied, could not
be affigned as an error, and did riot vitiate the proceedings
that it was to be afcribed to the negle& of the Plaintiffs themfelves, who ought, in the'firft inflance, to have applied to the
adverfe council to ftate a cafe, and if they refufed, or difagreed
in their ftatement, then to the court itfelf; that the Defendants
being fatisfied with the decree and not intendrg to appeal
therefrom, it was not their bufinefs to aflift tiVe Plaintiffs in
perfeding their record, foas to enable them to bring it properly before an Appellate Court. Upon the whole, they prayed
that the decree be affirmed,
For the Plaintiffs in error, it was infifted, that the omifflon
of a ftatement of the cafe, vitiated the whole record, The
judiciary a& of the United States had greatly innovated upon the old fyftem of Admiralty and Chancery proceedings, the
forms and principles of the common law were interwoven with,
and in many cafes, entirely fubftituted to thofe of the Roman
jurifprudence. The 3 oth fedion of that a& required, that the
teftimony of witneffes ihould be taken viva voce, initead of
written depofitions, both in the Diftrid and the Circuit Court.
.In the former of thefe tribunals, indeed, when either of the
parties expreffed an intention of appealing to the other, the
depofitions of the witneffes were to be committed to writing,
but this cafe was an exception to the general rule. In the Circuit Court, where new evidence was admitted, no provifion
had been made for committing the teftim6ny to writing, except
in th cafe of abfent, aged, infirm or departing witneffes,
whore evidence might be taken de bene efe, precifely as in the
common law courts. The whole teftimon y, therefore, could
not, without the confent of parties, come before the Supreme
Court of the United States, in any cafe where new witneffes
were heard, or the fame witnefles who were examined below,
were produced de novo before the Circuit Court.
It was clear, that the intention of Congrefs was. to veft the
powerof trying matters of fa& in Admiralty and Equity cafes,
in the Diftri& and Circuit Courts exclufively. Like the verdi& of ajury, the decifion of the latter tribunal, was final and
conclufive, as to fad. The Supreme Court were only empow.ered to corred their decrees in matters of law. Therefore an
appeal did not lie to them, but only a writ of error, as at common law. And by the 22d fedion of the judiciary a&, it was
provided,
Bb
VOL. III-

.86

'1796.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

provided, that no decree of the Circuit Courts flhould be re-

~ verfed

for any error infaq7.

But flill tle civil law pleadings, as by bill or libel, anfwer,
&c. were retained in the courts'below. Thofe not being carried on with the logical clofenefs and accuracy, for which the
fyftem of common law pleadings is fo much and fo juffly admired, the faoSs which grounded the decree, would feldorn, if
ever, aPpear from the pleadings and decree itfef. Amidft the

heap of matter with which libels and anfwers are generally
crowded, and the variety of fads, often immaterial to the real
points in contef, afferted and denied by the refpe&ive parties,
it would be often difficult even to know what was the true objea of the controverfy. The law, therefore, wifely ordered
that the fads on which the decree was founded, where they did
not appearfiom the pleadings and decree itfelf, fhould be fhewn
by a ftatement, which, like a fpecial verdid, fhould enable the
court to determine whether the inferences of law, drawn from
thofe fa&s by the inferior cou t, 'were juft or erroneous.
To caufe fuch a flatement to be made, or to make it them-

felves, was a duty which the law enjoined upon the Circuit
Courts, and which they were bound to perform.

The words of

the adi of Congrefs were 'exprefs and imperative. " It (hall
" be the duty of the Circuit Courts, in caufes in Equity and
" of Admiralty and Maritime jurifdidion, tocaufa the fads on
"which they found their fentence, or decree, fully to-appear upon
" the record, either from the pleadings arid decree itfelf, or a
itate of the cafe agreed by the parties, or their council, or if
" they, difagrec, by a Rating of the cafe by the court."
The
court were therefore bound to fee that the fads appeared upon
the record.. in fome one or other of thefe modes, neither party

could compel the adverfe counfel'or'the court to ftate a cafe ;
and the courts, by omitting this indifpenfible requifite, had it

in their power, whenever they pleafed, to make their decrees
final and conclufive, in law as well as in fadt, and effedually
to deprive the unfuccefsful party of the benefit of a revifion,

which the law had exprefsly provided in his favour.

It being

then the default of the court, it might be well fitigned for error. 8 Co. 59. Cro. Eliz. 84. 107. And the at of Congref9,

being introduEtory of a new law, was to be ftri&ly purfued.
4 Bac. A.

641. a Stra. 971.

The Council further illualrated the fubjed by feveral analogies drawn from the civil and the common law. It was, they
faid, a principle which appeared to pervade thofe two fyffems,,
that where the fuperior court were judges of law and fad, the

inferior tribunal was. bound to return to them the whole
evidence ; when judges of law only, then they were bound to,
make the fads appear upon which the judgment or decree wvasfounded. .Orders of the courts of Qu1arter Seflions are only to
be

SUPREME COURT of tbe United Stdtes.

be quafhed for errors in law, therefore, it is"only neceffiry that 1796.
the fads on which they were founded, fbould appear upon the
record; but in the care of convidtions by juffices upon penal
flatutes, "the fads are to be re-examined, and, therefore, they
are bound to fet forth the'whole evidence. a Stra. 997. At
common law, where the trial is by jury, fiill the fads on
which the judgment is founded, muA appear on the. face of
the whole record, and where the verdidt did not find precifel5/
the matter in iffue, as where it found that " by non performC anwe of the promife, the Plaintiff had fu~fained [ ._0 d."Cmages, without exprefsly finding that the Dfcndant had
pro;nfid, the judgment for the Plain'tiff was revcrfed. 21. Vin.
Ab. 441. becauif the fuperior judges could not determine
whether the law had been properly inferred fr6rn the fads,
unlefs the fads themfelves were clearly and exprefsly fiated.
This rule obtained at civil law for the very fame reafbns. Oa,
a bill of review in chancery, where the law alone was to be
re-examined, it had been often ref6lved, that tth . fads proved
and allowed by the court as proved, ihould be fo mpntioned in
the fentence, 6therwife on a bill of review, thofe faas Jod
be taken as not proved, for elfe a decree could ipever be reverfed by a bill of review, but all erroneous decrees muff be reyerfed on .ppeals o:rr.
i Vern. I66. 214. I6, 1 Gha. Ca..
54. 55.
The Council for the Defendant in error, infifted, that although the want Pf a flatement of fads was a technical defed
in the record before the court, which they were willing to.'
fupply as much as lay in their power, from their notes of the
evidence which had been taken before the Circuit Court; yet
the court could not, without great injuflice, reverfe the decree
on that account. They were bound by the 24 th fedion of.the
Judiciary L aw, on the reverfal of a decree of the court, to pafs

fuch a decree 'Is the Circuit Court (hould have paffed. How
could they do it in this inftance ? Were they, for an omiflion
of the court, which they could not help any more than the Defendants, to put it out of their power to obtain juftice ; and
how could they fay, that the Circuit Court fhould have rendered a different decree, fince they w.ere not poffefred of the merits of the caufe ?
6i-E COURT were, unanimoufly, of opinion, ihat the error
affigned, was not a fufficient ground for reverfing the decree,

and recommended to the .ar~ies to'come to frme agreement,
which might bring the matters in controverfy fairly before
them.
After fome converfation, an agreement took place between
the council on both fides, that froe caufe'fhould be continued
to the next term ; and that, in.-th61' mean time, new evidence
might

188

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

796. might be taken on both fides, and the whole matter of fa&, as'
Swell as the law, brought before the Supreme Court of the United States) as upon an, appeal.

M'DONOUGH, verfius DANNERY, an.d the Ship MARY FORD.

THi-IIS was a writ of error to remove the proceedings and
kMfdecree from the Circuit Court, for the Diftrid of
finchufetts ; and, the recordbeing returned, exhibited the following fa&6s :-On the 4 th of November, 1794, the owners
and crew of the fhip George, filed a libel in the Diftri6t
Court of Maj/'ahufetts, in which they fEt forth,
That the Taid fliip George was an Anerican veffel, owned
and n'avigated by American citizens, loa -d with a very valuable cargo, principally on -freight, ad bound from FirginiaforRotterdain ; and that on the fecond day of Oober laft, on the
high feas, in latitude 44 and longitude 4oo, they fell in with
the fhip Mary Ford, which they found utterly deferted, and
abandoned, without any perfon on board, and in a moft periions (tate" That the captain and crew of the faid fhip George,
took poffeffion of the Mary Ford, and with the intention of
faving the faid fhip and her cargo, the Mate, and three of the
lhiJ crew, entered on board the Mary Ford, and at great peril
of their lives, and fufering great haidfliip, with the affiftance
of two men from a filhing veffel, whom they hired, brought
her into the port of Bojion ; whereupon they, pray that the faid
Ihip and cargo, may be adjudged to them,
On the 5th of November, ]794, Thomas M'Donnough, Efql.
Confu] ,'f his Britannic Majetty, for the (fates of Maffachufetts,
RPhde Jfiand, Conneictut and New Hamp/hire, filed a claim
and fuggefted, that the
qfafachvfeitt,
in the 1iami.S Court of
IhiP 1'lary Ford, alnd her cargo, at the time fhe was taken'
poffeflion of by the crew of the Ihip George, was, and now is,
owned by certain merchants, fubjeacs of his faid BritannicMajeffty, and prayed that the fame might be delivered to him, in
'bchalf of fid owners, on the payment of a reafonable falvage,
or,
*

Seethe fame cafe pofl

