SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

1795.

TALBOT, Appellant, verfus JANsoN, Appellee, et al.

HIS was a W~rit of Error, in the, nature of an Appeal,
from the Circuit Couer for the Difiri& of Soith Carolina;
and the following circumftances appeared upon the pleadings :_
A Libel was filed againft EdwardBallard,Captain of an arm.:
ed veffel, called L'A mi de la Liberte, on the Admiralty fide of
the Diftri&t Court of South Carolina, in June, 1794, by 7ooi
Janfon, late mafter of the Brigantine Magdalena (then lying
at Ghar4'lon, within the j1urifdifion of the Court) in which it
was fet forth, that the Brigantine and her cargo were the property of Citizens of the United Netherlands, a nation at peace,
and in treaty with the United States of America ; that the Brigantine failed from Curacoa, on a voyage to Amlerdam ; but,
on the 16th of May, 1794, being about fifteen miles N. W. of
'the Havanna, on the wet fide of Cuba, fhe was taken poffeflion
of by L'Ami de la Liberte ; that on the next day the Libellant
met another armed fchooner Falled L'Amide la Point a Petre,
commanded by Captain JXnI. Talbot, on board of which the
mate and four of the crew of the Brigantine lagdalena were
placed ; and that the two fchooners, together with the Brigaintine, failed for Charlefoon, where the laft arrived on the 25th of
May, 1794, The Libellant proceeds to aver, that Edhard
Ballard, was a native of Virginia, a citizen and inhabitant of
the United States, and a Branch Pilot. of the 6hcfapeake and

Port Hampton ; that E'Ami de la Liberte is an American built
veffel, owned by citizens of the United States (particularly by
7dhn Sinclair, Solomon JJ/ilfon, &c.) and was armed and equip-

ped in Che/apeake-Bay and Charlon,".by kdward Ballard,and
others, contrary to the Prefident's Proclamation, as -well as the
general law of. neutrality, and the law of nations ; that Edward
Ballard had not, and could not legally have, any commiflion to
capture, Dutch veffels, or property; that the capture was in
dire& violation of the , 3 th and T9 th articles of the Treaty between

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

1795. tween America and Holland; and that a capture without a
commiffion, or with a void commifflon, or as pirates, could not
diveft the property of the original, bonafide, owners, in whofe'
favour, therefore, a decree of reftitution was prayed.
On the 2 7 th of June 1794, William Talhot, filed a claim in

this caufe ; and, thereupon fet forth, that he was admitted a Citizen of the French Republic, on the 28th December 1793, by
the Municipality of Point a Petre, at Guadaloupe ; and on the
2nd of January following, received a commiffion from the Governor of that ifland, as Captain of the fchooner L'A.ni de la
Point a Petre, which was owned by Samuel Redick, a French
citizen, refident at Point a Petre, fince the 31ff Dec. 1793,

and had been armed and equipped at that place, as a privateer,
under the authority of the French Republic. That the claimant being on a cruife, boarded and took the Brigantine, being
the property of fUbje6Is of the United Netherlands,with whom
the Republic of France was at war ; and that although he found
a party from L'Ami de la Liberteon board the Brigantine, yet
as they produced no commiflion, or authority, for takiug poffef,
sion of her, the Claimant fent her as his prize into Cbarl/on,
having put on board feveral of his crew to take charge of her,
and particularly 7ohn Remfen, in the character of Prize Mafter,
to whom he gave a copy, of his commiflion. The Claimant,
therfore, prayed, that the Libel fhould be difmiffed with Coffs.
On the 3 d of Nuly I794, the libellant filed a Replication, in

which he fet forth, that JVm. Talbot, the claimant, is an American citizen, a native and inhabitant of Virginia; that his veffel
(formerly called "the Fairplay") is American built, was armed
and equipped in Virginia, and is owned in part, or in whole, by
John Sinclair, and Solomon fJ'ifon, American citizens, and Sam-

uel Redick, alfo an American citizen, though fraudulently removed to Point a Patre,for the purpofe of privateering. That
7. Sinclair had received large fums as his fhare of prizes, and
Captain Tal/bot had remitted to the other owners, their refpec.
tive fhares. That there is a collufionI between Captains Ta-lhot and Ballard,whofe veffels are owned by the fame perfons,
and failed in 'company from Charleflon, on the 5th of May,
1794
On the

5

th July, 1794, William Talbot added a duplicate

to his claim, in which he protefted againfl the jurifdiaion of
the court; infifted that even if there had been a collufion between him and Caplt. Zalard, it was lawful as a ftratagem of
war ; and averred that 7ohn Sinclair was not the owner of the
privateer, that Samuel Redick was role owner, and that he neyer had paid any prize money to John Sinclair.
On the 6th of AVugul, 1794, the DisITRIcT COURT decidcd iii favor of its jurifdiion, difiniffed the claim ofCaptain

SUPREME

COURT of the United State'.

Talbot, and decreed reflitution of the brigantine and her cargo 1795.
to the libellant for the ufe of the Dutch owners. An appeal
was inflituted, but in Olober Term, 1794, THr CIRCUIT
COURT affirmed the decree of the Diftri&t Court; and allowed
two guineas per d/im for damages, and 7 per cent. on the proceeds of the cargo (which had been fold under an order of the
court) from the 6th of Auguil 1794, with 82 dollars coils. Upon this affirmance of the decree of the Diftri& Court, the
prefent writ of error was founded. It may be proper to add,
that Captain Ballardhadbeen indicted in the diftricL of Charlefton on a charge of piracy ; but was acquitted agreeably to the
direjions given to the jury by Mr. yu/ice WILSON, who prefided at the trial.
From the material facts, which appeared upon the depofi,
tions and exhibits accompanying the record, the following circumflances were afcertained:
Ift. In relation to the citizenflip' of Captain Talot and the
property of the vefel which he commanded, it appeared, that
he was a native of Firginia,that he failed from America in the
clofe of November 1793, and arrived foon afterwards at Pointa-Petre, in the ifland of Gaudaloupe; that having taken an
oath of allegiance to the French Republic, he was there naturalized by the municipality as a French citizen, on the z8th of
December ;1793 and that on the 2d of Yanuary, 1794, authority was given by the Governor of Gaudaloupe toSamuel Redick,
to fit out the fchooner, L'Ami de la Point-a-Petre,under Captain Talbot's command, Redick having entered into the ufual
fecurity, as owner of the privateer. This fchooner was built
in America, called the " Fairplay," and had been owned by
7ohn Sinclair, and Solomon flYi/fon, American citizens; but
ihe was carried to Point-a-Petre,by Captain Talbot, and there,
on the 31ff December, 1793, by virtue of a power of attorney
from Sinclair & J4Vilfon, dated the 2ath of November, 1793,
he fold her for 26,4o livres, as the bill of fale fet forth, to S.
Redick, who was a native of the United States, but had, alfo,
b2en naturalized, (after an occafional refidence for fome time)
as a citizen of the French Republic, on the fame 28th of Desember, 1793. The bill of fale, alfo, ftated that certain cannon
and ammunition on board the veffel were included in the fale.
The fchooner, commanded by Captain Talbot, failed immediately after this tranfaaEtion, on a cruize, and had taken feveral
prizes previously to the capture of the Magdalena. There was
tome flight evidence, alfo, to fanaion an allegation, that of thefe
prizes, taken fubfequent to the fale of the veffel to .Redick, a
part of the proceeds had been paid by Talbot to the original
owners, Sinclair & Wifon.
2d. In relation to the citizenJhip of Captain Ballard,andthe
property

t36

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1795. property of the ve/felwhich he commanded, it appeared, that he
was a native of Virginia; but that in the court of Ifie of W'ight
county, of 1pril Term, 1794, he had renounced, upon record,

his allegiance to that State, and to the United States, agreeably
to the provifions of a law of Virginia;* though previoufly to
the capture of the Magdalena he had not been naturalized in,
(nor, indeed, had he vifited) any other country. L'ami de la
Liberte had been employed, but not armed, by the French Admiral, fJan/Iable, then lying With a fleet in the Chefapcake ; and
on the 13th Germinal, 1794, (
1794,) he had given
Sinclair a general commiflion to command her, as an advice,
or packet boat. This commiffion, however, was affigned by
indorfement from Sinclair to Capt. Ballard, the affignment
was recognized by the French Conful at Charlefon, on the) following; and a copy
of
iith of Floreal (the
of it had been certified and delivered by Capt. Ballard to the
prize mafterof one of his prizes. There was full proof that
L'zlmi de la Liberte had .recciv'ed fotne guns friom L',Imi de

la Point-a-Petre,when they firf./met, by appointment, in Savannah river, ard that fhe had been fitpplied with ammunition,
&c. within the jurifdition of the Ulited States. It did not
appear, that fhe had gone into any other than an American
port, though the had made repeated cruizes, before the capture of the Magdalena; and there were ftrong circumitances
to fhew, that the was ftill owned by Sinclair, though fhe had
been employed by Admiral Panflable.
3 d. In relation to the concert of the two fchooners, and the
capture of the .Magdalena, it appeared, that. before Capt. Bal-

lard's veffel was fit for fea, it had been generally reported, and
believed, and there was fome evidence that Sinclairhad declared,
that fhe was deftined as a concert, to cruize with Capt. Talbot ; that Capt. 7albot had received a letter from Sinclair, di-

refing him to proceed to Savannah river, and there wait for
Capt. ,Ballard, in whofe veffel Sinclair meant to fail; that, accordinZly, fomre days afterwards Capt. Ballard's veffel hove
in fight off Savannah, when Capt. "Ialoot faid, " there is our
owrer, let us give him three cheers ;" that both veffels went
to
The words of the law are thefe
C Whenfoeverany citizen of this
CCCommonwealth, fhal , by deed in writing, under his hand and
ftal, executed in the pefence of, zand fubf'cribed by, three wit-:

14efles, atd by them, or two of them proved in the Geneal Court,

i' Dilrict Court, or the court of the County or Corporation where lie
any
retides, or by open verhal declaratlon uiade in either of the faid courts,
" to be by them entercd of."ecord, declare that lie relinquiflses the ela"racter of a citizen, and lhall
depart out of this Commonwealth, fuch
perfun thall, from the time of' his d-parture, be confidered as having
excreifed his right of expatriation, and fhall thenceforth be deemed no
" cihizcs."
.'a2d 23d Dec. 17 2.

SUPlt EM t

COURT

of the United States.

to Tybee Bar, and failed more than a mile above the light boufe,
where four cannon and rome fwivels were taken fron on board
of Capt. Talbot's veffel, and mounted on board L'.Ami de la
Liberte ; that Sinclair left the veffels in the river, and they foon
after failed together, as concerts upon a cruize ; and that, accordingly, before the capture of the Magdalena, they had
jointly taken feveral prizes, and, particularly, the Greenock,
which was taken by them on the 15 th of May, only two
days before the capture of the Magdalena, and the Fortune
der Zee, which was taken the very day after her captuIre. It
appeared, that the ZMagdalena was firfi taken poffeffion of by
Capt. Ballard, who left a part of his crew on board of her;
but Capt. Taibot was then in fight, and, coming up in about an
hour afterwards, he, alfo, took poffeffion of the brigantine, and
placed a prize mafter and rome of his men on board. The
two privateers continued together fot feveral days, making
fignals occafionally to each other; and, finally, Capt. Ballard
alone accompanied the prize into Charleton.
The caufe was argued by Ingerfoll, Dallas and Du Punceau,
for the Appellant; and by E. 'lilghman, Lewis and Reed (of
South..Carolina) for the Appellee.
On thefaa7s the controverfy was--.Whether the two fchooners were, or were not, owned by Ajnerican citizens? and
were, or were not, illegally outfitted in the United States? The
queftion 'of ownerfbip turned upon the fairnefs and reality of
the fale of L'Ami de la Point a Petre, to Samuel Redick ;

and the truth of the allegation, that L'Ami de la Liberte, had
been purchafed and commirlioned by Admiral Vanflable for the
fervice of the French Republic: And the queflion of illegal
outfit, being conceded as to Captain Ballard's veflel, depended.
as to Captain Talbot's vefiel, upon the circumftances, which
have been recapitulated. On the law, the following pofitions
I. That
were taken in favour of the Appellant*.
Before the principal argument commenced, the two following points
occurred :

I. The counfel for the Appellee, offered to give in evidence, a certifi-

cate of the colle&or of the cuftoms of the port of Char/yon, Piating, that
it appeared by his official bookq, that the duties on the cargo of the Magdalena, had been paid by the Appellee. But it was objeded, for the Ap-

pellant, that the Golle&or'. certificate could not be admitted to prove
the faa ; the entry itfelffrorn the record, muft be exemplified. Befides,
the Colleetor in not an officer appointed to certify a record ; and as a
witnefs, the oppofite party fhould have had an opportunity to crofs examine him. hidependent, therefore, of any queftion, whether lew evidence can be received on an appeal ii this coutt the certificate is inad-

miffible.
TuE COUjRr rejeed the certificate, on the general ground ; and Wiso, f;oice, added, that he thought, atall events, it was premature to
offer the evidence in this Rage of the caufe. The motion was renewed
after

VoL. III.

T

1795,

138
i1795;

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

I. That the courts of the United States have no jurifdiion
of the caufe, becaufe the captftreof the Magdalena as priz',
and carrying her in-for adjudication, were a&s performed under the authority of the French Republic; the fubjea of the
capture- is the property of an enemy of the French Republic ;
and, upon general principles, as well as by pofitive cOmpa ,
the captor had a right 'to bring the prize into an American
port. The commiffion of Captain Talbot is granted by a regular organ of the government of France, and if France recognifes him as a citizen, (though Anerica may have a right in
the abftraa, to controvert with France as a matter of ffate,
the af of expatriation) no neutral power can contradiH the
faft forthe purpofe of trying the validity of the prizes of the
Republic by a teft, which is t1ri&ly municipal in every country, in fubftance, form, and operation. i Coin. Dig. 269. The
courts of a neutral country may undertake to determine queftions of piracy; or queftions of reftitution, where (as inthe'
cafe of Glafs et alverfius the Betfey, ant. p. 6.) the proper! y of its
own citizens, or of the citizens of another neutral nation, has
been wrongfully feized, and brought within its jurifili&ion ;
or queftions arifing from a violation of the neutral jurifdiction
of the country, as in the cafe of the Grange, which was capturcd in the bay of Delaware; but no neutral power can determine a queftion of prize, upon a capture on the high feas by a
belligerent power from his enremy. 4 InJ. I54. 2 R. 3fol. 2.
1. T. 17. 2 Wffood. 454. Lee. 211. Sir L. 9enk.
.p.
Bynk.
714. T~hus, there is no jus pofliminiam in a neutral port;
Pratt. b. 3. c. 14.]. 208. p. 84. and inierica, as a neutral power, cannot award reltitution in this cafe, uilefs two things are
efrablified, ift, that the Plaintiff is in amity with America, aid
2d, that Fy-ance is in amity with Holland. 4 f1J?. 154. Befides,
France, by the I 7 ch article of the treaty, has a right to bring
into, and ca:-ry from, an American port, all the prizes that he
takes from her enemies. That the Dutch owners of the veffel
were enemies of Franceis notorious ; but, frill, the veffcl muff
be
afer the conrt had affirmcd the decree of the court bclow,'but with no
greater fuccef-.
It. It was ohjeted by Dallas, for the Appellant, that the record was
not tranfmitted, agreeably to the directious of the judicial aet, the 19th
fection providing, that " it lhali be the duty of Circuit Courts, in cauifes
in equty and of admiralty antitariith'ne jisrifiction,'to caufe thefacts,
on vhicl they found titeir fentence, or decree, fully to appear upon the
record, &c." which lad not been "onner.It is true, that the pleadings,
ex iiihs, and fentetices are certified by the clerk, not by thejtdges ; and
the e may have been oral teiluinony in the inferior courts. Reed, anfwered, Ihat every thing that had appeared below, now appeared here, unde :i, feal of"the Circuit Court.

After fome difcuffion, however, the defire of the parties to obtain a deiiionon tl.emerits, prevailed, and the ob.jection was waved. T'he point

hasbeer fince argued and decided, in the cafe ofi"ifcatlet alv.Dauc/ypjqo.

SUPREME COURT

'of the United States.

139

be a prize, according to the law of nations, excluding captures

within a nuctral boundary, &c. That queftion, however, when
the capture is made on the high feas, by a belligerent power of
the property of his enemy, can only be decided by the courts of
the country of the captors; and to examine the right of the
Frenc-h Republic,to iffue a cominiflion within her own dominions, to a perfon recognized and claimed by her as a citizen",
is a direc attack i4pon the fovereignty and independence of
France. It is urged, however, that Capt. Talbot's veffel was,
in fad, an American privateer, illegally fitted out in an American
port; the fads do not fupport either branch of the allegation:;
but even in that point of view, if there wvasa commilfion from
the French Republic, the capture, cannot be deemed piracy:

and fince pffling the a& of the th of Yune '794, (3 Fol. p. 8g.)
there is a provifion for punifhing illegal outfi-ts ; but not for reflitution of their prizes, taken under a foreign commiflion, by
foreign fubjeds. Lpon a capture under a cornrnimiion, to a
French citizen, indeed, whether he is a native citizen or naturalized, the thing mufl be the fame in eff'e , to foreign neutral
powers. Every writer fupports this opinion, where the prize
is carried infra prefidia; and the American ports are infraprefi.
alia (a place of afylum and fafety) for French prizes, by virtue
of the treaty. But even if the commiflion had been given to an
American citizen, it would have been confifFent with the ufage
of nations ;--every nation, (for inflance, Ruffia and Engla;nd)
employing foreign officers and feamen in their privateers and
{hips .of war; and Xmerica h3erfelf. it will be remembered, employed La Fayette, and a train of French officers, previous to
her alliance with France. See 13 Geo . 2. c 3. f I. 17 vol.
Stat. at Large 358. Lex AWcr. 318. Citizenthip defao, is
enough for the objed contempiated ; and Englandprovides that
flhe herfelf may navigate her pri vatcer:Nwith three fourths fo,
reign feamen. 13 Geo. 2 c. 3.
ii. That Samul Redick and Captain Talbot
had expatriated
themfelves, and become French citizens; fo that the former
might lawfully own, and the latter might lawfully command,
a French privateer, for the purpofe of making prize of fhips be:
longing to the enemies of France. The right of expatriation
is antecedent and fuperior to thelavw of fociety. It is implied,
likewifc, in the nature and obje&L of the focial compadf, which
was formed to fhield the weaknefs, and to fupply the wants of
individuals-to proted the acquifitions of human indufm ry, and
to promote the means of hunan hasppinefs. Whenever theft
purpofes fail, either the whole lociety is dflfolved, or the fuffering individuals are permitted. to withdraw fcom it. There
are two memorable inftances of.the expatriation of entire nations (independent of the general cou fe of the patriarchial, or
paftoral

1795.

140

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

r795. paliroral life) the one in ancient, and the other in modern ftory.

'the Perfians approached Athens, the whole Athenian
nation embarked in the fleet of Themifocles, and left Attica,
for a time, in poffeflion of the Perfians. Plut. in vit. Themrnft.
Trav. of dnachar. i vol. p. 268. In the year 1771, a
whole nation of Tartars, called " Tourgouths," making 50,000
families, or 3oo,ooo fouls, emigrated from the banks of the
1Jolga, in Ri.ia, and, after a progrefs of inconceivable difficulty, fettled in the dominions of the Emperor of China, who
hofpitably received them, and erecdted a monument on the fpot,
to commemorate the event. Col, /fag. for Feb. 1788. But
the abftra& right of individuals to withdraw from the fociety
of which they are members, is recognized by an uncommon
coincidence of opinion ;-by every writer, ancient and modern ; by the civilian, as wdl as by the common-law lawyer ;
by the philofopher, as well as the poet : It is the law of nature,
and of nature's god, pointing to " the wide world before us,
where to chufe our place of reff, and Providence our guide."
a Bynk. i25. Wickefort. b.I. c. 2.p. 116. Grot. b.2. 5.f 24.
par. 2. 3. Dig. de cap. et poft. Law. 12.f . Whick. b.i. f 1.
P 244, Puf. b. 8. 1- c. 1.1 3. p. 862. I Fred. Code. 34. 5-2
vol. io. TGill. IIiJ. Greece, With this law, however, human

SWhen

inftitutions have often been at variance; and no inflitutions
'more than the feudalfyjemi, which made the tyranny bf arms,
the bafis of fociety ; chained men to the foil on which they
were born and converted the bulk of mankind into the villeins, or flaves of a lord, or fuperior. From thefeudalfvlem,
fprung the law of allegiancei which purfuing the nature of its
origin, refs on lands ; for, when lands were all held of the
Crown, then the oath of allegi,'nce became appropriate" [t was
the tenure of the tenant, or vaffal, Blac. Coan. 366. The oath
offealty, and the ancient oath of allegiance, were, alr'oft the
fame; both refting on lands j both defignating thV perfon to
whom firvice fhould be rendered; though the one makes an
exception as to the fiperior lord, while the other is an ohli(4a.
tion of fidelity againfi all men. 2 BIl. Com. 53 Pal 140,
Service, therefore, was alfo an infeparable concomitant offeal
ty, as well as of allegiance. The oath of fealty could not be
violated without lofs of lands; and as all lands were held me-,
diately, or immediately, of the flvereign, a violation of the
oath of allegiance, was, in fa&, a voluntary fubmifflon to a
hate of outlawry, Hence arofe the do6lrine of perpetual and
•univerfal allegiance, When, however, the light of reafon was
fhed upon the hunan mind, the Intercourfe of man became
more general and more liberal the military was gradually
changed for the commercial ftate ; and the laws were found a-

qgttcr protc1ion' for perfons gnd property, than arms,

But
evI

SUPREME CO'URT

of the United States.

even while the praa"idal adminiftration of government was thus f795.
reformed, forne portion of the ancient theory was preferved ; and, L.-..
am ing other things,the do6trine of perpetual allegiance remained,
with the fiditious tenure of all lanas from the Crown to fupport
it. Yet, it is to be renembered, that whether in its real origin, or in its artificial ftate, allegiance, as well as fealty,
refts upon lands, and it is due to perfons. Not fo, with
rcfpcd to itizenjhip, which has arifen from the diftblution of the feudal fyftem; and is a fubftitute for allegiance,
correfponding with the new order of things. Allegiance and
citizenfhip, differ, -indeed, in alnmoff every chara-eriftic. Citizenfhip is the efle& of compa&L; allegiance is the offspring
of power and neceffity. Citizenfhip is a political tie; allegiance
is a territorial tenure. Citizenflip is' the charter of equality;
allegiance is a badge of inferiority. Citizenfhip is coaftitutional; allegiance is perfonal. Citizenfhip is freedom; allegiance is fervitude. Citizenfhip is communicable; allegiance
is repulfive, Citizenfhip may be relinquifhed ; allegiance is
perpetual. With fuch effential differences, the dodrine of allegiance is inapplicable to a fyffem of citizenfhip; which it can
neither ferve to controul, nor to elucidate. And yet,'even
among the nations, in which the law of allegiance is the moft
firmly eftablifled, the moft pertinacioufly enforced, there are
lriking deviations that demonffrate the inviricible power of
truth, and the homage, which, under every modification of government, mufl be paid to the inherent rights of man. In Ru'ffia, the volunteers who fupply the fleet with officers, or literary inflitutions with profeffors, are naturalized. In Poland,
an American citizen has been made Chanc-1or to the Crown.
In France, Mr. Sartine, who was Minifter of Marine, and Mr.
Nccker, who was Minifter of Finances, were adopted, not native, fubjecdts. In England, two years fervice in the navy, i/fo
facdo, endows an alien with all the rights of a native. There are
tacit acknowledgments of the right of expatriation, velled in
the individuals; for, though they are infiances of adopting,
not of difcharging, fubjeffs; yet, if Great Britain would (ex
gratia) prote6t a Ruflan naturalized by fervice, in her fleet,
it is obvious that flhe cannot do fowithout recognizing his right
of expatriation to be fuperior to the Emprefs's right of allegiance. But it is not only in a negative way, that thefe deviations in fupport of the general right appear. The doarine is,
that allegiance cannot be due to two fovereigns; and taking an
oath of allegiance to a new, is the firongeft evidence of withdrawing allegiance from a previous, fovereign. Thus, Louis
XIV. received his own quondam fubjecls, the two Fidlers, as
Ambaffadors. Dr. Story, an Englifhman, was feni to England
as the minifler of Spein. And in many nations the conditions

. n

14Z

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1795, on which an expatriation may.be affe&ed (fuch as paying a tax,
Y_1or leaving a portion of property behind) are adually prefcribed. Independent, however, of thefe inftances, incountrics
bound by the law of allegiance, it is to be confidered, what are
tha rights of citizenhip on the fubjeat ; and like every other
queftion -of citizcnfhip, it depends on the terms and fpirit
of our focial compa&. The American Confederation is a complex machine, andfui generis. It creates joint federal powers ; but it recognizes feparate ifate powers : It is confederate
to fome purpofes ;but confolidated to other purpofes. The formatiop of every focial compad is prefumed, however, by elementary writers, to be a furrender of fo much, and no more, of
private rights, as are neccffary to the prefervation and operation of the government; but this principle is notleft with us
to mere implication ; it is formally declared.in many flate conifitutions in favor of the people ; and in the Federal Corffitution, it iS declared in favor of the States, as well as of the people. With refipe&, then, to the right of emigration, it has been
under the confideration of the people and government of the
Union, fiom the moment of their birth, as an independent nation ;. infomuch,, that the refufal to pafs laws for the encouragement of emigration to America, is charged as a proof of
tyranny and opprefllon, in the enumeration of the grievances,
which produced and juflified the revolution. 'lhe articles of
Confederation contain not any claufes, exprefsly granting, or
reftraining, the power and right of naturalization and emigration ; but they contain an exprefs refervation of all powers in
favor of the States individually, which are not, in terms, transferred to the Union. An infipe6tion of the feeral ifate conPtitutions will prove, that, in fome form or other, the principle
has been recognized by every member of the Confederation ;
and the Conflitution of Penylvania explicitly provides, that
no law fhall be paffed prohibiting emigration from the ftate.
This is,
perhaps, the only direct expreflion of the public fentiment on the fubje&; but the very filence that prevails ftrcngthens the argument. The power of naturalizing has been ve'ed
in feveral of the ftate governments, and it now exiffs in the
general government; but the powver to relirain or regulate the
Tight of emigration, is no where furrendered by the people ;
and, it muft be repeated, that, what has not been given, ought
Iot to be a(Fumed. It may be faid, however, that fuch a power is ncecflary to the government, and that it is implied in the
authority to regulate the bufinefs of naturalization. In confidcring'thefe pofitions, it muf' be admitted, that although an
individual has a right to expatriate himfelF, he has not a right
to feduce others from their country. Hencc, thofe who forcibly or fedudlively, take am ay a citizen, commit an at, which
forms

SUPREME

COURT of the

United States.

forms a fair obje6l of municipal police; and a confpiracy, or 1795.
combination, to leave a country, might, likewife be properly k
guarded againti.
Such laws would not be an infration of the
natural right of individuals ; for, the natural rights of man are
perfonal ; he has no right to will for others, and he does fo,
in effeft, whenever he moves the mind of another to his purpofe, by fear, by fraud, or by -perfuafion. The Engliijb law
and the law of Pennfylvania, therefore; punifh kidnapping, and
tranfporting, or feducing, arti*, to fettle abroad as crimes. 4
B!. Com. 2 19. 16 o. Penn. Laws 2 Vol. Dall. Edit. But this is
all the power on the fubjet, which a government ought to poffefs for its prefervation. The depopulation of a country by the
fpontaneous co-operating will of numbers, proves nothing
more than that a bad government exilts, or a bad foil is inhabited. Such an event, however, is too .remote\a poflibility,'
to be any where a fubje6} of apprehenfion; and, With refped to
ifnerica, it is vifionary indeed! IfYthen, the power of reftrain.ing emigration is not neceffary to the exiftence of government,
much may be urged to fhew, that it is a power oftoo delicate
a nature to be truffed by the people to the integrity of any
government ; fince, by legiflative regulations, the exercife of
the right might be rendered fo difficult, that the right itfelf
would be put in everlafling abeyance. Nor is there any effential coincidence in a power to regulate naturalization, and in'
a power to regulate emigration ; fb that the grant of the former
(hall be deemed to includc the latter. , The idea of admitting,
and the idea of excluding, are not analogous. As to the point
of policy, if a m n, wifhes t6 leave a country, he is not likely to
remain in it, by force, beneficially to the flate. 'The charalciof the migrating individual can have no influence on the right;
his private motives of intereft, or of pleafure, do not affed the.
community; and it is of no importance to what country he
goes.
rhe moment he has expatriated himfelf, the ftate is no
longer interc fed, no lonaer refponfible for his conduf; the
legature, which bound tbe-m, is fevered, and can never again be
united, without their mutual confent : The emigrant has become an alien. But in the aft of naturalization, every community has a right totally to rejieapplications for admiflon w,
or to piefcribe the terms; and then the characfer of the applicant, the matives cf emigration from his old country, and the
evidences of attachmcnrt to his new one, are all to be confidered. Let it, however, be fuppofed, for a moment, that the grant
of th naturalization powver enibr'Ices a power of regulating
remains, has the power of'regulaemiigration, the queftion ftill
ti,,g emigration been exercifed by Congres ? And if it has not
bcn eX':cifed by the d-partnent efgovernment, to which alone
even by iinplication, it is ranted, what authority has the
court

144

t795.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

court to interfere upon the fubje& ? That the power has not

Lys%. been exercifed by Congrefs is conceded ; and if the court interferes, it will be a legiflative, not a judicial, a&: For, although
it is contendcd, that the law of nations furnifhes rules to fupply the filence of the legiflature, there is fcarcely a fubje&, to
which the j urifdi&ion of Congrefs extends, that might not, on the
fame do&rine, be regulated, without the interpofition of that
body. Thus, Congrefs has power to define and punifh piracies,
felonies committed on the higJiWcas, and offences againfl the
law of nations ; and yet, without the exercife of that power, the
law of nations would fupply rules as applicable to thofe cafes, as
to the cafe of expatriation. But naturalization and expatriation
are matters of internal police; and mull depend upon the municipal law, though they may be illufirated and explained by the
principles of general jurifprudence. It is true, that the judicial power extends to a variety of objeds ; but the Supreme
Court is only a branch of that power; and depends on Congrefs
for what portion it fliall have, except in the cafes of ambaflhdors, &c. particularly defignated in the conftitution. The
power of declaring whether a citizen fhall be entitled in any
form to expatriate himfelf, or, if entitled, to prefcribe the form,
is not given to the Supreme Court ; and, yet, that power will
be exercifed by the court, if they fhall decide againift the expatriation of Captain Talbot. Let it not, after all, be underftood,
that the natural, loco-motive,. right of a free citizen, is independent of every focial obligation. In time of war, it would
be treafon to migrate to an enemy's country and join his forces,
under the pretext of expatriation. i Dall Rep. 53. and, even in
time of peace, it would be reprehenfiblc (fay the writers on the
law of nature and nations) to defert a country labouring under
great calamities. So, if a man a&ing under the obligations of
an oath of office, withdraws to elude his refponfibility, he changes his habitation, but not his citizenfhip. It is not, however,
private relations, but public relations; private refponfibility,
but public refponfibility; that can affe& the right: for, where
the reafon of the law ceafes, the'law itfelf muft, alfo, ceafe. There'
is not a private relation', for which a man is not as liable by local, as by natural, allegiance ;-after, as well as before, his expatriation: He muff take care of his family, he muft pay his
debts, wherever he refides ; and there is nofecurity in reftraining emigration, as to thofe objeds, fince, with refpea to them,
withdrawing is as effedual, as expatriating. Nor is it enough
to impair the right of expatriation, that other nations are at
war ; it muff be the ccuntry of the emigrant. No nation has
a right to interfere in the interior police of another : the rights
and duties of citizenfhip, to be conferred, or releafed, are matter of interior police;, and, yet, if a foreign war could affcdt
the

StUi'PIEME COURT of the United States.
the qRulion, every time that a frefh power entered into a war, a
new rcflraint would be impofed upon the natural rights of the
citizens of a neutral country; which, confidering the conflant
warfare that afflicts the woild,would amount to a perpetual controul. But the true diftin&ion, appears to be this :-.The citizens of the neutral country may fill exercife the right of ex-patriation, but the belligerent power is entitled to fay, " the
a& of joining our enemies, flagrante bello, flhall not be a va]id
By this conifru&ion, the duty a naat of expatriation."
tion owes to itfilf, the facred rights of the citizen, -the law of
nations, and the faith of treaties, will harmonize, though moving in diftind and ftparate courfes. To purfue the fubjec one
fRep further: A man cannot owe allegiance to two fovereigns.
he cannot be citizen of two republics.. If a
t B1. Com.
mai has a right to expatriate, and another nation has a right
and difpofition to adopt him, it is a compad between the two
parties, confirmmated by the oath of allegiance. A man's laft
will, as to his citizenflaip, may be likened to his laft will, as
to his eftate; it 'fuperfedvs every former dirpofition ; and when
either takes effe&, the party, in one cafe, is naturally dead, ii
the other, he is civilly dead ;--but in both cafes, as good chrif-

tians and good republicans, it muft be prefumed that he rifes
to another, if not to a better,.life and country. An a& of expatriation, likewife, is fufceptible of various kinds of proof.
The Virginia law has feleded one, when the fate permits her
is not, perhaps, either the moft aucitizens to depart; but -it
thentic," or the moft conclufive that the cafe admits. It may
be done obfcurely in a-difLfnt county court; and even after the
emigrant is releafed from Virginia, to what nation does he belong ? He may have entered no other country, nor incurred,
any obligation to any other fovereign. Not being a citizen
of Virginia, he cannot be deemed a citizen of the United States.
Shall he be called a citizen of the world ; a human balloon,
detached and buoyant in the political atmofphere, gazed at
wherever he paffes, and fettled wherever he touches ? But, on
tle other hand, the ad of fwearing allegiance to another fovereign, is unequivocal and 'conclufive ; extinguiifiing, at
once, the claims of the deferted, and creating the righ.t of the
adopted, country. Sir JVilliam Blackhlone, therefore, confiders
it as the ftrongeft, though an ineffedual, effort to emancipate a
Britijb fubjed from his natural allegiance ; and the exifting
conftitution of France declares it exprefsly to be a criterion of
expatriation. The fame principle operates, when the naturalization law of the United States provides, that the whole ceremony of initiation fhall be performed in the American courts ;
and if it is here confidered as the proof of adoption, fhall it not
be confidered, alfo, as the tet of expatriation ? If America

VOL. Ill.'

U

makes

1795.

146

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

I795. makes citizens in that way, fhall we not allow to other nations,
k.,,-..d the privilege of the fame procefs ? In hort, to admit that
Frenchmen may be made citizens by an oath of allegiance to
America, is, virtually; to admit, that Americans may be expatriated by an oath of allegiance to France. After this difcufflon
of principles, forming a neceflary bafis for the fadts in this cafe,
itis infifed, ift, That Talbot was a naturalized citizen of the
French Republic at the time of receiving a commiflion to command the privateer, and of capturing the Magdalena. He left
this country with the defign to emigrate ; and the ad of expatriation muff be prefumed to be regular, according to the laws
of France, fince it is certified by the municipality of Point a

Pitre,by the French Conful, and by the Governor of Guadaloupe. 2d, That Redick was alfo, a naturalized citizen of the
French Republic when he purchafed the veffel, and received a
commifljon to employ her as a privateer. 34, That Ballard's
expatriation and commiffion, however doubtful, cannot affct
Talbot and Redick. But ftill, it is objeded, that thefe a8s of
expatriation, thefe commiffions, are all fraudulent and void.
In private contrads, in fubje&s of municipal regulation, in
matters of meum et tuum, the rule is clear, that fraud vitiates
every thing, and the fraud may be colleded from circumfanwes.
But is fraud to be prefumed in a conflid of national rights ? It
is faid, that a nation cannot be confidered in the light of pirates ;
i Wood. fo a nation cannot commit frauds. Let 'the matter
be turn'ed as it may, it will reft on this ground,-had France any
authority to naturalize, or to commiffion, Talbot and .Redick?
America is deeply intereffed, at leaft, in withholding a conceffion, that any other nation, but France, can decide that queftion. The validity of her own naturalizations, the authenticity
of her own commiflions, and the claims of her impreffed feamen, are all involved. ' France,' then, is exclufively to judge ;
fhe granted the authority, ihe can refcind it ; fhe can punifli any
abufe of it; and to her government muff be the appeal, if America, or any other nation, has fuftained an injury by it. If,
.indeed, on the pretext of fraiud in the perfons who obtain a
French commiflion, our courts may annul them, where will
ihe inquifitorial cenforfhip terminate ? Britifh patents of denization, as well as French adts of naturalization ; and every
commiffion of the officers of a public fhip of war, as well as of
a privateer, will be alike fubjed to our fupreme controul. But
even the allegation of fraud, is unfupported by any reafonable
degree of evidence. The firif circumftance relied on, is, that
the ads of naturalization, bill of (ale, and cominiffion to cruize,
were in the cuftody of Capt. Talbot on board the privateer, and
not held hy Redick, at Point a Pitre. But, furely, every privateer muff be always ready to prove her owmerikip and au-,

I I

thority

SVPREME COURT

of the United tates.

147

thority, 'to refcue her from the imputation of piracy, and to en- 1795.
title her to fell her prizes. Again, it is faid, that Redick had kyJ
no agent in America. But it is fufficient to anfwer, that the
Captain of a privateer is the natural agent for the owner ; that
it idle'to expe& that the owner of a cruizing veffel thall have
an agent in every port, at which (he may touch; and that, in
faa, Redick had feveral agents in Charle/fon. It is added, as
circumiftances for fufpicion, that Talbot has not proved that his
vefill was not fitted out in the United States, where s the'
proof of the affirmative lay with Appellee ; the articles' on
board Talbot's veffel, if not put on board at Guadaloupe r'ight
have been for trade; and Redick, a bona fide purchafer, otght
not to-be affected by an iflegal outfit: 2 Efp. 282. 3 Wood.
213. B!. C. 262. I 7. Rep. 26o. 3 7 Rep. 437. 2 Wood. 412.
431- Hard.349. Cowp. 34t. 2 '. Rep. 750. that proof is not
made of notice of the fale to Redick, whereas it appears that
Sinclair and JFilfon were aflually informed of the tranfa&ion ;
and that Sinclair and Wi fon have not been produced as witneffes by the Appellant, whereas it was the duty of the Appellee, if he thought their teffimony material, to examine them,
and he had the fame means to compel their attendance.
III. That the capture being made by Captain Talbot, notwithfianding the participation of Captain Ballard,the veffel is
a lawful prize. -If, indeed, Talbot and Redick were regularly
naturalized by France, if the veffil was regularly fold to Redick, and commiffioned by the French government, it is obvious
that the validity of the capture can only be impeached, by the
circumiftance of Capt. Talbot's conforting with Capt. Ballard.
That point may be confidered in two ways: ift, Corifidering
Captain Ballardas ailing under colour of a commiffion ; 2d,
Confidering Captain Ballardasa&ing without any authority at
all.-ift, The commifion which Ballard held, was, at leaff,
fufficiently colourable to juftify Talbot the commander of a
French privateer, in affociating with him againft the enemies
of France. A general order, indeed, is a fufficient commiflion,
where there is evidence a perfon intended to a& under it. 2
PJatt.f 224. 5. 6. But he not only held a commifflon, but he
was employed by the French government itfelf, failed under
French colours, and in the charaaer of a Frencb veffel had
been permitted freely to leave and enter the American ports. It
is true, that it is eventually difcovered that he had clandeftinely fitted out his veffel, in violation of the laws of the United
States ; but Talbot had no right to queftion the validity of the
commiflion, nor the legality of the outfit; and even fuppofing
Talbot did affift in the outfit of Ballard'sveffel, that, as a fubRantive offence, might render him amenable to puniihmnent in
our courts, but it could not vacatehis French commiflion, nor
render him, as a French citizen, a pirate throughout the world.
The

148
1795.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

The validity of the commiffion and the legality of the outfit are
queftioned, however, by a Dutch fubje&, before an American
tribunal ; and yet, fuch a plea would not be fuftained in France,
and could not be allowed even in Holland. With refpe& to
America herfelf, whatever punifhmnent fhe, denounces, for a
violation of her neutrality, {he may infli&; but on principles
of, juftice fhe cannot convert one crime into another, an illegal outfit into piracy; he cannot punifh for holding a comniffion, recognized by the authority that iffued it; fie cannot
make an innocent man (for inflance, Redick, the owner of the
privateer) refponfible for a guilty one; the cannot impair the
right, or confifcate the property, of a man aaing under a due authority, in order to punifh a man ading without due authority;
and fhe cannot punifh a man for affociating out of her jurifdilion, with another, contrary to her laws, but confiftently
with the laws of the country to which he belongs. But What
more did Talbot do, than is juftiflable on the principle of ltratagern by the laws of war ? It is illegal to outfit a veffel of
war within the United States under colour of a Frenchcommiflion; and, yet, after the veffel is outfitted, and on the high
feas, may not an officer of France, without vacating his commiflion, employ her? Foreigners are often retained as fpies,
and fornetimes prefled into the fervice of a belligerent power.
Yatt, B. c. f P. 593, 557. Grot. Puff. Heinec. i7o.
Why may they not be employed as conforts in criizing ? A
colourable commiffion was deemed fufficient to refcue Captain
Ballard from a convilion for piracy ; and if for that purpofe,
it ought furely to be fifficient to fave Talbot, or rather, indeed,
Redick, the party really interefted, from a charge of piracy,
the foifeiture of his commiffion, and the lofs of the
prize. Where there is a cornmiffion, there can be no piracy.
2 Woodes. 4:5. 2 Sir L. 7enk. 754. Moll. 64. and capture by deputation under colour of a commiflion is no piracy,
though the ihip is carried into the port of a friend.-2
11/oodes. 426. Mol. B. I. c. 4 -f 9. p. 65. The cafe in 2
Fern. 592, quoted for the Appellee, is the cafe of Englijbmen,
a6ting ais fuch, though under a Savoy commiflion, againfl friends

of England; whereas the prefent cafe is that of an American,
having lawfully expatriated himfelf, and after becoming a

French citizer, receiving as fuch a commifflion, and making
prize, in a French vcffel, of the property of the enemies of
France. But even on the point of the. commiflion, it is faid
in the cafe th-it the prize might enure as a droit of Admiralty,
on the principle of capture from an enemy, by an uncommiffione, vefflhl. 2 ',oodes. 433. And there are fome authorities
that go the kcngth of faying that capture by a neutral, where
there" is'a commillion, Js good. Lex Merc. .227. Com. Dig.
.269,

SUPREME COURT

m69.

of the United Stats.

2d. But let it be fuppofed, in the fecond place, that cap-

1795.

tain Ballardhad no authority at all, this will not deftroy captain

Talbot's right of capture. A piratical capture does not, it is
agreed, alter the property; 2 Wood. 428 to 43T. and as Ballard, in that cafe, had no right to feize the veffel, it ffill remained the property of the Dutch owners, liable to be feized
any where by the French, their public enemies. JVatt, B. c.
f. p. Burl. 29', 222, 225. Lee on Capt. 206. 2 Val.
261. If, indeed, a friend's property is retaken from a pijate,

the friend fhall only pay falvage; but if an enemy's property is
fo retaken, the right becomes entire and abfolute in the re-captor.
It would be war in a neutral country, fay the authorities, to
fecure within her territory the fpoils of one of the Belligerent
parties ; and is it not a greater partiality, a more firiking aggreflion, to attempt to do fo on the high feas ? It can only be
by an extenfion of her neutral jurifdi&ion, that the United
States can pretend to invalidate the capture, becaufe the property was in the poffeflion of Ballard, an 4merican citizen;
and furely, the unlawful a& of her own citizen can give no
right or authority to the United States, at the expence of the
right and authority of a foreign nation. If, upon the whole,
Ballard had a colorable commiflion, it juftified Talbot; if he
had no commiflion, his mifcondut on the high feas, cannot add
to the fafety of the property of the Dutch, nor enlarge the jurifdi6tion and power of the United States; and even if Tabot
had conforted with Ballard, an avowed pirate, the prize would
be good as adroit of the French Admiralty, though perhaps
neither of the captors. acquired a property in it. Lex Mere.
246, Moll. b.x, fi 1o.
The fa&s, then, are briefly, that the
two cruizers were in company when they firfl faw the Iagdalena ; that, for their mutual intereff, they afterwards feparated
to puifue feparare veflels, that both were again in fight, however, When the prize was captured, that both took poffeflion
of her, and that both were in poffeflion on her arrival in the
port of Gharlefon. The force of one joint cruizer is the
force of both ; and, like joint tenants, the poffefflon of one
is the poffeffion of both. It cannot be faid, that fhe was firff
captured by Ba/lard; for, when two (hips are in fight, both
are confidered as captors ; both entitled to fhare in the prize.
2 lood. 447, Moll. b. x, C. 2, f 22. ! Leon. iS2, Doug.
324, 328, and, therefore, on that footing, if Ballard was not
entitled, either the whole prize veffed in Talbot, or Ballard's.
fhare was a droit of the Admiralty of France; but America
could have no pretence to hold, or releafe, any part of it. 2
Wood. 43.. 3. 441. 456. 2 Fern. 592.
The Counfel for the Appellees infiffed upon the following
points: ifl. That the capturing veffels were dnerican property.

r5 7

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1795. ty. !zd. That even if the veffels were Frencb property, the
%.v j inifruments, or agents, ufed to effe& the capture, were American citizens. 3 d. That both veffels were of American outfit,
and, therefore, the capture was illegal. 4 th. That,. at all
events, Ballard acquired no right by the capture, and that
Talbot, coming in under him, could have no higher pretenfions
than Ballardhirnfelf. From this view,, it will be perceived
that the courfe of their argument led principally to an inveftigation of the fadts ; whence concluding, that the whole tranf-'
adion was collufive and fraudulent, on the part of the owners
2nd captains' of the veffels, they cited authorities to fhew, that
fraud vitiates every adt, and that although fraud cannot be-piefumed, it may be proved by circumfances. 3 Cha. Ca.
lWils. 230. 3 Co. 778. 8i. i Burr. 391. 396, 4 T. ReP. 39.
On the points of law, the Counfel for the Appellee, held the
following docrines :
i. That Ballard and Talbot were A'nericans by birth, and
had done nothing which could work a lawful expatriation. It
is conceded that birth gives no property in the man; but, on
the principles of the American government, he may leave his
country when he pleafes, provided it is done bona fide, with
good caufe, and under the regulations prefcribed by law. I
att. B. i c. I9.f 220. 221. 223. 221. Grot. B. 2. c. 5.f 24.
Puff B. 8. c. I I-p. 872, and provided, alfo, that he goes to
another country, and takes up his refidence there, under an open
Thus, the rule is
and avowed declaration of his intention.
fairly laid down in 2 Heinec. B. 2. C. 10. f 230. p. 220; requiring from the emigrant not only an adt of departure, with
the defign to expatriate, but the ad of joining himfelf to another flate. But a man may be entitled to the right of citizenfhip in two countries; and proving that he is received by a new
country, is not fufficient to prove that his own country has furrendered him. If, indeed, it is lawful for one individual,
any number of individuals, may exercife the right of expatriation under the circumiftances contended for; and, then,
we might behold a political monher, all the citizens of a
country at, war, though the country itfelf is at peace.
There muft, therefore, from the nature of the cafe, be fome
reftraint on this loco-motive right : and it is a reafonable
reftraint, recognized by the beft writers, that it fhall not
be exercifed either in contravention of a national cornpad, fuch as the American treaty with Holland, which declares that the citizens of either party fhall not take comIniflions as privateers againll the other. Art. 19. or tO the
injury of the emigrant's country. Yatt. b. 2. c. 6 .f 7t to 76.
Privateering by the fubje&s of a neutral nation, is confidered as
an infamous pradice. Ibid. b. 3. c. i5. f 229. and if -an a&
committed

SUPREME

COURT

of the United States.

committed by a citizen is approved and ratified by his-coun- I795.
try, they adopt the offence as their own. Ibid. b.' 2. r. 6. f.
74. The power of regulating emigration, is an incident to
the power of regulating naturalization. It is veiled exclufively in Congrefs; and the Virginia Act, under which Ballard
pretends to have renounced his allegiance, can have no effect
on the political rights of the Union. With refpect to Talbot,
his pre:ended expatriation was in itfeif an offence, and, therefore, tannot sbe a juflification: be failed from America, in an
armed veffel, illegally fitted out, with the defign of becoming
a privateer, againft a nation in peace and.treaty with theUnited
'States; and the fale of his vefFel to Redick, was merely a colour to the general fcheme of plunder and depredation, in which
Redick was a partaker. If, then, Tqlbot is to be iftill confidered as an American citizen, a'-ing under a French commiftion,
in capturing a Dutch prize, refiitution hufft be awarded upon
ern. 5 9 2. Holland being
the principle of the decifion in 2
at peace with America, though {he is at war with France.
2. That even fuppofing Talbot's expatriation, and the ownerfhip of his veffel, to be fufficient to authorize his own privateering, the circumiances ofc oforting with Ballard, knowing the American character of Ballard and his veff l, were
fuificient to invalidate the capture. Can it be reafonable, or
juff, that a Frenc'h privateer fhould affociate with a pirate, or
avail himfelf of the power of Amcrica, to feize the property of
her allies, bring that property into an American port, and, yet,
that an American court of juitice fhould be incompetent to redrefs the grievance ? But the a&ual capture was made by
Ballard, whofe right of capture. is abandoned. The tortious
af had been compleated before Talbot was admitted by a fraudulent concert, into a fhare of the poffeflion of the veflel; and
even When admitted, he does not pretend to defeat. the previous occupancy, or to controvert Ballard's claim of prize.
Ballard, (pofleffed by aflignment of a commiffion, which did
not authorife capture, and which was not, in its nature affignable) had wrongfully feized the veffel of an American friend;
and, furely, if at the time of fuch feizure, and before Talbot
boarded the veffel, the Dutch owners bad a right to demand
juffice fro6i the United States, as againfi Ballard, that right
could not be deftroyed by any immediate confequence of the
wrong on which it was founded; fuch as Talbot's being odmitted by the agreffor to a joint poffefflon. Befides, Talbot
affifted in arming Ballard'sveffel within the neutraljurifdiion
of the United States ; and this, together with the concert in capturing the il3agdaleia, amounted to a relinquifhmcnt, or forfeiture, of his commiflion.
3. That ricithQr the law of nations, nor the treaty between

,mIerica

152

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

and France, prevents the interference of the judicial
1795. ) America
.1..y...
authority of the United States, in this cafe ; and it has already
been adjudged, that the Diftri& Court has Admiralty jurifdiction, both as a Prize and Inftance Court. At. p. 6. It is
enough to repel the arg~ument founded on the law of nations,
to tate, that the queftion is not, whether the court will take
cognizance of a capture, made on the high fkas, by the citizens
of France, of the property of the enemies of that Republic,
which is a queftion that can only be decided by the courts of
the captor: but the gift of the controverfy is-whether American citizens flhall be permitted, under the colour of a foreign
commiflion, to make prize of the property of the friends of A!merica, either by their own independent a&, or in collufion
and concert with a real French privateer ? As'to the 17th article of the treaty with France, giving it a fair and rational expofition, it cannot include prizes taken by privateers unlawfully
equipped in the American ports; and the veffels taken as prize,
muff not only belong to the enemies of France, but be fuch as
are taken bonafide by the citizens of France; which was not

the fad in the prefent inftance. ,
On the 22d of Auguft, I7)5, the Judges delivered their opinions feriatim.
PAi'ERSON, jtftice.-The libel in this caufe was exhibited
by YoofI JanJfn, mafter of the Jrouw Ghri/liana Magdalena,

a Dutch brigantine, owned by citizens of the United Netherlands; and its prayer is, that Edward Ballard, and all others,
having claim, may be compelled to make reftitution. The
Diftridt Court direded reftitution; the Circuit Court affirmed
the decree; and the caufe is now before this court for revifion.
The Magdalena was captured by Ballard, or by Ballard and
Talbot, and brought into Charleton. The general queftion is,
whether the decree of reftitution was well awarded. In difcuffing the queftion, it will be neceffary to confider the capture as
made,
i. By Ballard.

2. By Ballard and Talbot.

i. By Ballard. This ground not being tenable, has been
almoft abandoned in argument. It is, indeed, impoflible to fuggeft any reafon in favor of the capture on the part of Ballard.
Who is he ? A citizen of the United States : For, although he
had renounced his allegiance to V/irginia, or declared an intention of expatriation, and admitting the fame to have been
conftitutionally done, and legally proved, yet he had not emigrated to, and become the fubje& or citizen of, any foreign
kingdom or republic. He was domiciliated within the United
States, trom whence he had not removed and joined himfelf

to any other country, fettling there his fortune, and family.
From

SUPREMEi COURT of

the United States.

From Virginia, he paffed into South Carolina, where he failed
on board the armed vef&ll called the fini de la Liberte. He
failed from, and returned to, the United States, without fo much
as touching at any foreign port, during his abfence. In fhort,
.it was a temporary abfence, and not an entire departure from
the United States ; an abfence with intention to return, as has
been verified by his condud and the event, and nota departure
with intention to leave this country, and fettle in another.
Ballardwas, and ftill is, a citizen of the United States ; unlefs,
,perchance, he fhould be a citizen of the world. The latter
is a creature of the imagination, and far too refined for any
republic of ancient or modern times. If however, he be a
citizen of the world, the character befpeaks univerfal benevo-

lence, and breathes peace on earth and good will to man ; it
forbids roving on the ocean in queft of plunder, and implies
amenability to every tribunal. But what is conclufive on this

head is, that Ballardfailedfrom this country with an iniquitous
purpofe, cum dolo et culpa, in the capacity of a cruizer, againft
friendly powers. The thing itfelf was a crime. Now it is
an obvious principle, that an ad of illegality can never be con-tirued into an a. of emigration, or expatriation. At that rate,
treafon and emigration, or treafon and expatriation, would, il
certain cafes, be fynonimous terms. The caufe of removal
muff be lawful ; otherwife the emigrant ads contrary to his duty,
and is jufily charged with a crime. Can that emigration be
,legal and juffifiable, which commits or endangers the neutrali -"
xy, peace, or fafety of the nation of which the emigrant is a
*member ? As we have no ftatute of the United States, on the
fubjed of emigration, I have taken up the do&rine refpeding
it, as it flands on the broad bafis, of the law of nations, and
have argued accordingly. That law is in no wife applicable
to the prefent cafe : for, Ballard, at the time of his taking the
command of the Ami de la Liberte, and of his capturing the
Magdalena, was a citizen of the United States; he was domiciliated within the fame, and not elfewhere ; and, befides, his
caufe of departure, fuppofing it to have been a total departure
from and'abandonment of his country, was unwarantable, as
he went from the United States, in the chara&er of an illegal
cruizer. The adq of the legiflature of Virginia, does not apply. Ballard was a citizen of Virginia, and alfo of the United
States. If the legiflature of Virginia pafs an ad fpecifying the
caufes of expatriation, and prefcribing the manner in which it
is to be effeded by the citizens of ihat fPlte, what can be its
operation on the citizens of the United States? If the ad of
lirginia affecqs Ballard's citizenfhip, fo far as refpe&s that
flate, can it touch his citizenfhip fo far as it regards the United Stares ? Allegiance to a particular ffzte, is one thing-;
allcgianca
X
VOL. IlI.

1795.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the
1795.
k

allegiance to the United States is another. Will it be aid,
that the renunciation of allegiance to the former implies or
draws after it a renunciation of allegiance to the latter ? The
fovereignties are different; the allegiance is different; the
right too, may be different. Our fituation being new, unavoidably creates new and intricate queflions. We have fovereignties moving within a fovereignty. Of courfe there is
complexity and difficulty in the fyftem, which requires a penetrating eye fully to explore, and fteady and maflerly hands to
keep in unifon and order. A flight collifien may difturb the
haruiony of the parts, and endanger the machinery of the whole.
A ftatute of the United States, relative to expatriation is much
wanted ; efpecially as the common law of England,is, by the conflitution of fome of the ftates, exprefsly recognized and adopted.
Befides, afcertaining by pofitive law the manner, in which expatriation may be effeded, would obviate doubts, render the fubjed notorious and eafy of apprehenfion, and furnifh the rule
of civil condu& on . very intereffing point.
But there is another ground, which renders the capture on
the part of Ballard, altogether unjuftifiable. The Ami de la
Liberte was built in Virginia, and is owned by citizens of that
flate; fhe was fitted out as an armed floop of war, in, and, as
fuch, failed from, the United States, under the command of Ballard, and cruifed againif, and captured veffels belonging to, the

fubje&s of European powers, at peace with the faid ftates.

Such

was her predicament, when flie took the Magdalena. It is idle
to talk of Ballard's commiffion ; if he had any, it was not a commiffion to cruife as a privateer, and if fo, it was of no validity,
becaufe granted to an American citizen, by a foreign officer,

within the jurifdidtion of the United States.

We are not, how-

ever, to prefume, that the French Admiral or Conful would have

.iflied a comiiiflion of the latter kind, becaufe it would have been
a flagrant violation of the fovereignty of the United States; and
of courfe incompatible with his official duty. Therefore, it was
nor, and, indeed, could not, have been a war commiffion. It
is not neceflary, at prefent, to determine, whether ading, under

colour of fuch acommiffion would be apiratical offence ? Every illegal af, or tranfgreffion, committed on the high feas, will
not amount to piracy. A capture, although not piratical, may
'be illegal, and of fuch a nature as to induce the court to awaid
refituton.
It has been urged in argument, that the Ami de la Liberte is
the pr6perty of the French republic. The aflertion is not warranted by the evidence ; and if it was, would not, perhaps, be
of any avail, fo as to prevent reftitution by the competenft authority. The proof is clear and fatiffadory, that fle was an
American veffel, owned by citizenls of the United States, and
frill

SUPREME

COURT

of the United &ates.

ftill continues to be fo. The evidence in fipport of her being 1795.
,French property is extremely weak and futile ; it makes no impreflion, it merits no attention. But if the Ami de la Liberte be
the property of the French Republic, it might admit of a doubt,
whether it would be available, fo as to legalife her captures
and prevent re~foration ; becaufe fhe was, after the fale (if any
took place) to the republic, and before her departure from, and
while (he remained in, the United States, fitted out as an armed
veffel of war ; from whence in fuch capacity, and commanded
by Ballard,an limerican citizen, (he fet fail, and made capture
of veffels belonging to citizens of the United Netherlands. The
United States would, perhaps, be bound, both by the law of nations and an exprefs flipulation in their treaty with the Dutoh,
to reftore fuch captured veffels, when brought within their jurifdi&ion, efpecially if they had not been proceeded upon tocondemnation in the Admiralty of France. On this, however, I
give no opinion. The United States are neutral in the prefent
war ; they take no part in it ; they remain common friends to
211 the belligerent powers, not favoring the arms of one to the
detriment of the others. An exaa impartiality muff mark thair
condu& towards the parties at war; for, if they favour one to the
injury of the other, it would be a departure from pacific-principies, and indicative of an hoftile difpofition. It would be a fraudulent neutrality. To this rule there is no exception, but what
arifes from the obligation of antecedent treaties, which! ought
to be religioufly obferved. If, therefore, thecapture of the A/fagdalena was effected by Ballard alone, it muff be pronounced to
be illegal, and of courfe the decree of reftitution is j uft and proper. This leads us,
II. To confider the capture as having been made by Ballard
and Talbot. Talbot commanded the privateer L' di dla Pointa
Pirre. The queftion is,as the Magdalenaftruck to and was made
prize of by Ballard,and as Talbot, who knew his fituation, aided
in his equipment, and acted in confederacy with him, afterwards
had a fort of joint poffeffion, whether Talbot can detain her as
prize by virtue of his French commifflon ? To fupport the validity of Talbot's claim it is contended, that Ballardhad nocommiffion or an inadequate one, and therefore his capture was illegal:
That it was lawful for Talbot to take poffeflion of the (hip fo
captured, being a Dutch bottom, as the United. Netherlands
were at open war and enmity with the French republic, and
Talbot was a naturalized French citizen, afting under a regular
commiffion from the Governor of Guadaloupe. It has been already obfervedi that Ballardwas a citizen of the United States ;
that the Ami de la Liberte,,of which he had the command, was
fitted out and armed as a veffel of war in the United States; that
as- fuch fhe failed from the United States, and cruifed againit
nations

x56
1795.

CASES

tuled and adjudged in the

nations at peace and in amity with the faid Rlates.

Thefe adlg

Swere dire& and daring violations of the principles of neutrality,
and highly ciininal by the law of nations. In effeaing this
ifate of things, how far was Talbot inftrumental and aaive ?
What was his knowledge, his agency, his participation, hiS
condu& in thebufinefs ? It appears in evidence, that Talbot
expe6{ed Ballardat Tybee ; that he waited for him there feveral days; that he fet fail without him, and in a fhort time re
turned to his former fRation. This indicates contrivance and
a previous communication of defigns. At length Ballard appeared. On his arrival, Talbot put on board the Ami de la Liberte, in Savannah river, land confeflfidly within the jurifdic-i
tion of the United States, four cann6n, which he had'brought
for the purpofe. Were thefe guns furnifhied by order of the
French Conful ? The infinuation is equally unfounded and
difhonorable. They alfo fired a falute, and hailed Sinclair, a.
citizen of the United States, as an owner. An incident of
this kind, at fuch a moment, has the effea of illumination.
Talbot knew Ballard's fituation, and in particular aided in fittipg out the Ami de la Liberte by furnifhing her with guns.
Without this affiftance fhe would not have been in a fRate for
war. An effential part of the outfit, therefore, was provided
by Talbot. The equipment being thus completed, the tw6
privateers went to fea. When on the ocean, they aaed in concert; they cruize together, they fought together, they capturVd together. Talbot knew-that Ballard had no commillion j
be fo Rtates it in his claim: the fa~ts confirm the fRatement ;'
for, about an hour after Ballardhad captured the Magdalena,
he came up, and took a joint poffeflion, hoping to cover the
capture by his commifflon, and thus to legalife Ballard's fpoliation. !w filly and contemptible is cunning-how vilk and
debafingy is fraud. In furniflhing Ballard with guts, in aiding
hini to arm and outfit, in co-operating with hit-on the high
feaq, and tifing him as the inftrumeat and means of. capturing
veffels, Talbot affumed a new charaler, and inifead of purfuing his commiffion a6ted in oppofition to it, If he was a French
.itizen, duly naturalized, and if, as fuchi lie had a 6 ommiffionj
fairly obtained, he was authorized to capture fhips belonging
to the enemies of the French Republic, but not warranted, ii
feducing the citizens of neutral nations from their duty, and'
affifli ng them in conimitting depredations upon friendly powers. His commiflion did not authorize him to abet the predatory fehemes of an illegal cruifer on the high feas ; and if he,
undertook to do fo, he unqueffionably deviated froti the path
of duty. Talbot was an original trefpaffier, for he was concerned in the illegal outfit of the Ami de la Liberte. Shall he
then reap any benefit from her captures, when brought within
the

SU REM

COUPt of the United Stdtes.

the* United States ? Befides, it is in evidence, that Ballard 1795.
took poffefflion firfi of the Magdalena, and put on board of he

a prize-mailer and rome hinds ; Talbot, in about an hour after, came up, and alfo put on board a prize-mailer, and other
men. The poffetilon in the firfi inflance was Pallard's;he
was not oufted of it; they prey was not taken from him; in(eed, it was never intended to deprive him of it. So far from
it, that it was an artifice to cover the booty. Talbot's poffef-fion was gained by a fraudulent cooperation with Ballard,a citizen of the United States, and was a mere fetch or contrivance
in order to fecure the capture. Ballard ftill continued in poffflion. The Magdalena thus taken and poffeffed, was carried
into Charlefon. Can there be a doubt with refpe& to reftoration ? Statingthe cafe anfwers the queftion. It has been faid
that Ballardhad a commiflon, and aded under it, The point
has already been confidered, and indeed is not worth debating;
the commiffion, if any, was illegal, and of courfe the feizures
were fo. But then what effe& has this upon Talbot ? Does
it make his cafe better Or worfe ? The truth is, that Talbot
knew that Ballard had. no commiffion, and he alfo knew the
precife cafe and fituation of the-Ami de la Liberte ; to whom
fhe belonged, where fitted out, and for what purpofe. Talbot
gave Ballardguns within the jurifdiaion of the United States,
and thus aided in making him an illegal cruizer ; he conforted
and afted with him, and was a participant in the iniquity and
fraud. In fhort, Ballard took the Magdalena, had the poffeffion of her, and ke-pt it; Talbot was in under.Ballardby con-:
nivance and fraud, rot with a view to ouft him of the prize,
but to cover and fkeure it ; not with a view to bring him into.
judgment as a tranfgreffor againfi the law of nations, but to
intercept the firoke of j uilice and prevent his being punilhed.
If Talbot procured poffieflion of the Magdalena through the
medium of allard a citizen of the United States, and then
brought her within the jurifdi&ion of the faid States, would it
not be the duty of the competent authority to order her to be
reftored ? The principle deducible -from the law of nations,is plain ;-.you fhall not make ufe of our neutral arm, to capture
veffels of your enemies, but of our friends. If you do, and
bring the captured veffels within our jurifdiion, reflitution
will be awarded. Both the powers, in the prefent inflance,
though enemies toeachother, are friends of the United States ;
whofe citizens ought to preferve a neutral attitude; and (hould
riot affift either party in their hoftile operations. But if, as is
agreed on all han~ds, Ballardfirif took poffeffion of the Magdlena, and if he continued in poffeffion, and brought her
within the jurifdi&ion of the United States, which I take to be
the cafe, then no queftion can arife with refpe& to the legality

',...,.

5-8
1795.

"CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

of reftitution. It is an a& of juftice, refulting from the law
nations, to reftore to the friendly power the poffeffion of his
veffel, which a citizen of the United States illegally obtained,
and to place Joofl 7anfen, the mafler of the Magdalena, in his
former fiate, from whence he had been removed by the improper interference, and hoftile demeanor of Ballard. Befides, it
is right to condu& all cafes of this kind, in fuch a manner, as
that the perfons guilty of fraud, fhould not gain by it. Hence
the efficacy of the legal principle, that no man ffiall fet up his
.own fraud or iniquity, as a ground of aaion or defence. This
maxim applies forcibly to the prefent cafe, which, in my ap-.
prehenfion, is a fraud upon the principles of neutrality, a
fraud upon the law of nations, and an infult, as well as a fraud,
again(t the United States, and the Republic of 'France.
I am, therefore, of opinion, that the decree of the Circuit
Court ought to be affirmed. Being clear on the preceding
points, it fuperfedes the neceffity of deciding upon other great
queftions in the caufe ; fuch as, whether Redick and Talbot were
French citizens ; whether the bill of fale was colourable and
fraudulent; whether Redick, if a French citizen, did not lend
his. name as a cover ; and whether the property did not continue in Sinclairand Wifan, citizens of -the United States.
IREDELL, yuftice.-.In delivering my opinion on the great
points arifing in this cafe, I fhall divide the confideration of it
under the following heads:
i. Whether the Diftri& Court hadjurifdi&iou prima facie
upon the fubje& matter of the libel, taking for granted that the
allegations in it were true.
. hdmitting that the court had jurifdiaion prima facie,
whether W'illiam Talbot had ilated and fupported a cafe fufficient
to entitle him to hold the property as prize, exempt from the
jurifdieaion and controul of the Diftriak Court.
i. 'I'he firft enquiry is,
Whether the diftri& Court had jurifdiaion primafacie upon the fubjecq matter of the libel, taking for granttd that the
allegations in it were true.
Thefe allegations in fubftance are,
That the fhip was taken on the high feas, by a fchooner called L'./Ini de la Liberte, commanded by Edward Ballard who
had
comrmiffimn, to take her as the property of an enemy no
of lawful
the French
Republic, under whofe authority the capture was alledged to be made.
That TWilliam Talbot, who came up after the furrender, and
put fome men on board, when the prize was in poffeffion of
Ballard, had alfo no lawful commiffion for the purpofe of fuch
a capture, being an American citizen, and his owners American citizens likewife.
That

Sof

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

That there was fraud and collufion between Talbot and Bal- •795lard, both veffels being in fa& the property of the fame owners,
1i/'on and Sincliar, who were American citizens.
Suchl, fubftantially, are the allegations of the libel, and admitting them to be true, nothing is more clear than that the
capture was unlawful.
But it is obje&ed that this is a quePrion of prize or no prize,
and whether the [hip was lawfully a prize, or not, is for omne
court of the French Republic alone to determine, under whofe
authority Ballard and Talhot alledge they a&ed; and it is contended, that the capture in queftion being of a Dutch [hip, and
not an American, the United States have no right to decide
a difpute between the Dutch and the French, in regard to a
captureon the high feas,claimedas lawful by one party, anddenied to be fuch by the other, fince fuch an interpofition would be
equally a violation of the law of nations, and of the i 7 th article
of the treaty with France.
To this obje&ion, the following anfwers appear to me to be'
iatisfadory :
i. That it is true, both by the law of nations, and the treaty with France, if a French privateer brings an enemy's [hip
into our porvs, which [he has taken as prize on the high feas,
the United States, as a nation, have no right to detain her,
or make any enquiry into the circumffances of the capture.
But this exemption from enquiry,'by our courts of jufcice,
in this refpe&, only belongs to a Frenchprivateer, lawfully commifjioned, and, therefore, if a veffel claims that exemption, but
does not appear to be duly entitled to it, it is the exprefs duty
of the court, upon application, to make enquiry, whether Ihe
is the velfelhe pretends to be, fince her title to fuch exemption
depends on that very fJa.
Otherwife, any vetfel whatever, under a colour of that kind,
might capture with impunity, and defy all enquiry, if fhe kept
out of a French port, equally in violation of the law of nations,
and infulting to the FrenchRepublic, which, from a regard to
its own honour and a principle ofjuftice, would undoubtedly
difdain all piratical affiflance. She might fay, now, I truff,
with as much truth as dignity, Non tali auxilio, nec Defenforibus I/is tempus eget.
2. That fich an enquiry being thus proper to be made, if
upon the enquiry it [hall appear, that the veffel pretending to
be a lawful privateer, is really not fuch, but ufes a colourable
commiffion for the purpofes of plunder, [he isto be confidered by the law of nations, fo far at leaft as a transfer of property is concerned, or a title tohold it infifted upon, in the flame
light as having no commiffion at all.
3. That prima facie all piracies and trefpaffies committed

againif

i6o

CASES ruled and adjudged in thd

1795. againfl: the general law of nations, are enquirable, and maybe'
i.. v / proceeded againft, in any nation where no fpecial exemption
can be maintained, either by the general law of nations, or
by fome treaty which forbids or reifrains it.
Jt is exprefsly held, in an authority quoted i Lex Mercatoria 252. " That if a Spaniardrobs a Frenchman on the high
"feas, their princes being both then in amity with the crowni
"of England, and the (hip is brought into a port in England,
"the Frenchman may proceed criminaliter againft the Spani" ard, to punifh him, and,civiliter, to have reftitution of his
CCveffel."
The authorities referred to are, Selden mare claus.
Lib. z chap. 27. Grotius de )ure Bielli et Pacis, b. 3. c. 9.
f I6. both books of very high authority.
What is called robbery on the land, is piracy if committed
at fea. 3 In/l. 113. 1 Com. Dig. 269. And as every robbery on
land includes a trefpafs, fo does every pilacy at fea. i Com.
Dig. 268. Confequently, if there be an unlawful taking, it
may be piracy or trcfpafs according to the circumfirances of
the cafe, both being equally unlawful, though one a higher
fpecies of offence than the other, which cannot alter tbe intrinfic illegality of the fa& c(,mmon to both, but only occafion a
greater or lefs degree of puniffbment proportioned to the nature
of the offence. It is, therefore, no anfwer to fay, in bar of
reflitution, that no piracy has been committed, and therefore
no reffitution is to folloW, fince, if a trefpafs has been committed, though not a piracy, reftitution is equally proper as if
the offence had amounted to piracy itfelf.
4. That by a due confideration of the law of nations, whatever opinions may have prevailed formerly to the contrary,
no hoffilities of any kind, except in necefiiry felf-defence,
can lawfully be praaifed by one individual of a nation, againft
an individual of any other nation at enmity with it, but in virtue of fome public authority. War can alone be entered into
by national authority ; it is inifituted for national purpofes,
and direded to national objeds ; and each individual on both
fides is engaged in it as a member of the fociety to which he
belongs, not from motives of perfonal malignity and ill will.
He is not to fly like a tyger upon his prey, the moment he fees
an individual of his enemy before him. Such favage nations,
I believe, obtained formerly. Thank God, more rational ones
have fucceeded, and a liberal man can frequently 1,e great integrity and honor on both fides, though different and irreconcileable views of national intereftr or principles may unfortunatelf engage two nations in hoffility. Even in the cafe of one
enemy againft another enemy, therefore, there is no colour of
jufcification for any offenfive hoftile ad, unlefs it be authorifed
by

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

by fome a& of the government giving the public conflitutional
ftn&ion to it.
5. That notwithflanding an apparent contrariety of opinions
on this fubjed, it would be eafy to flhew, upon principle, if
not by authority, that fuch hoftility committed without public authority on the high feas, i; not merely an offence
againft the nation of the individual committing the injury, but
alfo againf' the law of nations, and, of c3urfe, cognizable in
other countries : But that is not material in the prefent Rlage
of the enquiry, which affeds only the condu61 of our own citizens in our own vrffcls, attacking and taking, under colour
of a foreign corrmiffion, on the high feas, goods of our friends.
This isfo palpable a violation of our own law (I mean the
common law, of which the law of nations is a part, as it fubfifted either before the ad of Congrefs on the fubje&, or fisce
that has provided a particular manner of enforcing it,) as well
as of the law of nations generally ; that I cannot entertain the
flighteft doubt, but that upon the cafe of the libel, prima facie,
the Diftrid Court had jurifdiaion.
2. The next enquiry is,
Whether William Talbot has tated and fupported a cafe
fuficient to entitle him to bold the property as prize, exempt
from the jurifdidion of the Diftrict Court.
This claim is grounded as follows
i. That at the time of his receiving the commiffion, and at
the time of the capture,, he was a real French citizen, and his
veffel was French property, viz. the property of Samuel Re.

dick, a French citizen at Point-a-Pitrein Guadaloupe.
2. That he had a lawful commiffion to cruize from the French
Republic.

3. That whether Ballardhad a lawful commiflion or not,
he himfelf was lawfully entitled: i. To part, if Balla-d had
*a lawful commiflion, as having been in fight at the time of the
capture, and therefoi!e contributing to intimidate the enemy
common principle. 2. If Ballard
into a furreuder upon tVoe
had no lawful counmiffion, and'is to be confidcred as a pirate,
his capture did not change the property; of courfe, it remained Dutch, and he, as captain of a French privateer, had a
right to feize and tetain it.
"l'he firift point to be confidered i.,
Whether Talbot at the time of his receiving the commiflion,
and at the time of the capture, was a French citizen.
This involves the great queftion as to the right of expatriation, upon which fo much has been faid in this caufe. Perhaps it is not neceffary it flould be explicitly decided on this
occafion ; but I thall frcely cxprefs my fentiments on the fubThat
ject.

VOL. il.

Y

1795.

CAsvs ruled and adjudged in the
1795.
i

That a man ought not to be a flave; that he fliould not be
confined againif: his will to a particular fpot, beeaufe he happened to draw his firfl:
breath upon it ; that he fhould not be
compelled to continue in a fociety to which he is accidentally
attached, when he can better his fituation elfewhere, much le.s
when he muff ftarve in one country, and may live comfortably
in another; are pofitions which I hold as fltrongly as any man,
and they are fuch as moft nations in the world appear clearly
to recognize/'
The only difference of opinipn is, as to the proper mamner
of executing this right.
Some hold, that it is a naturJ unalieliable right in each individual ; that it is a right upon which no aa of legiflation can
lawfully be exercifed, inafinuch as a legiflature might impofe
dangerous reflraints upon it ; and, of courfe, it muff be left to
every man's will and pleafure, to go off; when, and in what
manner, he pleafes.
This opinion is deferving of more deference, becaufe it appears to have the fanaion of the Conflitution of this ftate, if
not of fome other flates in the Union.
I muft, however, prefume to differ from it,*for the following
reafons:
i. It is not the exercife of a natural ric-ht, in which the individual is to be confidered as alone concerned. As every man
is entitled to claim rights in fuciety, which it is the duty of the
fociety to prote6f; he, in his turn, is under a folemn obligation to difcharge all thofe duties faithfully, which he owes, as a
citizen, to the fociety of which he is a member, and as a man
to the feveral members of the foiety individually with whom
he is affociated. Therefore, if he has been in the exercife of
any public truff, for which he has not fully accounted, he
ought not to leave the fociety until he has accounted for it.
If he 6wes money, he ought not t9 quit the country, and carry
all his property with him, without Icave of his creditors. Many other cafes might be put, fliew'ing the importa!,ce of the
public having fome hold of him, until he heis fairly performed
Pll thofe duties which remain unperformed, before he can honeflly abandon the lbciety forevei. But it is faid, his ceafing
to be a citizen, does not deprive the public, or any individual
of it. of remedies in thefe rct'pe&s : Yet the right of emigra.tion isf aid to carry with it the right of removing his fa-mnily,
and effets. What hold have they of him afterwards ?
2. Some writers on the fubjc6St of expatriation fay, a man
flial
not exp~atrite in a time of war, fo as to do a prejudice
to his country. But if it be a natuoral, unalienatle, ria1ht, upon
the footing of mere priVate wll, who can fav this fhall not be
exertifed in time of war, as well as in time of peace, fince the
individual"

SUPR M E CouRT of. the United Statss.

163

individual, upon that principle, is to think of himfelf only ? I 1795.
therefore, think, with one of the gentlemen for the defendant,- t.N-.d
that the principle goes to a 1ate of war, as well as peace, and
it muff involve a time of the greateft public calamity, as well
as the profoundeft tranquillity.
3. The very fiatement of an exception in time .f -,ar, f(hews
that the writers on the law of nations, upon the fubje& in general, plainly mean, not that it is a iight to be always exercifed without the leaft reftraint of his own will and pileafire,

but that it is a reafonable and moral right which every man
ought to be allowed to exercife, with no other limitation than
fuch as the public fafety or intereft requires, to which all private rights ought and rouff forever give-way. And if in any
government, principles of patriotifmrw and publi good ought to
predominate over mere private inclination, furely they ought
to do fo in a Republic founded on the very bafis of equal rights,
to be perfeffly enjoyed in every inflance, where the public good
does not require a retfraint.
4. In fome inflances, even in tine of war, expatriltion may
fairly be permitted. It ought not then to be refirained. But
who is to permit it ? The Legiflature furely ; the conftant
guardian of the public intereft, where a new law is io be made,
or an old one difperifcd with. If they may take cognizance in
one inftance,'(as for example, in time of war) becaufe the'
public fafety may require it, why not in any other inflance,
where the public fafety, for fome unknown caufe, may equally
require it ? Upon the eve of a war, it may be ftill more it;portant to exercife it, as we often fee in cafe of embargoes.
5. The fuppofition; that the power may be abufed, is of no
importance, if the public good requires its exercife. This feverifh jealouy', is a paffion that can never be fatisfied. No
man denies the propriety of the Legiflature having a taxative
power. Suppofe it flhould be ferioufly obj'Cted to, becaufe the
Legiflature might tax to the amount of 19f in tha pound ?
They have the power, but does any man fear the exercife of ii ?
A Legiflature muft poflefs every power neceffary to the inaking of laws.. When confiruied as ours is, there is no danger
of any material abufe. But a I,egiflature nmft be weak to the
extremeft verge of folly, to wifh to retain any man as a citizen, whofe heart and affetions are fixc-d on a foreign country,
in preference to his own. They woild naturally wifh to get
rid of him as foon as they could, and, therefore, perhaps, the
proper precaution would be, to reftrain affs of baniflhment, (if
fuch could be at all permitted) rather than to limit the legiflative controul over expatriation. But is there no daggee of
abufe on the other fide ? Have not all the contentions abnut
expatriation in the courts, arifen from a -,.nt of the exerefe

164

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

7795. of this very authority ? For, if the Legiflature had prefcribed
a mode, every one would know, whether it had or had not been
purfued, and all rights, private as well as public, would be
equally guarded; but upon the prefent dodrine, no rights are
fecured, but thofe of the expatriatorhimfelf.
I, therefore, have no doubt, that when the queftion is in regard to a citizen of any country, whofe conffitution has nbt
prohibited the exercife of the legiflative power in this inifance,
it not only is a proper iiftance in which it may be exercifed,
but it is the duty of the Legiflature to make fuch provifion, and
for my part, I have always thought the Virginia affembly fliewed a very judicious forefight in this particular.
Whether the Virginia ad of expatriation be now in force,
isa quefion fo important, that I would not wifh unneceffarily
todecide it, If it be, I have no doubt that a citizen of that
State, cannot expatriate himfelf in any other manner. It feems
moft probable (but I think not certain) from this record, that
Talbot was a citizen of Virginia. We are, however, undoubtedly to confider him as a citizen of the United States. Admitting he had a right to expatriate him felf, without any law prefcribing tl'e method of his doing fo, we furely muft have fome
evidence that he had done it. There is none, but that he went to
the T.,~ Inrdies, and took an oath to the Frnch Republic, and
became a citizen there. I do not think that merely taking fuch
an oath, and being admnitted a citizen there, in itfelf, is evidence
of a bonafide expatriation, or completely difcharges the obligationshe owes to his own conntry. Had there been any refictions by our own law on his quitting this country, could apy
ad of a foreign country, operate as a repeal of thefe ? Cer.tainly not. When he goes'there, they know nothing of him,
perhaps, but from his own reprefentation. He becomes a citizen of the new country, at his peril. The a& is complete, if
he has legally quitted his own if not, it is fubordinate to the
allegiance he originally owed. By allegiance, I mean, that tie
by which a citizen of the United States is bound as a member
pf the focicty. Did any man fuppofe, when the rights of citizenfhip were fo freely and honorably beftowed on the urnf'r-,
tiunate Marquis de la Fayette, that tl.at abfolved him, as a fub-r
je6 or citizen of his own country ? Ithad only this effed,
that whenever he came into this country, and chofe to refide
here, h w;s ipfo faRin to be deemed a citizen, without any
thinZ farther. The fiirme confequence, I thilik, would follow
inrelpea to rights of ci tinf:,ip, conferred by the French
Republic, tpoO forme illufirious chara&ers, in our own, and
othec countries, if mnerely intctnded, as ingenioufly fuggefled
at the nm-, that upon going to France, and performing the ufual
quiftes, they fhould be then French citizens, where is the
1honotir

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

hanour of it ?-Since any man may avail himfelf of an indifcriminate indulgence granted by law. Some difagreeable dilemmas, may be occafioned by this double citizenfhip, but the
principles, as I have ftatedthem, appear to me to be warranted by law and reafon, and if aly difficulties arife, they (hew
more ftrongly the importance of a law, regulating the exercife
of the right in queflion.
His going to the Weft Indies, and taking an oath of allegiance there, confidering it in itfelf, is an cquivocal acd. It
might be done, with a view to relinquifh his own country forever. It might he done, with a view to relinquifli it for a
time, in order to gain fome temporary benefit by it. If the
former, and this was clearly proved, it poffibly might have the
effde contended for. If the hitter, it would (hew, that he voluntarily fubmitted to the embarraffments of t'wo diflind allegiances. He muft make them as confiftent as he can. By
our treaty with Holland, any American citizen, cruifing upon
Dutch fubjedts, as commander of a privateer, under a foreign
commiflion, is to be deemed a pirate. If heleft America, for
the very purpofe of doing this, and became a French citizen,
that he might have a colour for doing fo, then his, taking a
Frenchcommifflon could not abfolve him from a crime which'
he 'as committing in the very adf of taking it, and of which
the French goverimient might siot be' aware, as they are not
bound to take notice of any other treaties but their own. If'
he went, intending to refide there for a time, and to a& under
a c6mmiflion, which he believed would, for the prefent, juflify

him, tho' this might excufe him from the guilt of piracy, It
would not make fuch a contrad lawful, becaulfe, in this cafe,
even his intention was notj to expatriate himfrlfforcver ; and,

confequently, he fill remained an American citizen, and had no
authority to take a commiflion at all. It furely is impoffible
for us'to fay, he meant a real expatriation, when his condu&
primafacie, as much indicates a crime, as any thing elfe. If he
had fuch an intention before he left this country, why not mention it ? If a citizen of IFirginia,and their adt of expatriation
was not in force, yet, furely, it prefcribed as good a method of
effefingit as any other, and his not purfuing this method, (if he
really meant anexpatriation) can be accounted for in no other
manner, but that he was confcious, theveffel he was fittingr out,
was for the purpofe of cruifing, and would havebeenftopt by the
government, had his defign of expatriation fo plainly evinced it.
I therefore, mujf fay, there is no evidence to fatisfy me, that
he ceafed to be an American citizen, fo as to be abfolved from
the duties he owed to his own country; and, among others, that
duty of not cruifing againff the Dutch, in violation of the law
of nations, generally, and of the treaty with Holland, in parti-

cular.

My

1795."

1t66
I795.
-

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

Myobfervations, as to Talbot, will, in a great meafurc, Ppply to Redick, who appears to have been a citizen of Virginia.
There is no evidence to fatisfy me, that he ceafed to be an American citizen, and became a French citizen, abfolved from the
duty he owed, as a citizen, to his own country. There is nothing to fhew this, but a refidence of no long duration, in a
French Ifland, his takino- an oath to the French Republic, and
beinz admitted a French citizcn, which, for the reafons I have
given, I do riot think ftLfficient.
I h addition to my other obtervations, I. may add, how is it
poffible, upon this principle, for the public to know in what fituation theyffand, as to anyoneof thef perfons? It is not impoffible,
(I believe inflances indeed have already happened of it) that
an American citizen may go to fomeof the dominions of the

French, become a French'citizen for a time, enjoy all the benefits of fich, and afterwards return to his own country, and
claim, and enjoy, all the privileges of a citizen there, without
the leaft poflibilty of the public knowjing, otherwife than from*
accident, whether he has become a citizen of another government, or not. Suppofe one of them was to infift on holding an
eflate'in land, devifed to him after his new citizenihip, how
could it be proved he was an alien ?
Whether, therefore, the property of the privateer, was in
Redick, or in- Wioin and Sinclair, I think it was equally Ame-.
rican property, tho' T confefs, the weight of the evidence, in
prefls me ftrongly with a belief, that the property wis Wrilfon
and Sinclair's. -And, in regard to the. objeaion, that nothing
they could fay or do, or Talbot either, could affel Redick, I
think, as Talb,,t appears as the agent of Redick, of whom we
know nothiiog but through him, his declarations are to be re,
garded' as R dick's own, and any declarations of fTfi/fn or $inclair, in hIk prcfence, and any of the condua of either of them,
61n1qioncd bY him, muff have the fame eff
:i,
as if the declara-

tions had been made in the prefence of Redick, and fuch conduL
fanLiioncd by himrfbf.
I confider .he proof of the commiffion fufficient, butdeny its
o peration, as I confider the veffel to have been an American veffeli owned by an American or Americans, and with an Anmerican
Captain on board.

I now proceed to enquire into the confequences of Ballard''s.
capture, and Talbot's co-operation with him, tho' perhaps, up-

on my nrinciples, it is not abhflutely neceffary.
I. Baltar.,s capture, I think, is clearly infupportahle.

Admitting him to have been expatriated, (which, if the Fin'ginia
law was in force, I think he was) he did not become a French
citizen at all. Only one of the crew was a Frenchman. T
thiak, .A! the .reft wci'e proved to be 4 neericans, or EInglih. She
was

SUPREF CouR-T of the United

States.

was fitted out in the United States. The commiflion, if good 1795"
at all, was of a temporary and fecret nature, and feems to have
been confined to a fpecial purpofe, to be executed within the
United States. She certainly had no authority to cruize, that
being fpecified in every commiffionof that nature. Whoever were her owners, ie does not appear to have been French
property. On the contrary, there is the higheff poffibility, that
"albhot's'and Ballard's vefils had the fame owners. So eonfcious w-s he of the illegality of his condu&l, that he even preferred no' claim for the captured property.
2. Talbot (confidering himfelf as maffer of a lawful privateer) c!aims upon two grounds: i. Upon fuppofition of
Ballard'sbeing a lawful commiffion, he claims, as being in
fight at the time o( the capture. To thi-, it isihfficient to
fay, that it was not a lawful' commiffion. -. If Ballard had
right,
no lawful commillion, h'cekcnis upon his ip.dtt
alledging, that if Balla -d.'had no lawful cu.r'amiflio i, tha.
property 'vas not changed to Ballard, and therefore he had
a riarht to take.
This claim (if Talbot's was a lawful privateer) would undoubtedly be good, if he .was not a confederate with Ballard.
But itis clearthat he was, that he cruized before and. after, in
company with him, that he put guns on board of his vefill
and there is the iirongeff reafon to believe, that they both belonged to the ffme owners. It is true, if Talbot had con' e up,
ignorant of Ballard'sauthority, and inadvertently put men on
board the prize in conjunS'lon with Ballard, fuppofing he had
a lawful commifiion, when in reality he had not, it mightwith
frme reafon be contended, that -Talbot thould hold the prize.
But, wilful ignorance, is never excufeable ; whtn there is time
to enquire, enquiry ought to be made. There is not, however, the leaff reafotn for fuppofing any ignorance in the cafe.
He abetted Ballard's authority, fuch as it was. He aered in
fupport of it, not in oppofition to it. It does not appear that
he ever queftioned it, until after his arrival in Char,'/io:. It
was, therefore, a mere after-thought. A man having a cornmilion, is authorized, but not compelled, to exercife it. His
will muft concur to make a capture under it. It does not appear, that he relied, at fea, upon his own force, but upon Ballard's; at leaff, in this inflance, upon his own and Ballard's
in conjun1ion. A man having a lawful commiffion, is authorifcd to Ctuize himfelf, and to eruize in company with others,
having lawful authoritv. It does not authori ie him to afficiate
with pirr tes, or any unlawful depredators, on the high feas. If
he does fo, he departs from his cotimif.on, -efT-mes a new chara&ter, which that does not authorift, and rifques all the con1uquences of it. It is impolibl( that Ballard can be guilty (if
a crime,

x68'
1795.

CASEs ruled ard adjudged in the

a crime, and Tabot, who afinociated with him, in the wilful

e--_1 commifiion of it, can be wholly innocent of it. - A man can

be guilty of no crime, in obeying a lawful commiffion. fie,
therefore, in this inifance, if guilty of a crime, muff be confidered altogether detached from a rightful authority, which he
abandoned, in fearch of the profit of an illegal adventure. If,
at faa, he aaed in fupport of Ballard's claim, how can he
claim now, on the principle of that being infupportable ? At
fea, was the place for him*to make his option. He has no
right, after the prize is brought into port, to fay-"( I made a
" bad option there: I fipported Ballard's claim, whereas I
" ouht to have oppofed it, and flood upon my own. I will
" now take this Dutch .hip as a prize, by my own authority."
For fuch, in effea, I take to be the fubftance of any clain,
fuggefted after his arrival in port.
I therefore think, upon this ground, even admitting, that

Talbot's was a rightful privateer, his claim is infupportable.
WILSON, JuJlice.-As I decided this caufe in the Circuit
Court, it gives me plcafure to be relieved from the necefity of
giving any opinion on the appeal, by the unanimity of fentiment
'that prevails among the judges.
fa6ts in this cafe, fo fat as they
CUsH-ING, Yuflice.-The
appear to me to be effential for forming an opinion, may be

reduced to a very narrow com pafs. Ballard, the commander
of a veffel, which was illegall , fitted out in the United States,
*cruizes in company with Ta/bht, who alledges that he is a
French citizen, and produces a French conimiflion. Ballard
captures the Magdalern, a Dutch prize; then Talhot joins
him ; and both, having put prize-malters on board, bring the
prize into the harbour of CharlejLon. The queftions arifing
on this fQatement are, fimplv, whether the capture, under fuch
circumf-fances, is a violation of our treaty with Holland? And
Whether it is fuch a cafe of prize, at the courts of the United
States can take cognizance of, conififtently with the treaty
between America and France f Now, the wh'ile tranfa6tion at
Gaudaloupe, as well as here, prefents itfelf to my mind as
fraudulent and collufive. But even fuppofing that Talbot was,
bonafide, a French citizen, the other circumfiances of the cafe
.are fufficient to render the capture void. It was, in truth, a
capture by Ballard, who had no authority, or colour of authority, for his condu&. -He was an American citizen; he had
never left the United States ; his veffel was owned by American
citizens; and the commiffion, which he held by affignment,
was granted by a French admiral, within the United States,
to another perfon, for a particular purpofc, but not for the purpofe of capture. Then, fhall not the property, which he has
thus taken from a nation at peace with the United States, and
brought

SUPREME COURT of the

United States.

brouglt within our jurifdi6tion, be reftored to its owners? 175.'
Every principle of juftice, law 'rnd policy, unite in decreeing 1
the affirmative; and there is no pufitive compac with any
power to prevent it.
On the important right of expatriation, I do not think it neceffary to give an opinion; but the docrine mentioned by Hidneccius, feems to furnifh a reafonable and.-ftisfacory rule,
The ad of expatriation fhould be bonafide, and manifeffed, at
leaff, by the emigrant's aftlal removal, with his family rnd
effeds, into another country, This, however, forms no part
of the ground, on which I think the decree of the Circuit Court
ought to be affirmed.
RUTLEDGE, Chief 7tojice.-The merits of the caufe are fo
obvious, that I do not conceive there is much difficulty in pro-.,
nouncing a fair and prompt decifion, for affirming the decree.
of the Circuit Court.
The dodtrine of expatriation is certiAnly of great magnitude;
but it is-not neceffary to give an opinion upon it, in the prefent caufe, there being no proof, that Captain Talbot's admiffion as a citizen of the French Republic, was with a view to,
relinquifh his native country; and a man may, at the fame
time, enjoy the rights of citizenfhip under two governments.
It appears, upon the whole, that Ballard's veffel was illegally fitted out in the United States ; and the weight of evidence fatisfies my mind, that Talbot's veffel, which was orizinally Anerican property, continued fo at the time of the capture, notwithifanding all the fraudulent attempts to give it a
different complexion. The capture, therefore, was a viola"
tion of ihe law of nations, and of the treaty with Holland. The
court has a clear jurifditon of the caufe, upon the exprefs authority of Pelaches's Cafe. 4. ,Ini. And every motive of
good faith and juftice muff induce us .to concur with the Cir.
cit Court, in awarding reftitution.
The Decree of the Circuit. Court affirmed.
The Counfel for the Appellees, then moved the court to
affefs additional damages, which was oppofed by Dallas, for
the Appellant; and, after, argument, the following order was
made:
BY THE COURT: Ordered, that the decree of the Circuit
Court of South Carolina diftri&, pronounced on the 5 th day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-four, affirming the decree of the Diftti&'Court
of the fame diftrit, pronounced on the fixth day of 4ugujI, in
the year of our Lord one thoufandfeven hundred and ninetyty-four, be in all its parts eftibliflied and affirmed. And it is
further confidered, ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the faid
TUilliam Talbot, the Plaintiff in error, do pay to the faid 7o0/1
?tanfen,
j
VOL. I1.

170
1795.,
.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

Janfen, the Defendant in error, in addition to th6 fum of one
feven hundred and fifty .five dollirs fifty-three cents,

'thoufand

for demurrage and intereft, and eighty-two dollars for coffs,
in the decree of the faid Circut Court mentioned, demurragefor the detention and delay,* of the faid brigantine !rou.w Chrftina Maigdalena, at the rate of nine dollars and thirty-three
cents, lawful money of the United States, per diem, to be ac-'

counted fiom the fifth day of November laft paff, till the fixth
day of June laft, the day of the adual fale of the faid brigan-'
tine, under the interlocutory order of this court, of the third
day of March laff paft, to wit, for two hundred and thirteen
days, a fum of nineteen hundred and eighty-feven dollars and
twenty-nine cents ; and alfo inter'eft 't the rate of feven per
centum per annum, for two hundred and ninety days, on the
fum of fifty-one thoufand, eight hundred and forty five dollars,
being the amount of the fales of the cargo of the faid brigantine
heretofore fo!J, by order and periniffion of the faid Diftrid
Court, and makinz a fum of two thoufand eight hundred and
eighty-three dollars and forty-two cents ; and alfo a like fum
of feven per centum per annum on "the amount of fales of the
faid brigantine Yrouw Clhrljfina Magdalena, under the order
of this court, that is to fay, intereft for feventy-feven days, on
the fum of eighteen hundred and 'twenty dollars, from the faid
fixth day of June laft, making the fum of twenty-fix dollars
and eighty-feven cents, the whole of which intereft to be accounted to this day, and making together the fuin of two thoufand :nine hundred and ten dollars twenty-nine cents, lawful
money of the United States; and which faid intereft and demurrage, make together the fum of four thoufand eight hundred and ninety-feven dollars fifty-eight cents, in addition to
and exclufive of the demurrage intereft and coifs adjudged in
the faid Circuit Court of the United States, fo South Carolina
difridt; alfo rine-one dollars and ninety-three cents, for his
coifs and charges : and that the faid Yoof/Janfen have execution of this judgment and decree by fpecial mandate to the
faid Circuit Court, and procefs agreeable to the ad cf the
Congrefs of the United States, in that cafe made and provided.
February

