UIMECOURTk

of Penfy10anh;47

the general rule is, that the bail may furrender within the
Irf' four days of the term, to which thefeirefacias is returnable.
hVerid, Pr. 377, 381. 4 Burr. 2i34. And if the bail is
prevented from making a furrender by any legal bar, even hrifing from matter ex poqlfado, he fhall be entitled to an eioneretur. i Purr. 339, 340. Sell. i8o. Str. 1217. i Burr;
339, 340. Doug. 45- Sell. 183. Whether, therefore, the bail
could, or could not,, furrender the Defendant after the time that
privilege had occured, the prefent application is equally welt
founded. But to place the cafe on the faireff footing, the bail
will confent on the principles recognized in i Str, 419.
to remain refponfi-ble for -furrendering the Defendant, within
four days after the feflfins of Congrefs, provided that time is
alowed to make the furrender.
E. Tilgbman and RdJ1, the Plaintiffs counfel, having con4
fidered the propofition, for allowing further time to make the
furrender, agreed to it;. and THE COURT declared their approbation of the compromifei as affording a,good precedent for future cafes 9 f a fimilar kind,
Tilghnan then acknowledged, that he thought the privilege
of Congrefs extended to arrefts on judicial, as well as mefnej
procefs; but controverted the doitrine that a perfon arreffed
before he had: privilege, was entitled to be difcharged, in confqquence of privilege afterwards acquired.

PEMBFRTQR.'S Leffee verfus HxciS,

SPHIS

eje&.ment was tried at .Aewtowh,- in Bucks Countyj
May, I94, when the Jury found the following fpecial
A
verdil :
" The Jurors impannelled, tried, (worn and affirmed to try
" the iffue joined in this caulfe upoi their refpe~ive oaths and
"c affirmations fay-That Laurence Grouden, being feized in fee
"of the premifes in the declaration mentioned, by his laft will in
writing
wc
duly made and executed, devifed the fame premifes in
" fee fimple to his daughter Grace Galloway, then the wife of

",.yofeph Galloway,

and afterwards died feizcd thereof as aforefaid

1798.

80

.,CASEs ruled and adjudged in

1798.

y%.

the'

" faid : That the faid Grace Gallowiy had iffue'by her (aid
hufband, one daughter Elizabeth, who is ftill
alive : That
",the (aid 7ofeph Galloway afterwards by A& "of
Aftembly
" pafied on the 6th of March 1778, was required to furrender
" himfelf. under pain. of being attainted of High
Treafon .
"That the faid. Jofeph Galloway did not furrehder him" (elf accordingly, and therefore became and flood attainted of
H •HighTreafon to all intents and purpofes, and his eftate for"l'feited to the commonwealth, the faid Grace Galloway then
" being in full life :That the faid premifes were afterwards duccly feized and fold by the agents for forfeited eftates, and the
"fame conveyed to the Defendant by the commonwealth.
c'That the faid Jofepb Galloway Co being attainted, deccparted out of the United States into parts beyond fea,'and fill
cccontinues there in full life :'Tthat the faid Grace Galloway
"1continued in the United States, and afterwards, to wit, on the
" 6th Feb. 1782, died feized in fee fimple of the premifes
* aforefaid, having firf,.to wit, on the 2oth Dec. 1781, duly
" made and
publifhed her laft will in writing, whereby'
" (he devifed
the faid 'premifes to Owen Yones and others :
"c That the furvivors of the faid devifees afterwards, to wit,
" on the 6th of April 1790, conveyed the fame premifes to
" Thomas Rogers : That the (aid Thomas Rogers, on the 2oth
c April 1790, conveyed the fame premifes to the Leffor of
" the Plaintiff, who derifed the fame premifes to the fame
" Richard Fenn : That the fame Richard Fenn entered and
" was, oufted
by the aid Defendant.
" If upon thefe fa&s the law be with the plaintiff, they find
" for the Plaintiff and affefs fix pence damages, befides the
"cofts ; but if for the Defendant they find foe the Defendant."
The general queftion was, whether a tenant by the courtefy
initiate, has an eflate forfeitable' upon his attainder for teafon ?
And it was argued at two feveral terms, by E. Tilghman and
Lewis, for the Leffor of the Plaintiff; and by Ingerfoll and Dallas, for the Defend.nt.
For the Le#or of the Plainti, the fubjedt was confidered
in three points of view: ift. What the hufband feized of real'
eflate, gains by the marriage, before the birth of a child ? 2d.
What is the nature ofrtheeftate which he acquires after: ifiue ?
And 3 d. How, after ,iffue, does a forfeiture upon attainder
operate ?
iff. By the marriage alone a huibhand does not gain a freehold in his own right, in the effate of his wife ; though he is
jointly feized Vith her, during their joint lives, and is entitled
to receive tl.e prafits to his own ufe. The freehold an'd inI heritance

SUPREME COURT

of Pennfylvania.

" 481

heritance remain in-her.;, and he'muff, in legal proceedings,
declare himfelf to be feized in fee, in right of his wife.

1798.

Doug. 315.

' 2.. On the birth of a child, the hufband becomes only tenant
by the curtefy initiate ; and, to.complete his effate," the death
of the wite is an indifpenfabf'e r.equifite. The quality and
reafon of a ten-.hcy by the curtefy, do not depend merely on the

marriage ; but, if the hufband furvives his wife, he obtains the
cufiody of the. eftate for the fake of the heir, as well as for his
9wn immediate benefit. i. Bac, A4br. 659. The requifites
to conftitute a tenancy by the curtefy, are flated in Co. Litt. 30.
a ; and they muff all concur before the iffate can.eift: fo that
until the eftate is confummated by the death of the wife, the
hufband is not feized in his oWn right ; he has only a poflibility, depending on the contingency of his, furvivorfhip. Litt.
f 35. To fay that his effate is confummate before her death,
is to fay that athing. exifts before the fact, which is neceffary to
But by attainder the huifand became civilly
its. exiffence.
dead ; and could not, in legal contemplation, furvive'his wife,
nor take an effate by ad of the law. 7 Go. 25. a. In Godb.
323. is the only didum, which feems to have a dire& relatiou
to the prefent queffion ; but it muff be refpe6led as the ad.
mniflion of Lord Keeper Coventry, when Attorney-General.
It is faid, that curtefy is forfeited on attainder of the hufband,
by way of diltcharge ; ard the difch arge there meant, muff be a
difcharge of the- efate,. as to the hufband's own future right
againfi the heir. I Bac.,Abr. 66o. 2 Leon.
3-.But the attainder, and conf, quent forfeiture, prevent the
guilty perfon fron being tenant by the curtefy. The law, which
never does. a ufle'fs thing,.will not caff an eftate upon an alien,
ent. 41., 413; nor, by a parity- of a -reafon,
or
felon .an Ieffate.
willa itcaff
by thecurtefy on a perfon,whois previoufly
rendered incapable to take, or enjoy, it. " If a"Feme takes
" Baron, who have iffue, and after he is attainted of felony, and
"then the king pardons him,, per Keble, hefhall not be tenant by
cthe Cu rtefy by theiffue had before;. contra, if he had iffue after."
.7 f/in. Abr. 162. P1. 4. in not. Bro. tit. "1 Tenant by -Curtefy,"
Pl. 15. P. 250. S. C6. 13 H. 7. 1,7. s-(. 3 Corn. Dig. 244.
SO, "inthepreS. C. Starfy P.'6'. 196.. S. 6' 3 Inf. 1'9."
fent cafe, MIr. Galloway could not be tenant by the ctirtefy, in
confequence of the. iA'ue before -his attainder ; the attainder
roandfuch
iffue; 'fo
deffroys all relationfhip'between the father
birth.; and the wife's
,phat..he can take no beniefit from their
of courfe, to her
ddfcends,
his
riqhr
effate being difcharged 6f
heir at law, or devifee. Unlefs, in ihort, Mr.Galloway had an
eftate for, life, at the time of the attainder, he could not forfeit
it. A mere right cf adion, or conditiori, fhall'not'be forfeited

VOL. IM.

Q q q

on

.892

CASES

1798.
k_,

ruled and adjudged in the

o" attainder, by general words. 3 Co:p.
P2.3. t3 I'M, b.z
441. pl. 14- 3 inil. 19. And the hardfhip of the cafe cannot be overlooked ; for, as the attainder deprives the child of
all rights of property, derived through the guilty father, it
ought not, furely to work a difinheritance, likewife, as to the
eftate of an innocent mother.
For the Defendant, it was anfwered, that whether the fubjed was confidered on -general principles and authorities; or on
the pofitive provifions of the A& of Affembly ; a tenant by
the curtefy initiate poffeffes fuch an intere} in the wife's
cfate, as is forfeitable upon an attainder for treafon.
it.On general principles and authorities. It feems a.fArange
pofition, that the attainder of a traitor fhould, during his natura!
life, accelerate a defcent, to his child. But if the traitor had an
eftate in the premifes, itcannot defcend, it muff be forfeited during the continuance of fuch eftate; for all his cj/ates are forfeited. 4 BI. C. 374" 2 Wood. Le17. 504. The queftion is, therefore, fimply, whether a tenant by the curtefy initiate has any
/flate in the premifes, of which his wife is feized ? Before
iffue, his intereft is, indeed, merely in profpe&, a contingency,
an expedation, a poffibility: but after iffue " he begins te
have a permanent intereff in the lands;" and nothing but his
own natural death can defeat it. 2 BL Corn. 126. The contin gency has then happened, which, by the a& of the law,
makes him as much tenant for life, as if he were tenant for
life in reverfion, or remainder, per formam doni. The diftindt
ufe of the words, initiateand confummate, muff not be regarded as creating a contingency, but as defcriptive of a peculiar
effate. While the wife lives, even before the birth of iffue,
the hufband is feized of the land in fee in her right; and, after
the birth of iffue, during her life, he cannot have a better eftate;
though his title to an eltate, upon her death, is commenced, or
;nitrate. Hence his effate by the curtefy is called confunmrate
on the death of the wife, in relation to the new and independent
form by which he holds it ; the feizen being then feparate, that
was before joint. Co. Litt. 67. a. But, furely, when a man
acquires a right to exercife adts of ownerfhip, that the bare
1eizen in right of his -wife, would not authorife, he muft be
'confidered' as pffeffed'of fomc eftate. Thus, we find, that a
tenant by the cuttefy initiate acquires the right to do:homage
to the Lord alone. , Litt. f 9. Go. Litt., 3o. 67. 2 B. Corn.
1:5. Avowry fhall be- made on him only in the life of his
wife.

Co. Litt. 3o. a.

He may ufe'the title of his wife's

dignity. Co. Litt. 29. b. He may do n.any ads to, charge the
land. 2 B!. G.1 2 q. .Hemay make 2 febfinent ; and what he
.'may grant, he, furely, may forfeit. Co. Litt. 30. a. b. 3f. a.
beides,
ef,
nothing-.but a. man's own death. (independent
of

SUPREME COURT of

Pennfylvania.

of the punifliment for crime) can prevent his enjoying an
efate for life, has he no interefi in the land ? The death of
the iffue, or its arrival-at full age, or the treafon of the.wife
herfelf, cannot defeat the right acquired by a tenant by the
curtefyinitiate )"and fo far is Lord Coke from confidering it as
; mere expefancy, contingency, or poffibility, that he emphatically declares, the hubiand (having iffue, is ezttled to
" an eftate for the term of his own life, in his own right, and
" yet is feized in fee in the right of his wife, fo as he is not a
Co. Litt. 67. a- On thevery point of
"*bare tenantfor life."
forfeiture, the di&urm in Godb.2 3. is firongly in favor of the
Defendant,if properly explained, for, forfeiture on attainder
for treafon is always to the Crown ; 4 B?. C, 3,6. 381. and
that there-fhould be a forfeiture merely to difcharge the fatier's
lien upon the eftate, in favor of his children, is abfurd.
During the coverture, the whole eftate is forfeited ; and if the
hufband dies firfi, the eftate is as much difcharged by that event,
as it can be byhis attainder, But the analogy between the cafe
of curtefy, and the -cafe of dower, will aflif, in fupplying the
defe& of pofitive authority, Dower is forfeitable at common
law ; and yet dower depends on the fame contingency of furvivorfhip as curtefy, I H. P. C. 253. 359. 2 Bl.C. 130. i,
The feizen of the hufband gives an inchoate right to dower; as the birth of heritable iffue gives a curtefy initiate.:
And when it is faid, that he cannot forfeit his curtefy by his
wife's treafon, there is great room to infer that he may forfeit it
for his own, 4 BI. C. 37J,
Suppofe an effate devifed, or conveyed, to. Galloway and his
wife , and the furvivor of them ; or to him during.the life of
his wife, with remainder to him if he furvived her;-would
not the whole eftate be forfeited ? Would not the forfeiture.
reach the right of furvivorfhip ? Again ; fuppofe an eftate.
in fee fimple devifed to him with a double afpeft ;-,a devife
for years, with a contingent remainder to him in fee;:-would
not the remainder be forfeited ? True, the tenancy by the
curtefy was not confummate, until the death of the wife; but
does this prove, that he had no eftate at the tim of the attainder, nothing more than a poffibility ? Is homage done for a
poffibility ?'Can a right by poffihility enable a mail to.do many
a6ts to charge the land?. Will a poffibility make a man A
member of the pares curiv ? Would a pol~ibility give effea
to a feuffment made during the life of the wife, in cafe he furvived ? And if fo, what more could be effefed by the feoff-,
ment of a joint tenant ?

. Thereare four requifites neceffary to make a tenancy by the

cur'tefy ; three had occurred at the time of. the attainder ; fhall
the fourth qonfinm tez or defeat, the eftate? Tn favor of the

483

1798.

4$8
I798.

CAses ruled and adjudged in the
hufband, or a purchafor under him, as'againft the heir, it conwhy not in favor of the Cominonwealth? It is
urge'd, in anfwer, that the law does not caft an eftate upon him,
vho cannot hold it: but the rule is clearly otherwife, if the
cftateaccrues by the happening of a contingency, by a limita-4
tion, by a condition, or by a purchafe, in the legal fenfe, diftin-,
guifhied'from defcent.
In Co. Litt. 67. a. the curtefy is confidered as vefed(, liable
to be defeated by the death of the huflland, happening before
the death of the wi(e ; but when the hufband is regarded by
that authority as more than tenant for life, with a'power t4,
charge the landf, to fell them, to perform the feodal inveftiture,'
&c. can it be reafonable to fay that he has no eftato- ?-is note
this an intereft beyond a right of aetion, 'a right.of entry, or
condition ?-.-all of which, it will be fhewb, are f'bje6ts bf forfeiture under the at of Affembly. But it is faid, that tenancy
by the curtefy is a future eflate. Litt. f 35. and in fome refpe6ls the afertion is true : yet, it is equally crue, that in other
rerpeas, after the birth of iffue, it is an intereftand not a con-

Sfuininates:

tinfgency ;-,-an exifling right, and not merely a poffible benefit.

It is contended, however, that the forfkiture itfelf pre~vents
the guilty perfbn from being tenant by' thecurtefy; i Ba.
.dbr. 66O. but this authority evidently turns entirely upon'the
principle, that his title vells in the crown. In that'cafe, too,
if no office is foilnd, the eftate 'vould return to the 'hufliafid on'
a pardon; and even if ano'flice be'found, a pardon with words
of reftitution would. reffore it to him, provided no intereft
vef'ed in the fubjed. 4 BI. C. 402. ~ BI. C. 129, 255. 3 BI.
C. 259. 3 Bac. Abr. 8io. It is true if tenant by the cuitefi*
.acquires:a new right, after the pardon, the eftate would be his
of cout fe ; as if liehad no children before; or at the time of,
the attainder; in which cafe kro forfeitoie 6f the curtefy could'
be incurred i but has iffuI after the pardon,' in whic cafe he:

is a new man, apable'of talking as if the attainder ,neer haA
happened, After the attainder, and beffbre the'p~rdon, indeed'
the eftate will not vef even for the benefit of ;he crown, which'
explains i Bac. .Abr. 66o. but if the curtefy is inttiate at the
time of the attainder, the eftate Oaffes to tht crown, With all
the capacity of being eilarged and conlhmniate, as well as be
ing defeated, to which it was liable in the han'ds of the indi,
vidual attain',ed.
It is not confiftcnt with the authorities to fay, that a tenant by
the curtefy initiate, cannot g'rant his 6ight, livi~ng hit wife;
end whatever a man has in his own right he nay'foi6feii 4 Leon.
I 12. Green's Banh Law, 124. The cafe cited f)om 7 Vif. Abr.
162. p. z.is contradialed Vy Y/. 4' it is nbt fupbrted by 13'. -

SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvqnza.

-7. q. and it is at befi a diaqm of Keble, when a-lawer at th'e
bar.4 It 'is t6' be found, likewife, in Ny. 1$9. and' there it
appears, that it was a' quefltion turning on the corrup to 9f
blood.
2d. But whatever doubt iay be created on the Englifh auth6rities, the pofitive provifi6s of the a& of Affembly-ca'nnot
b'eolfcured or evaded. By the original' a& defining treafori
and prefcribing its punifhment, he fqrfejti4*re upon attainder
itdeclared, in general terms, to be "'the eftate" of the delinquent: II/ol. State Laws.f 3. P. 727, 8. .Pall.Edit. And

by
in the a& for the attainder of divers traitors,' including and
name Mr. Galloway, it is declared, that uplefs they ppear
-Conform to the law, "c they Aall tuffer and f'orfeii as 'perfons
2ttaint of high treafon." .Ibid. f 2, 3, 4. P. 751, 2. Put
i'hen the fame ac{ enfers into a fpecificafion of the fubjedt 4
forfeiture, it embrace's, in exprefs terms, "all and eve':y'the'
"lands, tenements, hereditaments, debts,, or fums of'money,
".or goods or chattels 'whatfoever, and generally the eflates,
"real and perifonal, 'of what natu're. or kin foever they be,
"within this State, whereof the aforefaid 7ofiph'Galloway,Cc;
"hail
have been poffeffed of, interefed 'in, or 'en'titled. unto;
on the 4 th of J7uly, 1776, or at any time qfterwirds,'in their,
,own right, or to their ufe, or which any other perfon or perfans, (hall have -been poffeffed of, interiefted in, or entitld un" to, tb the ufe of, or in truft for them, or any of'them, (hall ac' cording to the relpeaive eiates and interefis, whici he per" fons'a forefatd,' or any in truft for them, or any of them, hall
'hAve liad'therein, ftand and be forfeited to this State. "' Ibid.
5- P- 752 3.
If tenancyby the curtefy initiateis an effate of any kind; if it
gives any intereflin ihe laid ;-ifit gives any title to the tenant
then is it a fubje6 of forfeiture, under the pofitive provifions of
the a& of Affembly. It is evident, that the forfeiture under this
aa is' more' extenfive," than by the common law, or ifatutes,
In England the forfeiture
of England, i H. H. P. C.24.
is of lands and tenem'entS of inheritance, and rights of entry i
4nd 'the profitsof lands and tenements, 'which the attainted perfon had in his own right for life, or for yeais: 4 Bi. C. 381.
Rut here, in additi6n to thefe'obje~Ls, rights of entry touching
lands, a tight to reverfe a judgnrent,' ad all onditions, ufes,
and trufts, are forfeited. If, therefdre, a tehancy'b, the curt'efy initiate is forfeited by attainder in England,' a fprtiori
t. ..
it is forfeited in PennJilvania.
CUR.
.
. ,
" ADV. VKLT.
M'KE411

179.

