CMRCULT

COUR',

Petjflvaia

Diftri&.

April Tern, 1799.

Prefent,-IRED.ELL and PETERs, 7ugtices.

Po1,LOCK et al. verfus DONADSON.

T

HIS wV an aLion brought by the Underwriters, to recover a premium of 15 per cent on a Policy of Infu-

raince, upon the cargro of the brig Pilgrim. The Policy was
dated the 17th of November, 1794, and contained the following
claufs ;--namely, "loft or not loft, in port and at tea, and at

AL
altimes and places, for the fpace of fix callender months,

A'fr~rn the 8th day of Septezber, 1794, to the 8th day of Marchb,
"1795, &c."
" beginning the adventure upon the faid goods

and mernc:handizes from the loading thereof on board the (aid
veffel, the 8th of September, 1794, and fo fhall continue and
" endure until the Sth of March, 1705, and continue at the
fame rate of premium, until her next arrival at Philadelphiq
&c."
"1The faid goods and merchandizes for fo much as
" concerns the affured and affurers in this Policy, are and fhalU
" be valued as intere?.frallappear." " The veffel and cargr
warranted Ahnerican property."
The fas were thefe : The brig was loaded at Hamburgh,
on the 8th of September, 1794, with a cargo valued at 5,333
iollars, and failed for the port of Phtladephia, On her paffage
aboet

RIC0_UKT,

Venn)ytv-ana

DiST'RICT.

about the i 4 th of Setembe, The was flopped by a French 4-799"
privateer and carried into Dunkirk, where the Supercargo was .
.
permitted to fell the cargoi and to receive the proceeds on ac-;
count of the owner. She-then 'took on board a fmall cargo,
valued at about i5oo dollars, and in the begiining of Oober
failed from Dunkirk, bound to Hamburgh, but was taken on
the paff ge by a Britij privateer, and carried ifito Falmouth,
where an average lofs was fuffered, to the amount of f. 90
fQerling. After a few days detention and examination, the brig
Was difcharged, purfued her courfe to Hamburighl and arrived
there towards the end of Oflobek. Having difcharged her lading at Hamburg, flie took on board another cargo to the amount
'of ,2,5oo dollars.; 'and failed 1from:that~vort-in December, .bound
4to:Philadelphia,; and arrived herein February, .1795.
The caufe wastried by:a fpecial -Jury-; when ,the iPlairltiffs
,contended, -that they were ,entitled.tothepremiumof .. 5 ;pet'
ment,.on the firf cadrgo-fhipped ;at Ramburgh,ivalued :at 5i333,
,dollars,,under the'wordslof, ithe. policy,;infuring :" in.port arid iat
•tc fea,.,and at-all times ;and places,'for, the ifpa e df Pfix callender
moftths,,&c," "withoutregard to anychange,:or .diminutionj of
"the value.of-the 'cargo, during -the -term -of;the iiifurance.
.But ,the-Defendant infifled, 'that thofe words-were controuled
-by theprovifion, :that the cargo-thould be valued "-as interifl
.4c fl" llappear.;" and as he, ;n cafe-of jalofs, w6uld only .have
€been-entitledfto recover an indemnity .co-extenfi;vetwith -the
.Value:of the icargo-adually 'loft, therUnderwriters 'could not
3recover a premium-for more than the amount of iheir rifque.
The-teftimony ,of Afr.'Jfaac Wbarton,.an experienced Infurance Brokerj proved that the Defendant's confirudion df
the -policy .was conformable 'tothe -general ifenfeand ufage df
merchants : And it was accoidingly gdopted'by r-+h,,CouR-t
:and jury :-,-the verdi&: allowing :the prom ium of 'I5 'per cent
'.upon:the value of.the different cargoes, for:the'timelthat.they
-ivere refpewively, on board thetbrig; anddedu& ing the amouit
of the average, lofs,
-IURST

