SUPREME COURT of

the. United States.

V. Thefifth exception flates, that the declaration isin the
debet, as well as the detinet, though for foreign money.
The reafon of the rule, that debet for foreign money is ill,
is the uncertainty of its valve ; and, therefore. both the 2itfwers given to the fourth, apply to this prefent, exception..
Let the jud,ment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

EMORY verfus GRENOUGH.

MafiaEF RROR from the Circuit Court for the Diftri6l of

chufetts.
The Plaintiff in error was a native of Maffachufetts, formerly refident in Boflon, where he contra&ed the debt in queftioij
to the Defendint in error, who was, alfo a native, and had always continued a refident, of that ftate. Some years afterwards
the Plaintiff in errror removed into Pennfylvania, became a
refident citizen of the ftate, took the benefit of her bankrupi
law (which, in its terms and operation, was analogous to the
bankrupt laws of England) and duly obtained a certificate
of conformity from the commiffioners. Subfequent to this difcharge, he returned, on a tranfient vifit, to Bofton; and, being
there arrefted by the Defendant in error, for the old debt, he
caufed the fuit to be removed from the State into the Circuit
Court, and pleaded his certificate in bar to the' adion : but the
court (confifting of Judge IREDELL, and the Diftri& Judge)
over-ruled the plea, and gave judgment for the Plaintiff below:
whereupon the prefent writ of error was brought.
The argument of the caufe had been confiderably advanced,
when a contagious fever made its appearance again in Philadelphia, and the bufinefs of the court was unavoidably fufpended. But at February Term, 1797, the court h:ving decided,
VOL. III.
B bb
in
* It appeared, during the difcttffion, that a great diverfity exifled in

the law and practice of the feveral States, npon this ftibject ; and that

a ecilion, divectly contrary to that of the Circuit Court of Maffachufelts, had been given in the Circuit Courr o Rhode Itland, compofed of
Jtdge Ifon and tke Diftrict ude.

T797.

370

7

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

in the cafe of Bingham verfus Cabot, et al. that in order to fuflain
the jurifdi&on of the Federal Court, it muff be fet forth in the
procefs, that the parties are citizens of different flates; and
that form having been omitted in the prefent fuit, this and feveral other writs of error were ftruck off the docket.
Ingerfoll and Dallas, for the Plaintiff in error. Lewis and
F. Tilghman, for the Defendant in error.*
HAMILTON
The following extract from RTuberus wag tranflated for, and read in,
this caufe ; and, I am perfuaded, that its infertiun here will be approved
by the profeffion.
HUBLTUS, 2 Vol. B. i. Tit.
3ps 26.-" It often happens that contraels entered into in one place, take effet in different governments, or arejudicially dt cided upon in other places, than thofe in which they were entered
into.
It is alfo well known, that when the Roman Empire was deftroyed,
the Chriftian world was divided into many nations, not united under
any common head, nor connefted by any uniformity of regulations.
It is not wondertul that we (to not find any thing upon this fubjeelt in
the Roman law ; when the government of the Roman people, was extended over a great part of the habitable globe, the firequent confli&
and contrariety of laws could not occur; the rule was one and the
fule.
However the fundamental rules by which this queftion ought to be
decided, appear to be derived from the Roman law, although the inquiry itfelfappears to belong rather to the law ofnations, than to the
civil law ; as what different nations obferve between thsemfelves, it is
obvious forms the law of nations.
In order to render thisvery intricate bufinefs plain and clear, we will
Jay down three maxims, which, being fully eftablifled, as it appears to
as they may eafily be, the dcds&ion ofthe confequences, neccffary to
asnentire underflanding of the ftibjett, will be ofPno great difficulty.
They are thefe : iir. The laws of every empire have force within the
limits of that government, and are obligatory upon all who are within
its bounds,
-d. All perfons within the limits of a goverinment are confidered as
fub.e&si , whether their retidence is permanent or tempoiary.
3d. By the courtefy of nations, whatever laws are carried into execution, within the limits of any government, are eniidered as having the
fame effeft every whereift far as they do nut occalios'4 prejudice to the
rights of the other governments, or their citizens.
It appears, tlherefiore, upon this occafion, that we ought to cnnfult,
niot the civil law only, b*Lt what istos be inferred from the m1utual convenience, and the tatit confenst of different people, becaufe as the laws
of ose peopsile cannot have any force or effcft directly with another peo.
Ple, fuo,
on the other hand, nothing would be msore inconvenient iti-the
Fr. I ife
-los interrourfe and praftiee of mankind, than that what was
vaidl by tlhe laws of one plae(l fosld be rendered of no effe&t elfe, here, by a divet-liiy of law, which is the rcafou of the third maxim,
ofwhich heretofore i it doubt appears toiave been estsertained.
W" iths Icvfpcl 'to tshe fecond maxis, fisie have thos'ght otiwifeC,
who deny that foreignersi ate ltljeft to;
the law of tle'place,
I ackso w ledgethere are excepots to ilse rule, which I will notice
hereafter ; hls thispolition we hold as mill certain, that whoever live
within the hounds ofa go ersnent, are to be accountcd its fubjeas. This
is evident from considering the nature ofa i-epublic, and t he univerfal
lo'm amprng all na ions ofcoitrouling all thofe bytheir laws, who

live

