biJPRPME, COAqT of

Penjfykania;

50 5

1799.

REaD verfus' IIGRAHAM.

HIS was an a6i6n byouight b the aignee of a fock coitra&, to recover the amount of thd difference, due on the
contra6t, which was expreffed in thefe %words:" On the i8th
" of pril 1792, I promire tb 'eceive fron fofeph Boggs, or or" der, Ten thoufand dollars, fix per cents, and pay him for the
, fame, at the rate of 23 fhillings and 7 pence 3-4 pet" pound;
ed)F
Fancis Ingraham."
(Signed)
The afignment was indorfed in there words :
, I do hereby authorife [Villiam Reed, or his order, to tender
or deliver the flock within mentionedi and the faid W/illiam
Reed, or his order, to reieive for the fame, the fums of money
" due and payable therefor, at the rates within expreffed.
.. pr;l 1. 1792.:
(Signed)
7ofeph Boggs."
The Plaintiff gave notice of the aflgnment to the Defehdaut,
at fhbrt time before the day fixed.for executing the contia6l
and, it Was adrritted, that the flock was tendered in due form:-"
But the defence, on the trial, turned upon the quefltion,--wheth-.
ier the flock contra&*was hegotiable, fo as to enable the affignee
to-bring an ac ion in his own name? For, the Defendant infifted that Boggs was indebted to him, and that he ought not to
be precluded from the benefit of a fet-off, by the form of the
,prefent fuir, It appeared, however, that the debt referred to,
arofe from a note, which the Defendant had endorfed to accommodate Boggs ; but which had not been paid, nor had it, indeed,
become due for a lorig time after this a1ion was commenced:
Arid feveral experienced brokers proved, that flock contrals,
of the prefcnt defeription, had always been knfidered as affignable in Philadelphia,ve ling the interef1pmpletely in the affignees, and authorizing themj in cafes of default, to proceed in'
their own names againft the. defaulters.
Br tr-s COURT:-The a Iion is well brought, as it is
founded on a contra-t, in which the Defendant exprefsly flipu-lates,. that he will re.ceivt the flock from, and pay the price to,
VOL. Iii.
T t t
go,fipb

506,
t799.

CAS~ ruled and adjudged in ihe
7ofeph Boggs, or his order. On general principles of IaW#
flock- contradts cannot be regarded as negotiable ; but a contrador may certainly make himfelf liable as if they were fot
and the maxim, modus et conventio vincunt leges, applies forcibly to the cafe,
With refpe& to the alledged inconvenience, that in the pre.
fent form of adion the Defendant is debarred from the benefit
of a fet-off, it would be enough to anfwer, that as this is the
confequence of his own ad .and agreement, he has no reafonable caufe of complaint. 'But it is alfo obvious, that when the

contra, was afligned, and thie prefent a&ion was inftitutedi
there did not exiff between him and Boggs any mutual debt, or
demand, which could be the fubjed of defalcation, upon the
principles of the ad1 of Affembly.
'VFRDIcC'T for

"ROBERTS "'erfUs W

TTl

-r.EE-L'E

:the Plaintif.

et ;AL

E Plamntiff had obtained,,-a ver&; buta newtrial wa§

g'anted .upon condition,'that a judgmenti hould'beeiteredas-a'fecurity; for whatever m ight be ultimately recovered. 'On
fhe' fe 'ond~tria, THE Cott'T inftrued .the Jut.y, that Where
juldgmet~was given~merely.as-a.fecurity, the intev&f ought not
,to'be 'calculated on the amountof the judgment (whieh inclu-'ied principal and inte'rel) -but only 6n the fum.oiginally~due,

PA;E soN verfus WILLiNG,

IT '

ebal.

..
r'HIS was an adIon for money had and received to thc

Plaintiff's ufe, founded on the f1llowngTfa

:--On the

-jth of December, '1796, Levin'Us Clarkon executed a mortgage

