SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

297

.
1796.

Auguj Term, 1796.

THE UNITED STATES verfus LA VEIGEANCE.

RROR from the Circuit Court for the diftri l of New
York. It appeared on the return of the record, that La
Vengeance, a French privateer, had captured and carried into
New York, a Spanih- fhip, called La Prince/ade flurias;
and that thereupon Don Diego "Pintardo,the owner of the
prize, filed a Libel in the Diftri't Court, complaining of the
capture ; alledging that La Vengeance was illegally fitted out
within the United States ; and prayingyreffitution and darnaces :
but on a claim, exhibited in behalf of the owners of the privateer, the Diftrif Court difrniffed the Libel with coits ; and,
upon appeal to the Circuit Court, that decree was affirmed.
The fate of Pintardo')Libel determined, likewife, the fate
of an information filed ex ofcio, by the Diftricft Attorney,
claiming the privateer as a forfeture, upon the fame allegation, that fhe had been illegally armed and equipped in the
United States, in violation of the 6:t
of Congrefs : and in both
thefe decifions the parties acquiefced.,
But a third proceeding had been inftituted againft the privateer, in which the Diftria Attorney filed, ex officio, an information, ftating " that Aquila Giles, Marfhal of the faid
diftri&,, had feized to the ufe of the United States, as forfeited,
a certain fchooner, or veffel, called La Vengeance, with her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, the property of ibme perfon,
or perfons, to the faid -Attorney unknown; for that cer-tain
cannons, mufkets, and gun-powder, to wit, 2 cannon,
20
mufkets, and 5o boxes of gun-powder, were between the

VOL. 111.

Qq

Ci sEs ruled and adjudged in the

1796.

22( of MlaY, 1794, and the 22d of May, I795,* exported in
the fzidft
fhooner, or vejfel fromn the faid United States, to wit,
from Sandy -Hook, in the ,late of New 7erfey (that is to fay,
from the city of New Yrrk in the New York diftrid) to aforeign country, to wit, to Port-de-Paix, in the ifiqnd of St,.
D~mingo, in the Jflef-Indic.s,,contrary to the. prohibitions of.
the a&, in fuch cafe made and provided," &c.: And praying
judginent of forfeiture accordingly. A claim was filed on behalf of the own.-rs of the privateer, denying the exportation of
canon or muflkets ; and alledging that the gun-powder conhlitute.I, part ofthe equipment of the Semiiante, a friigate belonging to the Republic of France, and had been taken fromr her and
-put on board the privateer, to'be carried to Port-de-Paix, by
order of the proper officer of the faid Republic. It was, alfo,
alledged, that the fchooner, after her arrival at Port-de-Paix,
was bonafide fold to one 7aques Rouge, a citizen of the French
Republic, in whofe behalf the claim was inflituted.
After argument, the DISTRICT JUDGE decreed, that the

fchooner fhould be forfeitcd ; but, upon appeal to the Circuit
Court, the decree was rcverfed, and Judge CHACE certified
that the judgment of rever;Wd was founded on the following
fals :--" Ift. That from 18 to 20 mufkets, were carried in the
faid fchooner La V/engeance in the month of March or lipril,
1795, from the'United States of .Anerica, to a foreign country, to wit, to Port-de-Paix, in the 14Peel Indies: But that
fuch mufcets were the priv:tc property of French paffengers
on board of the faid fchooner, carried out for their own ufe,
and not byway of merchandize."-2d. " That upwards of 4o
boxes of gun-powder were carried at the fame time, from the
laid United States, in the faid fchooner to Port-de-Paix,aforefaid : But'that fuch gun-powder was taken from on board the
Semilliante frigate, lying in the harbour of New ork, was a
part of her equipment, did not appear-ever to have been landed in the faid United States' was carried out for the ufe of
the French Republic, was delivered to the commander in
chief at Port-de-Paix-andwas not exported by way of trade
r uierchandize."
From this judgment of the Circuit Court, a writ of error
ws brought on behalf of the United States, the general errors
were affigned, and the D;fendnat in error pleaded in nulo bit
erratum. The iffue was argued on the ioth of Yiuguji, by
.Lee, Attorney General of the United States, for the Plai'ntiff

in
* The information was founded on the a& ofCon;refs, pafled the 22d
1 yeirennfuig.thc expo i~taon of rnrs
'May, 1-793, prohibi i,;i for- 01e
azd amrnmauinii

SUPREME COURT Of

the United States.

99

in error, and by Du Ponceau, for the Defendant:* but no
exception was taken, by the former,'in referenfce to the merits
1.
of the caufe. ,.. . .
Lee, Attorney General :-There are twb grounds on which
this writ 'of e'rror is to' be fupported -ifi. That it is a criminal caufe ; and, therefore, it fhould never ha e been removed to.
the Circuit Court, the j-udgment of the Diftrid Court being final in criminal caufes :'And ad. That even if it could be confidered as a civil fuit, it is not a fuit of Admiralty and, Maritime
jurifdidion ;. and, therefore, the Circuit Court fhould have remanded it to be tried by a jury in the Diffridq Court.
ift. Point. All caufes are either civil or criminal;
and this
is a criminal caufe, as well on account of the riianner of profecution, as on account of the matter charged. Thus,.Informations are a proceeding at common law, and claffed with criminal profecutions, 4 Bi. Com. 303; and the a& of Congrefs
which was framed to prote& the United State', at a critical
moment, from a ferious injury, infli6ls'for.the offence of violating its provifions, a forfeiture 'of the veffel employed in
exporting arms or ammunition, and a fine of icoo dollars. It
is true; that it may be confidered, 'in part, as a pr6ceeding in
rem ; but fill it is a criminal proceeding. There'are but two
kinds -of information known in England, one in the Exchequer
touching matters of Revenue, the other in the King's Bench,
touchillg the puniffiment of mifde meanors. 3.Bl. Com. 262.
Now, the revanue of the United States is not at all concerned
in this cafe ; nor would the Court of Exchequer take cognizance of a fimilar care in England. If, therefore, the United States do not claim La Vengeance for debt, nor as a mere
exercife of arbitrary will, but 'on account of fome offence,,
fome crime, tha't has been committed; it follows, of courfe,
that the procefs ufed to enforce the claim, muff, under any denomination, be, in faq, a criminal procefs ; and, in all criminal caufes, whether the trial is by a jury, or otherwife, the
judgment of the Diftrit Court is final. Though penal fuits
have fometimes been onRfrued civil adions ; it has only been
done where individuals have been concerned, and, in one
infance, to admit the'teffimony of a Quaker, on affirmation;
but none of the exceptions to the general rule, will reach the
prefent cafe. i Wills 125. q Stra. 1227. COwp. 38Z.
Zd., Point., The 9th fedion of the judicial a& declares, that
" the
The cafe having been epened-, and frne general principles flatedby the Attorney Getieral on a preceding'cay, the Court were led to fip-pofe that he did not mean to enter intoi any. farther difcitfion, and,
declared an opinion ; but being afterwardF.. inform ed, that, on account
of the importance of the f ubjet, a further a:ginment was expeaed,.
they gave this opportunity.

T796.

303
1796.

CASEs ruled and adudged in the,

", the trials of iffiie infa&, in the Diftri&-Courts, in all
caufes, except civil caufes of Admiralty and Maritime jurif-:
didion, fliall he by jury." If there are criminal caufes of,.
Admiralty and Maritime jurifdidi 9 n they 'would not be
within the exception, and. muff be tried by jury. But ,this
criticifin is not infiftled upon.; fince the prefent cafe..can-

noi,

in any fenfe,

be deemed a civil fut,. of Admiralty

and Maritime jurifdiaion.

The principles regulating Ad-

miralty and Maritime jurifdidion in this country, muff be
fuch as were confiflent with the comn-on law of En-,
gland, at the period of the revolution., How, then, would'
a firnilar cafe be confidered in Engldnd? Blac4/lone fays, 'I-all
admiralty caufes ntuif be caufes arifing wholly upon the fea,
" and rot within the prccinds of any county" , 3 BI. Corn.
io6. And Goke' had previoufly remarked, " that altuin mare
'is out, of the jurifdi&ion of t.he common law, 'and within the
jutifdidi:'n of the Lord Admiral." Now, the offeiie' here
chargd is that of exporting arms and ammunition out of the
United States to Port-de-Paix. 'The ad itfelf, indeed,' without the intervention of the flatute, would, doubtlcfs, have
been lawful ; but an ad of exportation, from the force of the
term, muff be commenced here; and if done part on land,'
and part on fca, the authorities decide, that the admiralty
cannot claim the jurifdifion. It is not made criminal to re-

'ceive arms an(d ammunition at fea, but to export them from
the United States, within which the *offenfivz acff muff,
therefore, originate. If, then, this is n6 a caufe of Amiralty
and BMarii-n~
j-uMfi-tion; though it fliould be allowed to
be a civilcauf, frill the'trial ought to have been byjury.
It may be proper to add, tha't the ad of Congrefs (fg/. 4.) exprefsly adopts in this cafe, the mode of profecuting to recover
the tbrfeituires and penltiesc iicurred under the ad for moreefe~ually cAllcai g the inpoft &c. (pafied the 4 th of AugtJl, 1790,
f 67.) which declares that on filing a claim " the court fhall
proceed to hea, and determine the caufe according to law :" but
there is nQthinr, in this provifion, that can be'confifrued to exClude a jury trial; any more than in the form of a commiflion
of )yer arid Terminer, which empowers the Judges " to hear
and determine," and yet they always hear and determine, as to
th.: fads, throuch the medium of ajury ; nor does the mere infIituton of a new mode of proceeding neceffarily refcind and

annul, every pre-txifling procefs applicable to the fame fubjed.
if, upon the whole, there has been a mis-trial, and a reprefentation (houl' be prcfJ-nt ed to the proper department, the forfeiture
would not be allowed to enrich the Treafury; but as a judicial
queflion,'it -is nrore proper'that the error flould be judicially
Cor'ead, "T'heCircuii Qoirt ought to have remanded the

caufe

SUPREME-"COURT

oF.the.United States.

301

Scaufe to the Diftri& Court, taken in either of- the views it ex-" 17.06.
hibits : if it was a'criminal caufe, (tri&ly fpeaking, it ought to " _
have been remanded, becaufe it had not been tried by a jury,
and becaufe the judgment of the Dintric- Court is, in fuch cafe,
definitive :-if it was a civil fuit, but not of Admiralty or Ma-.
ritime jurifdiktion, it ought to have been remanded, becaufe, in
fuch cafe, the iffue had not been tried by jury :-And in either
cafe, whether criminal or civil, this court has a fuperintending
and efficient controul over the judgments and decrees of the.
Circuit Court.
11lrE CHIEF JrJSTICE.infortned the oppofite counfel, that
as the'court did not feel any reafon to clhange the opinion,

which they had formed upon opening the caufe, they would difpenfe with any'further argument; and on the iith of Xtuguj?,
he pronounc'ed the following judgment.
BY rHE COURT. 'We are perfetlHy fatisfied. upon the two
points that have been agitated in this cu'fe. In the fitf place,
we think, that it is a caufe of Admiralty and Maritime Jurif-.
difi6in. The exportation of arms an&ammunition is, fimply,
the offence ; and exportation is entirely a water tranfaaion.
It, appears, indeed, on the face of the libel, to have commenced
at Sandy Hook; which, ,certainly, muft have been upon the
water. In the next place, we are unanimoufly of opinion, that
it is a civil caufe: It is a procefs of the nature of a libel in
rem ; and does not, in any degree,, touch the perfon of the offender.
In this view of the fubjea, it follows, of courfe, that no ju-

ry was neceflary, as it was a civil caufe ; and that the appeal to
the Circuit Court was regular, as it was a caufe of Admiralty
and Maritime jurifdiaction.-'hercfore,
Let the decree of the CircuitCourt be affirmed with cols.
But on opening the court the next day, THE CHIE.F JUSTICE direaed the words i
" with cofts"
to be ftruck out of the
entry, as there appeared to have been fome caufe for the profeciution. He obferved, however, that, in doing this, the Court
did not mean to be underftood, as, at all, deciding the queftion,
whether, in any cafe, they could award cofts againif the United
States ; but left it entirely open for future difcuffion.

