SuPRtME COURT of the

United States.

February Term, 1795.

The UNITED STATES verfus HAMILTOtN.

had been committed upon the warrant of
TJL HEthe prifoner
Diftrid Judge of Pennfylvania, charging him with
High Treafon ; and being now brought into court upon a
habeas Corpus, Lewis alledged, that there was not th6 flighteit
ground for the accufation brought againft the prifoner, who
had been committed, without ever having been heard, and
without knowing the name of any witnefs that had been exa-mined, or the fcope of any depofition that had'been taken,
againfi him : And he moved, that the prifoner fhould either be
difcharged abfolutely, or, at leaft, upon reafonable bail.
Pawle (the attorney-general of the difrid) admitted, that
in the fingle cafe of the prifoner, there had not been a hearing
before the Diftridl Judge, previoufly to the commitment; but
when the Rate of the country is recolledted, the number of delinquents, and the urgency of the feafon, he prefumed, that this
circumftance (independent of the eftablilbhed charader of the
Judge) would not be afcribed to a want of vigilance, or a fpirit of oppeeffion. He infifted, however, that the difcretion
vefted in certain judges, relative to a commitment for crimes,
by the 3 3 d fedftion of the Judicial Ad (I Vol. Swift's Edit. p.
72) having been exercifed by the Diftri6Judge, on fuchdepofitions as fatisfied him, this court, having merely a concurrent
authority, can only rev ife his decifion in one of two cafes,--ift. The occurrence of new matter ; or, 2dly. A charge of mifcondu-t ;---neither of which is pretended. But, after flating
the general charader ot the infurredftion, he read feveral affidavits, with a view to effablifh the prifoner's agency in it ; and
concluded with urging, that, if the prifoner mas releafed at all,
it fhould be on giving fatisfa6ory bail to take his trial in the
Circuit Court. 4 Bl.COm. 296. 2 Hawk. 176. (n.)
Lewis examined the affidavits produced agarnit the prifoner,
•to fhow, that although he attend at feveral meetings of the
VOL. 111.

1$

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

-X795. infurgents, his deportment, upon thofe occafions, was calculaL - ted to reftore order and fubmiffion to the laws ; and he added
the affidavits of feveral of the moft refpe&able inhabitants of
the weftern counties, in teftimony of the propriety of the prifoner's condu& throughout the infurredion.

THE COURT, after holding the fubje& for fome days under.

advifement, dire6led the prifoner to be admitted to bail, himfelf
in the fum of 4ooo dollars, and two fureties, each in the fum of
2oo0 dollars.
WILSON, Juftice. The recognizance muff be taken for the
defendant's appearance at the next flated Circuit Court. The
motion for appointing a fpecial Circuit Court to try offences
of this defcription, at a place nearer to the fcene in which they
occurred, has not efcaped our attention ; and with a wifli, if
poffible, to grant it, we have viewed the fubje& in every light;
but hitherto the difficulties are apparently infurmountable. Ve
will, however, ftate the principal ones, that the Counfel may, if
they pleafe, endeavour to remove them.
1. The next ftated Circuit Court is fo near, that it will not
be poffible to commence and finifh the bufinefs of the trials for
Treafon, at a Special Court to be previoufly held ; and it ig
very queftionable, whether we can appoint a Special Circuit
Court it a diftant period, to overleap the feffion of the ftated
Court. The impropriety of fuch an interference is the more
ftriking, when it is recolteded, that the Circuit Court itfelf, as
well as the Supreme Court, has a power to ,ippoint a fpecial
feffions for the trial of criminal caufes. I V01f 4. P. 51.
2. But even if a fpecial Court were to be appointed to be

held at a diftant period, overleaping the ftated Circuit Court,
could an indi6tment found at the latter, be profecuted and tried
at the former ? There is a provifion, " That i1 bufinefs de-

pending for trial at any Special, Court, fhall, at the clofe thereof,
be confidered as of courfe removed to the next flated term of
the Circuit Court," (2 fol. Swift's Edt.f 3" P"227.) but there

is no power given to remit to a fpecifl Court, the bufinefs depending for trial, before the ftated Circuit Court.
3. And fuppofe a fpecial Circuit Court were to be appointed
previoufly to the flated Court, could both be in feffion at the

fame time ? Or, could two grand juries be impannelled at the,
fame time, for the fame diftri, and both be qualified to prefent
all the offences, (including, ofcourfe, the offences of Treafon)

committed within their jurifdifion*.
" Le'wis and M. Le-,y, (si am informed) attempted to obviate the obflaceks
above fuggeffed ; but, it appears, without effeft, as a'fpecial Circuit Court was.nut
Trhidsjfr 2riaftn, , 1. P. 335. to P. 357.
appointed on, this occafion. N&ete&

BINGHAL

