54
1795.

1CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

unneceffary, however, to declare, or to form, at this time, any
opinion, on the queftion which has been fo much agitated, refpecting the evidence required by the 9 th article of
the Confular Convention.
The Rule difcharged.

Sconclufive

PENHALLOW, et al. verfus DOANE'S Admint/rators,

T

HIS was a Writ of Error, directed to the Circuit Court

for the Diftrict of New-Hampihire. The cafe was argued from the 6th to the i7 th of February; the Attorney Ge.
ineral of the United States, (Bradford) and Ingerfoll, being
Counfel for the Plaintiffs in error ; and Dexter, Tilgbman and
Lewis, being Counfel for the Defendants in error.
The Cafe, reduced to an hiftorical narrative, by Judge Pafe-/on, in delivering his opinion, exhibits thefe features •
•" This caufe has been much obfcured by the irregularity of
the pleadings, which prefent a medley of procedure, partly ac,cording to the common, and partly according to the civil,
law. We muft endeavour to extract a hate of the cafe from
the Record, Documents, and Acts, which have been exhibited,
It appears, that on. the 25 th of November, I775 (i Your.
.Congrefs, 259) Congrefs paffed a feries of Refolutions refpecting captures. Thefe Refolutions are as follow :
"Whereas it appears from undoubted information, that many veffels, which had cleared at the refpectiveCuftom-houfes
in thefe Colonis, agreeable to the regulations eftablifhed by
"1 Acts of the
Yitifb Parliament, have, in a lawlefs manner,
41 without even the femblance ofjuft authority, been feized by
"1 his Majefty's fhips of war, and carried into the harbour of
1Bojion, andother ports, where they have been rifled of their
" cargoes, by order of his Majefty's naval and, military officers,
€'there commanding, without the faid veffels having been pro' ceeded againif by any form of trial, and without the charge of
" having offended againf1 any law.
" And
whereas orders have been Jifued in his Majefty's
" name, tothe commanders of his f"hips of war, to proceed as
"in the cafe of adEual rebellion againrc fuch of the fea-pbrt
' towns and places being acceflible to the king's fhips, in
(V-which any troops fhall be raifed or military works ereaed,
CC
under

SUPREME COURT

of the

United States.

under colour of which faid orders, the commanders of his ma- I795;
"jefty's faid fhips of war have already burned and deftroyed" the flourihing and populous town of Falmo uth, and have
' fired upon and much injured feveral other towns within the
" United Colonies, and difperfed at a late feafon of the year,
" hundreds of helplefs women and children, with a favage hope,
" that thofe may perifh under the approaching rigours of the
" feafon, who may chance to efcape deftru&ion from fire and
"1fword, a mode of warfare long exploded amongft civilized
" nations.
'" And whereas the good people of thefe colonies, fenfibly
" affeked by the deffruaion of their property and other unpro" yoked injuries, have at laft determined to prevent as much
"as poflible, a repetition thereof, and to procure fome reparation for the fame, by fitting out armed veffels and fhips of
In the execution of which commendable defigns it is
"force.
"poffible, that thofe who have not been inftrumental in the
"unwarrantable violences above mentioned may fuffer, unlefs
" fome laws be made to regulate, and t'ribunals ere&led compe" tent to determine the propriety of captures. Therefore reccfolved,
" 1. That all fuch hips of war, frigates, floops, cutters,
" and armed veffels as are or (hall be employed in the prefent.
" cruel and unjuft war, againfl the United Colonies, and fhall
" fall into the hands of, or be taken by, the inhabitants thereof,
be feized and forfeited to an( for the purpofes herein after
"c mentioned.
" 2. Refolved, That all tranfportveffels in the fame fervice,
"having on board any trqops, arms, ammunition, cloathing,
provifions, military or naval ftores of what kind foever, and
all veffels to whomfoever belonging, that (hall be employed
"in carrying provifions or other neceffaries to the Britib army
" or armies, or navy, that now are, or (hall hereafter be within
" any of the United Colonies, or any goods, wares, or mer" chandize for the ufe of fuch fleet or army, (hall. be liable to
" feizure, and with their cargoes (hall be confifcated.
" 3. That no rmefter or commander of any veffel (hall be en"titled to cruize for, or make prize of any veffel or cargo, be-'
"' fore he (hall have obtained a commiffion from the Congrefs,
" or from fich perfon or'perfons as (ball be for that purpofe apc pointed, in fome one of the United Colonies.
"4. T'hat it be and is hereby recommended to the feveral
" legiflatures in the United Colonies, as foon as poffible, to
" ere6t Courts of Juffice, or give jurifdiaion to the courts now
- in being, for the purpofe of determining concerning the captures to be made as aforefaid, and to provide that all trials in
"fucla
"

56

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1795. "fuch cafe be had by a Jury under fuch qualifications, as to

."

the refpedive legiflatures hall feem expedient,
" 5. That all profecutions hall be commenced in the court of
" that Colony, in which the captures hall be made, but if no
" fuch court be at that time ereSted in the faid colony, or if
"the capture be made on open fea, then the profecution (hall
"be in the court of fuch Colony as the captor may find moft
"cconvenient; provided that nothing contained in this refolu."tion hall be conlirued fo as to enable the captor to remove
" his prize from any Colony competent to determine concerning
" the feizure, after he (hall have carried the veffel fo feized
"within any harbor of the fame.
," 6. That in all cafes an appeal (hall be allowed to the Congrefs, or fuch perfon or perfons as they hall appoint for the
trial of appeals, provided the appeal be demanded within five
days after definitive fentence, and fuch appeal be lodged with
" the fecretary of Congrefs within forty days afterwards, and
provided the party appealing (hall give fecurity to profecute
the faid appeal to effea, and in cafe of the death of the fecretary during the recefs of Congrefs, then the faid appeal to be
"lodged in Congrefs within twenty days after the meeting
"1 thereof.
" 7. That when any veffel or veffels, (hall be fitted out, at
"the expence of any private perfon or perfons, then the captures made, hall be to the ufe of the owner or owners of the
"faid veffel or veffels; that w ,ere the veffels employed in the
"capture

(hall be fitted out at the expence of any, of the Uni-

"ted Colonies, then one third of the prize taken (hall be to
"the ufe of the captors, and the remaining two thirds to the

" ufe of the faid Colony, and where the veffels fo employed,
"( hall be fitted out at the continental charge, then one third
"(hall go to the captors, and the remaining two thirds, to thc.
" ufe of the United Colonies; provided neverthelefs, that if
"c the capture be a veffel of war, then the captors fball be enti"tied to one half of the value, and the remainder (hall go to
"the colony or continent as the cafe may be, the neceffary
"charges of condemnation of all prizes being deducted before
"diftribution made."
That, on the 23 d March, 1776, Congrefs refolved that the
inhabitants of thefe colonies be permitted to fit out armed vefof the United Colonies.
fels, to cruife on the enemies
. That, on the 2d,-Apri l ,, 1776,
Congrefs agreed on the form
of a commiffion to commonders of private (hips of war; that
the commiffion run in the' name of the Delegates of the United
Colonies of New-Hampihire, &c. and was figned by the Prefident of Congrefs.
That; on the 3 d uly, 1776, the Legiflature of New-Hamp.hire,

GurEME

Cowr of t6 United Stater.

j,;re, paffed an act for the trial of captures; of which the part 1795.
material in the prefent controverfy, is as follows :-I
1 And be it further enacted, That there (hall be erected and
conflantly held in the town of Porfinoutb, or fome town or
place adjacent, in the county of Rockingham, a court of juftice, by the name of the Court Maritime, by fuch able and
difcreet perfon, as (hall be appointed and commiffiontd, by the
Council and Affembly, for that purpofe, whofe bufinefs it hati
be to take cognizance, and try the juflice of any capture or captures, of any veffel or veffels, that have been, may or fhall
be taken, by any perfon or perfons whomfoever, and broughtinto this colony, or any recaptures, that have or thall be taken
and brought thereinto.
1 And be it fdrther enacted, That zny pLerfon or perfons who
have been, or fliall
be concerned in the taking and bringing
into this colony, any veffel or veffels employed or ofending,
'or being the property as aforefaid, fhall jointly, or either of
them by themfelves, or by their attornies, or ageits, within
twenty days after being poffiffed of the fame in this Colony,
file before the fCid Judge, a libel in writing, therein giving a
full and ample account of the time, manner, and caufe of the
taking fuch Yeffel or veflels. But in cafe of any fuch' veffel
or verffels, already brought in as aforefaid, then fuch libel flall
be filed within twenty days next after the paffing of this
act, and at the time of filing fuch libel, (hall alfo be filed,' aU
papers on board fuch vefl el or veffels, to the ifitent, that the
Jury may have the benefit of the evidence, therefrom arifing.
And the judge (ball as foon' as may be, appoint a day to try
by a jury, the juftice of the capture of fuch veffel or veffels,
with their apurtenances and cargoes; and he is hereby authori-zed and empowered-to try the fame. And the fame judge (hall
caufe a notification thereof, and the name, if known, and defcription of the veffel, fo brought in,with the day fet for the
trial thereon, to be advertifed in ome newfpapets printed in
the faid Colony (if any fuch paper there be) twenty dzys before the time of the trial, and for want of fuch paper, then to
•caufe the fame notification to be affixed on the doors of the
Town-Houfe, in faid Pgrfmouth, to the intent that the owner of fuch veffl, or any perfons concerned, may appear and
(hew caufe (if any they have) why fuch veffel, with her cargo
and appurtenanceS, fhould not be condemned as aforefaid.
And the faid Judge (hall,. feven days before the day fet and
appointed for the trial of fuch veffel, or veffels, iffue his warrant to any conflable or conflables within the county aforefaid,
commanding them, or either of them, to affemble the inhabitants of their towns refpefively, and to d'aw out of the box,
in manner provided for drawingjurors, to fEryc at the Superior
Vo.. .
1
Court

CAsks ruled and adjudged in
1795-

k-.

cb

Court of Judlicture, fo many good and lawful men as the fa"
Judge (hall order, not lefs than twelve, nor exceeding twentyfoiur; and the coiftable or conflables (ball, as foon as may be,
give any perfori ot perfons, fo drawn to ferve on the jury iN
faid Court, due notice thereof, and (hall make due return of
his doings therein .*to the faid judge, at or before the day fet
and appointed for" the trial. And the faid jurors hall be held t6
ferve on the triai of all fuch veffels as fhall have been libelled
before thefaid judge, ind the time of their trial, publifhed, a
th.timt aid jurors ii're drawn, unlefs the judge (hall fee caufe
'to dificharge them, or cither of them before; and if feven of the
jurors fhall appear and there fhall not be enough to compleat
the number of twelve (which thal be a pannel) or if there fhalt
be a legal challenge, to ,iny of them, fo that there (hall be fe.,
yen, and not a pannel, it (hall and may be lawful for the Judge,
'to order his clerk, the ?heriff, or oth'er -ro er otficer, attendin
faid court, to fill up the jury with good and lawful men prefent;
hhd the faid jury When fo filled up, and iftnpannelled, ?hall be
fOorn to return a 'true verdif&, on any bill, claial', or memorial
%hich (hall'be cOmiited to them accordin to law, and eviIdence; and if thle jury fhall ind, that any veffel or veffels,
hgainft which a bill or libel is committed to them have been of:ending, ufed, empl6yed or improved as aforefaid, or are the
Property of any inhabitants of Great-Britainas aforefaid, they
Thall returri their ,erdid thereof to the faid Judge, and he fhal
'therewpoa concaemn fuch veffel or veffels, with their cargoes,
and appurtenances, and 'hall order them to be difpofed o , as
1by law is provided : and if the jury (hall return a fpecial ver"dic1, therein fetting forth certain fac's, relative to fuch veffiel qr
*veffels (a bill again6f which is committed to them) and it (hall
ap'pear to the faid Judge, by.faid verdi&, that fuch veffel or
vefls, have beein infe ig the fea coaff of America, or navigation"thereof, or that fuch veffels have been employed, ufied,
'ifhproved, or offndinz, or are the property of ahy inhabitant,
or inhabitarits of"Gredt-Britain,as aforefid, he, the taid Judge,
(lall cofije inn C'uch Iveffel or veffels, and decree 'them to be fold,
with their cargoes,,' aidappurtenanees, at public vendue ;, and
Thall alfo'order the charges of faid trial and condemnation, to
'be paid oit of the mbney which fuch veel and cargo, with 'her
appurtenances, fhall fell for'to thb officers of the court, accord"ing to the table of fees, lafi ePrabl'iflhed 'by law of this 'Colony,
,and '(hall order the refidue theredf to be d.livered to the captors, their agents, or att&dnies, for'the ufte and benefit of fuich
cap't6rs, and others concerned therein: and if two or more vef1"felk (the com'ifrianders %hereof, (ball 'be properly commiflion'ed) ball joihtly take fuch ,eflel, the money which fhe and her
'-argo (halt fell for (ifte'r payment of charges as aforefaia) ihal

SUP-EMX CotYRT of

the tnited States.

be .ivided between the captors in proportion to their men. And 1795.
the faid Judge is hereby authorized to mnake out his precept,
under his hand and feal, direded to the fheriff of .the'county
aforcfaid (or if thereto requefied by the captprs or agents to
any other perfon to be appointed by the faid Judge) to fell
fuch veffel and appurtenances, nd cargo, at public vendue,
and fuch fheriff or other perfon after ded6i6ng his o'wn charges
fox the fame, to pay an4 deliver the refidye, according to the
decree of the faid fudge.
"And be it exia'ted'bythe authority afore.faid. That any perfon or perfons, claiming the whole, or any part or (hare, either
as owner or captor of any fuch veffil, or Veffels, againft which
a libel is fo filed, may jointly, or by themfelves, or by their
attornies or agents, five days before the day fet and appointed
fqr the tri;4 of fuch yeffel or veirels, file their claim before the
faid Judge; which claim (hall be committed to the jury, with
the libel, which is firft filed, and the jury (hall thereupon deterinire and return thtir verdit, of 'what part or hare fuch
claimant'or claimants, (hall have of the capture, or captures;
and every perfon or perfons who (hall neglk&1 to file his or their
claim in thg manner as aforefaid, (hall be forever barred therefrom.
11
" And be it further ena&ed by the authority aforefaid; That
,every veffel; which fhall be taken and brought into this ,olony, by thm armed yvffels of any of tl~e United Colonies of ,lmerica, and fhall be condemned as aforefaid, the proceeds of fuch
veffels and cargoes, fhall go and be, one third pArt to the ufe
'of the captors,'and the other two thirds, to the ufe of the coony at whofe charge, fuch armed veffel was fitted out.
" And where any veffel or veffels fhali be taken by the fleet
and army of the United Colonies, and brought into this colony,
and condemned as aforefaid, the faid Judge fhall difiribute and
difpofe of the faid veffels, and cargoes, according to the refolves and orders of the .American Congrcfs.
" Andwhereas, the honorable Continental Congrefs havere-commended, that in certain cafes an appeal (hould be granted
from the court aforefaid.
" Be it therefore enacted, That from all j udgments, or decrees,
hereafter to be given in the fiaid court mari-tiime, on the capture
of any veffel, appurtenances or cargoes, where fuch veffel is
taken, or (hall be taken by any arrpt 'veffel, fitted out at the
charge of the United Colonies, an appeal fhall be allowed to
the Continental Congrefs, or to fuch perfon or perfons, as
they already have, or (hall hereafter appoint, for the trials of
appeals, provided the appeal be demanded within five days, after definitive fentence given, and fuch appeal hall be lodged
with

,6o

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

179S with the Secretary of the Congrefs, within forty days after) wards ; and provided the party appealing, hall give fecurity
1y_
to profecute faid appeal with effe& ; and in cafe of the death of
the Secretary, during the recefs of the Congrefs, the (aid appeal (hall be lodged in Congrefs', within twenty days, after
the next meetingthereof; and that from the judgment, decrees,
or fentence of the faid court, on the capture of any veffel, or
cargo which have been or fhall hereafter be brought into this
colony, by any perfon or perfons, excepting thofe who are in
the fervice of the United Colonies, an1appeal hall be allowed
to the fuperior court of Judicature, which ihall next be held in
the county aforefaid.
" And whereas no provifion has been made by any of the laid
refolves for an appeal from the fentence or decree of the faid
Judge, where the caption of any fuch veffel or veffels may be
made by a veffel in the fervice of the United Colonies, and of
any particular colony, or perfon together:
"Therefore be it ena&ed by the authority aforefaid : That in
fuch cafes, the appeal fhall be allowed to the then next fuperior Court as aforefaid : Provided the Appellant fhall enter into
bonds with fufficient fureties to profecute his appeal with effed.
Andfvch fuperior Court, to 'which the appeal hall be,' hall
take cognizance thereof, in the fame manner as if the appeal
was from the inferior Court of Common Pleas, and fhall condemn or acquit, fuch veffel or veffels their cargoes, and appurtenances, and in the fale, and difpofition of thom, proceed
according to this at. And the Appellant (hall pay the court,
and Jury, fuch fees as 2re allowed by law in civil acions."
"1hat, on the 3oth 7anuary, 1777, Congrers refolved, that
a flanding committee, to confift of five members, be appointed, to hear and determine upon Appeals brought againft fentences paffed on libels in the courts of Admiralty in the refpective ftates.
That )JIJuaStackpole, a citizen of New-Hampft8ire, commander of the armed brigantine called the M'Clary, eaing Under the commiffion and authority of Congrefs, did, inthe month
of Oaober, J777, on the high feas, capture the brigantine
'Sufanna, as lawful prize.
That 7ohn Penhallow, Joohua Wentworth, nrnmi R. Citter, Nathaniel' Foomn, Samuel Sherburne, Thomos Martin,
M ofes Woodward, Niel M'lntire, George Turner, Richard
C"hampney, and Robert Furnefs, all citizens of New-Hamp/hire, were owners of the brigantine M'Glary.
That George JJ'entworth was agent for the captors.
That, on the iith November 1777, a libel was exhibited to
the Maritime Court af New Hamp/hire, in thenarnes of _7ohn
Penhallow

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

Penballow and jacob Treadwell, in behalf of the owners of 1795.
the M'Clary, and of George Wentworth, agent for the cap- 1
tors, againit the Sufanna, and her cargo; to which claims
were put in by Eliha Doane, Ifaiah Doane, and james Shepherd, citizens of Majkqchufetts.

,That, on the i6th December, 1777, a trial was had before
the faid cQurt, when the Jury found a verdi6t in favor of the
Libellants; whereupori judgment was rendered, that the Sufanna, her cargo, &c. fhould be forfeited, and deemed lawfil
prize, and the fame were thereby ordered to be diftributed according to law.
That an appeal to kCongrefs'was, in due time, demanded,
but refufedby the faid court, becaufe it was contraryto the law
of the State.
That then the faid Claimants prayed an appeal to the fupe'rior Court of New Hampjbire, which was granted.
That, on the firft
Tue/day of Septemher, 1778, the fuperior
Court of New Hanpjhiro, proceeded to the trial of the faid
appeal, when the Jury found in favonr of the Libellants ; that
thereupon the court ave judgment, that the S./anna, with her
goods; claimed by Elilba Doane, Ifaiah Doane, and jaynes
Shepherd, were forfeited to the Libellants, and the fame were
ordered to be fold at public vendue, for their ufe and benefit,
and that the proceeds thereof, after deduding the cofls of fuit,
and charges of fale, be paid to _obn Penhallow and jacob
Treadwell, agents for the owners, and to George Wentworth,
agent for the captors, to be by them paid and diftributed according to law.
That the claimants did, in due time, demand an appeal from
the f id fentence to Conirefs, and did alfo tender fufficient fecurity or caution to profecute the faid appeal to effe&, and
that the fame was lodged in Congrefs, within forty days after
the definitive fentence was pronounced in the fuperior court of
New Hamp/hire.
That, on the ninth of Ollober, i 7 7 S, a petition from ElifOa Doane was read in Congrefs, accompanied with the proceedings of a Court of Admiralty for the State of New Hemp.hire, on the libel, Treadwell and Pen a low, verfus brig 8 ufanna, &c. praying , that he may be allowed an appeal to Congrefs ; whereupon it was ordered, that the fame be referred to
the committee on appeals. Fourth journal of O~ngref, )86.
Thar, on the 26th june, 1779, the commilfioners of appeal,
or the Court of Commiffioners, gave their opinion, that they
had jurifdition of the caufe.
That the articles of confederation bear date the 9 th 7uly,
1778, and were ratified by all the flates on the ift March,
I781.

That,

62

C'Asrs

ruled and adjudged in tk

That, by thefe articles, the United States were veiled with
1795.
o
the fole andexclufive power of eftablifhing courts for receiving and determining finally appeals inall cafes of capture.
That fuch a court was eftablithed, by the ftyle of " The
" Court of Appeals in cafes of capture."
By the commiflion,
the Judges were " to hear, try, and determine all appeals from
" the Courts of Admiralty in the States refpe~lively, in cafes" of capture." 6tb Journalof Congrefs, 4±, 2t, 75.
That, on the z4th May, 1780, Congrefs refolved, "That all
matters refpeIing appeals in cafes of capture, now depending
before Congrefs, or the Commiffioners of Appeals, confifting
of Members of Congrefs, be referred to the. newly ere6ed
Court of Appeals, to be there adjudged and determined according to law."
Thatt in the month of September, 1783, the Court of Ap'peals, before whom appeared the parties by their advocates,
Oid, after a full bearing and folemn argument, finally adjudge
and decree, that the fentences or decrees paffed by the inferior
and fuperior Courts of Judicature of New Hamphbire,. fo far
as the fame refpcled Elijha Doane, Ifaiah Doane, and Yames
Shepherd, fhould be revoked, reverfed, and annulled, and that
the property, fpecified in their claimrs, fhould be retlored, and
that the parties, each pay their own coils on the faid appeal.
Here the caufe refied till the adoptionof the exili'ng ConAitution of the United Srates; except an i.effedual ftruggle
before, Congrefs, on.the part of New 1-ampjhire, and an Uniavailing experiment, at common law, to obtain redrefs on the
part of the Appellants. After the organization of the judiciary under the prefent government, the reprefentativea of EliAa
Doane, who was one of the Appellants, exhibited alibel in the
Diflri&l Court of New HampJhire, which was legally transferred to the Circuit Court, againfi h~hn Penhallow, 7o/hua
[Wentwortk, A.nmm R. Cutter, NatbanielFofom, Samuel Sherburne, Thomas I artin, Mofes Woodward, Ar'ei
M'Intire,
George Turner, RichardChampley, Robert Furnefs, & Georgf
.Ventworth.
This libel, after Lftting forth the proceedings in the differePt courts, flates, that the brigantine Sufanna, with her tack0e, furniture, apparel and cargo, and alio the monies arifing
fror the faLs thereof, came, after the capture, to the hands
atn d poffeflion of 'ohtha Wentwortb, and George [Ventworth,
whereby they became liable for the fame, together with the
c: ptors and owners. That after the death of Eiba Doane,
loters of adminifiratien of the perfonal eftate of the faid Eli/ha
w.rre granted to Ainna Doane, his widow, and Ifaiah Doane,
a ;d that the widow afterwards intermarried with David.Stodda ,d Grceu:;g. The Libellatnts pray procefs againft the ref-

pondents

SVPFti, MP CoIRTtf

the Unitud State..,

pondents to fhew caufe, why the decree of the Court of Appeals (hould not be carried into execution, and they alfo pray,
that right and juffice may be done in the premifes and that
'they may recover fuch damages as they have fililained by teafon of the taking of the Slftnna.
The Refpondents, protefting, that they never were owners

'of the .M'Glary, and that they have none of the effe6ts of the
Sufanna, nor her carzo in their poffeflion, fay, that the Sufanna was in the cuftody of the Marfhal, and, upon tht final
decree of the fuperior Court of New Hamphire, told for the
benefit of the owners and 1narine's of the .M'Clary, and diE.tributed amongthem according to law; that the decifion of the
faid Court i as- final ; that no other court ever had, or hath,
or ever can have power to r'evoke, reverfe and annul the faid
decree, and, in a tibfequent part 'of the pleadings, that the
Dilfricq Court of New I-1ampjire hath no authority to carry
'the decree of the Court of Appeals into execution, or to gi.e
To this fort of plea and anfwer, neither and yet bioth, the
Libellatits reply, th.t the matters 'contained in thtir libel are
juft 'and true, And that they are ready to verify tnd -prove the
fame; that the matters an things alledged by the Refpondehfs
are falfe' and untrue ; that the Court of Conimiffioners, and
Court of Appeals were duly conflituted, a'nd had jurifdi&ion
'of the fubj-&-matter; that no other Court hath or can'have
authority to drav into queftion the legality of their decifions,
"and that'fthe Diffrid Court of New Hampjhire hath jurifdlictri on,

I have extra&ed and confdlidated the material parts of the
'libel, plea, anfwer, replication, rejoinder,'fur-rejoinder, &c. if
they 'nay 'be'fo termed, without "detailingthe allegations of the,
pnrties as 'ihey'arife in the courfe of procedure.
Upu'n'thefe pleadings the patties went* to aLhearing before
the Circuit Court of New 1-amplhire, which, after full confideration, decreed, that the Refpundents fhould pay to the Libellants their damages arid coffs, occafioned by their not complying with the decree of thire Court of Appeals ; the quantum
4f ,iieh-to be afcertained by Commiffloners. This interlocutory fenience was pronounced the 2,4 th Oaober, 1793.
The Commiffioners reported, that the Lzfanna, her cargo,
&c. were, on the *2dOJober, '1778, being the affumed time of
fale, worth
£.5)895 14 10
That'they calculated thereon i6 years
interef, viz. from the 2d. Od7ober 1778,
to ad.OU7sker 1-794,'anQunting&to
5, 6 59 17 4-

EOn

iy95.

64
1-795.
.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

On this report being affirmed, the Circuit Courtprobounecd their definitive fentence on the 2 4 th O5Iober, 1794, that the
Libellants recover againft the Refpondents the (urn )f38,518
dollars and 69cents, damages, and 154 dollars, and 30 cenlts,
cofts. The Refpondents, conceiving themfelves aggrieved,
have removed the caufe before this court for revifion."
The Record bina returned, the Plaintiff in error on the zd
February 1798, affigned the followinz errors :
1' To the Chief Juaice and the Affociate Juffices of the Supreme Court of the United States, to be holden at the City of
Philadelphia, on the firfi Monday of Februaryin the year of
our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-five, 7ohn
Penhallow, Jo/hua JJ'entwvortb, Ammi Ruhainmah Cutter, Nathaniel Fulfom, Samuel Sherburne,fen. Thomas Martin, Mofes
WJ'oodward, Neal M4P Intire, George 7urnar, Richard Champney, Robert Furnefs, and George Wfentworth, Plaintiffs in error,
agaifi David Stoddart Grenough, and 4nna his wife, and
Ifaiah Doane, Adminiffrators of the eftate of Eli/ha Doane,de-,
ceafed, Defendants.
I HUMBLY sHEw,That in the Record and Procefs aforefaid,
hereto annexed, and in paffing the final Decree, it is manifeftly erred in this, viz. That whereas it was decreed in favour of
the faid David Stoddart Grenozugh, and Anna his wife, and
Ifaiah Doane, the faid decree ought to have been in favour of
the faid )ohn Perhallow, and others, the Plaintiffs :-and for
other and further Errors, they affign the'following, viz.
'"Fityfly. That by faid decree it was ordered, that the raid
ohn Penhallow and others, Plaintiffs, be condemned in damages for their not performing a certain decree of a Courtclaiming Appellate jurifdiction in prize caufes, held in the City of
Philadelphia,on the feventeenth day of September, Anno Domini, 1783, when, in fact, the faid laft mentioned Court had no
jurifiliction power, or authority whatever, by law, to make and
pafs the faid decree; and that the faid decree was illegal and
a nullity.
" Secondly. That there is alfo manifeft Error in this, viz. That
if the (aid ]aft mentioned Court had at the time of their paring
faid decree, Appellate jurifdiction of iaid cautfe, yet faid decree
was altogether erroneous and impoffible to be performed or executed, becaufe, (as by the raid Greenougb's and others own
fhewing, in their libel aforefaid) the faid Eliha Doane was, at
the time of making and paffing the raid decree, viz, on thefeventeenth day of September, nno Domini 1783, and long before
that time, dead ; when, by the fame decree, it is ordered that
reftoration of (aid property be made to raid Eliha Doane.
" Thirdly. There is alfo.manifeft error in this, viz. That faid
caufe was not .brought before Congrefs, or the Commiffioners

by

stIp-krzm

CouRT of the United .Statei.

by them appointed, to hear and try appeals in prize caufes, ac- i179 .
cording to the Refolve of Congrefs, but repugnant thercto,viz. 1..-y
by way of complaint, and that no appeal from the faid decree of
laid Court of New-Hampjhire, was allowed by the fanie Court,
or by Congrefs.
Fourth/y. There is alfo manifeft error in this, viZ. That in
and by the faid libel upon which the decree aforefaid in faid
Circuit Court is made, damages for not performing the decree
of faid Court of Appeals, are not prayed for---wherefore, the
faid Circuit Court ought not to have decreed or condemned the
Plaintiffs in damages as is done by-faid final decree.
Fifthly. There is alfo manifcft error in this, viz. That faid
final decreeof Caid Circuit Court, was not made upon a due trial and examination of the merits of the capture of the faid Bri
gantine Sufanna, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and of the
goods, *wares, and merchandizes, and of the evidences or
proofs which might have been adduced by the Plaintiffs in er-w
ror if fuch trial had been had. But the decree of the Court of
Appeals was received and admitted as the only evidence of tire
right.of claiai of the faid Grenough and others, the libellants, to
the faid Brigantine, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and of the
faid goods, wares and merchandizes, condemned, and of the illegality of the capture and condemnation gforementioned in
faid libel, which is contrary to the ulage and cuftoms of Admi.
ralty, Maritime and Prize Courts, and altogether unwarranted
by law.
Sixthly. There is manifeft error alfo, in this, viz.,---That
by the hewing of the faid Libzliants, the monies arifing from
the fale of faid brigantine and cargo, &c. were paid to the faid
7ofua Wentworth and George Wentworth as agents, to be
diftributed according to law, viz: one half to the owners of
die faid privateer, M'Clary, and the other to the captors, viz.
to the officers and feamen on board, which were diftributed ac,
cordingly. Whereas in fa& by faid final decree, they the Plaintiffs in error, and Yo/hua and George as agents, and the other
Plaintiffs as owners, are made liable, and condemned in full damages for the whole value of faid brigantine, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and of faid goods, wares and merchandizes,
which is altogether illegal.
Seventhly. There is alfo manifcft error in this, viz.-That
it doth not appear by the copy of the record of faid Court o
Appeals, filed and ufed in this caufe, how the fame caufe, in
which that court decreed as aforefaid, came before faid court,
or was legally inftituted, orhad day therein, at the-time of paffing faid decree.
Eghthly. There is manifeft error in this, alfo, viz.-That
faid Circuit Court, in pafring raid final decree, and in all the
Admiralty
K
VOL. 111.

66

CASts ruled and adjudged in the

.T795. proceedings in the fame, aled and proceeded as a Couit of
L~Admiralty, when as fuch, they, by law, had no jurifdicion of
faid caufe; and could not legally take cognizance thereof.
WHEREFORE, for thefe and other errors in the record and
procefs, and final decree aforefJad, of the faid Circuit Court,
the faid Plaintiffs' in error, pray, That the final decree aforefaid, of the faid Circuit Court, may be revmrfed, annulled,
and held to. be altogether void, and they reffored to all things
which they haveloft.

JOHN S. SHERBURNEi

The Defendants replied in nullo e/Z erratum; and thereu pon
iffue was joined.
For the Plaintiffs in error, the arguments were cf the following purport.
i. ERRoR. This is a queflion between citizens cf the
United States ; a citizen of one State being a citiz-n of every
State. Conj. rt.fO
Qleftions between fubj es ofdifferent States,
belong entirely t) the law of nations. 3 B1. Com. 69. but between citizens of the fame. State, the municipal law, even in
queftions of prize during a war, is of fipereminent coiltrol.
iI lFood. 137. 2 Wood. 3 W.ood. 45+. Hen .BI. Rep. 4 T.
Rep" 3 iitk. 195. Parke 166. I8o. 3 Bro. 304. But this appeal was nevr propeily before the Congreffional Court of
Appeals. Doane petitioned Congrefs, and Conrefs referred
the petition to the Committee of Appeals. 6 Fo!.' ourn. Cong.
133, 67. In the care 6f the Sandwich Packet, a conimittee
•was appoirted, and upon their report, Congrcfs allowed the
appeal. Regularly, in the prfent iffamce, the appeal ought
to have been allowed by the court below, and the record lodged with the Secretary of Congrefs ; or there flhould, at leaft,
appear a fpecial allow:ace of the appcal by Congrcfs, as ill the
cafe of the Sandwich Packet, and not a mere reference to a
committee. The court of AN'w Hanzp/hire, in faft, refufed
.to ,llow the appeal; and the appearance of the party in the
,Congreffional Court o)f Appeals, could not cure any defedf, as
he there pleaded direaly to the jurifdiffion, and notice fig(ni.ies notingagain' a compulfory judgment. The legal, cuftomary, modes to compel the return of a record, by certio'rari,
and a writ of diminution, &c. rnight have beei reforted to.
3 Bac. Ahr. 204. C0out on courts. 187. There was no privity between the Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court; and an
inferior Court cannot execute the deci ecs of a fuperior Court.
Y Sid. 418. i Fent 32. 6 f1'n. 3273 1. 2. Efr. 87. I Lev. 243.
Raym. 473. Doug. 58o. (owvP. 176.. But had the Congreffional Court of Appeals jurifdidion in this cafe ?, That court
is exti'n: ; and may now be confidered in the light of a fo,reign court ; and the decres of foreign courts are regarded on
a footing

SUPREME COURr

of the United Stakes.

a footing of reciprocity. Whether, then, the Congrefrina] 1795:'
Court of Appeals, was, in this inflance, a court of the'laft re- ',-.j
fbrt, is the grft of the controver fy ; and we contend that it was
not, but that the fupe'ior Court of New Hampflire, wa., by
tie law of the State, the Court of the lift refort ..Onan appeal,
or on a writ of error, like this, in the nature of an appeil, the
Plaintiff in error may ule every defence which he could have
urged below ; and the authorities evince that, the competency
of the court givilng the judgment may be enquired into. i Bac.
A1br. 630. Doug. 5. 3 Term Rep. 29. T30. 13 2. 69. Garth. Parka
on 11. Ii State Trials, 222. 2-32. 2.Dom. 676 Iy/. 72. 3. Wiether
the Congreflional Court had any jurifd-jtion at all, muff depend
on a comparifon between the refolves of Congrcfs of November
1775, and the law of New Hampjhire, of /iuly
1776; ard to
fblve that difcultv, three fuborinate quefiions nay be difcufled:
ifi. Had Congrefs exciufive jurifdldtion of, prize cau fes ill
Nv. 1775 ?-2d. Are their refolutions on that fubje& mandatory and abf.Wute ; or recormnendatory-and 3 d. Did they
neceffarily imply, and author ife, a rvifion of fads, which had
already been cffabliflied by the veid i& of a Jur.i.Had Congrefs exlufivejurifdidion of prize caufes in Nov.
1775 ? If New Hamphlire had.anyoriginal right totakecognizanceof prize caufes, the Plaintiff in error martl prevail ; for, in
fuch cafe, thejurifdidion would be,.at leaft, concurrent with that
claimed by Congrefs. But, wherever an alliance is not crrpo
rate, but confederate, tht fovereignty refides in each State.
Federal/ty, p. ldams' Def 162. 3. And inthehiftories of Holland and of Germany the rule will be illuftrated and confirmied.
i Montefy. 263. 7 Fol. Encyclopa-dia, 709. Cheferfeld's 1Works,
i vol. Sir Willam 'emple, 11,. lda,,s' Def -6-_
Now,
the State retained all the pawers which ffie
did riot exprefsly
furrender to the Union ; a State cannot ceafe to be fovereigo
without its own act; nor can fovereigaty 1-beaflerted but. upon
a clear title. 7 7ourn.
. P.
,&e. COn grJshad onlv the
power to recommend certain ads, to the States, they had no a,Iolute right to enforce a performance nor to inflid a penaly
for difobedicnce. "Whatever power CongrcLfs poffeffed muft.
have been derived from the People. IfCongreki had a right of
erecting Courts of Appeals from ZTew Hamnpfl);-e, it mufl be
in confeqnwnce of an authority derived flor New IHampifire
-all the other twelve States could not give it: Nor had (ongrefs the exciufive pdwer of war ; as a rtrofPedive view of
the rev.olitionary occurrences will demoniftrate. The Colenies, totally indepcndent of each other before the war, became
diftindft, independent, States, when they threw off' their allq-.
giance to the Britih crown, and Coagrefs was no longer a
Con'vention uf Agents for Colonies, but.of Ambaffadort 'rolt

CASE9

1795.
k

ruled and adjudged in the

fovereign States. Adams' Def. I vol. 362,. 3. 4. In that chara6er they were uniformly confidered by Congrefs ; and on
the 24 th of 7une, 1776, [2 Vol. journ. Cong. 229. ] when
that body recommends paffing laws on the fubje&1 or treafon,
the crime is declared to be committed againft the colonies,
individually, and not againif the confederation. The powers of the firif Congrefs of 1774, were, indeed, only thofe
of confultation, to project the proper nicafures for obtaining
a redrefs of grievances: they were, in effe(, a counfel of advice.' Their credentials, as well as the opinions of writers,
manifeft the truth of this affertion. I Ramfay's H-. 143. 1
Journ. Gong. 17. 54. 55. The fecond Congrefs fat on the
fame authority; with the fame latitude to obtain a redrefs of
grievances ; but, all the credentials of the members bear date
before the news of the battle of Lexington ; (19 April 1775)
(hofe from Pennfylvania, New-yerfey, and Virginia, merely
nuthorife a meeting in Congrefs ; and none of the reft hold out
the 'idea of war, though thofe from Maffachufetts feem to have
iven the greateft latitude% x Journ Cong. 56. 3 Vol Cong. 14.
i appears clearly, then, ,thrat Congrefs at thofe flages of the
'Revolution, poffeffed no pofitive powers, by exprefs delegation. When, however, the war afterwards came on, Congrefs
feized 6n fuch powers as the necefflty of the cafe required to
be exercifed : but frill, the validity of thofe powers depends on
fubfequent ratifications, or univerfal acquiefcence; and if
New-Hanplire has ever ratified the affuniption of a right to
-hold appeals in all cafes of capture as prize, we abandon the
eaufe. But in a variety of inftances, it is manifeff, that, although fome of the affumed -powers of Congrefs were
confirmed, others were denied and repelled. Thus, the
'power of embargo was defired by Congrefs, but -never conceded by the ftates. 4 Journ. Cong. 575. 321. 331; and in
Pennfylvania, it was even thought neceffary to pafs a law
to indemnify, all perfons, who a(Sted under the authority of the
ref lutions of Congrefs, &c. 2 fol. Dall. Edit. iii. Still,
thowever, it is conceded, that Congrefs, from the neceffity of
the cafe, and a general acquiefcence, might raife an army, and
'dire6* the military operations of the war; though even in that
refpea, it is quettiona'ble, whether .4/afachufet-ts would have
'corfented to the 'Congreffional appointment of a commander in
'chief, had General JJard 'been fuccefs-ful at Bunker's Hill.
But the States, by their acquiefcence in this exercife of the
rights of war, on the part of Congrefs, did not convey an
•exclufive power to the Federal head, nor divft thenvfelves of
-their individual authority to wage war, iffue letters of marque,
&c. War is that ttate in which a nation profecutes its rights by
force, Vatt. b. 3. c. i.f .I,Now, the fa6'c is, that the NewEngland

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

England colonies bad firft made war, according to this definl- 1795.
tion ; and at their inftance the other colonies afterwardsjoincd ,ey%
them. I Ramfay's Hil. 192. New-Hamp/bire, accordingl.y, voted 2000 men for the fervice. Ib.395; eftablifhed pofI-offices;
and vefted a committee of fafety with powers equal to thofe of a
didator. Ib.395. Connetricut, likewife, made war on her own
individual authority; Ticonderoga was taken by Allen; and
Arnold made a prize of a veffel on Lake Cbamplaine. Gord.
Hr7r3-49. I Vol. 7ourn. Cong. St. At this period the States
muft hAve been poffeffed of individual fovereignty; for,

fovereign power alone can raife troops.

JFatt. b.

the

c. ,,.f 7;
and both Mafachufetts and Conne~iiutt had a&ually fitted e -it
and armed veffels to cruize againift the enemy in O-tober, 1775,
fSouth-Carolinafoon following the example) whereas the refolution of Congrefs refpeaing prizes, did not pafs (ill the fucceeding month. Gord. Hi?. 428. Ranfay's Hift. 224. Could
the refolutionsof Congrefs at that time take away the jurifdic't'on of New-Hampjhiret, without her own confent ? and the
At-icles of confederation, at a later period, expre(sly rrferved
to the refpecfive fitates, the right of iffuing letters of m-arqp.
.&c. after a declaration of war by the United States. By confidedring the, ciscum mtaces under which Congrefs exercifed ,other
)powers, we ,may be furnifhed with fome analogies in fupport
of our dofrine, ,refpeffing the power claimed, as an incideat
-of war, to hold appeals in all cafes ,of capture. C ong.refs
were allowed to .iffue money; but they could not guard i.t from
counterfeit, nor make it a legal tender ; nor effeually bind
the -States to redeem it; thoughall thefe incidents were' effential to fupport the credit and currency of the mopey. Congrefs
hey coud
aftfumed thepower of regulating the ;pof-offc; but
impgfe no penalties for a breach oftheir refoluti.on on the fubjed. Cong
received Armbaffador, -and other public .m.1niIters; but when the immunity of the French minifter's .houffe
was violated, the State of Pennfylvania only could p.unifl the offender. Dall. Rep. De Longchazqp's cafe. Congrefs rpade
treaties, but they could make no law to enforce an obfervance of
then,. Even for effeduating their refolutions, relative to admiraltyjurifdi&iqn, Congrefs -wer.e -obliged to addrefs theifelves by recommendation to the flates, individually; 5 orn.
Cong. 2i5; and New-Hampflire paffed a law, granting to Con.grefs the power that -was requefted, in ,the cafe offoreigners only, with an allowance of only a .day for making the appeal. In.
that law Congrefs aoquiefced, b. .459. till the difpute arofe
.iithis very cafe. 9 journ. Cong. 45.-87. 97.98. Dal. Rep.
71. This di-ftindfion has 'been'taken in Pennfjlania, that on
the evacuation of Philadelphia,all puplic military property belongcd to Congrcfs, and all.priv.ate poperry to the State.
To
manifrdt,
.

70
17(5-

.('AsEs ruled and adjudged in the

mianifeft, if poffible, more forcibly the participation of the indvidual fiates, in the power affumed ant exercifsd by Congrefs,
we find that the very commiffions iffued by Congrcfs, were
Fy
counterfigned by the Governors of tht refpe&ive fLte,,.
the law of New-llampjhire, paffed in July J776, a power
was given to the Executive to iffue letters of xnarquc, &c.
and the aa of counterfigning the congreflional coinmtons
was equivalent to the exercife of that power. In the inftructions to privateers, it is,likewife obfcrvable, that Congrefs
authorife the captors to proceed to libel and condemn their prizes " in any court ercded for the trial of mariti re affirs, iq
any of thefe colonies." 2 Journ. Gong. io6. II6. IIS. But
furdly, it is poffible for a ftate, to delegate. the power of iflbing
letters of marque, &c. and yet retain a jurifdi6lion over prizes
brought into her ports; or, reverfing the propofitio:i, to give
up that jurifdifion, and yet retain the power of iflling letteis
of marque. A court of appeal is not a neceflihry incident of
fiwereignty. Ifthere be a court judging by thelaw of natiorn,
no complaint can be made by foreigan powers ; the reft denends
on municipal law. r4 7. Rep. 382-. 3 Atk. 40T. Coll. 7urid.
It has been quefioned, indeed, whether any cou-t can decide
on the legality of a prize, which has been captured under the
authority of a different power, from that by which the court
was conftituted : but in the cafe of a confederated fovereignty,
each member of the confederation may, undoubtedly, give
povwer to the others to decide on prizes taken under its feparate
authority. Thus, likewife, it appears that France eflablifhed
courts in the \,Veft-Indies, to determine the legality of prizes
taken by Anmrican veffels, although no article of the treaty
provided for fuch an eftablifftment. 5 journ. Gong. 44 o . In other
treaties, however, the cafe is exprefsly provided for, and the'
judicatures of the place, into which the prize, taken by
either of the contraeating parties, fhall have been. conduotted,
may decide on the legality of the c:,ptures, according to the
I ws and regulations of the States, to which the captors belong.
Pru/i~an ireaty. A4rt. 2. f 4. Dutch Treaty. AIrt. 5. Swedih Treaty, Art. 1S. fi 4. But the languatge of the articles of
confederation demonfirate.s the political independence, and feparate authority, of the States : 11each ftate retains its fovereig1nty,'freedom, and independence, and every power, jurifdiion and right, which is not by this-confederation exprej'ily
dulegated to the United States, in Congrefs affembled." Art.
3. If, indeed, the States had not, individually, all the powers
of fovereig nty, how could they transfer fuch powers, or any
of them, to Congrefs ? Does not Congrefs itfelf, by the appointment of a committee to draft the articles of confederation ;
and by its carneft folicitation, th.at the fevcral flates would ratify

I SUPREME COLYRT of the United States.
iHfy'the inftrument; evince a fenfe of its own political impo- 1795.
tence, and of the plenitude of the State authorities ? But, after
all, it muft be confidered that Doane, the Defendant in error,
waved the appeal to Conerefs, by carrying his cafe into the
Supreme Court of New- Hamnfhire, initead of applying immediately for relief to Conrefs, when the-inferior State Court
refufcd to grant an appeal to the congreffional court of appeals;
and the Supreme Court of Mafachufetts has determined in an
anin of Trover between the fame parties, that the court of
appeals had no jurifdi(lion in this caufe. Sit finis litium.
2. The fecond fubordinate queftion is---Are the Refolutions
of Congrefs, refpedSting prize caufes, mandatory and abfolute ;
or only recommendatory ? In fpirit and in terms they are no
more than recommendatory ; fuch as the State might at pleafijre, either carry into effe6f, or reje&. The State, which erected the Court of Admiralty, poffeffed the power, likewife, to
regulate the AppellatejurifdiLIion from its decrees. Thus, the
a& of Pennfylvania modelled the Appellate power in a fpccial
manner, as to the time of appealing ; and denied the appeal altogether, as to faets found by the verdi6t of a jury. The Supreme Court of New-Ham/phire was in exiftence long before
the Refolutions of Congrefs were paficd ; and there is no pretence for Congrefs to claim a controuling,'or appellate, power,
upon the judgments, or decrees, there pronounced ; though
Congrefs might recommend a particular mode of proceeding
as convenient and advantageous. As far as refpe&ed Fordigners, New-Hamplhire concurred in the opinion of Congrefs;
but rejecLed it in cafes, like the prefent, betweencitizens.
3. The third fubordinate queftion is---Whether the Refolutions of Congrefs, neceffarily imply and authorife a revifion of
facets,
which had already beai eftablifhed by the verdid of a ju.ry ? The fjir conftrution of the Refolution of Congrefs is,
that there fhall be an appeal'on points of law appearing on the
record. The appeal from a jury is not known here, though it
is familiar in New-England; but even in New-Englan'd, the
appeal is always from one jury to anotherjury, and a jury may,
in fome meafure, proceed on their own knowledge. 3 B?. Com.
) the
330. 367. In the cafe of the Sloop Allive ( 2 Fol. p.
Chief Juftice (M'KEAN) was decifively of opinion, that an
appeal did not lie from the Admiralty of the State to the Congreflional Court of Appeals, as to facts found by a Jury : and,
in the fame cafe, the General Affembly expreffed the fanie opinion, by their inffructions to the Delegates in Congrefs. Your.nals, 3T/? of 7anuary, 1780. After a jury Trial, facts cannot
be re-examined on a writ of Error. '3Bl.Corn. 330. 367.

CAs/
1795.
%

riled and adjudged in the

IT. ERftOR. It appears on the record that Doane was dead
when the judgment was given: for, the libel itfelf fets forth
the commitment of adminifiration to his reprefentatives before
udgrnent; and, although that may not be conclufive, it is
'rongevidence of his death, upon which the court will decide
the fad. Pr.Reg. ch. i.p. 264. 3 & 4 [Food. 377. 2 Bac,
204. 4 fin. 429. '1. RayM. 463. it has been faid, that even
if Doane were dead, it was no abatement, being in a civil law
court. i Cha. Ca. 122: but the cafe referred to, as an authority, was merely a bill of review, which is not Jtrilli jurs,
and was difiniffed. Befides, the perfon who filed that bill had
no privity, and was not entitled to it ; and even if he had, the
exception mighthave been error, notwithftanding the difmiffal
of the bill. It is likewife faid, that death was no abatement
in an ecclefiaftical court. Lev.
; but it is evident from
the authority cited, that the party reprefenting the deceafed,
muff come into court before judgment can go againift him. 3
Huberus, 582. The moft that can reafonably be urged is,
that the decree was good, fo far as it pronounced the captured
fhip to be free ; but it was void, fo far as it made any order upon Doane to do any particular ad. See 3 7" Rep. 323. The
Circuit Court (which has been called a court of review) was,
in far, only the Court of Appeals continued ; but Doane's
adminiftrators were never called upon, and, therefore, could
not be obliged to go into thatcourt. The ground of the epinion of the Circuit Court is, that damages flhall be recovered,
for not refloring the property to Doane; who, being then dead,
the reflitution was impoffible. Befides, letters of adminiftra-.
tion were only taken out in Majfachufetts, which would not
operate in New Hampf'ire, where alone, if any where, the:
debt was valid. Lovelace on wills.
.IL. E IROR. The argument in fupport of this error has;
been anticipated in difcuffing the firft error affigned.
IV. ERROR. Damages were not afkcd by the Libellant in
the Circuit Court. The libel prays, indeed, that the decree
of the Court of Appeals might be carried into effe& ; that
damages might be given for the illegal capture of the fhip; arid
that general relief-might be granted ; but it does not pray fo:r
damages on account of the non-performance of the decree of
the Court of Appeals. A judgment which gives damages,
where they ought not to be given, is erroneous: as where the
damages are laid at iool. in the declaration, and the judgment
is rendered for 2oo. No damages are to be allowed on reverfal. Lee on capt. 24r. There ought to have been an account
of the value of the thing to be reftored, by the decree of the
Court of Appeals ; and as that court gave no damages for the
unlawful taking of the veffel, no other court had power to give
them.

gA1REME

COURT

of

the United 3tale.

.78

Uhem. Nori, indeed, ought any.,damages to have been giveni, 179 4
as the order for reftitution was not dire&ed to the Refpondents. %wat-J
Befides the damages are given againif the Defendants jointly,
whereas each fhould have been charged feverally with the furm
wlch'came into hIs hands ; 3 1.lep. 37.1. Cowp. 5o6. 4 Pin.
44. ~~in;. 5. And it does not even appeai thatthcy had noz
tice of the decree of the Court of Appeals, though it is flated
on the record that they were heard by their advocates fometime
before it was pronounced, A. monitioh (hould have iffued;
and the fuperior court thould have inhibited the court of New
Hampjhire from proceeding on their judgm.ent: otherwife, 'if
ihat court did fo proceed, and under their 6rder the veitel was
fold and the money paid away the perfons who paid it are not
refponfible. 3 . ReP. 12., An agent paying over trut m=
ney without notice of appeal, .is excufed. 4 Burr. 1985. 6owp.
565. 2: Ld. Ray. imio. - Aind the Admiralty only compels
agents to account for the mdney adually in their hands. H. B4.
476. 48g. 3" T. Rep. 323. 326, 7.34. 4 . Rep. 82. 393. T.
Bl.Rep. 315. Inthe Admiralty anumber of perfonsare joined,
in order to prevent a multiplicity of fuits ! but, fubftantiallv,
each perfon hands on his own feparate ground, and amoce
is eftablifhed for affefling feveral damages, Doug. '5*'9 o.
V. ERROR. That the court below did not examine into
the merits, cannot be deemed eiror, if they had nojurifdi6*ion
to meddle with the fubjca at all. This affignrii'ent of error,
therefore, cannot be maintained.
VI. ERRoR. The argument oil this,'wa anticipated in
the difcuffion of the 4th error affigned. '
VII. ERROR. The argument on this, Was anticipated in
tbe difcuffion of the firft error afligned.
VIII, ERROR. The fate of this error was fubmittd,
without remark, to the opinion of the court.
For the defendant inerror, the anfwers were of the followIng tenor.
I. EkR6R:---The objedion that the appeal was not properly
before the Congreflional Court, ought not at this ilage to be
fuftained, fince the party appeared there, and pleaded to the
jurifdi6Eion; and the court took cognizance of the caufe.
The court ad quem, and not the court a quo, the proceeding is
brought, muft determine whether the appeak lay,

A certified
copy

W, PATRSON, yrflicL:-If the damages were improperly given, jointy,
hy the Circuit Conrt, can this court re&ify the error, or diret the Circuit Court to do it?
I!rad/ord :-This Court cannot do it,becanfe they are not poflefTed of
evidence to fhew in what proportioas the damages ought to be paid by
the ,efpondcvtK.

Vol.

I.

L

74,
1795.
"-ied

CAss ruled and adjudged inthe

copy of the decree of the Court of New Hamplhire was Iodgwith Congrefs; 'and the cafe was treated in the fame wayi
-that Congrefs (who were not bound down to particular forms)
treated other fimilar' cafes. Nor can it injure the Defendant
,in error, that he took his firff appeal to the fuperior Coukt of'
New Hamphire; for, that State had certainly a right to eftablifh different Courts of Appeal, provided the laft refort was,
made
Congrefs.
appeal was
tenderedwhich
and refuted
was not:
only But
lies toan Courts
of Record,
".nd a to
certiorari
the cafe with the inferior Court of New Hanpftire. The ac:
bf Congrefs direas a removal by writ of error in all cafes
and therefore takes away all bjeffiens not appearing on the re-,
cord. Nor is it effe&ual to fiiy, that an inferior court canno:
execute the judgment of a fuperior Court ; for, we had nore.
reedy at 'common law; the queftion of prize or no prize being;
folely of Admiralty jurifdi&ion.. Dall. Rep. : the only re..
medy was in the Diftri& Court of New Hamp/hire. It has
;even.been contended, that a Court of Admiralty of England
nay grant execution on a judgment in Friezlandagainft an
EngI;Amra'n. 6 Pin. 513.- p. 12. I Lev.a67. I Vent. 32-. Godb,
266. a'nd a Court of Admiralty may proceed to give eft1eto iti;
own fent~ncn upon a new libel being filed. 4 '1.Rep. 385. We
contend then,, that Congrefs had jurifdidion to determine the
appeal 'as well before, as after, the ratification of the articles of
confederation :-before the ratification, from the nature and ne..
ceffity of the cafe; and after the ratification from the force of
the compa&. Congrefs was chofen by the reprefentatives of
the 'People ; and when war commenced, it could not have been"
profecuted, without veffing that body with ajurifdi~1ion, which,
.thould pervade the whole continent. A formal compad is not
effintial to the inflitution of a government. Every nation thair
governs itfelf, under what form foever, without any dapend..
ence on a foreign power, is afovereignjfate. In every fociety
there muf be a fovereignty. i Dall. Rep. 46, 57. JFatt. B. r.

ch. i.f 4. The powers of war form an inherent charaaerif.
tic of national fovereiguty; and, it is not denied' that Congrefi
poflffed thofe powers. As, therefore, the decifion of the
queftion, whether prize, or no prize, is a part of the power
and law of war, Doug. 585. 6. and muff be governed by the
]vaw of nations, 3B. Gom. 68, 69. 7 Wood. 139. 4 Term Rep.
394, 400, 401, it follows, as a neceffary coifequence, that if
Congrefs poffeffed the whole power of war, it poffeffed all the parts ;-the incidenfs, as well as the principal jurifdiffion. Under this imprefflion, Congrefs recommended the
inffitution of prize courts in the feveral States; but referved
to itf,,lf the right of appeal ; and its journals are filled with

the exercife of powers derived from the fame fource, and having

SVPREME COURT of

the United Slates.

75

Ing no greater pretenfions to validity. On the 2dAy, 1775, the 1795.
militia are dire6led to be trained for defence. On the ift 'June,
.

Congrefs declare that they fland on the defenfive merely, and
the invafion of Canada by any of the Colonies is objeded to.
On the I 4 th June, an army is direded to be raifed. On 15th.
June, a General is appointed. On the 6th July, war is, in effea1, declared. On the 7.th November, the articles of war, infliding death in certain cafes, were paffed. On the 25th Nov.
the refolutions concerning prizes were adoptcd. On the 28th No-o
vember, rules and orders were eftablifhed for the government
of the navy. On the ,th
December provifion was made for fal vage
5
in the cafe of re-captured veffels. On the I 3 th December a fleet
was eflablifhed.

Qn 2oth December it was declared that' the

law of nations fhould regulate the proceedings in prize iufes.
On 2!zd December, the Naval Committee ad. On 26th Dee.
the United Colonies are pledged for the redemption of the paper
money. On the 23 d March and 24 th Juy, 1776, the equipment
of privateers is authorifed. On 2d afd 3 d April, the form of a
commifflion for privateers is fettled. On the 4 th 7uly, Independence is declared. On 26th Aug. half pay was allowed to difabled
officers. On 5 th September, it was refolved that propofirions for
peace (hould only be made to Congrefs. On the 9th September,a committee is appointed on an appeal in the cafe of the
fehooner Thi fle,'and the ftile of the confederation was changed
from " United Colonies c' to" UnitedStates." On i6th September,

additional battalions were raifed. On -oth September, a new
fet of articles of war. were fubftituted inftead of the former. On
the 21ff Oeober, the oath to be taken by officers in the Continental fervice was preferihed. On 30th 7anuary and 8th May,
777, a ftandingcommittee was appoifited, to hear and determine appeals. On 3 Ift Januaiy,a decree of a committee was fet
afide on an appeal. On 8th May, a new commiffion for privateers was fettled. On the i 4 th Oc1ober, Congrefs refolved
to rctaliate by condemning as prize, the e;-emy's veffels,
brought in by their own mariners. On the 6th February, 1778,
Congrefs formed a treaty of alliance with France. On 9th
.Juy, 1778, the articles of confederation were ratified and figned by all the fiates, except-New-Jerfey, Delaware,and Avaryland. On 27 th July, 1778, new members were added to the
committee of appeals. On 14 January, 1779, Congrefs refolved

that they would not conclude a truce or treaty with GreatBritain, without the confent of France. On the 6th of.March,
the obje6tion to the appellate jurifdi&ion of Congrefs, as to fadls
foundby a jury, was urged by Fewfylvania in the cafr of th.
floop A-ive. On i 5 th yan. 1780, andj2 4 th May, a court of appeals
in the cafeof captures was inflituted. On 2Iff .Januaryand 3 oth
March, 1784, the proceedings in the cafe of the Sufanna, came'
before

76

CAsEs ruled and.adjudged in the

T795. before Cohgrefs. On 24 th May, 1780, the ftile of the court of
'~v~appealswas fettled. On 26th June, 1786, a court of review was
inflituted. After fo extenfive a difplay of power and jurifdic.
tion, it is abfurd to oppofe theory to pra6ice, and to reafon
in the abftra6t, inflead of adopting the evidence of fa&s. But
on principle as well as praaice, the old4 commiffioners of ap-,.
peals had jurifdic-ion. Congrefs had an imperfe&t fovereignty
previous to the declaration of independence; and the articles of confederation are only a definement of rights, before
vague and uncertain. The ads of Congrefs were either performed by virtue of delegated powers, or of fubfequent ratifications, and the acquiefcence of the ftateilegiflatures and the
people. On the declaration of independence, a new body politic was createdl Congrefs was the organ of the declaration
but it was the a&t of the people, not of the flate'legiflattres,.
which were likewife nothing more than organs of the people.
Having, therefore, a national fovereignty, extending to all the
powers of war and peace, including, as a neceffary incident,,
the right to judge of captures, the commiflioners of appeals
were lawfully inftituted , and it is abfurd to fay that both the
Federal and State governments held fovereignty in the fame:
points, nor can the jurifdi*ion of the court of appeals that fuc,
ceeded the commifioners be now queftioned, There would,
indeed, be no end of difputes, if the judgments of a Su-.
preme Court, on the point of jurifdi6tion, could be enquired
into. Lee on Cap. 242" Oollec. J7urd. 153. 139< 3 B). Com,
4- 1. 57. I lqc. Abr 5-4. That point was lawfully before
the court ot appeals ; and the court of appeals, when theY
made their decree, in 1783, were clearly the fipreme court
of admiralty under the confedleration.

The court of appea!,

took the caufe up, s it had 'been left by the commiflioners of
appeals; and not on a new appeal from New-Hamp/ire;
they, therefore, virtually decided, that the commiflioners of
appeals had jurifdition. If, then, this court may now enqui',
into the judgment of the court of appeals, every diftriet court
in the Ul.jion may do the fame; and the controverfy woul,$
never be at reft.
The ind ividual States had no right to erca courts of prize
but under tile authority of Congrefs, who derived their authority from the whole people of k4nerica, as one united body.
Was it not confidered, dturing the war, by every man, that
Congrefs were thus vefted with this and all the othcr rights
of war' and peace, an~d not the individual hlates ? WRhy, elfie,
was it neceffary by a. fpecial refolution of Congrefs, (4. pril,,
1777) to give validity to captures made by 1privafbers bearing
comrniffions iffucd by the governor of North-Carolina,previ.-t
oPfAy to the 4th of pril, 177 ? And on what other, princip]a
cou.ld

SUPREME COURT .of

the United Stat'es.

Eould that refolution be 11tranfinitted to each of the United 1795.
,
States,as a law in any prize caufe, which may be depending or
inftituted in any of the courts therein, and to fecure the condemnation of veffels taken under fuch commifflons?" The
very privateer that made the capture in queftion, was com,
miffioned by Congrefs; and the ufual bond was given by
her owners to the Prefident of Congrefs: Could, then,
a privateer a&ing under the commiffion of Congrefs, be:
deemed to a& under any other authority ; or be governed by.
any other laws than thofe which Congrefs had prefcribed?
Had Aew-Hampjhire a right to ere& courts for the condernnation of prizes made by veffels commiffioned by Congrefs,.
utilefs by the authority of Cong'efs, and upon the terms of
their refolutions ?
It is urged, however, that this is a cafe between citizens of.
the fame country; and, therefore, not within the general
principle: But we anfwer, that a citizen of Majfachufetts is a
foreigner with regard to Xew-Harnpflire. The law of NewHaniphire,refpeding admiralty matters, paffed in 1776, long
before the articles of confederation were ratified; and 'till
thofe articles were ratified, there is no colour to alledge, that
the citizens of one flate, were citizens of all the reft. But,
if Congrefs had ajurifdiaion co-extenfive with the obje6t, they
are alone competent to modify or limit its exercife: and, when
they referved to themnfelves the appeal in all cales, it is clear:
that they intended an appeal fhould lie as well in'cafes between
citizens, as in cafes between citizens and foreigners ;-frorn:
tht v.erdid of a jury on matters of faa, as we1 l as from the
judcment of the court in matters of law. Nor can the municipal law of a ftate, govern the queftion of prize, or no prize,
even between citizens ; though it may regulate the difiribu-,
tion of prize money, for, in that refpe&, none but the citizens of
the ftate can be irnterefted, In the cafe of the floop Atc7ve, all
the ftates but Pennfylvania voted originally that the decifion
Phould be according to the law of nations, and not according
to the municipal law of the flate; and although in the year
1784, fix of the ftates voted in fupport of a different opinion ;
yet, it muff be recolleaed that the hearing was then expartej
Congrefs were evidently influenced by an apprehenfion of the
confequence of enforcing the decree of the court of appeals in
that cafe againff the State of Pennfylvania, as they have been
in this cafe againfl the State of New-Hanmpfhe; and the whole
proceeding was marked and difcoloured with want of candor.
ii. ERROR :-The death of Doane, under thecircumftances
that appear on the record, and the law and praaice of the court;
did not abate the appeal. Every intendment will be made to
4Yiport a judRntra. i [VUf. 2. 2 Stra. i180' Regularly, in-.
4qed

.CASES

1795.

ruled and adjudged in the

deed, a fuit abates by the death of the party; but the
Slaw is not invariably fo, where the party dying is immaterial to

the caufe. I Eq. Abr. i. The proceeding in the prefent
cafe was in rem; and, therefore, the life of the party was not
material. .dyliff. The court refufed to examine into an abatement by death, in a bill of review for that purpofe, the decree
being made twenty years before. i Cha. Ca. 122. Nor is
there any abatement by death of parties in a fpiritual court. 2
Roll. Rep. 8. 2 Lev. 6. And this being a court of civil law,
the principle equally applies. The prefent record ifates that the
appellant and appellee appeared by their advocates; and if
any error in this refpe& occurred in'the court of appeals, a
court of review was eftablifhed by Congrefs, who might have
examined and correded it; there is no court that has now a
jUrifdiftion to do fo; though the error, if it exiffed, fhould
have been affigned, and relied on, in the Circuit. Court for
'the diftrid of Arew-HampJhire. But, after all, the court may
rejed that part of the libel, which ifates the adminifiration to
have been committed, prior to the time of pronouncing the
judgment of the Court of Appeals. 2 Fin. 404. p1, 4 (bis.)
p. 5. pL 7. pL.9. pL II. It is not faid by the record that Doane
was then dead, but merely that adminiftration had been granted on his eftate, which is only evidence of his death. On this
point alfo were cited Breok. Tit. Judgment 113. Sal. 8. pl.
21. Salk. 33. pl. 6. Carth. ix8.
I1. EREOR :-The argument in oppofition to this affignment of errors, has been anticipated in difcufling the firft
Error.
IV. ERRoR :-That the Circuit Court gave damages, whereas the judgment of the Court of Appeals was for rejlitution;
is not a valid objedion. If the Court of Appeals had attached
the party, damages muff have been paid before he would have
be.en difcharzed :-damages are the fubftance of the whole proceeding. Nor is it exceptionable, that damages are not ex.
prefsly prayed for by the libel ; fince that is neceffarily included in the prayer for general relief.
V, ERROR :--That the Circuit Court did not enquire into
the merits of the original decree, is furely no legal objecion.
There were no merits out of the record, brought before the
court, If any fads had been offered and rejeded, a bill of
exceptions might have been taken. Nor can this court enquire into the fads. The law gives an appeal from the Diftrift to the Circuit Court; but a writ of error only lies from
the Circuit Court to the Supreme Court. On a writ of Error, no extrinfic fad can be enquired into ; and the diverfity of
the procefs proves, that it was the intent of the Legiflature to
preclvde fuch an enquiry.
ITT

SUPREMI

COURT of the United States.

79

VI. ERROR :-The damages, it is contended, ought to have . -7795.
been feveral and dif'ributive, according to the a&ual receipt 9 f
the different" parties ; and it is (aid that a mere agent ought not
to be made refponfible, after he has bonafide paid over the money ; but the injury was done by the joint aft of the original
Libellants; Wentworth's paying away the money which he had
received as agent, is denied and traverfed in the replication;
he muft have had full notice of the appeal, and, therefore, a&ed
at his own peril. If, however, the judgment of the Circuit
Court fhould be deemed erroneous in'the mode of decreeing
damages, this court will corre& it, and give fuch a judgment as
the court below ought to have done. On this point the following authorities were cited : Doug. 577. 1 Dall.Rep. 95.
VII. ERROR :-_Theanfwer to this affignment of error was
anticipated in the courfe of the preceding anfwers.
VIII. ERROR :-That the Circuit Court had jurifdidion as
a Court of Admiralty, has been decided in the cafe of Glafs et al
v. thefloop Betfey*.
On the 24th of Feb. 1795, the Judges delivered their opinions feriatim.
PATERSON, Juflice:-This caufe has been much obcured bythe irregularityof the pleadings, which prefent a medley of procedure, partly according to the common, and partly
according to the civil, law. We muff endeavour to extra& a
ftat% of the cafe from the Record, Documents, and A6s, which
have been exhibited.
[Here the Judge delivered the hiftorical narrative of the
caufe, with Which this report is introduced, and then proceeded as follows:J
PATERSON,
ufl;ce, I have been particular in ftating
the cafe, and giving an hiforical narrative of the tranfaffion,
in order that the grounds of decifion may be fully underflood.
The pleadings confiff of a heap of materials, thrown together
in an irregular manner, and, if examined by the ilri& rules of
common law, cannot fland the teft of legal criticifm. We
are, however, to view the proceedings as before a Court of
Admiralty, which is not governed by the rigid principles of
common law. Order and fyftematic arrangement are no fmall
beauties in juridical proceedings; and , whatever may be faid
to the contrary, -itwill, on fair inveftigatioQ, appear, that good
pleading is founded on found logic, and good fienfe.
In the difcuffion of the caufe, feveral queftions have been
agitated; fome of which, involving conftitutional points, are
of great importance.
The jurifdi&ion of the CommilToners of Appeals has been
queftioned.
Te
See aJt,.p. 4,

. so

1795.

CASiS ruled and adjudged in the.

The jurifdiaion of the Court of Appeals has been quefr'
tioned.
Thefejurifdiffions turning on the competency of Congrefs,
it has been queftioncd, whether that body had authority to inftitute fuch tribunal .
And, laftly, the jurifdialion of the DPiAria Court of New
Hamp./hire has been queftioned, In every itep we take, the
point of jurifdidion meets us.
I,The queffion firft in order, is, whether the Commiffioners
of Appeals had jurifdiaion, or, in other words, whether Congrefs, before the ratification of the articles of confederation"
had authority to inifitute fuch a tribunal, with appellate jurifdi6ion in cafes of prize ?
Much has been faid refpe& ng the powers of Congrefs O/
this part of the fubjed the counfel on both fides di(played greet
ingehuity, and erudition, and that too in a Rile of eloquence
equal to the magnitude of the queftion. The powers of Congvefs were revolutionary in their nature, arifing out of events,
*adequate to every national emergency, and co-extenfive with
the objcd to be attained. Congrefs was the general, fupreniie,
and controuling council of the nation, the centre of union, the,
centre of force, and the fun of the political fyftem. To deter'mine what their powers were, we muff enquire what powers
they bxercifed. Congrefs raifed armies, fitted out a navy, and
prefcribed rules for their government: Congrefs condu&ed
all military operaons both by land and fea : Congrefs erni:ted bills of credit, received and fent ambaffadors, and• madc
treaties : Congrefs commiflioned privateers to cruize againft
the enemy, directed what veffels fhould be liable to capture,
And Prefcribed rules for the diftribution of prizes. Thefe high
aLs of fovereignty were fubmitted to, acquiefced in, and approved of, by the people of Ymerica. In Congrefs were vefted,
becaufe by Congrefs were exercifed with the approbation of
the people, the rights and powers of war and peace. In every
governmenti whether it confifis of many ifates, or of a few, or
whether it be of a federal or confolidated nature, there muft be
a fupreme power or will ; the rights of war and peace are,
component parts of this fupremacy, and incidental thereto is
the queftion of prize. The queftion of prize grows out of
the.nature of the thing. If it be afked, in whom, during outr
revolution war, was lodgred, and by whom was exercifed this
fupreme authority ? No one will hefitare for an anfwer. it
was lodged in, and exercifed by, Congrefs ; it was there, or no
where; theftates individually (lid not, and, with fafety, could
niot eycercife it. Difaffrows would have been the iffue of the
conteft, if the States,. feparately, had exercifed the powers of
war. For, in fdch cafe, there would have becn as many ftIprerre

SUPREME: COURT of

the Un"ited States.

preme wills as there were fates, and a; many wars as there 1795.
-.
were wills. Happily, however, for I/m:rica, this was not the
cafe ; there was bat one war, and one fovereign will to condud it. The danger being imminent, and common, it became
necefary for the people or colonies to coallcle and ad in concert, in order to divert, or break, the violence of the gathering
florin ; they accordingly grew into union, and formed one
great political body, of which Congrefs was the dire&ing
principle and foul. As to war and peace, and their neceflhry
incidents, Congrefs, by the unanimous voice of the people, exercifed exclufive jurifdidion, and flood, like Jove, amidft the
deities of old, paramount, and fupreme. The truth is, that the
States, individually, were not known nor recognized as fovereign, by foreign nations, nor are they now ; the States collectively, under Congrefs, as the oonineding point, or head, were
acknowledged by foreign powers as fovereign, -particularly in
that acceptation of the term, which is applicable to all great
national concerns, and in the exercife' of which other fovereigns
would be more immediately interefted ; fuch, for inflance, as
the rights of war 'and peace, of making treaties, and fending
and receiving' ambaffadors. Befides, every body muft be amenable to the authority under which he a.s. If he accept from
Congrfs a commiffion to cruize againDf the enemy, he muft be
refponfible to them for his condu&. If, under colour of fuch
commiflion, he had violated the law of nations, Congrefs would
have been called upon to make atonement and redrefs. The
perfons who exercife the right or authority of commiffioning
privateers, muff, of courfe, have the right or authority of examining into tle condud of the officer ading under fuch commifiqon, and of confirming or annulling his tranfadions'and
deeds. In the prefent cafe, the Captain of the M'Claryobtained his commiflion from Congrefs ; under that commiflion he
cruifed on the high feas, and captured the Sfanna ; and for the
legality of that capture he muff ultimately be refponfible to
Congrefs, or their conftituted authority. This refalts from
the nature of the thing ; and, befides, was cxprefsly flipulated
on the part of Congrefs. The authority cxercifed by Congrcfs in granting conimifflions to privateers, was approved and
ratified by the f( veral colonies or ftates, becaufe they received
and.filled up the conirniffions anid bonds, and returned the latter to CongrefiNev-Harnpfiiredid fo, as Well as the rtfl.
Another circumftance, worthy of notice, is the condud cf
Aew-Hanpjhire, by her Delegate in Conrefs, in the cafe of
the floop A.Iive. A8s of Congrefs, 6th March, i779.-Bv this
decifion, New-Hampflire concurred in binding the other 11ates.
Did fhe not alfo bind herfelf ? Before the articles of confede ration were ratificd, or even formed, a league of fiome kind IubV...
1II.
M
fifle4

82

1795.

CAss ruled'and adjudged in the

fifled among the flates ; and, whether that league originated in
compa&, or a fort of tacit confont, refulting from their fituation,
the exigencies of the times, and the nature of the warfare, or
from all combined, is utterly immaterial. The States, when in
Ccngrefs, flood on the floor of equality; and, until otherwife
flipulated, the majority of them muft controul. In fuch a con.federacy, for a 1late to bind others, and not, in fimilar cafes, be
bound herfif, is a folecifin. Still, however, it is contended,
that New-Hanpjhire was not bouind, nor Congrefs fovereign as
to war and peace, and their incidents, becaufe they refitted this
fupremacy in the cafe of the Sufanna. But I amr, notwithflanding, of opinion, that New-Hampfhire was bound, and
Congrefs fupreme, for the reafons already affigned; and that fne
continued to be bound, becaufe fhe continued in the confederacy. As long as the continued to be one of the federal f-ates, it
muft have been on equal terms. If the would not fubmit to
the exercife of the act of fovereignty contended for by Congrefs, and the other flates, the fhlould have withdrawn herfelf
from the confederacy.
In the Refolutions of Congrefs of the 6th of March, I779,
is contained acourf. of reafoning, which, in my opinion, is cogent and conclufive. 5 Jour. "Cong. 86, 87, 88, 89, 90.
The committee, confifting of Mr. Floyd, Mr. Ellery, and
Mr. Burke, to whom was referred the report of the committee
on appeals of January i9th, 1779, having, in purfuance of the
infrudions to them given, examined into the caufes of the refufal of the Judge of the Court of Admiralty for the State of
Pennfyljvania, to carry into execution the decree of the Court
or committee ofappeals, report,
" That on a libel in the court ofadmiralty for the ifate of Penn..
fylvania in the cafe of the floop Adive, the jury found a verdid in the following words, viz. " one fourth of the nett proceeds of the floop Adive and her cargo to the firif claimants,
three fourths of the nett proceeds of the faid floop and her cargo
to the libcllant and the fecond claimant, as per agreement between them ; which verdid was confirmed by the judge of the
court, and fentence paffed thereon. From this fentence or judgme-'nt and verdid, an appeal was lodged with the fecretary of
Congrefs,.and referred to the committee appointed by Congref;
" to hear and determine finally up:,n all appeals brought to
Congrefs," friom the Courts of Admiralty of the feveral States :
CThat the fiid committee, after folemn argument and full hearing of the parties by their advocates, and taking time to confider thereof, proceeded to the publication of their definitivwfentence or de.cree, thereby reverting the fentence of the Court,
of Adm-iralty,, making a new decree,, and ordering procefs to
i L--,

SUPREME CoUR'

of the United States.-

iffie out of the Court of Admiralty for the Itate of Penifylvania 1795.
to carry this their decree into executioi
"That the judge of the Court of Admiralty refufed to carry into
execution the decree ef the faid committee on appeals, and has
amgned as the reafon of his refufal, that an a& of the Leaiflatosre of the laid State has declared, that the finding of ajury fhall
eflablifl the fads in all trials in the Courts of Admiralty), withour re-examination or appeal, and that an appeal is permitted
only from the decree of the judge :
"That havino examined the laid a&, which is entitled, " an at
for eftabliing a Court of Admiralty," pafled at a feflion which
commenced on the 4 th of Auguft, 1778, the committee find the
following words, viz. "the finding of a jury thall eftablifla the
faft, without re-examination, or appeal," and in the feventh
fedion of the fame ad the following words, viz. " in all cafes
of captures an appeal from the decree of the Judge of Admiralty of this State, (hall be allowed to the Continental Congrefs, or fuch perfion or perfons as they may friom time to time
appoint for hearing and trying appeals.
That although Congrefs, by their refolution of November
25th, 1775, recommended it to the feveral legiflature , to
eret courts for the purpofe of determining concerning captures, and to provide that all trials in fuch cafes be had by a
jury, yet it is provided, that in all cafes an appeal fhall be allowed to CongreA, or to fich perfon or perfons as they fhall
appoint for the trial of appeals :" whereupon,
" Refolved, That Congrefs, or fuch perlbn or perfons as
they appoint, to hear and determine appeals from the courts of
Admiralty, have neceffarily the power to examine as well into decifions on fatds at decifions on the la., and to decree finally thereon, and that no finding of ajury in any court of Admiralty, or court for determining the legality of captures on
the high feas, can or ought to deitroy the ri,,ht of appeal, and
the re-examination of the fads refervcA to C'mnirefs :
" That no ad of any one fiate can or ought to defroy the
right of appeals to Congrefs, in the felf' above declared:
" That Congrefs is by thefe United States, inveted with the
fupreme. fovereign power of war and peace:
C That the power of executing the law of nations is efirtial
to the fovereign fupreme power of war and peace:
" That the legality of all captures on the high feas mull be
determined by the law of nations:
" That the authority ultimately and finally to decide on all
matters and queftions touching the law of nations, does refide
and is vel-ed in the fovercign fiapreme power of war and
That
peace;

CASES ruled and adjudged in the
1795.

" That a controul by appeal is neceffary, in order to compel
juft and uniform execution of the law of nations.
" That the faid controul mut extend as well over the decifions of juries, as judges, in courts for determining the legality of captures on the fea; otherwife the juries would be pof-.
felled of the ultimate fupreme power of executing the law of
nations in all cafes of captures, and might, at any time, exercife
the fame in fuch manner, as to prevent a poffibility of being
controuled ; a conftrution which involves many inconvenien...
cies and abfurdities, deftroys an cffential part of the power of
war and peace entrufted to Congrefs, and would difable the
Congrefs of the United States, from giving fatisfation to fo.reign nations complaining of a violation of neutralities, of
treaties, or other breaches of the law of nations, and would en..
able a jury, in any one ftate, to involve the United States in
hoflilities ; a conitru&ion, which for thefe and many other reafbns, is inadmiffible:
" That this power ofcontrouling by appeal, the feveral admiralty jurifdi6tions of the States, has hitherto been exercifed by
Congiefs, by the medium of a committee of their own members:
"Refolved, That the committee before whom was determinled the ap!Lai from the court of Admiralty for the State of
Pe fyivania, in the cafe of the floop . 7ive, was duly conflituted and authorifed to determine the fame :"
The yeas and nays being taken, it appears that the States of
New HainJire, AMafachufrtts-Bay, Rhode-I/land, Connecticut, New-Tork. laryland, Virginia, North-Carolina,Soutk G(]roiina, and Georgia, voted unanimufly in the affirmativ :
the State of Peniyj'Jvania unanimoufly, in the negative; and
I\4r. Witheifoon, who was alone from New-erfy, voted
alfo in the negative.
The Congrefs then voted as follows, viz.
" Refolved, That the faid committee had competent jurifdiaion to make thereon a final decree, and therefoie their decree ought tobe carried into execution."
The yeas and nays being taken on this rcfolution, it appears,
that New-HamPflire, Aaja~chufetts-Bay, Rhode-f/land, Connc'icut, New-York, !Alarylanl, Virginia, North-Carolina,
South-Carolina, and Georgia, voted unanimoufly in the affir-.
mi'tive ; Pen;jfyivania unanimoufly in the negative; and Mr.
['F/ith,efpoon, vwho was alone from New-Jerfey, voted on this
occafion in the affirmative.
The Congrefs then refolved as follows, viz.
" Reolved, That the General Affemhly of the State of Penn)lvania, he rcqudfled to appoint a committee, to confer with
a committee of Congrcfs, on the fubjet of the proccedings
relative

Sa

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

relative to the floop a/ive, and the obje~ions made to the 1795,
executioin of the decree of the committee on appeals, to the
end that proper meafures may be adopted for removing the faid
obfiacles ; and that a committee of three be appointed to hold
the fiid conference, with the committee of the General Affembly
of Pennfylvania:
"Thc members chofen, Mr. Paca, Mr. Burke, and Mr. R.
H. Lee."
I fball clofe this head of difcourfe with obferving, that it is
with diffidence I have ventured to give an opinion on a queftien fo novel and intricate, and refpcffing which, men, eminent for their talents, their literary attainments, and fkill in
jurifprudence, have been divided in fentiment. The opinion,
however, which has been given, is the refult of convidfion ; if
wrong, it is the error of the hea , and as fuch will carry its
apology with it.
I1. Vhether, after the articles of confederation were ratified, the Court of Appeals h d jurifdiLion of the fubjea
matter ?
However problematical the opinion, which has been delivered on the preceding point, may be, I apprehend, that little
doubt or difficulty can arife on the prefent queftion. By the
9 th article of the Confederation, the United States, in Congrefs
aff'embled, are vefled, among other things, with the fole and
exclufive power of effabliffling rules for deciding in all cafes,
what captures on land or water fliall be legal, and in what
manner prizes, taken by land or naval forces in the fervice of
the United States, ffiall be divided or appropriated; of granting letters of nvarque and reprifal in times of peace; appointing courts for the trial of piracies and felonies committed on
the high feas, and effabliling courts for receiving and determining finally, appeals in all cafes of captures.
The Court of Appeals, in September 1783, decided upon the
point ofjurifdidlion either direaly, or incidentally ; for, after a
full hearing, they decreed that the fentences paffed by the Superior and inferior Courts of New.Hmpjhire (hould be reverfed and annulled, and the property be reflored. This decree
being made by a court, conflitutionally eftabliffned, of competent authority, and the higheff jurifoi~tion, is conclufive and
final. It cannot be opened and inveftigated ; for, neither this
court, nor any other, can, in a collateral way, review the proceedings of a tribunal, which had jurifdi6iion of the fubjed.f
matter. The Court of Appeals was compet(nt to the decifion ; they have adjudicated as well on the jurifdifion as the
merits of the caufe, and we muff fippofe that they have adled
properly. This alfo is an arfwer as to irregularities, if any
there were, which may have taken place in the proceedings
before

86
1795.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

before the Court of Appeals, or in the mode of removing tlie
caufe before them. This court cannot take notice of i:regularities in the proceedings, or error in the decifion, of the
Court of Appeals. The queftion is at reft ; it ought not to be
again, diffurbed.
II[. Whether the Diftria Court of New-Hampfhire had
jurifdi&ion ; or, in other words, whether the libel exhibited
before that court, was the proper remedy, or mode of carrying
into execution, either fpecifically, or by way of damages, the
decree of the Court of Appeals ?
On this point I entertain no doubts. Recurrence to fafts
will anfwer the quefion. The exiftence of the Court of Apwas the
peals terminated with the old government; this alfib
cafe with the fubordinate Court of 'Admiralty in the Stte of
New-Hampjhire. The property was not reffored to the libellants, nor were they compenfated in damages; of courfe the
decree in their favour remains unfatisfied. They had no remedy at common law; they had none in equity ; the only foruin competent to give redrefs is the 1)iftri& Court of New.ampbire, becaufe it has admiralty jurifdicfion. There they
applied, and, in my opinion, with great propriety.
Judges may die, and courts be at an end; but juftice ffill
lives, and, though fie may fleep for a while, will eventually
awake, and muAf be fatisfied.
Having difcuffed the preliminary queftions relative to jurifdiffion, we fhall now confider the proceedings in the Circuit
Court of New-Hampjhire. And here the firft queftion is,
whether by the Jeath of Elia Doane, before the judgment
rendered in the court of appeals, that judgment is not avoided ? The death of Doane does not appear on the record of the
proceedings before the court of appeals ; it is in evidence from
the certificate of the judge of probates, which is annexed to
the record tranfinitted from the Circuit Court of New-HampJhire. Many anfwers have been given to this quefcion ; fome
of which are cogent as well as plaiufible. On this fubjed, it
will be fufficient to obferve, that admitting the death of Doane,
and that it can be taken notice of in this court, it is unavailing,
becaufe the proceedings in a court of admiralty are in rem.
The fentence of a court of admiralty, or of appeal in queftions
of prize, binds all the world, as to every thing contained in it,
becaufe all the world are parties to it. The fentence, fo far
as it gees, is conclufive to all perfons.
The moft formidable objeftions have been levelled againift
'the damages.
I. It is faid, that the damages ought not to have been given,
they were not Frayed. The anfwer to this obje6ion
a'ecife

SUPREME

COURT

of the United States.

is fatis foory-the prayer is for general relief, and therefore
fufficient.
2. If any damages ought to be given, yet none ought to
have been awarded againrft George Wentworth, becaufe he was
an agent, and paid the money over under the decree of the
Court of NewHamphire.

If any Agent pay over, after notice, he pays wrongfully,
and fhall not be excufed. In this cafe George Wentworth was
a party to the fuit, be appeared as one of the Libellants, and
'muff be liable to all the legal confequences refulting from fuch
a fituation. As a party, he was before the court, and privy to
the appeal, which was made in due feafon. The appeal did,
fiom the moment it was made, fufpend the execution of the
decree, and that whether it was received or not ;* efpecially in
cafes like the prefenr, 'where George Wentworth was a party
to the fuit, before the court, and had notice of its having been
tendered or made. In fuch a predicament, he ought not to have
paid over ; but fhould have awaited the ultimate decifion of the
Court of Appeals. If he paid, it was at his peril ; he took
the rifk upon himfelf, and in cafe of undue payment, became
liable.
It has been faid, that an inhibition fhould have been iffued,
and that without it the appeal did not fufpend the execution of
the decree. The writ of inhibition is a proper and neceffary
writ, not becaufe it fufpends the effed of the decree, for that
is already done by the appeal ; but becaufe it enables the court
of appellate jurifdidion, in cfe of difobedience, to punifh the
inferior court as being in contempt. The appeal has not this
effed, becaufe it is the ad of the party, and not of the fuperior court.
A monition, it is faid, ought to have been addreffed to the
Appellees to enforce their appearance before the Court of appellatejurifdiion. The anfwer is, that George Wentworth,
as well as the others, did appear both before the Court of Comtniffloners and the Court of Appeals. If a defed, and inquirable into by this court, it is cured by appearance,
In fhort, George Wentworth was a party to the fuit, prefent,
in court, and had notice of the appeal. If, in fuch a fituation,
he undertook to diftribute the proceeds% it was at his own rifk ::
and in cafe of reverfal, he made himfelf liable.
I have doubts how far the court below could inquire into the
queffion of agency and payment over, efpecially as the payInent is faid to have been made, previoufly to the argument before the Court of Appeals, ot even the Court of Commiffioners
The decree is for reftoration. If the Court of Appeals had
iffued procefs to carry their definitive fentence into effe&, or
had.
2,Dom. 686.

1795.

88

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1795. had direcfed the Maritime Courts of New Hamk/flire to have
done fo, would it, in the inftance of George T'fcntworth, have
been a legal juffification to have faid, that he had delivered the
property, or paid its proceeds, to the captors ? Befides, whatever could have been brought forward, by way of dfence, in
the Court of Appeals, ought there to have been urged and relied upon ; and if the party has omitted to do fo, he has flipt
his opportunity, and is precluded from taking advantage thereof
in future,

I know, thata diffinlion -is made between foreign and domefcic judgments ; that the latter are conclufive, whereas the
former are liable to inveftigation. Be it fo. But is the principle, upon which this difl-in&tion is founded, applicable to decrees, on queffions of prize, in the highefr Court of Admiralty, which, in fuch cafes, is guided by the law of Nations, and
not municipal regulations ? If it is, it muff be under very
fpecial circumfiances.
. 3. Itis objeded, that thedamages awarded are joint; whereas they ought to have been feveral. This objedion is a found
one. But as the fa&ts are fpread on the record, it is in the
power of the court to fever the damages, and fo to apportion
them as to effc*uate fibitantial juftice. The damages fhould
have purfued and been admeafured by the original decree, which
direded, that one moiety of the proceeds fhould be paid to the
owners, and the other to the captors. George Wentworth received a moiety only; he is liable for that, and no more.
4. Another objedion is, that intereft has been calculated
from a wrong period, to wit, from the 2d O17ober, 1778; and
therefore the decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous.
The Court of Appeals pronounced their definitive fentence
in September 1783 ; by which the judgments of the inferior
and fiuperior Courts of New Hampihire were reverfed, and reitoration decreed ; they alfo dire&ed, that the parties fhould
pay their own cofts. I am of opinion, that intereft fhould
have been computed from the day, on which the definitive fentenceof the Court of Appeals was pronounced. Of this there
can be no doubt with refpeft to 7ohn Penhallow and the owners. Some doubts, however, have been entertained on this
point with regard to George JWentwoth. But for the reafons,
which have been affigned, he muft be confidered in the fame
fituation as the others.
Arguments, deducible from the hardfhip of the cafe, have
been advanced and infifted upon. It is hard, that George
Ventwortb, who was an agewt, fhould be.made perfonally refponfible. It is cruel, that George !J/entwortb flhould be cut
down by the collifion of confliding jurifdi6lions. But motives
of commiferation, from whatever fource they flow, muff not

minge

the United States.

S'UrREME COURT of

mingle in the adminiftration of juftice. Judges, in the exercife of their funtions, have frequent occafions to exclaim,
"durumi valde durum, ftdfic lex 0ft."
- £.5,895 14 10
To conclude, the fum of
appears, on the record, to be the aggregate
value of the Sufanna, her cargo, &c.
On this fum intereft f(hould be calculated
from i 7 th September, 1783, till 24 th Odober,
1794., which will amount to

-

Making in the whole

-

3,920 13

-

-

£.9,816

8

4
2

Equal to .32,721 dollars and 36 cents. The, one moiety
whereof, being 16,36o dollars and 68 cent, I am of opinion,
fhould be paid by John Ptnhallow and the owners, and the
other moiety by George W/entworth. The colts in the courts
below fhould be divided in the fame manner.
I am alfo of opinion, that the parties flhould bear their refpe&tive coits, which have arifen on the profecution of the appeal
in this court.
IREDELL, .futlce. This cafe, which is of fo much novelty and importance, has been argued at the bar with very great
ability on both fides. 1 have liftened with the moi: refpe6lful
attention to every thing that has been faid upon it, and the opinion,which I am now to deliver, is the refult of the bell confideration which I have been able to bellow on the fubje&.
The order in which it has appeared to me moff convenient
to arrange the different heads of enquiry is as follows:
i.Whether either of the decrees of June, 1779, Or September, 1783, was originally valid ?
2. If either of -them was fo, whether it was a decree which
the Difiri& Court of New Hampfhire, or the Circuit Court
of New Hamphire, ading fpecially in this caufe for the legal
reafon alledged, had authority to enforce, either by decreeing a
fpecific execution, or awarding damages for a non-performance
of it?

3. Whether, if the Diftri& or Circuit Court had fuch an
authority, it has been executed properly in this infiance, under
all the circumifances of the cafe ?
:.4 Whether, in cafe the Libellants were entitled to a decree
in their favour, but it fhaall appear that the decree has been er.
roneous in refpe&t tothe relief given, either in the whole or in
part, this court can redify the decree, or order it to be re6tified by the court below, or muft affirm or reverfe in the whole ?
Under the firft head it will be proper previoufly to confider
if either of the decrees was final and conclufive, becaufe if
that point fhould be decided in the affirmative, it will render
VOL. III.

N

utnneceffary

1795'

90
1795.
-.---

'

CASEs ruled ard adjudged in the

unnecelTarya decifion of many important queflioas that otherwife arife in this catife. This previows point, however, cannot be decided on fatisfaaory principles, without in fome mea
fure tracing the origin of the general powers of Congrefs,
from the time of the earlieft exercife of their authority, to the
period when definite and exprefspowers were folemnly and formally given to them by the articles of confederation. I {hall
therefore make a few preliminary obfervations on this fubjeft,
though I by no means think it material to go into a full detail.
Under the Britif government, and before the oppofition to
the meafures of the Parliament of Great Britain became neceffary, each Province in America compofed (as I conceive) a
body politic, and the feveral Provinces were no otherwife conne&ed with each other, than as being fubje& to the fame common fevereign. Each Province had a di{tin& legiflature, a diftina executive (fubordinate to the king) a diftind judiciary
and in particular the claim asto taxation, which began the contct, extended to a feparate claim of each province to raife
taxes within itfelf; no power then exifted, or was claimed, for
any joint authority on behalf of all the Provinces to tax the
whole. Therewere fome difputes as to b6undaries, whether
certain lands were within the bounds of one Province or another, but nobody denied that where the boundaries of any one
Province could be afcertained, all the permanent inhabitants
within thofe boundaries were members of thebody politic, and
fubje6l to all the laws of it. When a6ts were paffed by theParliament of Great Britain which were thought unconftitutional and unjuit, and when every hope of redrefs by feparate
applications appeared defperate, then was conceived the noble
idea, which laid the foundation of the prefent independence
and happinefs of this country, (though independence was nat
then incontemplation) of forming a common cowncil to confult
for the common welfare of the whole, fo far as an oppofition to
the meafures of Great Britain was concerned, In order to
compofe this common council each Province chofe for itfelf, in
its own way, and by its own authority, without any previous
concerted plan of-the whole, deputies to attend at a general
meetini, to be held in this city. Some appointed by their Affemblies ; others by Conventions; fome perhaps in other
modet ; but, inwhatever way the appointment was made, it
was notorioufly doee with the hearty coufent and approbation
of the great boly of the people in each Province, and therefore
the appointment was unexceptionable to all thofe who thought
the oppofition juft, and a union of the whole in fhe meafures
of oppofition necefa;v. Each Province even appointed as many or as few deputies as it pleaied, at its own difcretion, which
was not objeaed to, becaufe the Members of Congrefs did not
Vote

SUPRiEME

COURT of the United States.

Vote individually, but the votes given in Congres were by 1795.
Provinces, as they afterwards were (fubfequent to the declaration of Independence, and until the prefent conflitution of the
United States was formed) by StatesThe powers of Congrefs at firft were indeed little more
thaR advifory; but, in proportion as the danger iRcreafed, their
powers were gradually enlarged, either by exprefs grant, or by
implication arifing from a kind of indefinite authority, fuited to
the unknown exigencies that might arife. That an undefined
-authority is dangerous, and ought to bt entrufted 3s cautioufly
as poffible, every man muff admit, and none could take more
pains, than Congrefs for a long time did, to get their authority
regularly defined by a ratification of the articles of confederation. But that previoufly thereto they did exercife, with the
acqunefcence of the States, high powers of what f may, perhaps,
.with propriety for diftinction, call external fovereignty, is unqueftionable. Among numerous inflances that might be given
of this, (and which were recited very minutely at the bar) were
the treaties of France in I73S, which no friend to his country
at the time queflioried in point of authority, nor has been capable of refle6ting uponl fince without gratitude and fatisfaction. Whether among thefe powers compfehended within their
general authority, was that of inifituting courts for the trial
of all prize caufes, was a great and awful q effion ; a queflion
that demanded deep confideration, and not perhaps fufceptible
of an eafy decifion. That in pointof prudence and propriety
itwas a power moff fit for Congrefs to exercife, I have no doubt.
I think all prize caufes whatfoever ought to belong to the national fovereignty. They are to be determined by the law of
nations. A prize court is, ineffed, a court of all the nations
in the world, becaufe all perfons, in every part of the world, are
concluded by its fentences, in cafes clearly coming within its
jurifdidion. Even in the cafe of citizen and citizen I do not
think it a proper fubjedft for mere municipal regulation, becaufe as was obferved at the bar, a citizen may make a colourable claim, which the court may not be able to deted, and yet
a foreigner be fatally injured by it. In cafe of a bona fide
claim, it may appear to be good by the proofs offered to the
court, but another perfon living at a diftance may have a fuperior claim, which he has no opportunity to exhibit. It is
true a general monition iffues, and this is confidered notice to
all the world, but though this be the conftrucion of the law
from the neceffity of the cafe, it would be abfurd 'to infer in
fad that all the world had adual notice, and therefore no fupeyior claimant to the one before the court could poffl.bly exiff.
The court, therefore, can never know with certainty whether
citizens only are interefted in the enquiry. But the word&" citizen

CASES

1795.
\

ruled and adjudged in the

citizen and citizen" in this cafe are very ill applied to the
parties in queffion, they not having een citizens of the fame
State, the captors having been citizens of New Hampfhire, and
the claimant a citizen of AIaflachufatts-Bay. It never was
confidered that before the aual fignature of the articles of
confederation a citizen of one State was to any one purpofe a
citizen of anlother. He was to all fubftantial purpofes as a Foreigner to their forenfic jurifprudenee. If rigorous law had
been enforced, perhaps he might have been deemed an alien,
withoutan exprefs provifion of the State'to fave him. And as
an unjuft decifion upon the l6w of nations, in the cafe of a
Foreigner to all the States, might, if redrefs had notbeen given, have ultimately led to a foreign war, an unjuff decifion on
the fame law in tne State, to the prejudice of a citizen of another State, might have ultimately led, if redrefs had not been
given, to a civil war, -an evil much the more dreadful of the
two. I have made thefe obfervations merely asto the propriety
that this power fhould have been delegated, and therefore to
fhew that if it wasaffumed without adequate authority, it was
not an arbitrary and unnatural affumption of a power, that ought
exclufively to belong to a fingle State ; but by no means with a
view to argue, that becaufe it was proper tobe given, therefore it was atually given, a pofition which, as it would lead to
dangerous and inadmillible confequences, cannot be the ground
of a legitimate argument.
Some of the arguments at the bar, if pufhed to an extreme,
would tend to eftablifh, that Congrefs had unlimited power to
a& at their difcretion, fo far as tle purpofes of the war might
require ; and it was even faid, that the Yus Belli never was in
any one of the States, and therefore it could riot be delegated
by any State to Congrefs. My principles on this fubjeft are
totally different from thofe which were the foundation of this
opinion, and as it is a point of no fmall importance, and I find
on this occafion, as I have formerly done on others, confiderable miftakes (as I conceive) by very able men, owing to a mifapprehenfion of terms, 1 will endeavour to ifate my own principles on the fubje& with fo much elearnefs, that whether my
opinion be right or wrong, it may at leain be underitood what
the opinion really is.
If Congrefs, previous to the articles, of confederation, porfeffed any authority, it was an authority, as I have fhewn, derived from the people of each Province in the frft inflance.
When the obnoxious aas of Parliament paired, if the people
jn each Province bad chofen to refift feparately, they undoubtedly had equal right to do fo, as to join in general meafures of
refiftance with the people of the other Provinces, however unwife pnd deftru6tive fetch a policy might, and undoubtedly
would
(

SUPREME CoUmnr

of the United States.

would have been. If they had purfued this feparate fyffem, r795.
-nd afterwards the people of each Province had refolved that
'fuch Provinceihould be a free and indepelident State, the State
from that moment would have become poffeffed of all the powers of fovereignty internal and external, (viz. the exclufive
right of providing for their own government, and regulating
their intercourfe with foreign nations) as completely as any
one of the ancient Kingdoms or Republics of the world, which
never yet had formed, or thought of forming, any fort of Federal union whatever. A diffinaion was taken at the bar betweet aflate and the people of thejlate. It is a dif'cinffion I
am not capable of comprehending. By a State forming a Republic (fpeaking of it as a moralperfon) Ido not mean the Legiflature of the State, the Executive of the State, or the Judiciary, but all the citizens which compofe that State, and are, if
I mayfo exprefs myfelf, integralparts of it; all together forming a body politic. - The great difiin6ion between Monarchies
and Republics (at leaft our Republics) in general is, that in
the former the monarch is confidered as the fovereign, and each
individual of his nation as fubjeft to him, though in fome countries with many important fpecial limitations: This, I fay, is
generally the cafe, for it has not been founiverfally. But in a
Republic, all the citizens, as fuch, are equal, and. no citizen
can rightfully exercife any authority over another, but in virtue
of a power conifitutionally given by the whole community, and
fuch authority when exercifed, is in effe& an a& of the whole
community which forms fuch body politic. In fuch governments, therefore, the fovereignty refides in the great body of
the people, but it refides in them not as fo many diftin& individuals, but in their politic capacity only. Thus A. B. C. and
D.,citizens of Pennfylvania, and as fuch, together with all the
citizens of Pennfylvania, fhare in-the fovereignty of the State.
Suppofe a State to confift exaaly of the number of lO,OOO
citizens, and it were pra&icable for all of them to affemble
at one time and in one place, and that 99,999 did a&ually
affemble: The State would not be in fact afftembled. Why ?
Becaufe the ifate in fa& is compofed of all the citizens, not~of
a part only, however l~Irge that part may be, and one is wanting. In the fame manner as 991. is not a hundred, becaufe
one pound is wanting to complete the full fum. But as fuch
exa&nefs in human affairs cannot take place, as the world
would be at an end, or involved in univerfal maffacre and
confufion, if entire unanimity from every fociety was required ;
as the affembling in large numbers, if prafficable as to the actual meeting of all the citizens, or even a confiderable part of
them, could be producive of no rational refult, becanfe there
could be no general debate, no confultation of the whole, nor
ef

94

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795. of confequence a determination grounded on reafon and reflexion, and a deliberate view of all the circumifances neceffary to be taken into confideration, mankind have long pradifed (except where fpecial exceptions have been folemnly adopted) upon the principle, that the majority Jhall bind the whole,
and in large countries, at leaff, that reprefentatives fhall be
chefen to a& on the part of the whole. But when they do fo,
they decide for the whole, and not for themfelves only. Thus,
when the legiflature of any fRate paffes a bill by a majority,
competent to bind thewhole, it is an ad of the whole Affembly,
not of the majority merely. So when this court gives ajudgment by the opinion of a majority, it is the judgment, in a legal fenfe, of the whole court. SoI conceive, when any law
is paffed in any ftate, in purfijance of conflitutional authority,
it is a law of the whole flate acing in its legiflative capacity;
as are, alfo, executive and judiciary a&s conftitutionally authoriled, a&s of the whole ftate in its executive orIudiciary capacit , anZ not the perfonal ads alone of the individuals, cornpoTng thofe branches of government. The fame principles
apply as to legiflative, executive, or judicial a&s of the United
States, which are ads of the people of the United States, in
thofe refpe&ive capacities, as the former are of the people of a
fingle fate. Thefe principles have long been familiar in- regard to the exercife of a conftitutional power as to treaties.
Thefe are deemed the treaties of the two nations, not of the
perfons only, whofe authority was adually employed in their
formation. There is not one principle that I can imagine
which gives fuch an effe& as to treaties, that has not fuch an
operation ou any other legitimate ad of government, all powers being equally derived from the fame fountain, all held
equally in trufi, and all, when rightfully exercifed, equally
binding upon thofe from whom the authority was derived.
I c6nclude, therefore, that every particle of authority which
originally refided either in Con refs, or in any branch of the
ftate governments, was derived rom the people who were permanent inhabitants of each province in the firft inflance, and
afterwards became citizens of each ftate; that this authority
was conveyed by each body politic feparately, and not by all
the people in the feveral provinces, or ftates, jointly, and of
courfe, that no authority could be conveyed to the whole, but
that which previoufly was poffeffed by the feveral parts ; that the
diffindion between aflate and the people of afgate has in this
refpec no foundation, each expreffion in fubfiance meaning the
fame thing; confequently, that one ground of argument at the
bar, tending to fhew the fuperior fovereignty of Congrefs, in
the inifance in'queftion, was not tenable,, and therefore thatupon that ground the exercife of the authority in queflion can
I have
hot be fupported.

SUPREME COUR;r

of the United States.

I have already, however, fRated my opinion, that from the 1795."
nature of our political fituation, it was highly reafonable and
proper that Congrefs fhould be poffeffed of fuch an authority,
and .this'is a confideration of no fmall weight to induce an inference, that they a6tua'ly poffeffed it when their powers were
fo indifinite, and when it feems to have been the fenfe of all
the ftates, that Congrefs fhould poffefs all the incidents to external fCvereignty, or, in other words, the power of war and
peace, fo far as other nations were concerned, though the
fRates in fome'particulars differed, as to the conffrufion of the
general powers given for that purpofe. Two principles appear to me to be clear. i. The authority was not poffeffed-by
Congrefs, unlefs given by all the flates. 2. If once given, no
fiate could, by any a& of its own, difavowand, recall the authority previoufly given, without withdrawing from the confederation. In the cafe of the Agtive, ten fRates out of twelVe
recognized the authority, New-Hampihire voting in fupport
of it. This was in 1779, long after the aSf of New-Hamp/hire was paffed, which has given occafion to the controverfy
in this caufe, and in the fame year when the fecond aa of
New-HampJire was pafkd, which allowed an appeal to Congrefs in cafes (as the aa expreffed it) "wherein any fubjea or
" fubje~s of any foreign nation or flate, in amity with this
U and the United States of America, fhould in due form of law,
CCclaim the whole, or any part of the veffel and cargo in difcl pute." The refolution of Congrefs was dated the 6th Marcb,
1779; the acf of Aew-Hampfiire in November following.
The vote of the delegates of New-Hampfhire, in the cafe of
the A&ive, would not, indeed, be equivalent to a clear grant
of the power, but it is a refpe"lable fupport of the conftrufio&a
oontended for by the defendants in error. It has been properly obferved, that a court cannot by its own decifion, give
itfelf jurifdi&ion where it had none before; but if courts are fo
conflituted that one is neceffarily fuperior to another, the decifion of the fuperior muff, to be fure, prevail. This, perhaps,
is not conclufive as to the court of commiffioners, becaufe it
cannot be decided whether it was in fact the fuperior court in
refpect to New-Hamphire, without deciding whether it was
confitutionally fo in virtue of power from allthe Rates. This
point it would be now neceffary for this court to decide, if it
were not for the decifion of the court of'appeals in 1783, a
court of acknowledged prize jurifdiction, eftablifhied in virtue
ef exprefs authority from all the Rates (New-Hampjhire included) and made a court in the laft refort as to all prize caufes, or in other words (as expreffed in the article of confederation itfelf) in 'allcafes of captures. And the decifion of this
court on the fubject of the two contending jurifdictions, I
eonfid-r

96
1795.

CAgEs

ruled and adjudged in the

confider to be final and conclufive, for the following reafons.
Si. At the time the decifion was given, it was the only court
of final appellatejurifdition, as to cafes of captures, in the United States. It feems therefore to follow neceffarily, that upon
all queflions of capture their decifion fhould be final and conclufive, as much as the decifion of this Court upon a writ of error from the Circuit Court, or any other branch of its jurifdidion, would be fo.
2. To the fuggeflion at the bar, that the Court of appeals
could have no retrofpe6t, feveral anfwers, I conceive, may
be given.
i. It is taking for granted the very point in difpute, that
this decition was retrofpeaive. If Congrefs poffeffed this
authority before, and the articles of Confederation amounted only to a folemn confirmation of it, it was in no manner retrofpective. It was in effect a continuance of the
fame court acting under an exprefs, inflead (as before) of
acting under an implied authority, and allowing the full benefit of an appeal regularly prayed, and rightfully enforced
by the fiperior tribunal, after an unwarranted diffallowance
by the inferior.
2. Whether the article in the confederation giving authority to this court as a fuperior tribunal inaall cafes of
capture, did authorife them to receive appeals in cafes circumftanced like this, was a point for them to decide; finee
it was a queftion arifing in a cafe of capture, of all which
cafes (without any exception) they were conflituted judges
in the laft refort. The merits of their decifion we furely
cannot now enquire into, but their authority to decide,
not being limited, there was no method, by applying
to any other court, of correcting any error they might commit, if in reality they fhould have committed any.
3. Whether their decifion was right or wrong, yet nobody
can deny that the jurifdiction of the commiffioners was at leaft
doubtful ; of courfe the Court of Appeals found a cafe then
depending in the former court of the commiflioners, after a preliminary, but not a final, determination, for fuch I confider it to
have been. It was therefore a caufe then fubjudice, and it being a cafe of capture and a queftion of appeal, no other court
on earth, but that, in my opinion, could decide it. A,.d no objection can be urged in this cafe againft the authority of fuch a decifion, or the pr6priety of its being final, but fuch as may be urged againfl: all courts in the lafi re fort, with refpect to the merits of whofe decifions there may be eternal difputes, but fuch
difputes would be productive of eternal war, if fome court had
not authority to fettle fuch queftions forever. :
havc not the fmalleft doubt, that the decifion ofk
tereforc,
m,
the

SjUPREME CO-URT Of the United States.

97

the court in 1783, was final and conclufive as to the partics to 1795.
the decree. And this point appears to me fo plain, thatIthink
it ufelefs to take notice of any authorities' quoted on either fide,
in relation to it, none of'them, I conceive, in iiny manner contravening the conclufive quality of fuch decrees upon the principles I have QRated, and fome of them clearly, and b~yond all
quefrion, fupporting it,
The decree of _eptembe., 1783, being by me thus deemed
final and conclufive, the next enquiry is,
Whether it was a decree which the Diffri& Court bf NcwHampjhire,or the Circuit Court of New-Hamjh"ire a&ing fpecially in this caufe for'the legal reafon alledged, h-Ad authority
to enforce, either by decreeing a fpecific execution, or awarding damages for a non-performance of it ?
Upon this branch of the fibje& a few words will be fu$cient. The Dith i& Court, by the aA of Congrefs, hath the
Whole original jurifdi&iQn in admiralty and maritime caufes.
-Whatever doubt might otherwife have arifen, the decifion of
this court upon the writ of error from Maryland, laft February,
fully eftablifhed, that this includes a prize jurifdi&ion,' as well
as other cafes of a maritime nature. I was not prefent when
the decifion was given ; had I been fo, I probably fhould have
concurred in it, becaufe the wotds, " all civil caufes ot admiralty and maritime jurifdilion," evidently include all maritime
caufes, whether peculiarly of admiralty jurifdi&ion or not ; becaufe'aqueftion ofprize on the high feas is clearly of a maritime
nature, and therefore the Png/ijh diftinlion between an in}Ance (which is ftricqly an admiralty) court, and a prize court,
does not apply to this cafe ; more efpecially as the Diftri&
Court having as large authority given to it in all maritime
caufes of a civil nature, as the con&fitution itfelfprefcribes. If
that court does not poffefs fuch an authoritv, no court can be
inftituted with powers adequate to that purpofe, fo that under
the prefent conititution, there could be no prize jurifdiaion at
all ; and the very tenure of all the judges (which is for good
behaviour) naturally excludes the idea of a temporary and occafional eftablifhment of any courts whatfoever. I mention thefe
reafons, not becaufe the authority of the cafe receives any additional fandion fr6m my opinion, but becaufe I was defirous to
,take fo favourable an opportunity of exprefing my concurrence
in a decifion offo much importance.*
It was clearly fliewn at the bar, that a Court of Admiralty in
one nation, can carry into effe( the determinatior of the Court
of Admiralty of another. A Court of Prize being equally
grounded on the law of nations as a Court of Admiralty, and
proceeding alfo, as that does, on the principles of the civil law,
aCt.iJ 171

VOL. 11. VotIe

.

V~j~ I~C~SkC Ir

b taufrs e tY t,

~4

N

Mutt,

99'
1795.
k

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

muff, in common reafon, have the fame authority. I think il
was rightly obferved, that the fentence confiffed, in effect,
of two parts, one reverfing the decree, and therefore vefting a right to a reftitution or a recovery in value in the
pppellant, the other ordering a fpecific reffitution. If that
fpecific redrefs is from any caufe rendered impracticable,
thofe who have unjuftly, and upon a fentence determined
to be erroneous, received the property or its value to their
own ufe, muff in juffice be accountable ; otherwise form,
which ought only to be the hanamiid of right, might
prove its treacherous deffroyer. The Diftrict Court having
fole original authority in cafes of this kind, muff have
equal power, as to fuch fubjects, with the power poffefled
by this court in any cafe where it has original jurifdiction,
with this difference only, that in the one cafe a writ of
error is allowed, in the other not. The Court of Appeals,
Which paled the final decree, having expired, there feems at
leaft as much reafon for a court of fimilar jurifdiffion as to the
fthbje&-matter, proceeding to give effe& to its, decifions, as
there can be for a Court of Admiralty of one nation giving effet to the decifion of a Court of Admiralty of another, to which
perhaps it is a perfe& ftranger, and of which it may know little
zitore than' that they equally belong to the great family of mankind. I am therefore of opinion, thAt the Diftri& Court, or the
Circoit Court, acting fpecially in this inflance on account of the
incapacity of the former (as the law empowered it to do) had
authority to enforce the decree in queftion, by decreeing damages in lieu ofa fpecific reflitution, which was impracticable.
The third queftion is,
'Whether the authority hath been exercifed properly in this
inflance, under all the circumflances of the cafe ?
The material circumifances to be confidered, either from
facts admitted on the face of the record, or the public proceedings referred to by it, and of which we are judicially to take
notice, feem to be as follow :
That the brig M'Clary Was fitted out, under the authority,
and purfuant to ce'rtain fefolutions of Congref, in confequence
bf which, an act of the legiflature had pafled, in the flate of
NVew Hampjlire, ,hich complied partially with thofe refolutions, but made f6me regulations apparently intended as a refiriction upon them (,whatever might be their legal operation :)
That on the 30th Oct. 1777, fhe captured the brig Sufanna
and cargo on'the high feas : That the captured property was
libu:lled in the Court Maritime of New) Hamphire, (erected by
the flate law) on the irith November, 1777: That Elika
Doane (whofe adriiniftrators are the defendants in error in this
caufe) exhibited his daim on-the ift December following; and
onl

SUPREME GOURT

of the United States.

on the 16th the property was condemned, and ordered to be 1795.
difiributed according to law: That within five days (the time
for praying an appeal prefcribed by the refolutions of Cogrefs)
Doane prayed an appeal to Congrefs, which was diffallowed : That he then prayed and obtained an appeal to the fuperior
court of New Hamp/hire, agreeably to the directions of the fiate
law, which allowed of fuch an appeal in cafes of this kind,
the act providing for an appeal to Congrefs, only in cafe of a
capture by an armed veffel fitted out at the charge of the Unite4l
Colonies : That on the firft Tuefday in September, 1778, the
fuperior court zdjudged the property to be forfeited, and order.
ed it to be fold by the flheriff at public vendue for the ufe of the
libellants ; and the court further ordered, " that the proceeds
"thereof, after deducting charges, fhould be paid to 7ohn Penhallow and Yacob Treadwell, agents for the owners, and to
" Georgi W[entworth agent for the captors, to be by the faid a"gents paid and dij/ributed to the perfons mentioned therein, ac' cording to the law of the fiate in that cafe made."
That an appeal from this decree to Congrefs was prayed
within five days, and difallowed, and that afterwards, in obedience to the decree, and in virtue of it, the property was fold,
and diftributed to thofe entitled under the decree; arid the proportionate fhares (upon the fuppofition of a lawful capture ) are
admitted to have rightly been, one half to the owners, and the
other half to theofficers, mariners, and feamen.
That an application was afterwards made to the commiffioners for hearing appeals under the authority of Congrefs ;
and after due notice tothe libellants in the original fuit, who
appeared and pleaded to the jurifdiction, flating not only the
defect of the authority of the court to fuftain the appeal under
any circumftances, but alfo fpecial reafons why the Appellant
was not entitled to the benefit of an appeal under the circumitances of the cafe (viz. the Appellant's waving the benefit of
his appeal to Congrefs, by taking an actual appeal to the
fuperior court of New-Hamp/jire; that the appeal firft demanded, was not profecuted for more than forty days ; and that by the
refolution of Congrefs, no appeal ifould be had from the' v.erdict of a jury, but only the fentence of the judge) The
commiffioners, on the 26th June, 1779, decreed that they had
jurifdiction, but declined any firther proceedings at that time
in the caufe, for a reafon they alledge.
That on the i2th September 1783, 'this cafe again came before
the court of appeals, eftablifhed under the articles of confederation ; which, after a full ,hearing and folemn argument by the
advocates on both fides, pa'ffed a dcfinitive decree in thefe
words, viz.

10

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

" It is hereby confidered, and finally adjudged and decreed by
" this court, that the fentences or decrees paffed by the infei rior and fuperior' courts of judicature for the county of
fo far as the fame have re" Rockingbam;, in the above caufe,
C lation to the property fpecified in the claims of EliJha Doane,

.75".

i' Ifaiah Doane, and james $bepherd be, anol the fame are

hereby revoked, reverfed, and annulled, and that the faid pro.i perty fpecified in the (aid claims, be reftored to the faid claim'I ants refpecively ; and'it is hereby ordered, that the parties to
i the appeal each pay their own coifs, which have accrued
51in the profecutiQn of the faid appeal in this court."
In this cqfe confiderable difficulty has arifen from the peculiar manner of pleading, which is faid to'be warrinted by l.cal praffice, buat which certairly has very much contributed
to ernbarrafs the queftion in the caufe, There is neither a
complete demurrer, nor, I conceive, a regular iffue; and it
may be deemed doubtful, whether what is termed a plea, ought
to be confidered as a plea or an anffwer, I had, therefore, at
firff firong doubts Whether there Was fufficient matter before
us to gro.nd a final decree: But upor refleaion it feems to
me, that as the cafe h.s been argued on both fides, upon a
fuppofition that a final decree could be made; as there has been
Ino application o1 either, for the examination of teftimony,
but the hearing took place without objeCion upon the pleadings as, they .tand, and confequently, we can regard the fa-s,,
only as ftated on the record; as an exprefs confent that the
caufe fhould be decided on this footing, would undoubtedly
have been binding, and the circumfiances in this cafe evidentl'
prove an implied one 1I think the pleadings as they frand, will
afford fufficient foundation for a decree, efpecially according
to thofe principles of pra&ice, which we are told prevail in the
flate from which this record comes-r-a practice m hich, until
altered, we undounbtedly ought to purfue, When itisnot f4lb
Ranaiall'y irconfiflent with JUAice..
Several objedions have been offered (admitting the validity
of the final decree, in refpect to the authority of the court upon the points then before them) which'I will confider in the
beft manner in mypower.1. It is obje.ed that the Appellant Doane was dead, before
the final decifton which 'was given in'September, 17S 3 ; and
this it is alledged, though not appearing on the face of the record, does appear from the letters of adminiftration produced
by the libellants, which leters are dated in February 1783.
%'

Admitting that the courts are bound to infped the date of
the letters, and to regard that date as conclufive, and to infer
the fad accordingly from it ; feveral anfwers have been given
.t'thi bjeaion; either of which, if vdid, is decifive.

.Th

SUPREME COURT

of the United States&

i. That the proceeding in queftion was a proceeding in rem,
and upon fuch proceeding in civil law courts, the death of a
party does not abate. I incline to think the law is fo, but as
my opinion is chtar on other points in anfwer to the objea-ion,
J avoid giving an opinion on this.
2. That admitting the decree for this caufe to be erroneous,
it can only be avoided by a fol'emn proceeding in the nature of
a proceeding in error' and cannot be enquired into in this collateral way.
Upon this point I am clear, that the decree was not render-,
ed abfolutely void, but muff ftand regularly good till reverfed
for this error,-If it be one. So the matter flood while the
court of appeals was in being. If the Appellees could hav"
avoided the decree for this error, they might have applied to
that court to have reviewed its decree upon this fuggeffion.
The expiration of the court is no reafon why the law in this
particular lbould be confidered as changed. It is true, in
many cafes where there has been error in a fuit, and this has
affe&ed the right of a perfon not a party, this error has been
admitted to be (hewn in a fuit where the point came 'collaterally in queftion. But it has never been permitted to a party
who might have fet afide the original judgment for error. I
fpeak now of proceedings at common law. The fame reafon.
I think, applies in this cafe. It does, indeed, feem reafonable,
that if one party can proceed in the Diftrict Court to enforce the
decree, the other party may to impeach it. But then this ought
to be done in the fame mode as in the other court, and that
for a very fubftantial reafon: J3ecaufe, when that fuggeflion is
the fole ground of enquiry, the other party may come prepared
to lhew many things to do away its force. He may (for aught
I know) be permitted to fhew a mifl-ake in the date of the let-'
ters. He may (hew an actual knowledge of the fact by the
other party previous to the decree, ano an acquiefcence in it.
He may poflibly (hew that the admiiiflrators were in fact before the court, though this does not appear on the face of the
proceedings, As the enquiry in this cafe is into a fact, perhaps any thing of this kind may be fhewn, and, if fo, there
furely ought to be an opportunity of doing it.
3. There feems great reafon in what was alledged at the
hW.r, that though it might have been competent for the adminifrrators, had the decree been againft Doane, to have (hewn
this fact for error, becaufe neither the principal nor they had,
any opportunity of fupportig their right before the court,
when the decree was given, the former being dead, and the
latter not being called upon, yet that it is not competent for
the Appellees, who were before the court, were heard, and
cannot alledge (had that been the fact) that they had fuftaine4

iny preiudice by their being hcard ex parte.

1795.
v
;

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795
L_1

It is a rule at common law (jhe retfon applies in equity
and other civil law cafes) that if a party can plead a fact, material to his defence, and omits to do it at the proper time,
he can never avail himfelf of it afterwards.
They had a day in court to plead the death of the Appellant. If they fay they did not know of it, the fame might
be alledged in any cafe at common law, where we know it will
not avail. The law rather chufes that a party fhould incur a
rifque of this nature, than leave a door open to endlefs litigation upon pretences, the truth of which it is very difficult to
difcover.
4. This is an error in fact, and, in my opinion, it was a
powerful argument, that if we cannot reverfe a decree even of
a Diftrict or Circuit Court for any error infafi, we have no
ground to fet afide the folemn and final decree of a court that
has expired, for fuch an error. The argument, in my opinion,
is altogether afortiori.
11. The death of Doane has been alledged for another pur.pofe.
It is faid, that the decree is to reftore to Elifla Doane, which
was impoflible, becaufe Elijha Doane was not then in being.
Admitting that upon this record we are to take judicial notice
that Doone was dead at the time of pronouncing the decree
(in which I am by no means clear) Vet if this was the real rea,ion why the Plaintiffs in error had withheld the property or
its proceeds, they might themfelves have-faid fo. They have
not. and as each party generally makes the beft of his own
cafe, we are to prefume that did not in fact conflitute their
reafon. In this cafe it could be of no avail, but at the utmoft
to prevent the allowance of intereft until a demand actually
*nade.
It never could deftroy the whole beneficial effect of a
clecree given in rem, and when the parties who mAke the objection were in court, and parties to the very decree complained
of. I think nothing. raR be more evident, than that if the decree be not totally void, the adminiftrators are entitled to the
benefit of it, at leaft until it is fet afide -for error, if there be
any error in it, and fiuch a remedy is now practicable. If a
/-irefacia;was nec!ffary before execution could have been obtained out of the court which pafFed the .decree,it could be
for no other reafon than that the other party mizht have an
opportunity to conteft the validity of the letters, anl the exiftence of the ad miniftration,, if any fuch objection could be fupported. Such an objection might have been made here. It
has not been made. There is, therefore, I conceive, no principle of law or juftice which forblids giving effect to the decree
0
-upon this ground.

SUPREME COURT of the Un;te'd

States.

103

III. Another objeion is, that the caufe was not regularly 1795.
brought up to the Court of Appeals, and proceeded on, agreeably to the refolutions of Congref6.
There does not appear any ground for this objection in point
of fact. But Iam clear that this is a point not now enquirable
into. When a court has final and exclufivejurifdiction in a
cafe, and has pronounced a folemn judgment, every other
court mufi prefume that all their previous proceedings were
right, of which indeed they were the only competentjudges.
IV. It is alledged, damages were not prayed for by the libel. It is a fufficient anfwer, that tere is a prayer for general
relief. And folittle do I think of this objection, and fo much
of the duty of a court, unaided by formal applications, where
there is a fubftantial one, that I am ftrongly induced to think,
if a cafe proper for a fpecific relief was laid before a civil law
court, and the direct contrary to the proper relief was prayed
for, yet the court even in this cafe would be juftified in granting the relief that might be properly afforded, if the party who
had committed the miftake confented to it : without that indeed
it might be improper, for no court ought to force a benefit on
aparty unwilling to receive it.
. Thefe objections being all got over, which wereurged againif
any relief whatfoever, it is neceffary to confider the particular
objections againft the relief actually afforded. And here, I
think , very fornmidable objections occur.
I think the decree erroneous in thefe particulats
x. In decreeing intereft for the time previous to the date of
the decree in 1783.
2. In granting full damages againft all the parties, without
diftinguifihing between the owners to whom one half was diftributed, and the agent who received the other half for the benefit of the offcers, mariners and feamen.
3-In making George Wentwortb, the agent, perfonally liable
for any part.
i.As to the firil point, as this libel proceeds only, and can be
fupported, as I conceive, upon no other ground, upon the
principle of enforcing the decree of September 1783, fo that
the Libellants might recover fuch benefit from it as the nature
of the cafe could admit, their care is not to be made better or
worfe, as to the original right, than as the Court of Appeals deided it.
The Court of Appeals might have decreed fatisfaaion for
deteUtion, but did not. They did not even decree coifs, but
ordered each party to pay'his 6wn coils. Thefa, things were
altogether difcretionary in the court. That was theproper
court to judge, whether any damages fhould be allowed for
detention. If the decree is to be final and conclufive as to th6
fubjed

104
1795.

k

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

"

fubjet matter, it muff be fo as completely in refpe( to the de
tention, which formed one part of the cafe, as to the re'foration, which formed the principal obje6t of it.
I fhould indeed have had fbme doubts as to the fubfequent

intereff, had it appeared that the Defendants had been unable
to comply fubftantially with the decree, owing to the death oft

Doane, and the want, (had that been the cafe) of a fubfeqiient
demaind by the Adminiffrators. But as that is not alledged,
and they fet up their whole defence upoj the point of right,
merely, we are not to prefume, that thofe circumflances (if

the Adminiftrators did not; make a demand, with refpc& to
which nothing appears) had any weight in inducing their noncompliance with the decree.

I am of opinion, that damages againft all the Defendants
1.
jointly, ought not to have b'een given. We are to look at
fubflance, not form. There were, in effe&f-, two decrees originally, one half of the value of the property to one party,
the othe-r half to another. The reverfal of the decree ought
to affect the decree itfelf, in the manner in which it was given
Confequently, each party ought only to be required to reffore
what he was adjudged to receive. The cafe of joint trefpaffos
flated at the bar, does, in my opinion, by no means apply.'
The privateer in queflion, had a lawful commiflion." In the
execution of fijch an authority, difficulties often arife. Where
they happen, bonafide, the mafier is confidered in no fault, and
neithcr he nor his owners made accountable, even in cafe of a
miffaken feizure, but for refforation, and, at the utmoft, cofes.
In cafe of grofs mifbehaviour, not only coffs, but damages will
be allowed by the court of prize. It feems now to be fettled
that they have exclufive jurifdiaion on all fuch fubjects. As
not even coils were allowed in this care, we are to infer that
the feizure was primafacie innocent; confequently, if a principle of the common law, deemed by many highly rigorous,
and founded, perhaps, rather on the forms of proceeding, than
on ffrict juflice, if thofe forms did not interfere, could be applied to a cafe arifing in a court, not only authorifed, but
bound to diffinguifh between a mere miflake, and a wanton
abufe of power, there is no foundation for fuch an application,
in fact, in the prefent inflance.
As owners are, in all inflances, made jointly liable ex contratu, and their refpective fhares are matters of private cognizance, fo that they, in all inflances, appear jointly before the
court, and a payment to one owner is, in law, a payment to
all ; I can difcover no principle, upon which any difcrimination
could be properly made in this cafe, in regard to the different
intereffs and actual receipts of the owners. I think, therefore,
the decree in regard to one moiety, ought to be jointly agairtft
all the owners.
3. The

iiitFtMk

oiip'i of the Ulnzted States.

i

3" The third error in the decree, in my opinion, is, rakfiave
ing George W'"entworth, ihe agent,'liable for any part.
had confiderable doubts on this fubject, btit upon the fulleft
confideration I have been able to beftow on it, I think he is not
liable. " Had he held any of the property, at the time of the
decree of the Court of Appeals, he would have been undoubtedly liable. Had he any now, or any of the proceeds in his
hands, he would alfo be liable. Perhaps fiemi'ght- had he heid
ny of the property or proceeds, after actual notice of th&
Court of Appeals taking cognizance of this cafe. Neither of
thefe facts appears on the face of the record$ and as they ae of
importance . and neither is afferted i neither is to be prefumed:
The contrary, indeed, may be fairly inferred from the flatement
on the record, and has been candidly acknowledged to be the
real truth. I-le therefore appears in the character of a mere
-agent, acting avowedly- for the benefit of others, and not for
a
his own; and as he had paid-away the money in virtue of a de
&ee of a court, haying pr-ima facie authority for the time, to
decide wlhether an appeal did, or did not lie; I think he ough
not'f6 be ordefed to refund. It is ailledged that the prayer of
in appeal, in a cafe where- an appeal lies, ipfo fql7o, fupends
the proceedings, aid all' afterwards igcorarn nonjudice. I canA
not admit the doctrine in that extent.' Where there are infe
ibr and fuperior juridictions, and an appeal is allowed from
the former to the.latter, and it is thd exprefs duty of the party'
inifance, to the inferior.
praying an appeal, to apply in the firft
Court (as I conceive it was in this cafe under the refolutions of
C6ngrefs, which directed an appeal to be prayed for within five
days, anfd fecurityto be taken) I muff prefume that that court
isprimafacieto judge whether it is applied for in a proper manner, and whether all the requifites previous to his being fully
entitled to it, are complied with. If the court decides in any
of thefe particulars erroneoufly, it would be abfurd to fay, that
the party iliould lofe the benefit of iis appeal, but, in my opinion, it would be equally unj'uff to hold, that a party who
obeyed tie decree of a court,, over whom' he had no controul,,
fhould fuffer by his refpect to the law, which conftituted that
court,. and which muft'therefore mean tu fupport its decifions,
in a caufecoming within its jurifdiction, while they remain uncontrouled by any fuperior tribunal. It was fhewnthat an inhibition, in cafes of this kind, fometimes at: leaft iffues to forbid
the court's further proceeding. Can there be a itronger proof,
(whatever may be faid as.
that the court.had authority de"fao
to its authority dejure) without.that interpofition !. The laW
never does a nugatory act, and therefore, I prefume, would not
forbid the doing of a thing, which if done, is totally and abfolutely void. It was faid, this was t6.bring the.judge into contempt.
P
Vol.. III.

i 95.

C.A5ss
1795.

ruled. 2nd adjudged in the

tempt. But if the conduct of the judge who is bound to know

hisjurifdiction is in the mean time innocent, furely anrobedience to him by a party, who is not to be prefurned capable of
deciding: on the jurifdiction by his own judgment, muff be fo.
George-Tentworth, on the face of the whole proceedings, was
a mere agent, an attorney in fafT, and for aught I call fee, a&

Iittle liable to refund in a cafe of this fort, as any attorney, in
fact, or even .n attorney 'at law, to whom mcney had been
paid under a judgment or decrce and who had paid it away to
his client. An agent in cafes of this kind, is allowed by law.
They are recognized, I beliere, in all prize aets. Mariners,
whoe employment is on the fea, cannot be required withoutinjuPcice to attend their cafes in perfon. In cafes of privateers,
the captors are fo numerous that tile employment of one or more
agents on Ihore, feems unavoidable. 'The law, when it allows a benefit, never intends that it fhall be imperfectly enjoyeJ ; therefore in allowing privateering, it allows agents. Thefe
I coni'der as nominal parties, and that the real parties are their
principals. Now I will fuppofe that in a common Taw cafe an
infant fues in a perfonal action by his guardian, and obtains a
judgment ; the guardian receives the money, and pays it to the
infant after he comes of age. The judgment is afterwards reverfed. Can the guardian ever be made to refund to the defendant, or muft the perfon who was the infant do it ? This
cafe appears to me a very parallel one in all its circumftances.
'File infant cannot a& for himfelf, and therefore is allowed to
ad by his guardian. The law takesnotice, by allowing agents,
ithat perfous concerned in privateers, at leaft, cannot do well
without them. The guardian is nominally a party; fo is the
agent : but the infant, in tle one cafe, and the principals, in
the-other, are the real parties. The guardian is accountable
to the infant, for money he received for him : fo is the agent to
the principal, for nionoy he receives. There is,' that I can
imagine, but one difference, that can be fuggefte4 between
them ; that in the one cafe, the judgment is good till reverfed;
and, therefore, all lawful ads intermediately done, are valid.
But the difallowance of the appeal, is faid to be a nullity, and
all fibfEquent proceedings in that court are void. .1 admit the
confequence, if the latv be 1b. But I have already ifated reafons, why I think it is otherwift. A court of juffice, indeed,
ought at its peiiil to take notice of its own jurifdidion, and it is
not often that cafes of fuch doubt arife, that a Judge can be at
But it may happen, and does fometimes
a, lofs on the fubje,.
happen, that innocent and ferio*us doubts, are really entertain-

ed. Is a court, therefore, becaufe its judgments may be finally dhqi rnted from, by a fuperior tribunal, to be couEdered as
flying in the face of the law, fo that parties befoxe it, ihall not
only

SUPREME COURT of

the United Stakes.

only be prote&ed in difobeying it, but punifhied for their obe- 1795
dience ? If this be the cafe, the old maxim, cedunt anra tog-,
,
will very ill apply to Courts of Juffice. Inftead of being the
peacefuf arbiters of right, and the facred afylum of unproteaed innocence, their very forums will be the feat of war and
confufion. I admit, indccd, where there is a conflict of jurifdiffion, and the party entitled to a decree, is prohibited from

obeying it, bya power claiming a fuperior cognizance, he muff
at his peril obey one or the other ; but this arites from the abfolute neceffity of the cafe, becaufe, whether the one or the
other be right or wrong, muff depend on a fubfequent decifion.
In this cafe, George TJentworth, before the diftribution, received no monition, or any other procefs from the tribunal alledged to be fuperior. He could not even be certain that the
Appellants would carry their application further. I confider
him, therefore, juftifiable in obeying the decree, which at the'
time, was compulfory upon him, and for a difobedience to
which, he might have been committed for a contempt, according to the opinion of the court which pronounced it. The
parties frill have their remedy againfl thofe who adually received the money, or their reprefentatives, if they can be found.
They may perhaps be entitled to a remedy under the bond gived, when the commiffion of the privateer was granted. If either of thefe remedies be difficult or inefficient, that does not
make George W'entworth, in point of law, move liable than if
they were perfeclly eafy, and clearly effe6ual. It will be one
melancholy inftance, in addition to a thoufand others, of the
diftrefs incident to a doubtful and imperfe6 t fyftem of jurifprudence, which has been fince happily changed for one fo
precife and fo comprehenfive, as to leave little room for fuch
painful and deftrulive queftionshereaftcr.
The 4 th queffion is,
Whether this court can now relify the dec:ee in refpca to
the parts of it confidered to be erroneous, or muff affirm or
reverfe in the whole.
The latter is certainly the general method at common law,
and it has been contended, that as this proc'eeding is on a wit
of error, it muff have all the incideuts of a writ of error at
common law. The argurnent would be conclufive, if this was
a common law proceedin, but as it is not, I do not conceive,
that it neceffarily applies. An incident to one fubjaa cannot
be prefumed, by the very name of -fuch an incident,' to be intended to apply to a fubjed totally difErent. I prefume the
term, ,' writ of error," was made ufe of, becaufe we are prohibited from reviewing fa6s, and therefore mufl be confined to
the errors on the record. But as this is a civil law proceedingc, I conceive the word " errcr" muft,be a' plied to fuch ercot

log
1795.
-

CsEs ruled and adjudged in the

rors as are deemed fuch, by the principles of the civil law, and
that in reffifying the error, we muff proceed according to thofe
principles. In a civil law court, I believe, it is the conftant
pradfice to modify a decree upon an appeal, as the juffice of the.
cafe requires ; and in this infiance, it appears to me, under the
24 th fe6tion of the judicial a(1, we are to render fuch a decree
as, in our opinion, the Diftri6t Court ought to have rendered,
If this was a cafe, wherein damages were uncertain, and
wherein for'that reafin, the caufe fhould be rewanded for a fi.
nal decifion, (which it does not qppear to be, becaufe the Libellants in the original fuit had a decree in their favour, which
is now to be affirmed in part) yet the damages here are not un
certain, becaufe we all agree, that intereff ought to be allowyed
from the date of the decree, in September, 1783,' upon the va.
lue of the property, as fpecified in the report; againt thofe who
are to be adjudged to pay the principal.
Upon the whole, my opinion is, that the decree be affirmed
ini refpe& to the recovery of the Libellants, in the original aption againif all the Defendants but George Wentworth; that
the libel againifhim, be adjudged tobedifniffed ; but that there
be recovered againf the other Defendants in the original affion,
the value of the property they received, as afcertainled in the
Circuit Court, with intt P from the i7th of September, I783,
I am alfo of opinion, "'Tiat the refpe ive partiesso
full
p4'Y
their own colts.
BLAIR,'ulJice.
When this caufe came before me, at R
eter, in ew Ha'npfire, I felt myfelf in a del icate eituatiop, iq
haviqg a caufe of fuch magnitudc, and at the fame title, of fi4ch
x!oveltyand difficulty, as to have drawvn the judgment of men of
eminence,' different ways, brotjght before foe for my fipgle de-,
cifi6n. It' was, however, a confolation to know, that whatever
that decifion might be, it was not intended to be fin'al, and I can
truly fay, it will give me pleafure to have any errors I may
have committed, corre&ed in this. court, Two points, ard, if I
miftake not, onl, two, were br6ught before me: The firf, whe-

ther under the def:ription of Admiralty and Maritim

jurif,

diffion, the judiciary bill gave to the Diftrit Court any jurif,.
4i&ion cqncerning prizes, . decided i, the affi'mative; and
the famke 4.ecifion having been afterwards m.de -in this co.rt,
in the cafe of Glaff, and others, I confider that as nlow fet.
tled. The other point, was, whether tho Court f Apteals,.
Creted by Congrefs, had authorby to reverfe the f:-.tenc.es gti-

ven in the Courts of Admiralty of the feveral S.tayes; and the
fource of the ol~je(tion upon this point, was tle. defea of auhoity. in the Cong;,s itfelf. Here, alfo, my fentence
a/rmeO
. "

IIn.
the )urfd&iI e tRded as diligently, and as impartially as . ould

SuPREM-E COVI-T of the United States.
to the arguments of the gentlemen, upon the prefent ocafion., 1795,
to difcover, if p fiible, how I may have been led affray, in the
depifion of this queftion ; but 4s the impreflion$ which my mind
firft received, coniinue uneffaced, (whether through the force
Of truth, or from the difficulty of changing opinions, once deliberately formed) I will repeat here the opinion which I delivered in the Circuit aiort, as the beA method I can take for
explainiijg the regfors upon which it wos founded. I would
premife, however, that it contais fomething relative to what
had been faid at the bar of the Circuit Court, butwhich I be,lieve wAs not rmentioned on' this occafion.
" The immediate queftion is, whether Congrefs had a right
to pxercife, by themfelves, by their committees, or by any regular court of Appeais by them eieftefd, an appellate jurifdiction, to qfirm or reverfe a fentence of a ftate court of Admiralty, in a queJlion whether prize or no prize. If they pof.
feffed fuch an authority, it muff be derivative* and its fource
either mediately or immediately thp will of the people; ufurpation can give no right, The refpopdents contend they had
io (uch authority, till the completion of the Confederation in
17$T, but only " recommendatory power; the Libellants infiff,
that Congrefs was confidered 4s the fovereign power of war
Pnd peace, refpe&ing Great-Britain, and that to that power
is neceflarily incident that of carrying on war in a regular way,
pf raifing armies, making regulations for their dif~ipline and
government, commiflioning officers, equipping fleets, grant
ijg letters 9 f marque and reprifal, the power (now contefted)
of deciding, in all cafes of capture, quefiions whether prize or
pqt and every power neceffarily incident to a (late of war. It:
is, at leaft, certain, that the political fituation of the American
(Volonies, required a union of council and of force, by wife
meafutes to bring about, if poffible, 4 reconciliation with the
mother-country, on a bafis of freedom and fecurity, or i if this
fbould fail, by vigorous meafurcs to defeat the defigns of their
tyrannical invaders ; and although this alone cannot fuffice for
an inveftiture in Congrefs, of the powers neceffary to that end,
yet if the powers given be delegated in terms large enough to
comprehend this extent of authority, but which may alfo be fatsfted by "a,tore limited confrrv&ion, the fuppofed neceffity
kr fuch powers given to a federal head (and the counfel for
the refpondents have admitted that it would have been good
policy) is vo contemptible atgument for fuppofing it a6lually
given. In the begiiining of the year 1775, our affairs were
drawing faft to a crifis, and for ome time before the battle o(
Lexingan' a ftate of warfare muff in the minds of all men have
been an expeaed- event. Some of the delagations (I think three)
year,
%fmeMbers to tbc 9 o.gref* which ruet in Ziay of that
Vontainz

CASXS ruled and adjudged in the
1795.
'

contain nothing but fimple powers to meet, Congrefs ; tht reff
exprefsly give authority to their delagates to confent to all fuch
further meafures, as they and the (aid Congrefs fthall think neceffary, for obtaining a redrefs of Americai grievances, and a
fecurity of their rights. It is not in all of them worded alike,
but in fubftance, that feems to be the fenfe. Every thing which
may be deemed neceffary ! I think it cannot well be fuppofed,
that in fuch a delegation of authority, at fuch a time, there was
not an eye to war, if that fhouild become neceffary. But it is
obje&ed, that at moft, no greater power was given to Congrefs than to enter into a definitive war with Great-Britain,
not the right of war and peace generally; and even that war,
till the declaration of independence, would be only a civil war.
But why is not a definitive war againft Great-Britain (call it
if you will a civil war) to be condu&ed on the fame principles
as any other : If.it was a civil war, fRill we do not allow it to
have been.a-rebellion-America refifred and became thereby
engaged in what flhe deemed a juft war. It was not- the war
of a lawlefs banditti, but of freemen fighting for their dearei
rights, and of men lovers of order and good government. Was
it not as neceffary in fuch a war, as in any between contending
nations, that the'law of nations Thould be obferved, and that
thofe who had the condu&ingof it, fhould be armed with every
authority for preventing injuries to neutral powers, and their.
fubjeas, and even cruelty to the enemy ? The power fuppofed
to have been given to Congrefs, being confined to a definitive
war againfi Great-Britain, and not extending to the rights of
peace and war generally, appears to me to make no material
difference; fRill the fame neceffity recurs, of confining the evil
of the war to the enemy'againfi whom it is waged. Till a
formal declaration of independence the people of the Colonies
are raid to have continued fubje&s to Great-Britain; true, and
that circumRifance itis, which denominates the war a civil war,
as to which I have already Rfated how, in my mind, the qu~ftion
is affe&ed by that circumitance. But it was afked whether, if
during the vinr, Great-Britain, at any time before the declaration of independence, had declared war againrf any nation of
Europe, that nation would not have had a right to treat America with hoffility as being fubje6d to Great-Britain? According to thlis fuppofition, Great-Britain might have had
fome temptation to declare fuch war that fhe might have the
co-opcration of her enemy, to reduce her colonies to obedience.
But Great-Britainwas too Wife to adopt' fuch a policy; flie

knew. that by herengaging in fuch a war, the, colonies, iriflead
of finding a new enemy to loppofe, would have known where
to find a friend ; they might have formed an alliance with fuch
a power, who probably would have confidered it as an acquifition,

SUPREME COURT of

the United Statet.

tion, and Congrefs might have been the fooner encouraged to 1795.
feparate from Great-Britain, by a formal declaration of.inde- t.P-y-.'d
pendence. As the fiuppofition that Congrefs was invefted with
all the rights of war, in refpect to Great-Britain, is of great
moment in the prefent caufe, and as the power may not be fo,
fatisfactorily conveyed by the inftructions to the feveral delegates as might he wifhied, partly becaufe fome of them did not
exhibit farther inftructions than to attend Congrefs, and partly becaufe the inftructions given to the reft, may be fatisfied
by a different conffruction, it may be proper to confider the
manner in which Congrefs, by their proceedings, appear to
have confidered their powers; not that by any thing of this
fort, they had a right to extend their authority to the defired point, if it was not given, but becaufe" in (hewing by
fuch means, their fenfe of the extent of their power, they
gave an opportunity to their contlituents to exprefs their
difapprobation, if they conceived Congrefs to have ufurped
power, or by their cc-operation to confirm the conftruction of Congrefs; which would be as legitimate a fource
of authority, as if it had been given at firif. If they were only
a mere council, to unite by their advice and recommendation
all the States in the fame common meafures (which, by the by,
if not uniformly purfued, might be difappointed) then the feveral members might be juftly compared to ambaffadors met in a
Congrefs, and could only report their proceedings for the ratification of their principals ; but Congrefs refolved to put the
colonies in a ftatG.of defence ; they raifed an army, they appointed a commander in chief, with other general and field officers ; they modelled the army, difpofed of the troops, emitted
bills of credit, pledged the confederated colonies for the redemption of them, and in thort, aaed in all refpe&s like a body
completely arm'ed with all the powers of war ; and at all this I
find nct tlie leaft fymptom of difcontent among all the confederated 4ates, or the whole people of America ; on the contrary,
Congrefs were univerfally revered, and looked up to as our poitical fathers, and the faviours of their country. But if Congrefs poffeffed the right of war, they had alfo authority to equip
a naval force; they did fo, and exercifed the fame authority over
it, as they had done over the army; they paffed a refolution for
permitting the inhabitants of the colonies to fit out armed veffels to cruize againft the enemies of lmerica; direded what
'veffels fhould be fubjeLI to capture, and prefcribed a rule of
.diffribution of prizes, together with a form of commiffion, and
inftruLtions to the commanders of private (hips of war : they
directed that the general affemblies, conventions, and councils
or committees of fafety of the United Colonies, ihould be fupplied with blank corarniflions, figned by the Prefident of Congref ,

112
i795.
Lowvyi

C'As't

rtiled and adjudge'd in the

grefs, to be by them filled up, and, de'lvered' tq any pdfroN i'lntending to fit out private flhips of war, on his etecutinga bond,
forms of which were to be fent with the commiffionA, and the
bonds to be re.u'rne'd to Congrefs. Thefe bond are givent to

the Prefident of Congrefs, in truft for the ufe of the Uni-eed' Colonies, with- condition- to conform to the commiffion and iryftru6lions. The cornimiffion, under which the' Captain- of the
refpondents, aaed, was oie of th-efe cmrimiffions, it feem' , only
this isattempted to be qu'alified' by faying that it was countctfigned by: the Governor of New ftampfnire ; but this
circumfiance feems to me to be of no hinportance. Whoever has the righ t of cormiflioning dnd inffru&ing , mufd
certainly have the right of examining and co troul'ing, of
confirming or annulling the a&s of him who aceepfs the"
c'ommiffioni and ads, under if. Arid' thi's dxercife ofauthority in granting coimmiffiuns feems- to have had'the fpecial fariction.of the feveral colonies, as th'ey filled up tie commiffions,.took'
the bonds, and tea'nfmitted'them to Congrefs, It vas urged iti.
theourfe of the argument, that ifCongrefs did enj)y the p6w:.
erf contended for; the confederation, whith was' a thing of fuci"
lmn'g and anxious expelarion, Was nbt of any confequence ; but'
it is to. be obferved, th'at that inrfrument cohtained Come important! porters which could not be derived ficm the right of war'
and peace ; it- was of importance alfo, as a confirmation of the'
powers claimed as neceffarily incident to war, becaufe fome o(
the flaces appeared not to be fenfible of, nor to have acknoWled'ged fuch incidency-; and yet the power my' have exiffed before. It is t
that
hue, inffrument is worded in a matinee, on.
which rome ftrefs has been laid, that the' feveral States fhould
retain,.thiei' fover'eigiitiesi and' all powers not thereby exprefsly
delegared To Congrefs, as" if they were, till' the ratification of
that compa&L, in poffeflion of all the powerg thereby delegated ;.
but it feems to me, that it would be g'oing too-far from a fingle
expreffi'on, ufediperhaps- in-a lbofe fenfe, to'draw an inference fo
coxwrary to a' known'fact; to wit,that Congrefs wasi with the
approbation of the ffareg, in-poffeflioi of fome' of the powers
there mentioned, which yet, if the word 'retain' be taken in fo
africt a fenfe,, it muft. be' fuppofed they never had. I take the'
truth to be, that the framers of that iriffru'rdent were coritemplating what pbwefs'-Congress ought to have had at the begirining ;. and that in reference to the firft occafion of tfieir aflembling to oppofe the tyranny of Great Brittain, at leaftin refer-'
ence to the time of framing the confederation,.fay, the ftates
fliall' retain. Put however that may be, as I faid before, I think
it is laying too great a ftrefs' upon-a fingle word, to contradict
fomne things which were evidently true.
But it-was faid, that New -aipfirehad'a right to revoke
any

SUPREME CoU'P:r of the United States.

any authority (he may have confented to give to Congrefs, and
that by her acts of affemblyhflie did in fact revoke it, if it were
ever given. To this a very fatisfactory anfwer Was made: iffhe
had fuch a right, thefewas htit one way of exercifing it, that iF,by
withdrawing herfelf from the confederacy ; while fhe continued
a member, and had reprefentatives in Congrefs, (he was certainly bound by the acts of Conu refs; I am therefore of opinion
that thofe acts of New Hamp~ire, which reftrain the jurifdi:tion of Congrefs, being contrary to the legitimate powers of
Congrefs, can have no binding forcei and that under the authofrom the Courts of Admiraltity of Congrefs an appeal well layz
ty of that State, to the Court of Commiffioners of Apoeals.
That Court has already affirmed their jurifdidtion in this particular cafe, upon a plea put in againfb it ; and upon that account, alfo, I incline to think that this courti not being acourt
of fuperior authority, ought not to call it in queftion. Under
thefe impreffions, I taule, of courfe, decree (whatever may be
the hardfhip of the cafe) that the Refpondents; pay to the Libellants, their damages and cofts, occafioned by not complying
with the-decree of the Court of Appeals, the quantum of which
to be afcertained by Commiffloners."
If the reafoning upon which I went, in pronouncing the
above decree, in favour of the jurifdi&ion ot the Court of Appeals, be unfound, and if the decree fland in need of fomri
better fupport, itwill probably find it in the confederation, by
which authority is given to Congrefs, to ere&l Courts of Appeal in allcafes; and from that time the authority of the court
of Appeals is confeffed ; the prefent cafe was then depending
before that court, they affeited their jurifdi6ion, and gave a final decree. As to the obje6tion, that previoufly to the confederation, Congrefs were themfelves fenfible, that they did not
poffefs fupreme hdmiralty jurifd.iaion, becaufe 6f their recommending to the feveral States, that they flhould ere6l Courts of
Admiralty, for the trial of prizes, with appeal to Congrefs, I
fee not how fuch recommendations can prove any thing of the
kind ; for Congrefs might have authority to eftablih fuch
courts in the refpe&lve 8tates, wben yet they chofe only to recommend to the frates to doit. But admitting the authority of
the Court of Appeals, and the propriety of applying to the
Diftrit Court of New Hampjhire, to inforce that decree in
the way of damages, for not refloring the vefl~l and cargo,
when through the difobedience of the prefent Plaintiffs in error, fpecific reflitution was become impoffible, yet if any thing
erroneous can be found in the decree of the Circuit Court, it
is the duty of this court to correa it. Itis bje~ed, that the
damages allowed, were too high, includirg intereft on the ap.preciatioa
.Q
VOL. II11

.

114

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

'1795. preciation of the Sufanna and her cargo, from fo remote a pe-:
Siod as the fale of the velhel and cargo.
That George W1/entvorth, being a mere agent, and having
difr ibted among thofe who were entitlcd, under the decrees
of the Courts of Admiralty of New HampJhire, all the money
byhim received for their-uf,., ought not to have been fubje~ted
by the decree of the Circu.it Court, to the repayment of that
money.
And that a lumping decree, fubjecaing the Refpondents inalthough,
diferiminately, to the payment of all the damages,
alfo erroneous."
their interePfs were feveral and diflin&, was
It does not, indeed, appear to me, that the decree is for the
payment of too large a fim, the damages having been fwelled by
interef&, calculated upon the appraifed value of the Sufanna, her
apparel, and of her cargo,froaa fo remote a period. The decree
of the Court of Appeals was merely for reftitution, and thatthe Appellants fliould be placed at that time in the fame fituation as they were in, previous to the capture. A compenfatio for the lofs they fufiained in being in the mean time deprived of their property, was not provided for in the decree,
nor were even cofts allowed. The libel in the Circuit Court
being bottomed on the decree of reverfal, fought only a compenfation in damages equivalent toa reftitution at the time of.
the reverfal : Intereft, therefore, ought, Ithink, -to have been.
allowed only from that tim'e.
. George Tentworth, it is -true, was not concerned in intereft;
hercprefented the intereft of the officers and feamen, but had
none himfelf; and a mere agent who has paid away all, or any
part of the money by him received in that chara&er, without
having been by a monition noti-fied of the appeal, will be allowed credit i1 his accourt for the money fo paid away. But
George T'entworth appears, I think, in another character befides that of an agent: he was a party libellant, as fuch he
knew that the Claimants were diffatisfied with the decrees of
the Admiralty Courts of New Hamplhire, having prayed an
appeal to Congrefs, and offered the requifite fecurity ; and
when the petition of appeal was referred to the Court of Coinniidioners, and they dire&td notice to be given to the parties,
who appeared before'that court, it feems evident that they had
notice. What then is the e-ffect of this ? , Was any this_ further neceffary to fufpend the decrees of the Statc Courts ? An
inhibition is, indeed, worded in a manner naturally leading to
the fuppolition, that that intfrument was ,eceffary to effe6t a
fupenfion; but this, I think, cannot be the cafe; for, it is obfervable, that by the pradicee, an interval of throe nmnths is
allowed before the inhibition is fued out, in which time, if nofufpended the fcntence, it might be carthing had antecedently
a,
FA
i

.SUPREivI

COURT of the United States.

ried into complete effie&, and every body be juffified in their 1795.
condud, as paying obedience to a decree continuing in full
force. The inhibition may be intended only as a more formal
dire&ion to ceafe farther proceedings, when yet they may have
been inhibited before: it has a fairther ufe alfo, for it appoints
a day for the attendance of the parties. Conformably to this
idea, it is faid, in Donat, that the a!/peal fufpends the decree.
But a diftinction is attempt 4 here ; it is admitted that an appeal allowed by the inferior court, fufpends, while an appeal
received by a fuperior court, is denied to have that effect. But
according to Domat, it works a fufpenfion, even againft the
will of the inferior Judge; and it would be very ftrange, if the
fufpending operation of an appeal, to a Judge who has 'an authority to reverfe, fhould depend upon the confent of the inferior Judge. But if the fentences of the State Courts were indeed fufpended, no perfon had authority to act under them
nnd if any do, he takes upon himfelf the confequencs. Befides, if George Wf/entworth had innocently and without notice,
diftributed the money which came to his hands, fhould not this
have been flewa to the Court of Appeals ? If thaf had been
dorne, perhaps after reverfing the decrees of the State Court,
inftead of decreeing reftitution, they might have only decreed
that the owiiers fhould pay to the Appellants, the moiety of the
fales by them received. But they have decreed reflitution fpeciically ; and if this court thould fo model the decree of the
Circuik Court, as to exonerate Mr. WPentwortb, as to the
moiety of the money by him received, it will fubftantially alter
the decree of the Court of Appeals ; and yet we fay, that the
decree now is to be bottomed on that of the Court of Appeals,
which is now to be fuppofod right ; and that for that reafon it
was erroneous in the Circuit Court, to carry intereft farther
back than from the period of reverfal, and in this way give damages, which were noz intended by the Court of Appeals.
The decree of the Circuit Court, appears now, I confefs, to
be wrong, in that it fubje&s all the lI fcndants, indifcriminately, to the payment of all the damages. In the original libel,
they had indeed joined, but it was in rightof feveral intereffs,
which I think ought to have been diftinguifhed in the decree;
juftice obvioufly requires this; fo obvioufly, that it' is enough
to ftate the cafe to obtain the mind's affent to the propri-ety of
diftributive damages, inflead of thofe which the decree con.
templates. I will only fay further, that I have no remembrance
of having had this point brought to my view at the Circuit
Court, and it certainly did not occur to mylWlC but if any
thing was faid upon the point, and 1, with deliberation, then
preferred the decree as it fRands, I am clearly now, of a different opinion. Upon the whole, I think the decree of the
Circuit

rx6

795.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

Circuit Court will fland as it ought, when corre&ed by rethe damages in the manner propofed, and when fo reduced, by proportioning them among the then Defendants,
according to their diftUha interefts.
CUSHING, .7flice.
The fa6[s of this cafe being already
fully flated by the court, I flhall go on to enquire, whether the
decree of the Circuit Court ought to be reverfed, for any of
the errors afiigned.
The firft is, that the Court of Appeals, which made the decree of refforation, had not jurifdlilion of the caufe.
In anfwer to this, I concur with the reft of the court, that
(he Court of Appeals, being a court under the confederation
of 1781, of all the lates, and being z-tcourt for" determining

Sducing

finally, appeals in all cafes of capture," and fo being the high-

eft court, the dernier rebrt in all fuch cafes, their decifion upon the Nrifdi&ion and upon the merits of the caufe, having
heard the parties by their council, muff be final and conclufive,
to this, and all other courts : to this, as a Court of Admiralty,
becaufe it is a courtof the fame kind, as far as relates to prize,
and without any controuling'or revifionary powers overlit; to
this as a court of common law, becaufe it is entirely a prizeinatter, and not of common law cognizance. The cafes,
therefore, cited to fhew, that the common law is of general
jurifditioii, and that the court of King's bench, prohibits,
"controuls, and keeps within their line, Admiralty Courts, Spi,
ritual Courts, and other courts of a fpccial, limited jurifdia,tion, do not, 'I conceive, touch this cafe.
It is conceded by all, that the. decifion of a court competent
is finail and binding. Now, if the Court of Appeals was, under the confederation of all thc Rates, a court conflituted "for
determinlng flieally appeals in all cafes

of capture," it was a

court competent; and they have decided. - Again; the Admiralty of England gives credence and fo'ce to the' decifionk of
foreign courts of Admiralty; why pot equal reafon here ?
It is true, the courts of coinmon law there, will not allow a
greater latitude to the jurifdi(1ion of foreign courts of Admii'alty, than to their own ; as it feems nat'ural and reafonable,
they flin~qld not; for infa'Fnce, holding plea of a contract'made
entirely at land, which feerms to have been the fubflantial
ground of a prohibition, in the cafe cited, refpecting the decree in Spain.
If the decree of the court qf Apeals muf- he confidered as
binding, as it muff, or there may never be an end to this controvcrFv ; that will carry an anfvwcr to* feveral other errors afI;gned, viz. the t ird, fifth, and feventh, refpecting the caufe.
pot being regularly before Congrefs or the court, and refpect-

ing the Circuit Court no; entat'

into the mcrits-,and to
fome

SUPPEME COURT of the

6)nited States.

fome other particular exccptions; as, that appealing to the
Superior Court of XAew-Hampfhire, was a waver of the right
of appeal to Congrefs : If that appeal was confiffent with the
refolve of Congrefs, which only provided an appeal to Congrefs in the laft refort, it was not a wavar. Again, it is faid,
there ought to have been a jury at the Court of Appeals ; but
that, clearly, was not the intent of the refolve of Congrefs, nor
of the Confederation, nor eorrefpondent to the proceedings in
courts of Admiralty, even where trials by jury are ufed and
accuftomed in other matters ; nor was it thought a proper or
neceffary provifion in the prefent conflitution, which has been
adopted by the people of the United States.
As to the original queftion of the powers of Congrefs, refpecting captures, much has been well and eloquently faid on
both fides. I have no doubt of the fovereignty of the flates,
faving the powers delegated to Congrefs, being fuch as were,
"proper and neceffary" to carry on, unitedly, the common defence in the open war, that was waged againft this country,
and in fupport of their liberties to the end of the conteft.
But, as has been faid, I conceive we are concluded upon
that point, by a final decifion heretofore made.
The 2d exception in error is, that the fentence of the Court
of Appeals was' void by the death of Mr. Doane.
That fact does not appear upon the record of the Court of
Appeals, and 1 think we cannot reverfe the decree in this
incidental way, if it could be done upon a writ of error. If it
was pleadable in abatement, it ought to have been pleaded or
fuggefted there by the oppofite party.
On the contrary, it is implied by the record, that Doane
was alive; otherwife he could not have been heard by his council as the record fets forth ; for a dead man could not have council or attorney. On the other hand, the letters of adminiftration imply that he was dead at the time; but thofe letters were
not before the court, and therefore could not be a ground
for their abating the fuit, if it was abateable at all for fuch
a caufe. Here fetus to be record againif record, as far
as implications go, and I take it to be an error in fad, for
which, by the judicial a&, there is to be noreverfal. Upon this
head, a cafe in Sir Thos. Raymond, is cited by the council for the
Plaintiff in error, of trover by five plaintiffs-one dies-thx
reft proceed to verdia and judgment-and adjudged error,.becaufe every man is to recover according to the right he has at
the time of bringing the adion ; and here each one was not,
at the time of bringing the adion, entitled to fo much as at the
death of one of the plaintiffs.
But a cafe in Chancery Cafes, p. 122, is more in pointwhere momey was made payable by the decree to a man that
was

1 95.

-08
1.795.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

was dead, and yet adjudged, among other things, no errof.
another matter, which feems well to rule this cafe, is, that,
being a fuit in rein, death does not abate it.
So fay fome books, and I do not remember to have heard
any to the contrary. It does not affed the juffice of the canfe;
it makes no odds to the plaintiff in errori whether the money
is to be paid to Colonel Doane being alive, or to his legal reprefentatives, if dead.
The 4 th exception, that damages are not prayed for, yet decreed, is anfvwered by a prayer for general relief.
The 8th exception is, that the Diftri& and Circuit Court
poffeffed not admiralty jurifdi6fion, and that the Circuit Court
had no right to carry the decree into execution.
If courts of Admiralty can carry into execution decrees of
foreign Admiralties, as feems to be fettled law and ufage; and
if the Diftri& and Circuit Courts, have admiralty powers by
the law and conflitution, as was adjudged and determined by
this court laft February, 1 think there can be no doubt upon
this point
Another qtefftion of confequence is, whether Mr. George
lJfentworth, being agent for the captors, and having paid over,
can be anfwerable jointly with the other libellants for the whole,
or, in any way, for any part. If it was-fimply the cafe of an
agent regularly paying .over, I fhould fuppofe he could not
juffly be called upon to refund. But it. feems he was an original libellant, a party through the whole courfe of the fuit; and
an appeal being claimed in time, at the court and term, at
which the libellants obtained the decree (of which, therefore,
he had legal notice) the appeal, if a lawful one, in my opinion,
fufpended the fentence and muff make him anfwerable for whatever monies he fhould receive under that decree, in cafe of re.
verfal : every man being bound to take notice of the law, at
his peril..
It is fuggecfed, that an inhibition was neceffary to tako off
the force of the fentence. An inhibition (according to the
form of one produced, which iffued in England laff July, near
four months after the trial and appeal at New-Providence inhibits the judge and the party from doing any thing in prejudice of the appeal, or of the jurifdiaion of the court appealed
to, and cites the party to appear and anfwer the party appellant,.
at a certain- time and place. The citation to the party to appear and anfwer at the proper time and place, I take to be the
inofr fubfiantial part of the procefs; the inhibitory part to be
rather matter of form, or in purfuance of the fufpending nature
of the appeal, and as a further guard and caution againft rifapplying the property. For it appears to me abfurd to fuppofe,
that an inhibition taken out feven or eight months after the
appeal

SBut

SUPREME

CO'URT of the

United States.

119 "

appeal (nine months being all'wed for the pnrpofe) fhould be 1795.
the only thing that fufpended the fentence, leaving the judge
below and the party, all that time, to carry the fentence into
compleat execution.
The judicial act in providing an appeal in maritime caufes
to the Circuit Court, contains no hint of an inhibition as necelfary to fufpend the fentence. Domat is exprefs, that an
appeal has that effe6q, and I believe other civil law writers.
The reje~ion of the appeal, if unwarranted, could not take
away the right of the citizen.
. There does not appear any thing adually compulfory upon
Mr. George Wentworth, to pay the money, except what may
be fuppofed to be contained in the decree appealed from, the
force of which was fufpended. All this matter might have
been offered at the Court of appeals, where the parties wera
fully heard, and, if-offered, was, iso doubt, involved in their
decifion.
It is faid, if I underflood the matter right, that there ought
tc have been a monition from the CircuitCourt to Mr. Went-worth, to bring in what he had in his hands.
I fee no neceflity for a monition exa&ly in that form. There
was a monition to come in and anfwer the libellants upon the
j uftice of the caufe, as fet forth ;-he came in anid had a~n opportunity to defend himfelf : and the queftion was, whether he was
anfwerable upon the circu-nftances of the cafe, which was determined by the court.
By the cafes in Durnford and Earl, as well as from other
books, it is clear that the admiralty has not only jurifdi&ion in
rem, but alfo power over the perfons of the captors and all thofe
who have come to the poffeflion of the proceeds of the prize, to
do complete juftice as the cafe requires, to captors and claimants.
But I cannot conceive why the decree of the court of appeals is not conclufive upon Mr. George J'entwortb as much as
u pon the 6ther libellants.
Again; it is objeL'ed, that the decree being for reftoration,
damag:es could not be awarded. The decree was not complied
with -:he thing was gone. How, then, could juflice be done
without giving damages?
Then the queflion is, how are we to underifand the decree
as joint upon all the libellants for thewhole, Mr. Geoige 'entworth included, or as decreeing the owners to reftore one halff
and Mr. George lWentworth, agent for the captors, the other
half ?
If the latter, which perhaps may be a reafonable and j Lif conftru6-[ion, conformable to the fpiritof the original libel, then
the Circuit Court is in that refpet erroneous.
A fle

CASES ruled and adjudged in the
1795. Alfo as to damages, I fuppofe, intereft ought not to have been
farther back than the decree. The only queftion that
remains, is whether this court can redify thofe errors, confiftently with the judicial a&. And I think it may, as there is fuficient matter, apparent upon the record, to do it by.
I agree. that each party bear their own cofts of this court.
Sallowed

By THE COURT. Ordered, That againft all the Plaintiffs
in error, except George Wentworth, fixteen thoufand three
hundred and fixty dollars and fixty-eight cents, be recovered
by the Defendants in error, and the fame fum againt George
W¢entworth ; and that againif the Plaintiffs in error the coIfs
of the Circuit Court be recovered, one half againft George
Wentworth, and the other half againfc the other Plaintiffs in
error; and that in this Court the parties pay their own coffs.

R

U

L

E

S.

SUPREME COuRTof the UNITED STATES,

February Term, 1795.

O

RDERED, That the Gentlemen of the Bar be notified,
that the Court will hereafter expec2 to be furncihed
with a ilatement of the material points of the Cafe,
from the Counfel on each fide of a Caufe.

ORIERED, That all evidence on motions for a difcharge of
Prifoners upon bail, fhall be by way of Depofition, and
iot Viva Poce. United States verfus Hamilton.

Ag0

