SI5P1rcME CowRt' of the United States,

37'
'797.

HAMILTON verfuS MOORk,

RROR from the Circuit Court, for the Diftrict of Georgia. Judgment had been rendered in the Court below,
for the Defendant in Error, on the i 5 th. of November 1796,
On the 2nd. of January 1797, the Writ of error was fued out,
and
live among thorn, exeiplified, as Grotius mentions, 2. c. u. n. 5. ia
the itiflance of perfonal arreft pra&ifed every where.
Whoever makes a contia: in any particular place, is fubje&ed to
the laws of the place as a temporary citizen.
Nor indeed are they fupported or juftified by any rea('on, in compelling oreigners to abide by the dccifions of the law where they happened to be', except on the gencral principle that the jurifdiffion ofa government is confidered as competent to the controul of all thofe, who are
within its limits.
Frvm thefe confiderations the following pofition arif'es, All buf-,
nefs and tranfadftions in court, and out of court, whether teftamentary
or other conveyances, or ats, which are regularly dotne according the
* law of "any particular place, are valid even where a different law prevails and whete had they been fo tranfaded, they would not have
been valid. Ott tne contrary, tratnfaitions and acts which are executed,
contrary to the laws ofa country, as they are void at firf never can
be good and validf and this applies, not only with refpect to thofe
who have their relidence in the place of the contract ; but thofe, who
were there only occalionally ; under this exception only, that if the
rulers of another people would be affeted by any peculiar inconvefiience of an important nature, by giving this effed to tranfaoiouis performed in another country, according to the laws of the place they are
in, fuch particular place is not bound to give effect to thofe proceedings,
or to confider them as valid within theirjurifdi'iott. It is worth while
to exemplify the principle by examples and inftances.
In Holland a laft will and teftament may be made before a notary,
and two witneffes : In Friezeland it is of no effeTct unlefs eftablifhed and
witnefFed by feven witncfles.
A Batavian makes a will in lolland according to the law of the place,
tinder which the goods, ituated and found in Friezeland are demanded
ought the Judges of Friezeland to grant the demand founded upon the
-will made in Holland ? The laws of Holland cannot bind the people of
Friczeland, therefore o decide according to the fir!c maxim, the will
would not be good in Friezeland ; but by the third maxim its validity is
fupporced, and by that judgment is given in its favour. But a Frilian
makes

372
1797.

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

and lodged in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court ; and
'it was ferved, with the proper notices, on the Defendant in error
makes a journey into HolInd, and there executes a wil according'to the
law of the place, contrary to the law of Friezeland, and returns arid
dies there : sthe will good ? it is good according to tile fecond maxim ; becaufe while he was it Holland, though but for a temporary purpofe, ie was bound by the law of the place, and ai aa good, where
done, ought to prevail every where, according to the third maxim, and
that, without any dititi&ion between moveable and imloveable etate, and fo the law is praitl\d. On the other hand, the Fsizian makes
his will in his owts country, before a notary, with two witneffes, it is
carried into Hollasd, and demanid made of the goods found there : It
will not be granted, becaufe uot made in a valid manner at firif, being
made contrary to Eke lawsof the plate. It would be th- fame liting if
the Batavian, was to make fuch a will in Friczeland, althoighin Hlolland it would have been good ; for it is true, that fuch a deed would not
be good in its commencement, for the real'ons juft fdated.
What we have faid with refpcL5 to wills applies equally to conveyances to take cffer during the life of tile grantor : Provided a coatraft
is made according to the law of the place, in which it is entered into,,
throughout, in court, and out of cofirt, iven in thofe places where fu'c
a mode of contraiting is not allowed, it will be fupported. For exam'ple: n a certain placet particular kinds of merchandize are prohibited,
if fold there the contra is void-but if the fame merchandize were
fold elfewhere, in a place, where thiere was not any prohibition, and a
fuit is brought in a place where they ivere prohibited, the purchafer will
be condemned and the fuit nittained, becatife the contraei was good ill
its origin, where made. But if the merchandize fold in anodler place,
Vhere they were prohibited, were delivered, the ptsrchafer would not
be condemned, hecanfe it would be coitrary to the law and convenience of tile government where they were fold, arid an aIioin would not
be countenanced wherever initituted, even to cosnpel the delivery ; for,
if on the delivery being made the purchafer'would not pay the price, lie
would he bound, if at all not by the contrael, but that having got tie
goods of another, it would be unreafonable that be fhould esrich himfelf at the expence and lofs of another.
The rule is equally applicable to adjudged cafes. A fentence pronuunced in any place, or a pardon granted by thofe who had jurifdiftiol,
-has equal effect every where. Nor is it lawful for the magiftrates ofanotiher commoa wealth, to prof-cute, or fiffer to be profecuted, a fecond
timrc, one who has been abfolved or paidoned, although witluti a ftfevident danficient reafon. Still however tnder this exception, that no
ger or inconvenience refult from it to tie other comn onv eal tli, as an
Indfance within ourown memory may exemplify. Titiu.t, having ftruck
a masn on the head, on the borders (wirhinthe limits) of Friczeland, who
the following night difcharged a great del of blood at thenofe, and, afterhaving fispped and drank heartily, died. Titius efcaped into Traifylvania. 1eing apprehended there as it appears voluntarily, lie was tried
and acqsitted, upon tlse fuggeftion that the mal did not die of the
wound. "This fentence was fent into Friezeland, and he applied for a difcharge from the profecutioti as having beei acquitted.--Athough the
manner of trial was not very exceptionable, yet the court of Friezeland
-was much difgufled at the idea of exculig the delinquent7 and giving
tw the foreign proceeditigs, al thisigls demanded by the Tr anfylvaiffe
nians ; becaufe the flight into the neighbouring government, and the
preteided procefs appeared too evidently calculated to elude the jurifdition of Friezeland ; which is the exception tinder tile third maxisms.
civil matters as
The fama principle-is vbfervwd in judgirients refpectftii
is

St&PRiMi COURT of the"United Statts.

S73

ror, upon the i4 th. of January I797 but the affidavit of fervice was not made till the May following; nor was the writ
'even tranfmitted, or returned, till the prefent Term.
Ingerfoll
is evident from the following ex'imple within our memory. A citizep of
Marlem made a contraftwith 6ne'in Groningen and fubmitted hsimfelf
to the Judges of Groniugen. Bhng cited by virtue of this fubmiffion,
and not appearing he vas cbndirnned, as contumacious. Execution of
thb fentence be ing demandled,"it wgs doubte whether it oughi to be
graiited in i Frizian ourt. The reafon of doubting was, that'by force of
the fubmniflion, if he was not found in theforeigu territory, they could not
proceed againft him as contumacious, as we fliall fee elfewhere ; nor
w.ithoit prejudice to our jurifdittion andalfo of our citizens, could effeft be given to fuch fentences. However it was allowed at that time,
certain magiftrates cotcurring, that it fhould not be permitted to thIo
Frizians to examine by what principle the fetence paffed at Groningen could be jufifid, but only whether it was valid according to
the law of the place. Others were governed by the following reafon,
.that the Magiftrate at Harlem on requ'eft had granted a citation which
he ought rather n6t t6 have done, and the Aninferdam magiftrate denies the
-eecution of the fentence pafled againft the abfeit, being cited to the
court of Friez'eland by an editt founded oi the terms of the fubmiffloft
and condemned without being heard, and that fuch proceedings ought
-not to affe& any one. With this opinion 1 concur, on account of the reitriffion contisined in the third axiom.
Again: It hasbeen made a queftion, -khether ifa contra& is entered into
at any fuppofed place, abroadand an a iion is commenced with us, and the
rule was different here, and there, either in allowing or denying the
a'ion, which law is to govern ? For inflance. A Frizian becomes a
debtor in Holfand on account of merchandize'fold there, and is ued il
Friezeland after tile expi:ation of two years; the a& of limitation is
pleaded which bars fucs alions with us after a iapfe of two years ; the
ereditor replies that in Holland, where the contraCt was made, fuch pre-.feription and limitation do not exift ; and therefore is not to be urged
agaifift hin in this cafe. But it was otherwife decided once between jtifice Bleckenfeldt againft G. Y. and again between John Jenollin againht
N. B. buth before the great holidays in 068o. For the fame reafon, ifa
deb'tor reident in Vriezelan'd executed an inftrument in Holland before a
sna,,iftrate xhich may there entitlehim toan executionlbut not bycommon
right, no execution can iffue here, but the merits of the original deThe reafon is, that affs of limitation, and
maand isuft be examined.
modes of execution, do not belong to the effence of the contra-t,
bit to the tim'e and manner of bringing fulits, which is a diftinct thing,
and thereftre, itis eftablifled upon the heft ground, that is entering
a judgment, the law of the place where it is rendered, is to govern, al. Tit. 12.
though, it refpeds a contra6t made elfewhere-Sandius B.
Def. S. where he fays that il the execution of a fentence given abroad,
the lawof the place, in which theexecution is aiked, is to governnot the
law of the place, where the judgment was given.
The contraft of matrimony is alfo regulated by the fame rules. If it
is regular aid'valid in-that place where itwas contraCted and celebrated, it is binding every where, inder the fame exception of not doing
prejudice to others-to which exception may be added, if incel flould be
permitted any where, or marriage in the fecond degree, which indeed is
fcarcely fuppofable.
In Friezeland matrimony is, when a man and woman agree to marry
and voluntarily take eacti other for mail and wife, although no ceremonyis perfo med.at church.

'1797.

374

1797-

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

Ingerfoll and Dallas,'for the, D.efendant -in error objected,

~ that a writ of error muff be profed of the Term preceding that
to
in lolland, matrimony cannot be conti'afted in that manner. The F rizians, however, without doubt, enjoy among the Hollanders the rights of'
married peop e, in the part icula's ofAtower, joiaIeure, the rights of children to inherit the property of their parents, &c.
In like marner if a Brabanter, wio 'lh6uld marry under a difpenfatioa
from the Pope within tle prohibited' degrees, ihoa!d remove her, tie
marriage would be confidered as valid : yet if a Frizian marries the
daughter of his brother in Brabant, and celebrdtes the nuptials there, returning here he would'not he acknowledged as a married man, behaufe,
in this way Our law might be eluded by bad examples, and this induces
me to make an obfervatioa upon this point. It orftetn Iapisens . that
young people defirous of formi .g improper connexions, and to fanftiott
their illicit intercourfe with the ceremony of marriage, go into Eal:
Friezeland, or other places, in which the confent of curators or guardians is not neceffary, to marriage, according to the Roman laws.
There they celebrate'marriage anrd prefently return to theircountryI think, that this is a manileft fraud or evalion of our law, and therefore
that the magiftrate! here, are not obliged by the law of nations to acknowledge fuch marriages or to hold them as valid ; efpecially with
refpe& to thofe, who tranfgrefs and evade their own laws knowingly
and ittentionaily. Moreover, not only, the contra& of marriage itfelfi
properly and regularly celebrated in -one place, is good in all places, but
the rights and incidents xwhich attend it where celenrated, attend it elfe:where. In Holland married people have a communion ofall their goods,
rnlefs it be otherwife exprefsly covenanted by them ; this will be the
effea, as to goods tituated hi Friezeland, although there marriage only
occafions a common r ifrc
of profit and lofs, not of tte goods thetafelves;
therefore the Frizians reomain after the marriage each one, both bufband
and wife, feparate owners of their goods fituated in Holland. When however the marrierl couple remove from the one flate or province to
the other, whatever is afterwards acquired or falls to either, is not it]
cotninon, but held by diflinct right, and what was before made common
between them, will be either in commoa or otherwife as they dire&
as Sandius lays it down who tells us, B. -. de is tit. 5. def. to. there
'was a difputc among the learned doors whether immoveable goods,
fituated in arother country, were to be affected ard regulated by the
rules as we have laid it down.
The reafon of the doubt was, that the laws ofone commonwealth,
cannot affect the integral Parts, the territory of another commonwealth;
-to this two anfwers may be given. Firft, That it cannot be done by the
immediate force and operation of a foreign law, but with the concurring
corrfent of tire fupreme power in the other government, which gives an
effect tOforetgn laws exercifed upon property whin its own juritdiction,
xvithout any prej Udicebeir1g received to its fovereignty.or the rights of its
Citizens, regarding the intual conenience of tire two nations or governments, whichl is the foundation of all thefe rules. The oilrer anfwer is, that it is not fo much by force of law, as by the confent of the
parties reciprocelhv communicating their riglrts to each other, by which
means a change, or modification of p.roperty may arife, not lefs from
Jnatrinlony than 11y otlher contract.
6
Tire place, howevc-, where the contra c: is entered into5 is not to be
exelalively coinidered : ifthe parties had in contemplation another place
at the time of tile co:rtr'ie.j,
the laws of the latter, wiil be preferred its
the cortilrulion of the cotraft.
Every one is eorifidered aS having conti'afed in that place, in which
lie bound hiinfelf to pay or perform any thing b. 2s. de. 0. & . and the
place where natrimony is c€outranted is not 'o much tho place where
the

SUPREME COURT Of

the United States'

375.

towIich it is made returnable; that a Term cannot intervene 1797.
blitw een the lifte and the returu,.
E. Tilghman
the ceremony is performed, as where they expe& and intend to live
and fettle. It happens daily, that men in Friezeland, natives or fjourncrs, marry wives in Holland, which they immediately bring intoFriezeland.
And if at the time of the marriage, they intended immediately to fettle in Friezelad, there ,vill not in fuch cafe be a community of goods. Although they make no fpecial marriage contra&anot the
law of Holland, hut of Friezeland, will govern: the latter, not the former, is the place of their eontraft.
There isa further applicatio of the refirijion fo often mentioned. The
entered into at any plane, will be allowed accordeffefs of a contra
ing to the law of that place, in othet countries, ifno inconvenience refulls therefrom to the citizens of that other country, with refpect to
the law which they demand, and the fovereignty of the latter plnce,
is not botted, nor indeed can it fo far extend the law of another territory. For example, the oldeft and firft hj.potktecation
(mnortgage)
of a move-.
able, is to be preferred even againt a third pofleffor, by the law of
ICefar, and in Friezeland, not among the Batavians; therefore if any
one upon iuch an Hypothecation proceeds to demand the article from a
third perf~m, he fiall not be heard, but his fuit rejected ; 6ecaufe the
right of the third perfon to that chattel, ihall not be taken away, by
the law of anotherjurifdiction or territory. Let us enlarge this rule to
the following extent :
If the law of the place in another government is contrary to the lave
-of our ftate, in which alfo a contra& is made, inconfifrent with a contract celebrated and made in another plaec, itis reafonable in fuch cafe,
that we fhould obferve our own law, rather than a foreign law. For
example :
In Holland, matrimony is contracted with this agreement, that, the
wife iall not be refpentfile for the debts cofitracted by the huband
only ; although this is a private contract, itisfaid to be valid in Holland, to the prejudice of the creditors, with whom the husband fhall afterwards contract debts, but in Friezeland fuch a kind of contract
*would not be binding unlefs publiflicd, nor would ignorance of the neceflity of making it public, be an excufe accoiding to the law of Cwfar
and equity. The hufband contracts debts in Friezeland, and the wife is
fued as jointly refpontible, and liable for one half of the debt : She
pleads her matriage contract-the creditors reply that this contract is
contrary to the laws of Friezela, d, becaufe not publifled-and this is
the rule with us, where the marriage was contracted hete ; as I lately gave my opinion wx'hen confulted upon the point. But thofe Nwho
contracted in Holland, and in whofe Favour the debts were contracted
these, were ton-fuited,-notwxishilanding their fNit was brotight in
Friezeland, becaufe, as tar as relpected them, the law of the place,
where the marriage was contracted, not the lao's of the two countries,
came into coniideration.
From the rules laid down in the beginning, the following axiom may
be deduced. Perfossal rights or'difabilities obtained, or communicated,
by the laws of any particular place, are of' a'tature which accompany,
the petfun wherever hc goes, with this effect, t sat in all places, he
either enjoys the i munli iities or exemptions, or is fIibject to the difabilities impofed by the law ofthe cotntry where, they at :any time happen td be, on characters afthat defcription
Thercftre, thofe wvho withtus are under tutors or cura tors) as young
ren, prodigals, married women, are every where reputed, as perfons
l'tbj
cct to curasors, and ,vhsatever the law of any place conliders as the
right or difabilities of perfonsoftthat defcription, they sisy fitfferexercife
iiasd
enjoy ; heace, liewho is excufed the cotnfequtettces of crimes, or
cottracts

CASEs

1797.

ruled and adjudged in the

E. Tilghman endeavoured to fiupport the writ, confidering
Sthe objeaion as founded on a mere error in form, cited 2 B1.
Rep.
contracts on account of his want of age, in Friezeland, cannot make
binding contracts in Hol land, and one declared, prodigal here, contracting
¢lfewhere, will not be bound. Again, in fome provinces, one ab,'ye.
the age of twenty-one years, may convey his real eft~ate; fueh a perfon may do the fame in tho'e places where twenty-five is the period of
full age; becanfe whatever the laws and judicial proceedings in any
pla e, decide as to their fubjects, other people allow to have the fame
effect with them, unlefs a prejudice or inconvenience, would refult to
them, or their laws.
There are perfous who underfland thefe perfonarl rights to the following extent, that whoever, in a certain place, is of full. age, or a minor,
i child, or put out of the controul of the father, will enjoy the fame
rights, and be fubje& to the fame difabilities, as in the place where he
became foch a charader, or' was f7o reputed - and whether the fame
1hing would, or would not, have happened in his own country, frill
that the fame confequeence necefillrily follows. .It appears to me, that
this is laying down the rule too broad, and would fubjedt us to a burshenfome inconvenienc by the laws of our'neighbours. Ara example will
snake the thing plain :A child not emancipated or exempted from the
power of his Father, and who has nor ceafed to be one of his family,
cannot make a will in Fre.lend. He goes into Holland, and there makes
a will-is it valid ? I think it valid in Hol/and, by the firfl and fecond
rules, that the laws regulate as to all thofe within its limits, noi isit rea fonable, that the people there, refpeffing a bufinefs done there, neglecting their own laws, fhonld judge according to the laws of other people,
bat that will would not be valid in Friezeland, by the third rule, becaufe
by that means nothing would be more eafy than to elude our laws, and
our citizens might elude them every day. Bnt in other places out of
Frieze/and, the will would be valid even where by their laws a child while
one of the Father's family could not make a will, becaufe there
the reafon would not applythat their citizen had gone toHohland to elude
their Jaw inJfaudemt Iegis.
The example I have given refpet ls an a& prohibited at home on account ofa. perfonral difability.-Wc will give another ad allowed at
home,.but prohibited abroad, where done ;-fome time tince decided in
onr Supreme Conrt-Rud/ph Monferna aged 17 years and 14 days, was
born, and lived at Groniqgen, after that lie went abroad to learn the bulitiefs ofa Druggifl, he made a wil I, which he might have made in Fricr/'ard,.
but at Grj-ningr, f ays D. Nauta tie Reporter, it is not law ful for an infant
to make a will under 20, or i10he time of his laft illmnfs I or for more than
half his patrimtrny. The young man died of that tirkicfs leaving his Fatfher his heir, and leaving nothing to his Muthcr's relations, who contended
that the will was void as madeagainift the law of the place. The. heirs infilled that a perfonal quality accompanies the perfon every where, and,
as herorild have made this will at home, lie could make it abroad.,
JILsn it was dtccidetl -painf he will, ahbtru'Ih there sas no intention to
avoid the law, but tie judgment was t-ot uiriverfally approved Nauta
hiimfelf diffenting. Al S. 534. -1n. 1643. d' 27. Ok,.The fourationi of-all thJ dodtrine we have faid, and we infift upon
it, is Ite fuhjeftion that men owe to the laws of every conniry withilii
which they arc at any'tirne ; from, whence it frllows, that ar ac valid or
void, in its beginning, and where it fir f takes place muft be the farnie
el fe urhere.
But this obfrrvation does not apply equally to immoveable property,.
lince it is contrlerqd
ot as depending alhogethcr upon the difpofitiot ofevery mailer tr, owner of a far,mily---bs
the Commonweahlx

QL(
Xca"

•SVPREM

E C0R T

of the United States.

377

Rep. 9r8. 2 L. Rqym. =269. Judirial4A1f 32.. 1 o. p. 72.
But, THE COURT obferved, that there was no error in point
of fa& ; nor any clerical error'to amend. Thewrit bears the'
date when it was 'aually fued out and lodged in the office:
there is, therefore, nothing o.n tth record, by which it canbe
amended; add the obje
ni6ri
is fatal.
.
The Vrit of Error was, therefore, nohi-proj'ed

1797"

affixes certain rights as refulting from real property,, and is interefted in
its difpofal ; nor could a nation without a grtat inconvenience fuffer its
real property to be cornveyed with thefe incident rights, by the laws of
arothercountry, and c onnary to its own 1aws-thereforc a Flifan having
fields and boufes firtle proyice of Groningen, cannbt make a will difpofing of them, becaufe it is prolibited there to make a will of real eftate ;
the Fifialaw not affeing lands -which conftitute integral parts of a
foreign territory.
But this does not contradif the rule, that we have before laid down,
that ifa will is made accordingly to the ceremonies of the place, where
the Teltator refides, it.will bc good with refpeft to his property in another country, if a will could be made there, becaufe the divertity of laws
in that refpeft does not affea the foil, but !dire&s the hsainer of making
the will,which, being rightly done, may pals real eftate in anothercoltnrry, fo far as may not interfere with any incidents, connte&ed with the
ownerflip ofreal property in the country where it is fittuated. This rule
tukes place in common conveyances-things annexed to the freehold in
F,ietehand, fold in Hotland, in a manner prohibited in Frieieland,but allow-'
ed iri Iol/,vd, are well fold-corn growing in Friezelandis fold in It/Iandac.
Cording to the Laflsas it is called, the fales are void, becaufe it is prohibited inFreizeland, whether prohibited in Holland or not) becaufe it is annexcd to the freehold, and is a part of it.
,
. , ,
The fame rule held with regard to the fuccefflon to an inteftate eftate.
-If
the deceafed was Father ofa family, whofe property was in different provinces, as far as refliets the real eftate, it would defecend according to the laws of the place where iituated ; but with refpea to the per-.
fonal. property, it would go according to the law of the place where the
inteftate lived, and of which he -whsah innlabitant-for whicla fee Sandwur
Ill-, 4. Decis. Tit. 8. D~f. 7"
Thefe obfervation's are of a nature that require more full explanation
feein g there are not wanting writers, who think otherwife in tome particulars, whrom you will fee refpe&lfully fpoken ofby Sandium in hi'
reports of caufes ; to which add Rodenbergius treatife oflaws, in the titld
of the Marriage Contra&."

AUGUST TERM,-i
RULE.

fT

79

7.

is OkDhREIi, nt THE CouR T, That no Record of the

Court fhiali be frffered by the Clerk to be taken out of
his office, but by confent of the COURT ; otherwife he is

to be refionfible for it.
VOL, 1IL

CC

February

