ruled and,ajudged in the

'34ts;s,
7.97..

~

haye b.eei .a eryice of.the p.ocefs, conformably.to.the rAle,.without leaving a copy at the ,Governor's houfe: but they agreed
wih the refl of THE COURT, in deeming the fervice, under
the prefent circumftances, to be fufficient in ftritnefs of conflruffion, as well as upon principle.
-The fervice of the fubpoena being thus proved, the Complainant -was ntiea to proceed ex parte; and,, accordingly, moved for and obtained Commiffions, to 'take the examination
of witneffes i 'feveral of'the' States.

CLERKE Plaintiffin Error v'erfus HAR'WOoD.-

''HIS was a writ of Error t6 the'Wigh Court of Appeals, of
. the State of'cZiaryland,.'to remnove the proceeaings in a
eaufe, involving a conftru&ion of the treaty of peace between
the United States and Great Britain,which that Court ha'd de,
cided agajnft the title claimed under the Treaty, by rev erfing
and annulling a previous judgment given in the General Court
of the State, in fayor of the claim. The only obje&ien arifing
On the record, was-whether a paper morey payment ofa BritidA debt into the treafury of Maryland,during the war, by virof a law of the Rate) was a bar to the creditor's recovery at this
jime , And the rolemrn adjudication in Ware vs.' Hylton er al. ant.
p. 99, having fetfl.ed .hat point, )?allas,' for the Defendant in er,
ror, fvbmitted the cafe, without argument, to theCourt, who, in
general terms, reverfed the judgment of the High Court of Appeals, .nd affi,-med the judgment of the Generai court.

It

to wit, the lawful interefl of' the State of Rhode Itfland, being fix per
centuin per annum, on the balance in the hands of the Marflital of the
faid diftri&, and alro. on the fum of eight hundred-dollars awarded as

damages by the faid Circuit Court, to be computed from the 25 th of
June, 1796, the date of the faid decroe.
SiI dekhi

ASHER ROBBTNS,
PETER S. DUPONCEAU.
6th Fbroay, 179 t,

Of Counfe/ witk
the Defndats.

SUPR~kE* COuRiT of the Unit'ed taies.
It then became a quefton, to which of the State Courts the I797'.
Mandate fhould be fent, and what coils fhould be, allowed.
E. and WV. 7'ilghman, for the Plaintiff in error, contended,
that the judgment of the Court of Appeals- being reverfed, it
was to be regarded as if it had never exifted ; and that, therefore, the mandate muff iffue to the General Court, whofe judgment was to be carried into efFed. They infifted, alfo, that the
cofts in both the Courts of Mary1land, and in this Court, thould
be allowed.
Dallas, on the other fide, Rated, that by the 25th. fe&ion of
the Judicial A&, the writ of error was to have the fame effe6l
in this cafe, as if the judgment, or decree, complained of, had
beenrendered or paffed in a Circuit Court, and that the proceeding upon the reverfal was alfo to be the fame, except that
after once being remanded, this Court may proceed'to a final deifion,.'and award execution. In the cafe, then, of a reverfal.of
a Judgment of the Circuit Court, the 24 th, fedion of the Judicial Act provides, that on reverfals in the Supreme Court,
they fhall proceed" to' render fuch ju'dgment, orpafs fuch Decree,
as the Inferior Court fhould lave done; and fhall fend a fpecial mandate to the Circuit Court to award execution thereupon. If,. therefore, the Decree of a Circuit, reverfing the
Decree of a Difirict, Court, were reverfed, the mandate would
be fent to the, former, and not to the latter, and' by a parity of
reafoning in the prefent infilance, the writ fhould be fenf to the
Court of Appeals, and not to the General Court. The confiructibn feems to be ftrengthened by that part of the 25 th. fection,.which contemplates, that the caufe might be remanded to
the State Court more than once ;-as, it is not probable, that
the (Court whofe judgment is affirmed, would require a fecond
order'; andit is furely proper, that the Court, whofe judgment
isreveifed,.fhould be apprifed of the event. Astocoffs,Dallas
contended, that at leaft the cofts of the Court, whofe judgment
was in favor of the Defendant in Error, ought'npt to be charged- againff him.
But, BY THE CouRT:-The judgment of the Superior
Court of Marylandbeingr'everfedi it has become a mere nullity ; and coils muff follow the right as decided here.
Let the Judgment of'the General Court be affirmed; let the
cofs in the Courts of Marylandi and in this Court, be allowed
to the Plaintiff in error ; and let the mandate for execution iffue
to the General Court.

