CAs.Es ruled and adjudged in the "

1798.

Augufl Term, 1798.-

CALDER et 'WIFE, vrfJus BULL et

WIF9.

N error from the State of Gonne5icut. The caufe was argued at the laff term, (in the abfen ce of THE CHIEF 'JUSTICE) and now the court delivered their opinionsferiatim.
CHASE, uftice. The decifiori of one queftion determines
.(in my opinion) the prefent difpute. I fhall, therefore, flate
from the record no more of the cafe, than I think neceffary for
the confideration of that queffion only.
The Legiflature of Conneticut, on the 2d Thurfday of May
1795, pafld a refolution or law, which, for the reafons affigned, fet afide a decree of the court of Probate for Harford, on
the2ift of. March 1793, which decree difapprovedof the will
of Normand Morrifon (the grandfon) made the 21ff of Augi /t
1779, and refufed to i-ecord the faid will ; and granted a new
hearing by thefaidCourt of Probate,with liberty of appeal therefrom, in fix months. A new hearing was had, in virtue of this
refolution, or law, before thefaid Court ofProbate, who, on the
2 7 th ofJ7uly 1795, approved the faid will, and ordered it to be
recorded. At August 1795, appeal was then had to thefuperior
courtat Hlarford,who at February term 1796, affrmed the decree of the Court of Probate. Appeal was had to the Supreme
Court of errors of Conneoicut, who, in june 1796, adjudged,
thatthere were no errors. More than 18 months elapfed from
the decree of the Court of Probate (on the ift of March
1793) and thereby Caleb Bull and wife were barred of all right

of

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

of appeal, by a ffatuteof Connel-icut. There was no law of that

State whereby a new hearing, or'trial, before the faid Court of
Probate might be obtained., Calder and wife claim the premifes in queffion, in right of his wife, as heiref 'ofN. AIorrifor, phyfician; Pull and wife claim under the.will of X Morrion, the grandfon.
The Council for the Plaintiffs in 'error, contend, that the
faid refolution or law of the Legiflature of Conneticut, granting
a new hearing, in the above cafe, isan ex postfaato law, prohi-.
bited by the Consitution of the United States; that any law of

the Federal government, or of any of the State governments,
contrary to the Constitution of the United State, is void; and

that this court poffeflles the power to declarefuch law void.
It appears to me a elIf-evident propofition, that the feveral
State Legiflatures retain all the powers of legij7ation, delegat-.
ed to them by the State Conifitutions ; which are not EXPRESSLY taken away by the Contitution of the United States. The
eftablifhing courts of juftice, the appointment of Judges, and
the making regulations for the adminiftration ofjuflicee within
each State, according to its laws, on allfubjects not entrusted to
the Federal Government, appears to me to be the peculiar and
exelufive province, and' duty of the State Legilatures: -,ll!the
powers delegated by the people of the United States to the Federal Government are defined, and NO CONSTRUCTIVE poW-.

ers can be exercifed by it, and all the powers that remain in the
State' Governments are indefinite ; except only in.the'Conftitution of

Iaffacbufetts.

The elfect of the refolution or law of Connecticut, above
a decifion of one of its.Inferior Courts, call'
iated is to revfre
ed the Court of Probatefor Harford,and to dire& a new hearing of the cafe by the fame Court of Probate, that paffed the
decree againfl the will of Normand Morr/ion. By the existing law of Connecticut a right to recover certain.property had

veiled in Calder and wife (the appellants) in confequencee of a
decifion of a court of justice, but,, in virtue of a fubfequent refolution or law, and the new hearing thereof, and the decifion in

confequence, this right to recover certain property was divefted', and the right to the property declared to be in Bull and
wife, the appellees. The Jole enquiry is, whether this refolution or law of Connecticut, having fuch operation, is an ex post
facto law, within the prohibition of the FederalConfLitution .

Whether the Legiflature of any of the States can revire and
corred by law, a decifion of any of its Courts of Juffice, although not prohibited by the Conftitution of the State, is a
.queftion of very great importance, and not neceffary Now'to
be determined ; becaufe the refolution or la in question does not
gofo far. I cannot fubfcribe to the omnipotence of a State
Legiflatures

17,98.

383
1798.

k

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

Legi/lature, or that it isabfoluteand without controul;although

its authority fhould not be exprfsly reftrained by the Conititution, orfundamental law, of the State. The people of the Uni-

ted States ereded their Conflitutions, or forms of government,
to eftablifhjuftice, to promote the general welfare, to fecure
the bleffings of liberty; and to. proted their perfons and ,property from violence, The purpofes for which men enter into
fociety will determine the nature and terms'of the focial com-:
pa&; and as they are the foumdation of the leg~/lative pdwer,
they will decide what are the proper obje's of it : The nature,
and ends of legi/lative power will limit the exercife of it, This

fundamental principle flows from the very nature of our free
Republican governments, that no man fhould be compelled to
do what the laws do not require ; nor to refrainfrom acts which
the laws permilt. There are ads which the Federal, or State,
Legiflature cannot do, 'without exceeding- 'their authority.
There are certain vital principles in our free Republican governments, which will determine and over-rule an apparent and
flagrant abufe of legif7ative power,; .s to authorize manifest
injustice by pofitive law ; or 'to take away, that fecurity for
perfonal liberty, or private property, for the protedion whereof the government was eftabliffied. An ACT of the Legiflature (for I cannot call it a law) contrary to the greatfirstprinciplesof thefocial compact; cannot be confidered a rightful exer-

cife of legylative atuthority.

The obligation of. a law in go-

vernments eftablifhed on exprefs compact, and on republican
principles, muft be determined by. the nature 6f the power, on
Which it is founded, A few inifances will fuffice to explain

what I mean. A law that punifhed a citizen for an innocent
adion, or, in other words, for an a&, which, when done, was in
violation of no existing, law ; a law that deftroys, or impairs,
the lawful private contra&s of citizens ; a law that makes a
man a Jude in his own cazfej or a law that takes property

from A. and gives it to B: It is agninfL all reafon and juflice,
for apeople t3 entruft a Legiflature with sOcn powers ; and,
therefore, it'cannot be prefumed that they have done it. The
g.enius, the nature, and the fpirit, of our State Governments,

anount to a prohibition of fich acts of legiflation ; and the
deneralprinciph'sof law and reafon forbid them.

The Legif-

lature may enjoin, permit, forbid; and punifh; they may declare
new crimes ; and eftablifl rules of condud for all its citizens
in future cafes ; they may command what is right, and prohibit
what is -wrong ; but they cannot change innocence into guilt
or punifh inno:ence as a crime ; or violate the right of an antecedent lawful private contract ; orthe rigtofprivateproperty.

To maintain that our Federal, or State, Legiflature poffeffes

ficb powers, if they had not been exprefsly refirained ; would,

SUPRIEME COURT

of the United States.

in my opinion, be a political herejy, altogether inadmiffible in .1798.
our free republicangovernments.
ALL the rieitridions contained in the Conftitution of the
United'States on the power of the State Legiflatures, were provided in favour of the authority of 'the Federal Government.
The prohibition againfit their making any ex postfacto laws was

introduced' for greater caution, afid very probably arofe from
the knowledge,

that

the 'Parliament of Great Britain.

claimed and exercifed a power to pafs fuch laws, under the
denomination of bills of attainder, or bills of pains and penalties; the first infliding capital, and the other left, punifl-,
ment. Thefe aabs were leg;/lative judgments; and an ex-

erc fe of judicial power. Sometimes they refpeded the
crime, -by declaring adts to be treafon, which were not treafon,
when committed;* at other times, they violated the rules of
evidence (to fupply a deficiency of legal proof) by admitting.
one witnefs, when the exi/ling law required two; by receiving
evidence without oath; or the oathof the wif" againft the buf-.
band; or other teftimony, which the courts of juftice would
not admit;t at other times they inflided puniflments, where,
the party was not, by law, liable to any punihment ;+ and in
other cafes, they inflided greaterpunifhme'nt, than the law annexed to the offence.1--Tbe ground for the exercife of fuch
legilative power was this, that thefafety of the kingdom depended on the death, or other punifhment, of the offender: as
if traitors, when difrovered, could'be fo formidable, or the governmeiitfo infecure ! Vith very fewexceptions, the advocates
.offuch laws were ftimulated by ambition, or perfonal refentment, and vindi&ive malice. To prevent fuch, and fimilar,
ats of violence and injuftice, I believe, 'the Federal and
State Legiflatures, were prohibited from patling any bill of
attainder; or any'ex pofl falo law,
The Conflitution of the United States, article I, fedtion 9,.
prohibits the Legiflature of the United States from pafling any
ex poflfal7o law ; and, in fedion io, lays feveral reftridions
on the authority of the Legijiatures of the feveraljlates ; and,
among them, " that no ftate'fhall pafs any ex poJlfaato law."
It may be remembered, that the legiflatures of feveral of the
fRates, to wit, Maffacbufetts, Pennfylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and North and South Carblina, are exprefsly prohibited, by their ftate Constitutions, from pa'fling any ex post

faelo law,

I fb~al!

1 The cafe of'the Earl of Strafford, in 1641.
- The cafe of Sir John Fenwick, in 16c)6.
f The banithiment of Lord Clarendoc;, .669 (i9 Ca. 2. c. io.) and of
the Biflop of Atterbury, in 1723, (9 Ge'o.r. c. 17.)
fl The Goventry act, ia 1679, k2a & 23 Ca'. 2 c. I.)

-

390

1798.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

I fhall endeavour to fhew what law is to be confidered'an
ex postfae7o law, within the words and meaning of the prohi,
bition in the Federal Contitution. The prohibition, " that
no itate fhall pafs any ex postfat7o law," neceffarily requires
fome explanation ; for, naked and without explanation, it is
unintelligible, and means nothing. Literally, it is only, that
a law Ihall not be pafed concerning, and, after the fat, or
thing done, or ai~ion committed. I would afk, whatfal; of
what nature, or kind.; and by whom done.? That Charles ist,
king of England, was beheaded ; that Oliver Cromwell was
Prote&or of England; that Louis I6th, late King of France,
was guillotined; are allfaltsl thathave happened; butit would
-be nonfenfe to fuppofe, that the States were prohibited from
making any law after either of thefe events, and with reference
therete. The prohibition, in the letter, is not to pafs any
law concerning, and ajter thefafl; but. the plain and obvious
meaning and intention of the prohibition is this ; that the Legi/latures of the fiveral stat's, /hall not pas laws, after-afad.
done by a fubjeI7, or citizen, which Jhall have relation to fuch
fact, and Ihall'punih him for having done it. The prohibition confidered in this light, is an additional bulwark in favour of the perfonal fecurity of the fubjed, to proted his
perfon from puni/hment by legi.jative acts, having a retrofpective operation. I do not think it was inferted to fecure the
citizen in his private rights, of either property, or contracts.
The prohibitions not to make any thing but gold and filver
coin a tender in payment of debts, and not to pafs any law impairing the obligation of contra6s, were inferted to fecure
private rights ; but the refariction not to pafs any ex post facto
law, was to fecure the perfbn of the fubjea from injury, or
punijhmont, in confequence of fuch law.' If the prohibition
againft making exipostfacta laws was intended to fecure perfonal rights from being affeaed, or injured, by fuch laws, and the
prohibition is fufficiently extcnfive for that obje&, the other
reftraints, I have enumerated, were unneceffary, and therefore
improper ; for both of them are retrofpective.
I will ffate what laws I confider ex post facto laws, within
the words and the intent of the prohibition. ift. Every law
thatmakes an adion done before the paring of the law, and
which was innocent when done, criminal; And punifhes fuch
action. 2d. Every law that aggravates a crime, or makes it
greater than it was, when committed. 3d. Every law that
changes the punilhment, and inflicts a greater pun;hehent, than
the law annexed to the crime, when committed. 4th. Every
law that alters the legal rules of evidence, and receives lefs,
or different, teftimony, than the law required at the time of
the commiflion of the offence, in order to convict the offender.

Alt

SUPRPME" COURT

of the United States.

All thefe, and' fimilar Jawsl are manifeftly unjust and oppreffive.
In my opinion, the trie diffindion is between ex post fdcto
laws, and retrofpectivi lawi. Every ex post facto law muft
nece"ffarily be retrofpective; but every reirosfpective law is not

an ex postfato law: The former) only, are prohibited. Eve.
ry law ihat takes away, or impairs, rights vested, agreeably to
exifting laws, is retrofpedive, and is generally unjuft, and
may.be oppreffive; and it is a good general rule, that a law
fhould have no retrofpect : but there are cafes in which laws
may. Jufly, and for the benefit of the community, and alfo of
individuals, relate. to a time antecedent to their commencement ; as flatutes of oblivion, or of pardon, They are certainly retrospective, and literally both concerning, and after, the
facts committed. ' But I do not confider any law ex post facto,

within the prohibition, that mollifies the rigor of the criminal
law; but only thofe that create, or aggravate,the crime; or

encreafe the puniflhment, or change the rules of evidence, for,
the purppfe of conviction.

Every law that is to have an ope-

ration before the making thereof, as to commence at an ante; or to fave time from the Itatute of limitations ; *or
time
cedent
to excufe
ads
which were unlawful, and before committed,and
the like; is retrospective. But fuch laws may be proper or neeffary, as the cafe may be. There is a great and apparent difference between making an UNLAWFUL adft LAW,F L; and the making an innocent adion criminal, and punifhing it as a CRIME. The expreffions " ex pot faldo

laws," are technical, they had been in ufe long before the
Revolution, and had acquired an appropriate meaning, by Legiflators, Lawyers, and Authors. The celebrated and judicious
Sir William Blackflone, in his commentaries, confiders an ex

pel faato law precifely in the fame light I have. done. His
opinion is confirmed by his fucceffor, Mr. Wooddefon ; and by
the author of the Federafl7, who I efteem fuperior to both, for
his extenfive and accurate knowledge of the true principles of
Government.

I alfo rely greatly on the definition, or explanation of Ex
as given by the Conventions of Maffacbufetts, Maryland, and North Carolina; in their feveral Conflitutions, or forms of Government.
In the declaration of rights, by' the convention of Maffjachufetts, part if. fed. 24, " Laws made topunift) at-ions done bePOST FACTO LAWS,

fore the exi/ence offuch laws, and which have not been declared

by preceeding laws, are unjuff, &c."
In the declaration of rights, by the convention of Maryland,
art. L5th, " Retrofpedive laws punifhingfats committed before the exiftence of fuch laws, and by them orly declared
criminal,are oppreffive, &c.".
In
CRIME2

1798.
... J

392
1798.
,

CAsas ruled and adjudged in the

In the declaration of rights by the convention of North
Carolina,art. 24 th, 1 find the fame definition, precifely in the
fame wordsi as in the Maryland c6nftitution.
In the declaration of Rights by the convention of Delaware,
art. iith, the fame definition was clearly .intended, but inaccurately expreffed; by faying "laws puniflhing ofences (inflead
of aaions, or faas) committed before the exiftence of fuch
laws, are oppreffive, &c."
I am of opinion, that thefa,.7, contemplated by the prohibi'tion, and not to be affe6ted by a fubequent law, wasfomefa!
to be done by a Citizen, or Sumea7.
In 2nd Lord Raymond 1352, Raymond, juftice, called the

flat. 7 Geo. ift.Jlat. 2 par 8, about regiftering Contracts for
South. Sea Stock, an ex pof
i~7o]iaw; becaufe it affeded Contraits made before the tlatute.
In the prefent cafe, there is nofact done by Bulland wfe Plain-

tifs inError, that is in any manner affedted by the law or refoluiion of Connecticut" It does not concern, or relate to, any
act done by them. The decree of rhe Court of Probate of Harford (on the 21if, March) in confequence of which Calder

and wife claim a right to the property in queftion, was given
before the faid law or refolution, and in that fenfe, was aff'eted
and fet afide by it ; and in confequence of the law allowing A
hearing and the decifion in favor of the will, they have loft,
what they would have been entitled to, if the Law or refolution,
and the decifion in confequence thereof, had not been made.
The decree of the Court of probate i, the only fact, on which

the law or refolution operates. In my judgment the cafe of the
Plaintiffs in Error, is not within the letter of the prohibition ;
and, for the reafons affigned, I am clearly of opinion, that it is
not within the intention of the prohibition ; and if within the
intention, but out of the letter) I thould not, therefore, confider myfelf juflified to continue it within the prohibition, and
therefore that the whole was void.
It was argued bytheCounfel for the plaintiffs in error, that
the Legiflature of Connecticut had no confttutional power to

make the refolution (or law) in queftion, granting a new
hearing, &c.
Vithout giving an opinion, at this time, whether this Court
has jurifdiffion to decide that any law made by Congrefs, contrarv to the Conflitution of the United States, is void ; I am
fully fatisfied that this court has no jurifdiction to determine
that any law of any Rate Legifacure, contrary to the Conftitution of fuch ftate, is void. Further, if this court had such jurifdiaion, yet it does not appear to me, that the refolution (or
law) in queftionj is contrary to the charter of Connecticut, or
its conflitution, which is faid by counfel to be compofed -of its
charter,

SUPREME COuRT of the United States.

aLfs of affembly, and ufages, and cuffoms.

I fhot~ld think, that 1799.

,the courts of Connecticut are the proper tribunals to decide,

whether laws, contrary to the confitution thereof, are void.
In the prefenr cafe they have, both in the inferio- and fuperior
courts, determined that the Refolution (or law) in queftion was
not contrary to either their flate, or the federal, conftitution.
To (hew that the refolution was contrary to the conffitutionof the United States, it was contended that the words, ex Poft

facto law, have a precife and accurate meaning, and convey
but one idea to profefTonal men, which is, "by matter of after
fact ; byfomething after the fact." And Go. Litt. 241. Fearnes
Con. Rem. (Old Ed.) 1 7 5 and 20 3 . Powell on D

i13. 133.
1v1fes

134. were cited ; and the table to Coke's Reports (by 1'/ilfon)
title ex poftfacto, was referred to, There is no doubt that a man
may be a trefpafer from the beginning, by matter of aJterfact;
as where an entry i§ given by law, and the party abufes it ;
or where the law gives a diftrefs, and the party kills, or works,
the diftres.
I admit, an a& unlawful in the beginning may, infome cafes,
become lawful by matter of afterfact.

I alfo agree, that the words " e x poftfacto" have the meaning
contended for, and no other, in the cafes cited, and in allfimilar
cafes ; where they are ufed unconneded with, and without relation to, Legiflative ads, or laws.
There appears to me a manifeft diftindion between the cafe
where one fact relates to, and affeds, anotherfact, ,as where an
afterfact, by operation of law, makes a formerfact, either law-

ful or unlawful; and the cafe where a law made after a faa
done, is to operate on, and to affet,fuch fact. In thefirft cafe
both the ads are done by private perfons. In the fecond cafe
the firft a6 is done by a private perfon, and the fecond act is
done by the legislature to affect the firft act.
I believe that but one initance can be found in which a BritJh judge called a ftatute, that affected contracts made before the
flatute, an ex toft facto law ; but the judges of Great Britain
always confidered penal ftatutes, that created crimes, or encreafed the punifhment of them, as ex poltfacto laws.
If the term ex poft facto law is to be corftruedto include and

to prohibit the enacting any law after afact, it will greatly reftrict the power of the federal and flate legiflatures ; and the
confequences of fuch a conlruction may not be forefeen.
If the prohibition to make no ex poft facto law extends tq.
all laws made after the fact, the two piohibitions, not to make

any thing but gold and filver coin a tender in payment of debts ;
and not to pafs any law impairing the obl.igation of contracts,
were improper and unnecefflry.
It
E ee
VOL. 111.

CASVq ruled and adjudged in the
1798.
.

It was further urged, that if the provifion does not extend to
, prohibit the making any law after a fact, then all chofes in ac,

hon ; all lands by Devife ; all perfonal property by bequeft, or
difiribution ; by Elegit ; by execution; by judgments, particularly on torts; will be unprotected from the legiflative power
of the flates ; rights vefted may be divefled at the will and
pleafure of the ftate legiflatures ; and, therefore, that the true
coriffruction and meaning of the prohibition is, that the ftate§
p:ifs no law to deprive a citizen of any right vefted in him by

ex fling laws.
It is not to be prefumed, that the federal or flate legiflatures
will pafs laws to deprive citizens of rights vefled in them by
exifling laws ; unlefs for the benefit of the whole community
and on making full fatisfaction. The reftraint againit making
any ex pofl facto laws was not confidered, by the framers of
the conflitu'tion, as extending to prohibit the'depriving a citizen even of a vefted right to property; or the provifiorn, "that
private property fhould not be taken for. PUBLIC ufe, without

juft compenfation," was unneceffary.
It feerns to me, that the right of property, in its origin, could
only arife from compact exprefs, or implied, and Ithink it

the better opinion, that the right, as well as the.mode, or manner, of acquiring property, and of alienating or transferring,
inheriting, or tranfmitting it, is conferred by fociety ; is regulated by civil inflitution, and is always fubject to the rules preferibed by pofitive law. When I fay that a right is veiled in
a citizen, I mean, that he has the power to do certain actions;
or to poffefs certain things, accordingto the law of the land.

If any one has a right to property fuch right is a perfect and
excufive right; but no one can havefuch right before he has

acquired a better right to the property, than any other perfon
in the world : a right, therefore, only to recover propertycannot
be called a perfect and exclufive right.. I cannot agree, that a
right to property vefled io Galder and ,wife, in confequence of

the decree (of the 21ff. of March 1783) difapproving of the
will of AMorrijbn, the G randfon. If the will was valid, Mrs.
Calder could have no right, as heirefs of Morrifon, the phyfi-"

cian ; but if the will was fet afide, fhe had an undoubted title.
The refolution (or law) alone had no manner of effect on
any right whatever veited in Calder and wife.

The Refolu-

tion (or law) combined with the new hearing, and the decifion, in virtue of it, took away their right to recover the property in queftion. But when combined they took avay no
right ofproperty veiled in Calerand wife; becaufe the decree
'againft the will (2ifl. Miarch 1783.) did not veft in or transfer any property to them.
I am

SUPREME COURT of the United Statef.
I am under a neceffity to give a conftruction, or explanation 1798.
of the words, " expoft facto law," becaufe they have not any '-'v-.,.

certain meaning attached to them. But I will not go farther
than I feel myfeif bound to do ; and if I ever exercife thejurifdiction I will notdecide any law to be void, but in a very clear cafe.
. am of opinion, that the decree of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut be affirmed, with cofis.
PAT RSON, 7ustice. The CoD' itution of Connectic-ut is made
up of ufages, and it appeirs that its Legiflature have, from the
beginning, exercifed the power of granting new trials. This has
been uniformly the cafe till the year 1762,. when this power
was, by a legiflative a&, imparted to the fuperior and county
courts. But the at does not remove or annihilate the pre-ex-.
ifting power of the Legiflature, in this particular; it only
communicates to other authorities a concurrence of jurifiliction, as to the awarding of new trials. And the fat is, that
the Legiflature have, in two inflances, exercifed this power
fince the paffing of the law in 1762. They a6ted in a double
capacity, as a houfe of legiflation, with undefined authority,
and alfo as a court of judicature in certain exigencies-. - Vhether the latter arofe from the indefinite nature ofakir legifla,
tive powers, or in fome other way, it is not neceffary to difcufs. From the beft information, however, which I have
been able to collect on this fubje&, it appears, that the Legiflature, or general court of Connecticut, originally poffeflhd, and
exercifed all legiflative,' executive, and judicial authority; and
that, from time to time, they difiributedgthe twolatter in fuch
manner as they thought'proper ; but without parting with the
general fuperintendint power, or the right of exercifing thqfame, whenever they fhould judge it expedient. But be thi,
as it may, it is fuflicient for the prefent to obferve, that they
have on certain occafionc, excercifed judicial authority from
the commencement of their civil polity. This ufage makes'
up part of the Conflitution of Connecticut, and we are bound
to confider it as fuch, unlefs it be inconfiftent with the Conflitution of the United States. True it is, that the awarding
of new trials falls properly within the province of the judici.ary; but if the Legiflature of Connecticut have been in the
uninterrupted exercife of this authority, in certain cafeR, we
mut, in fuch cafes, refpect their decitions as flowing from a
competent jurifdiction, or conffitutional organ. And therefore we may, in the prefent inflance, confider the Legiflatute
of the ftate, as having a&ed in their cuftomary judicial capacity. If fo, there is an end of the queftion., For if the power, thus exercifed, comes more pcoperly within the defcription.
of a judicial than of a legiflative power k ap. if by ufage or the
C- nftitu tior

396
1798.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

Conflitution, which, in Connecticut, are fynonimous terms,
the Legiflature of that ftate aaed in both capaeities ; then in
the cafe now before us, it would be fair to confider the
awarding of a new trial, as an' act emanating from the juadiciary fide of the department. But as this view of the fubjecl
militates againif the Plaintiffs in error, their counfel has contended for a reverfal of the judgment, on the ground, that the
awarding of a new trial, was the effect of a legiflative act, and
that it is unconflitutional, becaufe an ex post facto law. For the
fake of afeertaining the meaning of thefe terms, I will confider
the refolution of the General ce.urt of Connecticut, as the exercife ofa legiflative and not a judicial authority. The queftion, then, which arifes on the pleadings in this caufe, is, whether the refolution of the Legiflature of Connecticut, be an ex
poji facto law, within the meaning of the Conflitution of the
United States ? I am of opinion, that it is not. The words,
ex post facto, when applied to a law, have a technical meaning,

,and, in legal phrafeology, refer to crimes, pains, and penalties. Judge Blackj one's defcription of the terms is clear and
accurate. " There is, fays he,'a flill more unreafonable rne" thod than this, which is called making of laws, ex postfacto,
" when after an action, indifferent in itfelf, is committed, the
Legiflator, then, for the firft time, declares it to have been
" a crime, and inflicts a puniiihment upon the perfon who has
,committed it. Here it is impoflible, that the party could
' forefee that an action, innocent when it was done, thould
be afterwards converted to guilt by a fubfequent law; he
" had, therefore, no caufe to ab~flain from it; and all punilh" ment for iot abftaining, muff, of confequence, be cruel and
" unjuft."
i B. Cor1. 46. Here the meaning, annexed to
the terms ex postfvcto lawr, unqueflionakly refers to crimes,
and nothing elfe. The hifforic page abundantly evinces, that
the power of paf.ing filch laws fhould be withheld from legiflators; as it is a dangerous infirument in the hands of bold,
unprincipled, afpiring, and party men, and has been two often

ufed to effect the inoi deteffable purpofeF.
On infpecting fuch of our flate Conititutions, as take notice of laws made ex pzost facto, we fhall find, that they are underffood in the fame fenfe.
The Conftitition of Majachufiets, article 24th of the Declaration of rights :
"Laws made to punifh for actions done before the exiftence
of fuch laws, and which have not been declared crimes by preceding laws, are unjuf-, oppreffive, and inconfiftent with the
fundamental principles of a firee government."
The Conffitittion of Dc/aware, article lxth of the Declara'tion of Rights

That

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

" That retrofpective laws punifling offences committed be 1798.
fore the exiftence of fuch laws, are oppreffive and unjufl, anO ,
ought not-to be made."
The'Conflitution of Maryland, article i 5 th of the Declaration of Rights:
" That retrofpective laws, puniflhing fa&s committed bhfore
the exiftence of fuch laws, and by them only declared criminal, are oppreflive, unjuff, and incompatible with liberty;
wherefore no ex post facto law ought to be made."
The Confitution of North Carolina,article 2 4 th of the Declaration of Rights :
" That retrofpective laws, plnifhing facts committed before
the exiftence of fuch laws, and by them only declared criminal,
are oppreffive, unjuft, and incompatible with liberty; wherefore no ex p/flfacto law ought to be made. "
From the above pafflages it appears, that ex p/ facto laws
have an appropriate fignification; they extend to penal ftatutes, and no further; they aze reftricted in legal eftimation to
the creation, and, perhaps, enhancement of crimes, pains and
penalties. The enhancement of a crime, or penalty, feems to
come within the fame mifchief as the creation of a crime or
penalty ; and therefore they may be claffed together.
Again, the words of the Conititution of the United States
are, It That no State fliall pifs iny bill of attainder, ex pofl
"facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts."
Article ifi. fection IO.
Where is the necefivty or ufe of the latter words, if a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, be comprehended with-in
the terms ex post facto law ? It is obvious from the fpecification of contracts in the lafi member of the claufe, that the
framers of the Conftitution, did not undeiftand or nfe the words
in the fenfe contended for on the part of the Plaintiffs in Error. They underficod and ufed the words in their known and
appropriate fignification, as referri,,g to crimes, pains, and penalties, and no further. The arrangement of the diflinct
members of this fection, neceffarily points to this meaning.
I had an ardent defire to have extended the provifion in
the Conflitution to retrofpective laws in general. There is
neither policy nor fafety in fuch laws ; and, therefore, I have
always had a ftrona averfion againft them. It may, in general,
be truly obferved of retrotpjective laws of every defcription,
that they neither accord with found legiflation, nor the fundamental piinciples of the focial compact. But on full confideration, I am convinced, that ex post facto laws mull be limited
in the manne.r already exprefled ; they rauff be taken in their
technical, which is alfo their common and general, acceptation,
and are npt to be underflood in their literal fenfe.
IREDELL,

398

1798.

L

CASs

ruled and adjudged in the

IREDELL, 7uJlice. Though I concur in the general refult
of the opinions, which have been delivered, I cannot entirely
adopt the reafons that are afligned upon the occafion.
From the bet information to be colleded, relative to the
Conftitution of Conne[Iicut, it appears, that the Legiflature of
that State has been in the uniform, uninterrupted, habit of
exercifing a general fuperintending power over its courts of
law, by granting new trials. It may, indeed, appear ftrange
to fome of us, that in any form, there fhould exift a power to
grant, with refpe& tofluis depending or adjudged, new rights
of'trial, new privileges of proceeding, not previoufly recognized and regulated 'by pofitive intitutions ; but fuch is the
0llablifhed ufage of Connedeicut, and it is obvioufly confiftent
with the general fuperintending authority of her Legiflature
Nor is it altogether without fome fandion for a Legiflature to
at as a court of juflice.In England, we know, that one branch
of the Parliament, the houfe of Lords, not only exercies a
judicial power in cafes of impeachment, and for the trial of
its own members, but as the court of dernier refort, takes
cognizance of many fuits at law, and in equity: And that
in conftrudtion of law, the jurifdidion there exercifed is by the
King in full Parliament ; which fhews that, in its origin, the
caufes were probably heard before the whole Parliament. When
Connecticut was fettled, the right of empowering her Legiflature to fuperintend the Courts of Jufitce, was,I prefume, early
affumed ; and its expediency, as applied to the local circumftances and municipal policy of the State, is fandlioned by a long
and 'uniform praffice. The power, however, is judicial in its
nature; and whenever it is exercifed, ;is in the prefent inftnce,
it is an exercife of judicial, not of legiflative, authority.
B.t, let us, for a moment, fuppofe, that the refolution,
granting a new trial, was a legiflative af, it will by no means
follow, that it is an a6l affeded by the conftitutional prohibi-.
tion, that ' no State fiall paf& any ex pol facta law." I will
endeavour toltate the general principles, which influence me,,
on this point, fuccindly and clearly, though I have not had an
opportunity-to reduce my opinion to writing,
If, then, a government, compofed of Legiflative, Executive and.Jtidicial departments, were effabliffhed, by a Conftitution, which impofed no limits on the leg~flative power, the
confequencewould inevitably be, that whatever the legiflative
power chofe to ena.:, would belawfully ena&ed, and the ju-.
.Iicial power could never interpofe to pronounce it void. It is
true, that fume fpeculative jurifts have held, that a legiflative.
a& againfl natural juffice muff, in itfel4 be void ; but I cannot think that, under fuch a government, any Court of Juftice
would poffefs a power to declare it fo. Sir l'iliam Blac.one,
havincr put the ifrong caf.e of an adl of Prliament, which
ihould

SUPREME COURT of the United 8tates,
authorife a man to try his own caufe, .explicitly addsi that 1798.
even in that cafe, " there is no court that has power to defeat k
the intent of the Legiflature, when couched in fuch evident
and exprefs words, as leave no doubt whether it was the intent
of the Legiflature, or no." I BI. Com:9 i .
In order, therefore, to guard againft fo great an evil, it has
been the policy of all the American flates, which have, individually, framed their tateconititutions fince the revolution,and of
the people of the United States, when they framed the Federal
Conititution, to define with precifion the objedts of the legiflatire power, and to reftrain its exercife within marked and fettled
boundaries. If any a6d of Congrefs, or of the Legiflature of a
itate, violates thofe conflitutional provifions, it is unqueftionably void ; though, I admit, that as the authority to declare it
void is of a delicate and awful nature, the Court will never
refort to that authority, but in a clear and urgent cafe. If, on
the other band, the Legiflature of the Union, or the Legiflature of any member of the Union, fhall pafs a law, within the
general fcope of their conftitutional power, the Court cannot
pronounce it tobe void, merely becaufe it is, in their judgment,
contrary to the principles of fiatural juflice. The ideas of natural juftice are regulated by no fixed tandard: the ableft and
the pureft men have differed upon the fubjedl ; and all that
the Court could properly fay, in fuch an event, would be, that
the Legiflature (poffeffed of an equal right of opinion) had
paffed an ad which, in the opinion of the judges, was inconfiftent with the abtira6 principles of natural jutice. There are
then but two-lights, in which the fubjeft can be viewed : Ift.
If the Legiflature purfue the authority delegated to them, their
ads aro valid. 2d. If they tranfgrefs the boundaries of that
authority, their a-s are invalid-. In the former cafe, they exercife the difcretion vefted in them by the people, to whom alone
they are refponfible for the faithful difcharge of their truft :
but in the latter cafe, they violate a fundamental law, which
muff be our guide, whenever we are called upon as judges to
determine the validity of a legiflative at.
. Still, however, in the prefent inifance, the adt or refolution
of the Legiflature of Gonnee7icut, cannot be regarded as an ex
pqffa~o law ; for, the true contrucdion of the prohibition extends to criminal, not to civil, cafes. It is only in criminal ca-.
fes, indeed, in-which the danger to be guarded againft, is greatly to be apprehended. The hiftory of every country in Europe will furnifh flagrant inflances of tyranny exercifed under
the pretext of penal difpenfations. Rival fadions, in their efforts to crufhi each other, have fuperfeded all the forms, and fuppreffed all the fentiments, of juftice ; while attainders, on the
principle of retaliation and profcriptiun, have marked all the

vicifflitudeg

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
1798.

S

viciflitudes 6f party triumph.

The temptation to fuch abufes

of power is unfortunately too alluring for human virtue; and,
therefore, the framers of the American Con itutions have wifely denied to the refpeczive Legiflatures, Federal as well as State,
the poffiflion of the power itfclf: They fhall not pafs any ex
poftfat4o law; oi, in other words, they fhall not inflid a punifihment for any ad, which was innocent at the time it was
committed ; nor increafe the degree of puniffhment previoully
denounced for any fpecific offence.
The policy, the reafon and humanity, of the prohibiti6n, do
not, I repeat, extend to civil cafes, to cafes that merely affge
the private property of citizens. Some of the mof neceffary
and important ads of Legiflation are, on the contrary, founded
upon the principle, that private rights muff yield to public exigences. Highways are run through private grounds. Fortifications, Light-houfes, and other public edifices, are necef,
farilly fometimes built upon the foil owned by individuals. In
fiuch, and fimilar cafes, if the owners fhould refufe voluntarily
to accommodate the public, they mult be con{trained, as far as
the public neceflities require; and juitice is done; by allowing them a reafonable equivalent. Without the poffeflion
of this power the operations of Government would often be
obftrucded, and fociety itfelf would be endangered. It is not
fufficient to urge, that the power may be abufed, for, fuch is the
nature of all power,-.uch is the tendency of every human
inftitution : and, it might as fairly be faid, that the power of
taxation, which is only circumfcribed by the difcretion'of the
Body, in which it is vefted, ought not to be granted, becaufe
the Legiflature, difregarding its true objeds, might, for vifionarv and ufelefs projecf-s, impofe a tax to the amount of nineteen
(hillings in the pound. We muft be content to limit power
where we can, and where we cannot, confifiently with its ufe,
we hufrt be content to repofe a'falutary confidence. It is our
confolation that there never exifted a Government, in ancient or

modern times, more free from danger in this refpct, than the
Governments of America.
Upon the whole, though there cannot be a cafe, in.which an
,x pojlfi,"o law in criminal matters is requifite, or juftifiable
(for Providence never can intend to promote the profperity
of any country by bad means) yet, in the pr'efent initance the
objedtion doesnot arife: Becaufe, Ail. if the ad of the Legifla.turic of Gonnecticut was ajudicial ad, it is'not within the words
of the Coniffitution ; and 2d. even if it w.s a legiflative a&,
-it is not within the meaning of the prohibition.
CUsSH rG, .7uJ/ice. The cafe appears to me to be clear of
all difficulty, taken either way. If the ad is a judicial at, it
is not tQuched by the Federal Conflitution : and, if it is A legif-

lative

SUPREMr CoURT of the' Un.Ied States.

iegifative R, it is maintained and juftified by'the ancient and .798.
uniforim pra&ice of the ftaie of Conneaicut.
JUrDGMEN'T i7

~e.

WILsON verfus DANIEL.'

i'.RROR from the. Circuit Court of T'irgna.. O

he re-

turn of the recdrd, it appeared, that the Diftia& Judge

qad-endorfedthe following fiat on the petition and aflignment

of ,errors; prefented. by the Plaintiff in error: "tLet a writ o(
"error and fu~perfedeas ifluie agreeably to the prayer of the petition, on the petitioner's entering inito bond with fecurity
in the penalty of. 3,66o dollars,.conditioned aufual in fuch
U

cafe.

CYRUS

GRIFFIN.",

A writ of error accordingly

iffued; but, it would feem, that only a copy of the writ was
tranfmitted with the record, (,to Which the feal of the Circuiit
Court was ,affixed, though the writ itfelf was not faid to be
under the feal of the Court) and the copy was fignied by
William Mch-Jhall, clerk," who idded in the margin the
following memorandum, in his own hand writing, not fubfcribed by the Judge: " Allowed by Cyrus Grifin, Efq. Judge
"1of the Middle Circuit in the, Virginia Diftrift." The original citation to the defendant in error was, like.vife; bmitted,
and only a copy, accompanied the record, with an alidavit fubjoined, that the deponent, " did on the 24th of Sept. 1796,
11deliver to Thomas Daniel within named, a citation whereof
Th~re w~is no certificate of the
" the above is a true copy."
judge, or clerk of the court, that the record was returned in
obedience to the writ, though 'at the end of the paper, put'porting to be the record, the clerk fubjoined the following minute: "Copy.

VoL. Iii.

Teflji, Wi/liam Marhall,clerk."

F ff

