SUPREME COURT

of the United States

name fhould be taken from the roll of aitorriies, and placed on"
the lift of counfellors.
THE COURT direled the transfer to be made; and Mr.
Hallowell was qualified, de novo, as counfellor.

FOWLER

et-al. vs.

LINDSEY, et a!.

FOWLER et al. vs. MILLER.

A RULE had been originally ob.tained in thefe a&ionS(which were depending in the Ciicuit Court for the
)iftri&6t of Conneicut) at the inftance of the Defendants, requiring the Plaintiff to fhew caufe, why a Venire fhould hot
be awarded to fummon a Jury from fome D.iftri&, other thaa

that of'Gdnnejicut or New--York ; but it was changcd,, by con-,

fent, into a rule to fhew caufe why the aa.ions (hould not be
removed by Gertiorariinto the Supreme Qotrt, as exclu-fivelj.
belonging to that jurifdi&ion. On ffhewing caxfe, it appeared,.
that fuits, in the nature of E"e&ments, had been inf.ituted in
the Circuit Court for the Di iri&c of Connea.icut, to recovcr .
"tra& of land, being part of the Connealicut Gore which that.
flate had granted to ndrew JJ/ardand Jeremiah aflae,, and
by Whom it had been conveyed to the Plaintiffs. The Defendants pleaded that they were inhabibtants of the State of
New-York ; that the premifes, for which the fuits were brought ,
lay in the County of Steuben, in the flate of New-York ; anid
that the Circuit Court for the D.ffri6t of New-York, or the
Courts of the State, and no other Court, could take cognizance
of the a&ions. The Plaintiffs replied, that the premifes lay in
the State of Connel7icut ; and, iffue being joined, a venire was.
awarded. On the return, however, the Defendants challenged
the array, becaufe the Marfhall of the Difria of, Conneoiscut,.
a refident and citizen ot that State, had arrayed the Jury by
his deputy, who was, al:o, a citizen of Conne'icut,and intereft-,
ed as a purchafer, or claimant, in the Connetficut Gore, under the fame title as the Plaintiffs. The Plaintiffs prayed oyer of
the record and return, averred that the deputy Marfhal. was.-.
not interefled in the queftion in iffue, and demurred to the.
challenge for being double, and contrary to the record, which does, •
not fhew that the Jury was returned by the deputy Marfhall. Th.Defendants joined in demurrer.

The Gdurt. over-ruled, the.

challenge, as it refpeaed the general intereft of the Marfhall
and his deputy, owing to their being citivens of Connefticut
.ut allowed it and qualhed the array, on account of the par-.

rtiCtf. r

i79).,

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
1799.
k

ticular intereft of the deputy, he being intereffed in the fame
iraiEl of land, under colour of the fame title as the Plaintiffs. '
The amended rule Was aifued, by Lewis and Hoffman (the
Attorney-General' of New-York,) in favor of 'its being mad
abfolute, and by Lillhofe of Connefticut againft it, on the

queflion, whether the fuits ought to be confidered as virtually
depending between the States of Connelicut and New-York .
And the folloiwing opinions were delivered by the Court, THE
CHIEF JUSTICE, however, declining, on account of the intereft of Connelticut, to take any part- i:n the decifion, and
CT!.ASE, and iREDELL, Juftlces, beijig abfent on account ot.
indifpofition.
WASHINGTON*T, uflice. The firft queftion that occurs,.
from the argtiments on the prefent occafion, refpeds the natureof the ri ghts, that are contefted in. the fuits, depending in th.
Circuit Court, ' Without entering into a critical examination
6f the Conflitution and laws;' in 'rela'tio' to the jurifdiO.ion:of,
the Supreme' Court, i lay down the, following s a fare rule:

That a cafe'wvhich belongs to the jurifdi66on of tOe Supreme
Court, on 'account of the ihtereft thlat a ftate has in the contro-'
werfy, mutt be a cafr, in which.a State is 5itber nonainly, oe
fubfantialJy, the party. I t is not fufficient, that a State mhay
be confequettially affcded ; for, in fucqh cafe (as where the

grants of different States are broxght into. litigatiton) the Ciriuit Court has clearly ij urifdi&ion. And this remairk' furnifles'
an anfwer to the 'fugt~eftions, that have been founded' on'the rer.itribution to her grahtees,
mote interefi of the State, inmaking
' :
upon the event of aneviaion.

it is not' contended that the States are nominally. the parties;
nordO I think' that, they can be'rcgarded as fubflantially, the'
parties', to"the fp its : nay,' it appears to me, that they are not
; They have a right .either-to' thel:
even i'tereft'ed, or:aff &6ed.
foil, or to the jurifdiaion. ' If they have the ri ght of foil,'they
siay contef 'it,' at'any time, in this Cdurt,"notwithflandiiig a'
decifion in the prefent'fuits ;- and though they -may have :partedwith the right of foil, fill the right of jurifdia-ion..i u'nimpair -'
ed. A decifion, 'as 'to the:'former objed,' between individual'
Citizens, can never affe& the right of the Statej as to, the'
latter objea :' it is res inter'alios afla., ' For, fuppofethejury:
in fome cafes flould find in favor of'the title under New-)2(o'rk ;
and, in others, they fhould find in f'avor of. the title under-Con-;
neaicut, how would thi. decide the' right of juri'fdiffion ? And'
On what'principle'cari private citizens, in the litigation of their'
private claims, be competent-to invef*igate, determine, and' fixi
the important rights of fovereignty ?.

The.

SUPREME. COURT

of the United-aStotes.

4.

1799:
The queftion of jurifdi&ion remaining, therefore, unaffe&ed
by the proceedings in thefe fuits, is there no other mode by
which it may be tried ? I will not fay, that a State could fue
at law for fuch an incorporeal right, as that of fovereignty and.
jurifdi&ion ; but even if a Court of law would not afford a
remedy, I can fee no reafon why a remedy (hould not be obtained in a Court of Equity. The State of New-rork might, I.
think, file a bill againft the State of Conneaicut, praying to be
quieted as to the boundaries of the difputed territory ; and this&
Court, in order to effeduate juftice, might appoint commiflioners
to afcertain and report thofe boundaries. There being no redrefs at law, would be a fufcient reafon for the interpofition
of the equitable powers of the Court ; fince, it is monifrous
to talk of exifting rights, without applying ¢orrefprondent
remedies.
But as it is propofed to remove the fuits under confideration
from.the Circuit Court into' this Court, by writs of certiorari,
I afk whether it has ever happened, in the courfe of judicial
proceedings, that a certiorarihas iffued from a fuperior, to an
inferior, court, to remove a caufe merely fiom a defe ofju-'
rifdiaion ? I do not know that fuch a cafe could ever occur.
If the State is really a party to the fuit in the inferior Court, a
plea to the jurifdicqtion may be there put in; or, perhaps, with-.
out fuch a plea, this Court would reverfe the judgment on a
writ of error: And if the State is not a party, there is no pre-,
tence for the removal.
A certiorari, however, can only Iffue, as original procefs, to
remove a caufe, and change the venue, when the Superior
Court is fatisfied, that a fair and impartial trial will not other.
wife be obtained; and it is fometimes ufed, 2s auxiliary procefs,,
where, for inflance, diminution of the record is alledged, on a
writ of error : But in fuch cafes, the Superior Court muft have
jurifdiaion of the controverfy. And as it does not appear to
me, that this Court has exclufive,or original, jurifdifion of the
(Vits in queftion, I am of opinion that the rule muff be difcharged.
PATERSON, J7uflice. The rule to thew caufe, .why a venire fhould not be awarded to fummon a jury from fome.diftri6t, other than that of 6onne&7icut or New-York, cannot be
fupported. JR has, indeed, been abandoned. The argument
proceeds on the ground of removing the caufe into this Court,
as having exclufive jurifdidtion of.it, becaufe it is a controververfy between States. The confitution of the United States,
and the ad of Congrefs, although the phrafeology be fomewha;
different, may be conifrued in perfed conformity with each
other. The prefent is a controverfy between individuals refpe&ing their right or title to a particular tra6of land, and
cannot

414.,
1799:

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the,
eannot be extended to third parties or ifates. Its'decifion will
Snot affect the State of Gonneeijcut or New-York ; becaufe neither of them is before the court, nor is it poflible to bring either of them, as a party, before the Court, in the grefent a6 ion.
The flate, as fuch, is not before u. Befides, if the caufeffhould
be removed into this Court, it would anfwer no purpofe; for
I am not able t(;difcern by What authority, we could change
the venue, or diredt a jury to be drawn from another Difiriff.
As to this particular there is no divolution of power, either bythe conflitution or law, The authority mulf be given ;-we
cannot ufurp or take it.
: If the point of juril'di&ion be raifed by the pleadings, the
Circuit Court iscompetent to its decifion ; and, therefore, the
caufe camnot be removed into this Gourt previoufly to fuch decifion. To remove a caufe from one Court to another, on the
allegation of the want of jurifdidion, is a novelty in judicial
proceedings. Would not the certiorari to remove,,be an admifflion of the jurifdidion below?
Nei.ther of the motioiis is within the letter or, fpirit of the
conffitution or law.
H
f ra fuit may,.with'ffe&; be inffituted in this Court
to d.ide'ihe' right ofjorifdidion between two States, abflrac-.
tcdly fror ie right'of foilit is not neceffary to determine.
T he queffion is a gre.t one; but not, bfore us.
1:
regret the hino6oipetenqv of this Court to give the aid prayed for. No prejudice gr "pvffion, whethber of a ftate or per-,
fonal nature, fliouild infinuate itfclf in'the adminiftration of juftice. Jurymen, efpecially, Ihould be above all prejudice, all,.
paflion, and all ilitereft in the matter to be determined. But it
is the dutyiof judges to declare', and iot to make the law.
CUSHING', jfu/icr. Thefe motions are to be'dete'rmined,
rather by the couffitution and the'laws made uhder it, than'
by, any remote analogies' drawn fr.om- Englifh,'pratice.
Both, by the conflitution' and- the judicial at the Supreme.
Court has origi-nal jurifiiion, where a State is a party. I0
this caf,sthe State toes not appear to be a pait , by any thing
on the record. It is a controvefify or fuit between private citizetis only ; an adion of eje.tment, i which the defendant'
pleads to the jurifdidion,.that the landlies in the State of Newr0rk, and iflue is taken on that fad.
Whether the land lies in.
New-Ydrk or Connelficut, does not,
appear toaffet the right or title to the land in quetfion. The,
right of jurifdidtion and the'ri'ght of foil may depend on very
different iwords. charters,-and foundations. A decifion of that'
iffue, can only deterimine the conrroverfy as between the private oitizens, who are,patties to' the fuitq an! the'event, only.
give

Su.PREME COURT of the United States.

give the land to the Plaintiffor Defendant; but could have no
controuling influence over the line of jurifdiion ;'with refpe& to Which, if either State has.a conteft with. the other, or
with individuals, the State has its rnemedy, I fuppofe, under the
conflitution and the laws, by proper application, but not in this
way; for fle i* not a party to the fuits.
If an individual will put the event of his caufe'in a plea of
this kind, on a fa&, which is not cffential to his right ; I cannot think, it can prejudice the right of jurifdidion.appertaining to a State.
I agree with the reff of the Court, that neither of the motions can be granted,
BY THE COURT: Let the rule be difcharged.

CLARKE

verfus

RuSSEL.'

N Error from the Circuit Court, for theDiftrid of RhodeIj7and. On the return of the Record, it appeared that a
declaration, containing the following Count, had been filed in
an adion brought by " Nathaniel Rujel of Charj/eon, in the
Diftrit of South-Carolina, merch ant and citizen of the State
of South.Carolina, againift obn Innes Clarke of Providence,
in the County of Providence and Diftrid of Rhode-Iland,
merchant and citizen of the State of Rhode-lfiand,and furviving partner of the company of Jofeph Nightingale, now
deceafed, and the faid 7on Innes Clarke, heretofore doing bufinefs under the firm of Clarke and Nightingale,"
Ift Count. " That the faid qohn Innes Clarke and Jofepb
' Nightingale,then in full life, on the xoth day of March t796,
"
t the Diftri& of Rhode-Itqg.nd, in confideration that the
" Plaintiff' would at the fpecial inftance and reue4i
of the
c faid Jo/eph and John Innes, indorfe feven feveral fetts of
cc bills of Exchange; of the daitei tenor, ind defcription as fet
" forth in the annexed fehedule, drawn by a certain Yonathan
" Ruf el, who was agent and partner in that particular of
" the company of Robert Murray and company, of New-.
"-1ork,
in the Diftri- of New-Tyrk, on themfelves .affumpd,
" and to the Plaintiff faithfully, promifed, that if the faid bills
Ihould not be paid by the perfon on whom the fame were
" drawn, and the Plaintiff,, in confequence of fuch endorfement (hould be obliged to pay. the fame bills, with damages,
cofts, and intereft thtreon, they the faid Jo/eph and John
U Inner would well and truly.pay to the Plaintiff the amount
c of the faid bills, damages, and cofts, and intereft, if the Draw-

I

1799.

