CASES ruled and adjudged in the

'797.

February Term, 1797.

JENNINGS

T

et al. Plaintiffs in Error, verfus the Brig
VERANCE, et al.

PERSE-

IS was a writ of error to remove the proceedings in

an admiralty caufe from the Circuit Court for the dif-

tri~t of Rhode Ifland. Soon after the. decree was there pronounced the Diftria Judge died, and Judge CHASE had left
the diftri6t ; fo that the record was fent up with all the evidence annexed, but no ftatement of facts by the court.
Du Ponceau and Robbins, fo the Defendant in error, infifted, that the Plaintiff could not go into a confideration of
errors in fa&; and, that the rules efabliffied in the cafes of
(lVifjtartv. D'Auchy (ant. p. 321.) Pintadov. Bernard,and the
UnitedStatesv. La Vengeance, (ant. p.) were conclufive. They,
alto, cited the following authorities: i Fern. 166. 214. zr6. 3
Wd/is. 308. 2 Bl. Rep. 831. I Mod. 207. 56. 61. Gro. E. 667.

6 CO. 7.
E. Tilgbman, for the Plaintiff in error, admitted, that, although the cafe of a record tranfmitted with the evidence, but
without a ftatement of fa&s, had never been exprefsly decided, vet, that it appeared to be embraced by the reafoning of
the Chief Jufice, in fupport of the fecond rule in J'fifcart v.
D'Aucby; and if the court were, alfo, of that opinion, he
would decline troubling them with any further argument.*
* CHASe, Juftice. Even if the court were to permit it, you would
find little encouragement to enter into the merits: The evidence is too

plainly againft you.

PATE ItSONT

SUPREME COURT Of

the Ubiited State's.

337

PATERSON, 7 ufice:-Though I was filent on the occa1797.
(ion, I concurred in opinion with Judge
il/fon Upon the fe- i." -.
cond rule laid down in f'Jifcart v. D'Zuchy; and, of courfe,
the court were divided, four to two, upon the decifion. I
thought, Indeedi that excluding a corifideiation of the evidence (which, virtually, amohunts to a Patement of fa)s) was
flutting the door againit light and truth ; and was leaving the
property of the country too much to the difcretion and judg4
ment of a fingle Judge, But conceivihtt myfelf bound by the
rule, and that, in fome f{ape, the fa&s muft be made to appear on the record, I have always fince thought it my duty to
make a ftatement, where the counfel Would not, be could not,
agree in forming one.
As to the prefent point, though there is no exprefs determination, it was the fubje& of difcuffion among the Judges at
their chamber ; an opinion was formed, but ilot delivered, by
the (ame majority, that effablifhed the fecond rule in
i/icart
verfus DAuchy ; and the reaforiing of the Chief Juftice irt
fupport of that rule, went clearly to this cafe. I do not, therefore, think, that any new argument can be neceffary, However difpofed I might have been originally to give the moft liberal conifru-tion to the ad of Congrefs, the decifion of the
Court precludes me from confidering the evidence, at this time,
as a flatement of fads ; and if there is no ftatement of fadts,
the confequence feems naturally to follow, that there can be
no error.
THE COUIRT concurring in the reprefentation made by
Judge PATERSON, they proceeded) without further argument
on the principal queftion, to
Affirm the Decree.
E. Tilghman fiiggefted, however, that the damages were
very high, and that, in fad, an allowance for counfel fees
was included, though it did not appear on the record.
Du Ponceau, urged, thatthe court could not travel out df
the record to afeertain a fad. In the cafe where an allowance for counfel's fees had been ifruck out, that charge and
all the items on which damages had been awarded, were flated
in an account annexed to the tecord.*
CHASE, Yuftice:--An account of items, as a foundation to
award damages, was exhibited in the. court below: but 'itis a
fufficient anfwer here, that the allowance does not appear on
the record.
THE COURT concurred in this opinion; and Du Ponceaupray I
ed an encreafe of damages for the delay occafioned by bringing
this writ of error, contending, that under the 2 3 d fection of the
Judicial
•

See 4rcambelverfuis ;Vieman, ant. p. 306.

VOL. III.

XX.

33Vk'
1797.

CASES

ruled and adjudged' in the

Judicial Act, damages.for delay were peremptorily prefcribed,
that the difcretion of the court. only went to the award of
fingle or doubl'e coies.
BY THE CouRT :-The prize was fold by the agreeB lut,
ment of the parties, the Captor and the French Conful';" but
the money.was -afterwards flopped in the hands of the Marfhal,
upon a monition iffued by a third perfon (the original owner,
of the prize) who was not a party to the agreement. The
decree mufl be affirmed without an encreafe of damages; and
the interell to the prefent day, mufl runupon the debt only,
and'not on the damages.
Du Ponceau, next prayed an allowance of in dollars and 50
cents, the-coft of a printed ifate of the cafe for the ufe of the
judges.
But THE COURT obferved, that, however convenient it
might be,, there was no rule.authorifing.the charge ; and, therefore, it could not be. allbwed. 0

Sand

H'UGER
Thnugh I have reported all' that' occurred in the Court upori the
hearing of this caufe, it may, perhaps7 be of ufe to. fubjoin a copy of
the prited cafe, which was allo.wedby.E. Tilghmsan to,be correft.
Writ of Error
Yennings and Penne,, Plaintiffs in Error, verfus the brig
Perreverance and her cargo, or the monies arifingf from the Circuit
Efq.. . Court, for the
therefrom, in the hands of William Pk,
diariot of
Marfhal of the diftrict of Rhode Ifland, and Louis
Aiamba!, Claimant and Defendant in Error.
) Rhode lfland.
Proceedingi in the Dfric,7 Court, 20th Septeynber, 1794THE now Plaintiffs in error, fubjeLts of the King of Great Britain,
file their Libel, complaining of the capture mhade on the 27th of
July preceding, of their brig Perfeverance and her cargo, on the high
feas, on a voyage from Turks Ifland, to St. John's, New Brunfwigk.
They flte that fhe was captured 4y two armed veffels, each ofabout
35 tons burilse, one called the Sanfpareil, the other the Senora, brought
into the ditri'l:
of Rhode Wfland, under the care of John Baptifte Bernard, prize-mafter, fold by his order 'at Providence, for 5028 dollars,
and the proceeds lodged in the hands oftlse'Marfhal of the diftrs& where
they now are.
They complain that theSenora was oiginallyfittedout, and the force of the
Sanfpareil was'encreafedant augmented, by adding to the number of guns and
gun carriages, at Charleflon, South Carolina, with intent to crnize, &c.
That at the time of capzure, there were on board both -the captured
veffels, divers citizens of the United States, to wit, on board the Sanfpareil 12, and on board the Serona it, all of whom were aiding and
affiffing.at the capture.
That there was no perfon on board of either of the capturing veffels
duly commifflioned to make captures, &c.
They pray reflitution of the veffel and cargo, or the proceeds thereof.
PROCESS SERVED IN DUE FORM.
FIlRST MONDAY

IN NOVEMBER,

1794.

.ahn Baptifte Bernard, pize-mafter, appears and pleads to the jurifdition oftthe court--he grounds his plea upon the following reafons :
tft. That the legality of the capture had already been determined

