Supreme Court of Pennfylvania.
1798.

December Term, j799.

RESPUBLICA verfus COBBET.

T

HE Defendant, being charged as a common libeller before THE CHIEF JUSTICE, wasboundby recognizance
to be of good behaviour, &c. and on a fuppofition, that he had
broken the condition, by a continuance of his libellous publications,'an aqion of debt was inftituted upon the recognizance, in this court. At the time of his entering his appearance, however, he filed a petition, fetting forth u por oath,
that he was an alien, a fubje& of the King of Great Britain;
and praying, that the fuit might be removed for trial into the
Circuit.Court, upon the terms prefcribed by the 12th feaion
of the judicial aft. x Vol. Swift's Edit. p. 56. The removal
being 6bje6ted to, a rule to (hew caufe was granted; which
was argued by Ingerfoll and Dallas, for the Commonwealth,
and by E. Tilghman, Lewis, Rawle, & Harper, (of SouthCarolina,) for the Defendant.
The argument embraced two propofitions:-ift. Whether,
in any cafe, a'State can be'compelled, by an alien, to profecute her rights.in the Circuit Court ? 2d Whether admitting
the general jurifdiffion of the Circuit Court, a State can be~fo.
compelled, in a cafe like the prefent ?
1. For the Defendant, it was urged, that the prefent cafe
came clearly within 'the conftitutional inveftment of judicial
authority in theFederal Government, being a cafe between.a
State, and a fubjeaof a"foreign State; drt., 3.f 2; that theAIth feoftion of the judicial a&, gives the Circuit Court "or-.
in;I cognizance,- concurrent: with the coiurts. of the feveralt
""
,
;States.

68
1798.

CAsls -ruled, and tadjudged in the
States, of all fuits of a civil nature at commrm law or in ei

~ quny, &c. where an ali n is a party;" i Fol. Swift's Edit.p.
55. and thqt ,hatever dou',t might be raifed, whether this origiual jurifdifi'on cmbraced the cafe of a Plaintiff State upon
a recognizance.; yet, the ad precludes all doubt-when, in the
nature of an appellate j'urifdi~tion, it provides by the 12ith fedion;-for the 'remoVald of W'a fuit (.not faying as before, a fuit'
Of a "-civil; nature'.),commentced In any State court againift. art:
alien ' The jtirif'liffion,, thus exprefsly recognized by, the
Conflitution. and law, i's' founded on the policy ,of affuring td
foreigners an independont and i mpartial tribunl ;-a policy
more.-entitled to be 'tefpe&ed, than the 'mere dignity of the indiv'idual States,'in the adminiftration of jufice. But neither
the pri~iciple, nor the terms, of the Conftitution will effe-t the
prefent c.fe: f6r, the 1rinciple'goes no f.rthr than to prevent
iffuing any ompu'lfbry'pr6tefs, to render a Stat amenable at
the foit of individualt; andtheternis of the amendment, conforming tb t6e principle, :ltovide 6 nly, that" the judiciat pow' rof the United States fhall not be- confirued to exttid to
" any'fi
ifi liw or equity, 4oinmenced 6r' p1ofecutedagai/
one 6f the United States by citizen of aioiher State, or by
- ciVizns, o-I fubj661s, of any foreiin St'lte."- 3 Vol p. 3I1,
$wift';r ldit.. ! This is not.'i fuit againft a State , fo the judi.Z
cal power of the United,States'may fid) extend to it; but being a fuit, in which ,a State i a party againtf ai alijen' the Sn.preme ,Court .,has,,.confiitutionaliy, -an:.oritibaljurfdidion ;
which, however, does 'not precluc.e the:exercif ojifdi.ion,
Sby wAy bf appeal; rVirticularlv where the a& of the, St4eitfeIf,_
,n reftrting 'to her own tribunal, leaves no.alterriative. P:, ! ,
jI. Nor~is there any thin g in'the peculiar nature-of the pre!f,'-ntfuit; to bar the!-.federal ju.rifdidion.-it is an a6tion of
d( bt;.-- fuit' Of a 'civil nature iiifl'ituted by the fame- procefs,
_hgugh
in thenan-e of the Commoiwealtb,' as ahy other a&i6n
to recover a debt;.and nbt 'as, a criminal "profecution for, -a
breach of the law, or recognizance. If iriflted of applyinz for
a removal, thp Defendant had pleaded, the Plaintiff had demurred, th the :plea, afid judgment had' been given' for the.
_a~te .the Defendant would in this 6afe, as in all cafies of 'a
ci 'I nature be 'entitl.,to a writ of errfor. ' To 6bviate, in-,eed, ail cavil on the 'niat.tre of the 2,Ctions to be :removed, the
iuth fe ion of the, judicial ad rejeds epithets and qualifications -of. every detcrfiption ufing fimriply :the-term "a .fuit.,"
which is, what the logicians would denorninatc, gen usgneral.:
ifIimzim, comprehendingievery form of adion.-See 6 1od.132. 7 7. Rep. 3.
z B!. C. 341. 2,D.'! Rep.' 358. i Dalk
~L
.keP. 393.
I. Foi,
Foj,

StKENE COURT of Penifylvania.

q. Por the commonwealth, it was anfwered, that if the prefont attempt was fuccefsful, it would profirate the authority of
the individual States; and render them, whenever a foreigner
was an offender, and the offence was bailable, completely de!pendent u ,on the federal courts for the adminiftration of cri-ina ji'ujice.' "But recognizances are a part of the proceeding's
'l'nthe tx rcife of a criminal jurifdi&ion; and wherever the
prcipal qiueCtion attaches, it is a rule of law, that every ini'dent foll6ws - The cafe never could, indeed, be within the
contemplation "of'the conitution, or law, as a fubje& of fede.,
ral jurifdifton. ' Every gov:erment ought to poflefs the means
of feif-prefekrvaiion and no'c6urt can exift, without the power
of baiing, binoing to

ood behaviour, &c. It is abfurd and nu-

-gatory to fy, a State Eourt ma' poffRA the power,*but that a
,Federal Court, in the numnerou's inftancis of foreigrers, is ne.
teffary to eiiforce, it. Nor is th, adve'rfe do&rine confined to
4he cafe cf a recoghizance like the prent; but it equally ap-.
1'plies to the cafes of.'a recognizance forthe appearance of a defefidant, or witnefs, and for anfweririg interrogatories upon a
contempt committd." Is it reafonable to fuppofe, that fuch'
,;n effe& was intended to be produced, by,. the frahers of the
Conffitution, or that it could long be "tolerated by. the people!
. ItisContended, the word " fuit,"
is genus generaiffimum,
and embraces every fpecies of a6tion: buz however logical the
phra'fe. the inference is certainly politically wrong. The powers of the general government extend no further than pofi.tive
delegation ; and, in relation to crimes, they are either fpecifiad in the Conflitution, or ena&ed in laws, made in purfuance
of it. The State has, likewife, its penal fan&ions, more general and indefinite than thofe of the union; every inhabitant
Owing obedience to its laws. If an alien, as well as if a cititen, commits murder, burglary, arfon, or larceny, in Pennfyl,

-tania,he is punifhable by indidment excluf'ely in the State
Courts: And yet an indidment, or information, is in legal
phrafeology, "a fuit:" 4 Bi. 1. 298. 2 [Food. Let7. 551. 2
Dig.
pm. 227. As are adions On penal flatutes, whether
brought by a common informer, or by the State. If, then, the
word " fuiC' is fo comprehenfive, what is to prevent an alien
from transferring an indidment from the State to the Federal
Court ?
' But the truth is, that this is not a fitit of a civil nature;

and, therefore , not within the view of the Conftitution, or of
the a& of Congrefs. Speaking of indi&ments and informatiOns, they would be called criminal profecutions: And this fuit
though not, firidly, a criminal profecution, is a fuit of a cri.

LMinal.

1798.

I70

1798.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

minal nature. - What is its origin? A complaint on oath, that.
party menaces the public peace. What is the caufe of aai,
on? A breach of the condition, to keep the peace and be of
good behaviour. What will be the faa in iffue? Whether
the'Defendant has kept the peace, and been of good behaviour,
according to the law of Pennfylvania. What muft be the
Plaintiff's proof? ?roof that the Defendamt has committed an
offence. The recognizance is, in fhort, a part of the criminal
procefs of the law; it muff be fet forth on the record ; and it is
the mere inftrument of fubtitigting bail, for the imprifonment
of the Defendant's perfon.
II. But a State cannot be, and never could have been, compelled, by an alien, to profecute her rights in a Circuit Court.
The Conftitution contemplates the fibjeds, and the tribunals,
for the exercife of the judicial authority of the Union. The
cafes of public minifters and individual States, are vefted, as
matter of originalj urifdiaion, in the Supreme Court; and even
if the word original does not mean exclufive, the courts of
the refpef-ive States poffeffed at the time of framing the conflitution, a concurrent jurifdi&ion* by which the provifion may.
be fatisfied. The jurifdi&ion of the State courts has' never
fince been taken away; but as the Conftitution does not give
a concurrent jurifdiaion to the Circuit Court,it is, at leaf,
incumbent on the Defefidant's counfc4 to-fhew, by exprefs
words, that fuch a jurifdi&ion is given in the af of,Congrefs.
In diftributing almong the Federal Courts their refpedive
portions of the judicial authority, Congrefs has declared, in the
i 3 th feation, 'Sthat the Supreme Court fhal1 have exclufive
"jjridi&ioi of all controverfies of a civil natqre,, where a

Sthe

"

State is a part, except between a -State ;nd its cixizns;;

. aild cxcept alfobeen a State and citizens of other States.,, qrt
aliens, in which latter cafe it fhall have original; but not
"exclufive, juri!di ion,'". When thefe exceptions were made,
the concurrent jurifdi&ion of the State Courts exiftcd to fatis-.
fy them ; ai,d the a& of Congrefs does not, in any other fe&i-.
on, name, or defcribe, the cafe of a State, either upon the.
principle of an original, exclufive, or appell.ate,'jurifdiftion.
The principal policy fuggefted as toaliens, was, likewife, an-.'
fwered; for, they might all have fued in the Supreme. Court;
and the cafe of one State againf a citizen of another State, is
put on the fame footing with the cafe of a State againf an ajien.
13y this fedion, therefore, the pr6vifion in the conflitutioi is
effe6tuated; and we' muft prefume, that if a State was meant
to be included in any grant of jurifdi6ion.to an inferior Court,
the meanirg would be clearly expreffed, and not left to doubtf impcation.
... •
There

,UP
RME

6URT of Pennfylvanie

there are, then, no words, in.'creating the jurifdifft 6rij
bf the C;rcuit Court, that exprefsly include a State: and, indeed, it has almoft been conceded, that the cafe is not within
the iith fefion, of the judicial ad. It is to be ffhewn, howver, that if it is not within the i ith.fefio.n, it cannot be embraced by the ith fedion. The concurrentjurifdifion givenby the iith fedion to the Circuit Court, refers to the State
Courts, and not to the Supreme Court; and the generality of
the terms might, upon the oppofite conftrudion,be extended to
cafes evidently not included in the reafon of the provifion, or
excluded by other parts of the law;-to fuits below the value
of 500 dollars, to fuits for cofts, and to fuits between aliens.
It is infifted, however, to be.enough to give the jurifdjdion,
that an alien is a party. But expreflio unius eftexclufo alterius; and it would violate another rule of law, to embrace the
cafe of a fuperior, a State, by merely naming'the cafe of an
inferior, a foreign individual. In the Conftitution, and in the
i 3 th feffion of the judicial a&, the cafes of an alien, and of a
citizen of another State, are placed on the fame footing, becaufe, it is plain, that their cafes are within the fame policy:
but, if the adverfe do6lrine is corred, the principle is abandoned in the iith fecqion ; for, the jurifdidion will affed the
fuit of a State where an alien is a party, though it will not
afFed the fuit of a State, where the citizen of another State is
a party. Alien party, means party Plaintiff,. as well as Defendant; and, therefore, if the jurifdidion is not limitted to
private fuits between individuals, what was there, before the
amendment of the Conffitution, to prevent an alien from fuing a State.in the Circuit Court? And yet was fuch an attempt ever made, or would ever fuch an attempt have been tolerated ?
. Thefe confiderations" and the dignity of the party, muft
evince that the conflitution and law intended to veil in the Supreme Court alone, an original jurifdiSionin the cafe of States,
unlefs the States themfelves voluntarily refort to ifate tribunals,
which are, therefore, left with a concurrent authority. Neither
in the confiitution, nor the law, is there an exprefs delegation
of a concurrent authority to the. Circuit Courts. For, although it is faid, that the twelfth fed-ion meant to enlarge the
jUrifdiaion of 'the Circuit Courts, beyond the boundaries precribed in the eleventh fedion ; yet the fedfions are in pari materia ; they fpeak of the fame parties.; they refer to the fame
value of the matter in controverfy ; and, in fhort, the twelfth
fetion only provides a mode of transferring from the State
Court to the Federal Court, fuch fuits, in~which an alien is
made a Defendant, as he could have originally brought there in
the

4-1.
i 799 .

'472
1798.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

:the charaaer of a Plaintiff: In the chaia' er of a Plaintiff h

could never have fued a State in the Circuit Court ; an'd fuch is
the uniform opinion of all Who have ever cotnentel on tbe
Conflitution;or expounded the Law. 2. Federalft, 3i7. 38.

323. 327. ' 2. Dall. Rep. 436.

99. 4C2,

4,5.

But, furely, the amendme::t to the Cunftituion muft put at
end to every difficulty. It ordains that " the judi cal power
'
of the United Stdtes hall not be conftriied to extejd to any
" fuit in law, or equity, commenced or profe cute'd againif one
" of the United States by citizens of another State,. or by
citizens or fubje6ts of any foreign State." (3. k/ot. 131.
Swift's Edit.) The languige of the amendment, indt di
does not import an alteration of the Confflitution; but an authoritative declaration of 'ts trtue conftru&1on. Then, there
are only two cafes in which a State can be aff:6ed:--t0. Where
fhe is. Plaintiff,-2d. Where fhe is Defendant : the armcdxment declares, that fh- fh:'dl not be affe&ed aF a Defendant :
and as a Plaintiff (he can never be'affected but by her own aO ;
fince, there is no Conflitutional injun 6 tion, that fhe thall fue
in a Federal Court. The mifchief which was apprehended ir'
allowing States to be fued in the Supreme Court, is not gre~iteithan the mifchief in allowing them to be forced to fue in the
Circuit Court : the procefs in both cafes i , alike, ctmpulfory ,
and many interlocutory decifions, as well as final judgments;
might be pronounced, to which a State Plaintiff woitld be Ai
averfe, as a State Dafendant. If fhe does not recover, fhall
fihe be condemned in cots ? If there is a fet*off pleaded, and
averdit ae'ainfi her, can the Defendant maintain afcirefaciasi
under thePennfylvania a& of Affembly, which the ;t61 of Coqn,
grefs recognizes as the rule of decifion? i. P11. 65. (Dal. Edit.)
Or if the recovers as a Plaintiff, in the Circuit Court, can fhe
be converted into a Defendant in the Supremae Court; upon a'
Writ of Error ? Such is the labyrinth, in Which tfle oppofiti
do,&rine is involved !
After advifement, the unanimous opinion of THE CoURT
was delivered by t'ri. CmIEF JuTI'ci, in the f6llowing
terms.
. This ,aaion i's brought on a '-6.
.uftic
M'Ka¢, Ohief
cognizance to the coin nionwealth of Pennfylvani '; fr the good
beaviour, entered into by the Defendant before me! The
Defendant has appearcd to the a6tion, and exhibited his peir
tion to, the Cour t, praying that the jurifdition thereof 0e tTriffered to the Circuit Coirt of the United Statei, a" he 'i's an A
lien, and a fubjet? of the King,of Great Britain: Hi§ right
to this clim of jurifdi&ion is faid to be grounded on the i2:di
tdtion of the a, -ofCongre s, entitlic&AnaLt to eftablith the.
judicial

°iiURkMi COURT of PennIykania.

47'

Jdaica) Courts of the United States, paffed the 24 th of Sep..
teikber i 8q, in the firfi claufe of which feai6n it is ena&ed;
that if a fuit be ioimenced in any State Court againift an
alien, &c. and the matter in difpute eicceeds the fum ot value
of five hundred dollars, exchifive of cofts, on a 'petition of the
Defendant, and a tender of bail to ao'OeAr in the Circ'uit Court,

&c. it flall be the dtlt -6fthe state Court to accept the furety, and. proceed no further in the cafe, &c.
.Previous to the delivery of my opinion in a aiire of fich
importaice; a§ to the confequences of the decifion, I Will make
a few preliminary obfervations on 'the c66flitation and laws of
the United States of Ailherica,,
Our fyftem of government feem to tm6 to differ, ini form and
fpirit, from all other governments, that have heretofor& ekifted
iFi the vrorld. It is as "to fme particulars national, in others
federa4,
and in all
the refidue territorial,or in diftri~s called
States.
'..
.
The divifions of po er between the national, federal, and
fate governments, (all derived fron the fame fource, the. authority of the people) muft be colle&ed from the conflitutiort
of the United States., Before it was adopted, the feveral States
had abfolute and unlimited fovereignty within their tefpeive
boundaries; all the powers, legiflative, executive, and judiciall
excepting thore granted to Congrefs under the old conflitution :
They now enjoy them all, excepting fuch as are granted to the
government of the'United States by the prefent infirument
and the adopted.amendments, which are for particular purpofes only. The government of the United States forms a part
of the government of each State; its jurifdiffion extends to the
providing for the common defence againft exterior injuries and
violence the regulation of commerce, and other matters fpe-

cially enumerated in. the conflitution ; all other powers remairt
in the individual flates, comprehending the interior and other
concerns ; thefe combined, form one complete government.
Should there be'any defed in this form of government, or any
collifion occur, it catinot be remedied by the fole a& of the
Congrefs, or of a State ; the people mut be reforted to, for enlargement or modification. If a State fhould differ with the
United States about the confltruflion of them, there is no common umpire but the people, who fhould adjuft the affair by making amendments in the conftitutional way, or fuffer from the
defet. In fach a cafe the conftitution of the United States is
federal it is a league or treaty made by the individual Statesi
as one party, and all the States, as ann-ther part;. When two
nations differ about the meaning of any claufe, fentence, or
word in a treaty, neither has an exclufive right to decide it;

VOL. III.

P p p

they

1798.

:741 7 9 8,

CA s

~

ruled arid adjudged in the

they endeavour to adjuft thp matter by negoci~tion, but if it
cannot be thu accomplifled, each has a right to retain, its own
interpretation, until a'reference be had to the mediationofothet
nations, an arbitation, or the fate .of war. There is no proiifion in the canftitution, that in fuch a care the Judges of thp
Supreme Court of the United States fhall control and be con-,
*lufiye : neither can the Congrefs by a law coiifer that power.
There appears to be a defei in this matter, it is a cafus OMlfis, which ought in fome way to be remedied. Perhaps the VicePrefident and Senate of the United States ; or commiffloners
appointed, fay one by each State, would be a more proper tribunal than the Supreme Court, Be that as it may, I rather
thinK the remedy muff be found in an ato.dwent of the conOitution.
I fhall now confider the cafe before us. It is an a&ion
brought in the name of the commonwealth of Pennfylvania,
againft an alien, a Britijh fubjed. By the expref§ words of
the fecond fentence of the 2nd fe&ion of the 3 dArticle of the conflitution of the United States, in fuch an iefion the Supreme
Court fhall have original jurifji&ion; whereas it is now pray-ed by, the Defendant, that original jarifdition be given to the
Circuit Court. From this, it would reafonably beconcluded, that
the Congrefs ,n the 12th fe(fion of the judicial law, did not
eontemplate an a&ion wherein a State was Plaintiff, though an
;flien was Defendant, for it is there faid, "that if a fuit be comrmenced in any State Court againft an alien1 &c." at it-does
riot, mention by a State, the prefumption and conffru6tion muft
4e, that it meant by a citizen. This will appear pretty plain
from a perufal of the i ith fe6lion of the fame a&, where it is
eiavba d, that the Circuit Courts flhall have original cognizance,
concurrent with the Courts of the feveral States, of all fuits of
,i civil nature, of a certain value, where the United States are
.Plaintiffs or Petitioners, or where an alien is a party, This
Confines the original cognizance of the Circuit Courtsi con'iirrent with the Courts of the fcveral States, to civil a6lions
commenced by the United States, or citizens againft aliens, or
where an qlien is a party, &c. and does not extend to a~ions
irought againfl aliens by a State, for of fuch the Supreme
Court had, by the conflitution, original jurifdiffion. I would
further remark, that the jurifdiaion of the Circuit Courts is
conflqed to a6 tions of a c'vil nature againif aliens, and does not
extcnd to thofe of a criminal nature; for although the word
'Aide" is ufed generilly in the. i2th fe6lion, without expreffing
t.he words ",f a civil nature," yet the flighteft confideration of
what follpws, manifeftlv fliws that no other fuit was meant ;
fqr the matter in difuutc muff eiiceed five hundred dollars in
value,

SUIkEME Coukr of Pennfylvania.
value, tpecial bail muff be given, &c. terms applicable to actions of a civil nature only.
Let us now confider, whether this fuitagainft Wfilliam Cobbei is of a civil or criminal nature. It is grounded on a recognizance for the good behaviour entered into before the
Chief Juice of this State, This recognizance, it mu be conbeded, was taken to prevent criminal affions by the defendant,
in violation of the peace, order, and tranquility of the fociety;
it was'to prevent crimes, or public wrongs, and mifdemeanors,
and for no other purpofe, It is evidently of a criminal nature,
and cannot be fupported, unlefs he fhall be convi6ed of having
committed fom crimeo which would incur its breach fince its
dates and before the day on which the procefs iflled againf
him. Befides, a recognizance is a matter of record, it is in the
nature of a judgment, and the procefs upon it,!-whether a fcire
facias or fummons, is for the purpofe of carrying it into ex7
ecution, andis rather judicial than original; it is, no farther
-to be reckoned an original fuit, than that the Defendant has '
i'ight to plead to it : it is founded upon the recQgnizance5 and
muf6be confidered as flowing from it, and partaking of its nature ; and when final judgm'ent ihal) be" given the whole is to be
taken as one record. It has been well obferved by the attorhey general, that by the laft amendment,- or legiflative decaration of the meaning of the Conifitution, refpe~ting the jurifdiaion of the courts of the United States over the caufes o"
States, it is ftrongly irnpliedi that States fhall not be drawn againft their will dire&ly or irtdire6tly before them,, and that if
the prefent application fliould prevail this would be the cafet
" The judicial power of
The words of the declaration are:
the United States fh.all not be conflrued to extend to any fuit
in law or equity commenced oT profecuted againft one of the
United States, by citizens of ahother State, or. by citizens or
When the judicial law wai
fubje6ls of any foreign State."
paffed, the opinion prevailed that S.tates might be fued, whicl
by this amendment is fettled oth'erwife.
The argument ab inconvenienti is alfo appl icable to. the con-.
firufion of this fecion of the a& of Congrefs. Can the,
Legilattire of the United States be fuppofed to have intended,
(granting it was within their conffitutional powers) that an
alien, refiding three or four hundred miles from where the
Circuit Court is held, who has, from his turbulent and infamous condud in his neighbourhood, been bound to the good
behaviour by a mag.ifrat.of a fiate, fhould, after a breach of'
his recognizance and a prtofecution for it commenced, be'en..
abled to remove the profeqution before a Court at fuch a diftance, and held. bu.t twice in a year,, to be tried by a jury,
who,

4T
1798.

76
.1798.

CASEs

ruled 4nd ,djudged in the

who 1 now neither the perfons, nor chara&ers, of the wit.-

L~..Jneffes, and'conifeclmently are unqulified to try their credit ; and

to oblige the profecutor and witneffes to incur fuch an expence
of time and money, in order to prove that he had committed an
aflault, or any. other offehce that would amount to a violation,
of it ? If fo, fucha recognizance, though. it woluld 9perate, as a
fecurity to the public' againfi a citizen, would be of little avail
againif an alien. It'cannot'be conceived, that they intended to
put an alien in a more favorable fituation than a citizen in fuch
a cafe, and by difficulties thrown in the way to difeourage and
weaken, if not defeat the ufe of, a reftraint, found often to, be
very falutary in preferving the peace and quiet of the people.
Maiiy other inconveniences have been mentioned by the counfel, whic I fhall not repeat. If, tere'fore, any other conftruction can 'b m"ade itought to prevail.
Upon 'the rhole, our opinion is,' that where a State has a
controverfy with an alien about a contracl, or other matter of
atcivil nature, the Supreme Court 'of the United States has
criginal jurifdition of it, and the circuit or diflrii courts have
nothing eo do with fuch a cafe. The'reafon feens to be found.
ed in a refpe& for the dlignity of a State, that the 'a61ion may
e brought in ihe firfi inftance before the higheff tribunal, and
alfo that this tribunal would be mofi likely to guard a'gainfi the
of aate over a foreigner.' But that neithe
power and f
the confitutioh nor the congrefs ever conterimplated, that any
court under'the'UAhited States fhould take cognizanc6 of any
thin'g favouring of crimiinalty"againfl a State: Ithai the adion
be'fore the court is of a'criminalnature and for the unifhment
of'a crime' againit the State :"That yielding to the prayer of.
the petitioner would be'highly inconvenient in itfelf and inju-

rious in the precedent: And'that cognizance of 4t7xould not-be
ac e ted by' the Circuit'Court, if fent to them ; for even confeni cannot confer jurifdi&ion.' For thefe reafons, 'nd others,

o9itted forthe fake'of brevit, i'conilude, the prayer of Wil!'

4am 'Cobbet cannot be granted.
The Petition reje&ed.

AMIERLI.N.G

