SUPREME COURT of the UNITED STATES.

February Term, 1794,

O

the meeting of the Court, a commiffion was read, dat-

ed the 28th of January, 1794, appointing William
Bradford,Efquire, Attorney-General of the United States*.
The

STATE

of

GEORGIA,

verfus

BRAILSFORD, et at.

T

HIS caufe was now tried, by a fpecial jury, upon an amicable iffue, to afcertain, whether the debt due from
Spalding, and the right of a&ion to recover it, belonged to the
State of Georgia,or to the original creditors, under all the circurn{fances, which are fet forth in the pleadings and argumeits
on the equity fide of the Court? See 2 vol. Dall.Rep. 403. 415.
For the plaintiff, Ingerfoll and Dallas, propofed two objeas
for enquiry :-i.
Was the debt due from Spalding, at any time
the property of the State ?-2. Has the title of the State ceafed, or been removed, and the right of afion re-vefted in the
defendants ?
Y. Oi thefirfl point, they contended, that Georgia as a fovereign State, had power to transfer the debt in queftion from
the original creditor, an alien enemy, to herfelf, notwithiftanding fome of the debtors were citizens of another State ; that
by her confifcation law fhe had declared the intention to make
the transfer ; and that without an inquef" of office, her intention had been carried into effec1 in due form, and according to
Mr. Bradford was appointed in the room of 2dmund Randoltb, Efq. who had accepted, the otffce of Secretary of State.

VOL. III,

law,

ruled and adjudged in thd

CASES

1794. law, as well in relation to her own citizens, as to the parties
-vJwho were citizens of South Carolina.-Infupport of thefe feveral propofitions the following authorities were cited : I H. B1.
149. Jatt. B. 3. c. 77. Lee on Capt. Bynk. B, i. c. 7. Jatt.B.
3. c. 18.f 295. Jeak. 12,1. Sir T'. Park. 12r. Plow. 243,324.
B . Com.
i H. Bl. 413. 2 Bl. Corn. 405, 409. 2 'ood. 130.
386. 1 Hal,. P. C. 413. 3 I1!/. 55. x Hawk. 68. 3 Bl. Com.
259. 3 .'T Rep. 731, 2, 3, 4. i Woodf 146. Cro. Car. 460.
16 Fin. Abr. 85, 6- 3 Bl. Com. 26a. Park. 267. 1 P. W.
307. 1 Dall. Rep. 393. Hind. ch. i29. i Fern. 58.
a. On the fecond point, it was urged, that although the
word

"

fequefiration"

was ufed in the Georgia law, yet, that

the law direqed the debt to he colle&ed, in the fame manner
as debts co/fcated, and to be put into the treafury, for the ufe'
of the flate, until it fhould be otherwife appropriated; and
that the flate had never made any other appropriation; but,
on the firft opportunity, claimed-it as a forfeiture. The election, therefore, to confider it as a confifcation, was referved by

the flate to herfelf;
fervation abfolute.
rolina law cannot
for that law is only

and her fubfequent condu& makes the reThe exception of debts in the South-Cagovern the care as to Powell & Hopton;
referred to for the manner and form, not

for the ftibje6ts of confifcation.

It only remains, therefore, to

enquire, whether, independent of Georgia, the operation and
exiftence of her law can be, and has been, defeated and annulled. The peace merely does riot efl'e61 the right of the flate;
for, the condition of things at the conclufion of the war is legitimate; and all things not mentioned in the treaty, are to re-

main as at the conclufion of it. The treaty of 1783 does not
affec the right of the flate; for, though it provides, generally,
in the Vth article, that creditors, on either fide, fhall meet with
no lawful impediment, in recovering their debts, this ought to
be underftoad merely as a provifion that the war, abitra&edly
confidered, fliall make no difference in the remedy, for the
recovery offubfi/ging debts; that, the remedy fhall not be perplexed by iniftalment laws, pine-barren laws, bull laws, paper
money laws, &c; but it does not decide, what are fubfifting
debts, which can only, indeed, be decided on the general principle of the law of nations,

Laws of fequeflration and confif-

cation, are not, however, the objed of the 4 th article of the
treaty of peace; but of a fibfequent article, in which Congrefs
only promife (all, indeed, that they could do) to recommend
to the ftates, revifion mnd reftiftution. Debts difcharged by
law, where they orizinated, are every where difcharqed. Such
is not only the do6frine of Georgia, but of the Britil Statesmen and Judges wherever the. queftien has arifen. The Federal
Co;t/litution does not affed 'the right of the itate; for, though

SUpREMr. COURT

of the United States.

it gives effea to the treaty of peace, it furnihes no rule for
conflruing the meaning of the parties to that inftrument. In
relation to there arguments, the following authorities were
cited:-State papers, 7eferjon to Hammond, Hinde Ch. 127.
I Br. Ch. 376. 3 Bac. Abr. 31O. Caermarthen's Memorial,
,A.merican Mufeum, May 1787. i Hen. Bi. 123. 135. 3 T.

Rep. 732. 1 H. BI.

149.

!zBr. Ch. It.I'lH. BI. 146.

For the defendants, Bradford (the attorney-general) E.
7Tilghman and Lewis made the following points:.--tft That
the debts due to Powell & Hopton, had not been confifcated by
the law of South- Carolina, and, therefore, were not confifca,
ted by the words of reference in the law of Georgia; nor had
Georgia a right to confifcate the property of the citizens of
other flates. 2d. That even if the law of Georgia had confifcated Brailsford's intereft in the debt, the right to recover the
two thirds belonging to Powell & Hopton was unimpaired.
3 d. That the debt, as it refpe&s Brailsford himfelf, is not con,
/fated,butfequeflered; and that the fequeftration had not been
enforced by-any inqueft of oflice, feizure, or other ad tantamount to an office or feizure. 4 th. That the Peace alone,
without any pofitive compact, reftored the right of adqtion to
the original creditors. 5th. That without recourfe to the general principle of the law of nations, the treaty exprefsly revives the right of adion, by removing all legal impediments
to the recovery of bona fide debts, and the treat), is the fupreme
law of the land, by virtue of the Federal Conflitution. In
fupport of thefe propofitions the following authorities were
cited :-3 Bac. 203. 2 Co. 67. I P. Im. 307. Curs. Cane.
89. 1.Dom. Civ. L. I38. 147. Magna Carta. Sir '. Park.
267. 3 T. Rep. 734. Vatt. b.4.c. r.f.8, ib. C. 2. f 20. 22.
Burn. Ec. L. 157. Carth. 148. Grot. b. 3. c. 2o f 6. p.
700. I Dall. Rep. 233. I H. Bl. 123" 13. . 2 Bro. ch. 1I.
i B'. c. 409. 240. Sir 7'.Raym. Saunf 45. Plowd. 2 5 c,
3 In/i. 55. I Hawk. 68. State tapers Bynk. b. i c. 7. I
iVer. 58. Circular Lett.- of Congrefs.
atinued for four days, the Chief
The argument having
,ing charge on the 7 th of Fe7u/lice delivered the fo'
ruary.
JAY, Chief 7uiice. This caufe has been regardedasof
great importance; and doubtlefs it is fo. It has accordingly
been treated by the Counfel with great learning, diligence
and ability; and on your part it has been heard with particular attention. It is, therefore, unneceffary for me to follow
the'inveftigation over the extenfive field into which it has been
carried: you are now, if ever you can be, completely poffef,
fe of the merits of the cafe,
The

1794.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

,J794The fa 6s comprehended in the cafe, are agreed; the only.
L
point that remains, is to fettle what is the law of the land arifing
'foi thofe faUls ; and on that point, it is proper, that the opipion of the court fhould be given. It is fortunate on the prefent, as it muff be on every occafion, to find the opinion of the
court unanimous: We entertain no diverfity of fentiment; -and
have experienced
.we
no difficulty in uniting in the charge,
which it is my province to deliver.
We are then, Gentlemen, of opinion, that the debts due to
'Hopton & Powell (who were citizens of South-Carolina)
were not confifeated by the ftatute of South-Carolina; the fame
being, therein exprefsly excepted: That thofe debts were not
confifcated by the ftatute of Georgia, for that flatute enaas,
with refpcl to Powell & Hopton, precifely the like, and no
o9ther, degree and extent of confifeation and forfeiture, with
that of South-Carolina. Wherefore it cannot now be neceffary
'to decide, how far one tate may of right legiflate relative to
the perfonal rights of citizens of another ftate, not refiding
'
I - '
wvithin their jurifdiStion'. I
We are alfo of' pini6n, that the%debts due to Brailsford, a
Britifh fubjeal, 'iefiding in Great Britain, were by the 'ifatute
of Georgiafubj'e&ed,' not to'confifeation, but only to fequeftration ; and, therefore, that his right to recover them, revived at
the peaceIboth by the law of nation5 and the tieaty of peace.
The qi efIion of forfeiture in the cafe of joint obligees, being at prefent imm,.terial, need not now be decided.
It m ay'no.t be ilmit', here, Gentlemen, to remind'you of the
good old rule, that on queftions of fa& it Js the province of
the jury, on 'queftions'of law;,.it is the province of the court
to decid'e. 'But i muff be obferved 'that' by the 'fame law,
which re'og iz.es''this' reafo~nable 'diftributioi of jqrifdidio,
you have neverthelefs a right to take upon yourklves to judge
of both, and to determire'the lawas well as thefaa in controverfy. On this, and on very otthCr'occafion, 'however,
we hai,eho' d dubt; 'you will pay that refpe&, which is due to
the opinion of the'court: For, as or\ the one hand, it is prefumed, that juries are the bell judges of faas; it is, on the
'6ther hand, prefumaible, that the' corrt are the beft judges of
law. But frill both objeas are lawfully, within your' power
of decifion.
Sone iftefs has been laid on a confideration of the different
fituations of the parties to the caufe ; The State of Georgia,
fues three private perfons. But what is it to juftice, how
many, or how few; how high, or how low; how rich, or how
poor;' the contendiiig parties may chance t6 be ? Juftice is indifcriminately due to all,'withou.t regard to numbers, wealth,
r rn.
ecaufe to the State of Georgia, compofed'of many
thoufand4

SUPREME COURT

of te United States.

thoufands of people, the litigated rum cannot be of great moment, you will not for this reafon be juftifted, in deciding
againft her claim; if the money belongs to -her, ihe ought to
have it; but on the other hand, no confideration of the circumflances, or of the comparative infignificance of the defendants,
can be a ground to deny them the advantage *ofa favourable
verdi6, ifin juftice they are'entitled to it.
Go then, G-entlemen, from the bar, without any impreffions
of favor or prejudice for the one party or the other; weigh
well the merits of the cafe, and do on this, as you ought to
do on every occafion, equal and impartial jufice."
The jury having been abfent fome time, returned'to the bar,
and propofed the followiug quefiions to the.courr.
I Did the ad of the State of Georgia, completely veft the
debts of Brailsford, Powell & Hopton, in the State, at the
time of paffing the fame?
2. If fo, did the treaty of peace, or any oiher matter, revive
the right of the defendants to the debt in controverfy ?
In anfwerto thefe queflions, the CHIEF JUSTICE fated, that
it was intended in the general charge of the court, to comprife
their fentiments trpon the points now fuggefted; but as the
jury entertained a doubt, the ehquiry was perfe&ly right. On
the xft queftion, he (aid it' was the unanimous opinion of the
judges, that the adt of the State of Georgia did not veft the
debts of Brailsford, Powell & Hopton, in the State at the
time of palling it. On the 2d queftion he faid, that no lequeftration divefts the property in the thing fequeftered; and,
confequently, Brailsford, at the peace, and indeed, throughout the war, was the real owner of the debt. That it is true,
the State of Georgia interpofed with her legiflative authority
to prevent Brailford's recovering the debt while the war continued, but, that the mere reftoration of'peace, as well as the
very terms of the treaty,' revived the right of a-ion to recover
the debt, the property of which had never in fa& or law been
taken from the defendants : and that if it were otherwife, the
fequeftration would certainly remain a lawful impediment to
the recovering of a bona fide debt, due to a BritiA creditor,
in dire& oppofition to the' 4 th article of the treaty.
After this explanation, the jury, withot going again from
the bar, returned a J/erdiflfor the defendants.

GLASS.

1794.

