,s ruled anr adjiudgedit th
1798•

Coxn luerfia MCLEN

HAV',

CoxE verfrs HUSToN, Speial Bail.

tUDGMENT hav.ihg been obtained, a~ainfI JP4.ndcbdtA4
a Ca.-Sa. ifflued to S:ptcaber Termt lal, and was returned
non e iventus. The PlaintifA'then iffted afrirtfaciasagainfe
RUjion, the fpecial 'bail, which 'was retutnabte to the prefent
term ; and within the firft four days of the term A'Clenaoehat
was. furrendered in difcharge of his bail, when a motion was
made for leave to enter an exoneretui. , But the Defendant,
being a member of the Congrefs, which was in feffion at the
time of his furrender, prefented a memorial to the Court,' demanding, as his privilege,,to be difcharged from the cuftody of
the Sheriff ; and it was agreed; thatthe io-fion for an exonere-.
ur on behalf of the bail, as well as the- motion for a difcharge
on behalf of the Defendant, fhould be argued together}, upoR,
rules to flhew caufe.
.ngerftl and Dallas contendecd, that both the rules ought to.
be made abfolute. ift. The Defendant would be entitled to,
privilege, even if he were iii execution and his being furhis
.rendeied
by his bail, 'placcs him in. cuftody at the fuit of the.
Plaintiff. Had the Defendant been arrcfted before he was enti,-.
iled to privilege, he could not havebeer) held iacuffody after his
,vlege ; but, in the, ptefent cafe, ht was ntevef in cuaod'y till the.
Lilion of. Cogrefs had adually commenced.. The filowing
authorities were cited on this poib1t, Cosif. Art. r. S. 6. r.,
Bl. C, 64. 6." Ii. Vin. Abr. 36 ia. and 13 W. 3- c. 3,
i. Geo. 2. c. 24. i'o. Ge6. 3. e. 50. 3. Cor. Dig. 310s
.

. Rep. 686.
,2d.

1. 74c. c.

, 4. C!1. Dig. 336.

Aii exoneretur ought to be entered on the bail piece.

lndugence is ah:vys fhwrn tobail, where no.iejury is produ~ced
to the Plaintiff. If the Defendant had been takep, on the
ca. Sa. or if he had been furrendered before Congrefs
aflfembled, he would now have been entitled to his privi1ege ; (a hg the Pliatiff has fkuffered, no:hijng by the delay.

"Tb.

UIMECOURTk

of Penfy10anh;47

the general rule is, that the bail may furrender within the
Irf' four days of the term, to which thefeirefacias is returnable.
hVerid, Pr. 377, 381. 4 Burr. 2i34. And if the bail is
prevented from making a furrender by any legal bar, even hrifing from matter ex poqlfado, he fhall be entitled to an eioneretur. i Purr. 339, 340. Sell. i8o. Str. 1217. i Burr;
339, 340. Doug. 45- Sell. 183. Whether, therefore, the bail
could, or could not,, furrender the Defendant after the time that
privilege had occured, the prefent application is equally welt
founded. But to place the cafe on the faireff footing, the bail
will confent on the principles recognized in i Str, 419.
to remain refponfi-ble for -furrendering the Defendant, within
four days after the feflfins of Congrefs, provided that time is
alowed to make the furrender.
E. Tilgbman and RdJ1, the Plaintiffs counfel, having con4
fidered the propofition, for allowing further time to make the
furrender, agreed to it;. and THE COURT declared their approbation of the compromifei as affording a,good precedent for future cafes 9 f a fimilar kind,
Tilghnan then acknowledged, that he thought the privilege
of Congrefs extended to arrefts on judicial, as well as mefnej
procefs; but controverted the doitrine that a perfon arreffed
before he had: privilege, was entitled to be difcharged, in confqquence of privilege afterwards acquired.

PEMBFRTQR.'S Leffee verfus HxciS,

SPHIS

eje&.ment was tried at .Aewtowh,- in Bucks Countyj
May, I94, when the Jury found the following fpecial
A
verdil :
" The Jurors impannelled, tried, (worn and affirmed to try
" the iffue joined in this caulfe upoi their refpe~ive oaths and
"c affirmations fay-That Laurence Grouden, being feized in fee
"of the premifes in the declaration mentioned, by his laft will in
writing
wc
duly made and executed, devifed the fame premifes in
" fee fimple to his daughter Grace Galloway, then the wife of

",.yofeph Galloway,

and afterwards died feizcd thereof as aforefaid

1798.

