S1tPRIME COURT of

Pennfylvanin.
1799.

June Ni/i Prius, 1799*.

WHARTON It al. Executors,

NDEBITATUS affumpfit.

verfus

FITZGERALD.

The a&ion was founded on

the following facts :-On the i 5 th day of July, 1749,
Jofeph Ogden, being feized in his demefne as of fee, of and in
a certain meffuage and lot of ground, fituate in the city of
Philadelphia,made his laft will and teftament, by which he devifed the premifes to his mother, Hannah fharton, the teftatrix, by the name of Hannah Ogden, in fee ; and died in the
fame month, unmarried and without iffije.
From the 3 d of February, 1752, the rents and profits of the
premifes had been received by John Cox and Sarah his mife,
formerly Sarah Edgehill, who claimed one moiety in her right ;
and by Samuel Mffiin and Rebecca his wife, formerly Rebecca
Edgeill, who in her right claimed the other moiety, by defcent
As a foundation for this claim,
from the faid Jojeph Ogden.
they alledged that the faid 7 feph Ogden died inteflate, being
under age at the time of making his ffid will ; that in confequence thereof, the fee fimple of the premifes defcended to
Rebecca Edgehill, the fifler of the faid Hannah Wharton, the
teftatrix, and heir at law, as to the prenifes, of the faid Yofeph
Ogden; that the faid Rebecca Edgehill was the mother ot the
faid Sarah Cox and Rebecca Mifflin; and that all her right and
intereft in the premifes defeended to them.
SamuelArijYin died ; and, afterwards,on the -26th of Xzlgufl,
178,, the faid Rebecca Mifflin, John Cox and Efiher, his then
wife, by Indenture bargainied and fold the premifes to Tbomas
Fitzgerald, the Defendant ; who thereupon entered into poffeffion,
/rlpi, before WruAN,
* This Court of Nifi Prius was held at Pkila.p

Chice

"Tuf
ice, and SaiPP-E-i aad S-arii,

-'qiieU$.

SE'sruled- and adjudged in the

504

1799.
'V~

fefionand t6ok and rieiivd the r nts,, ihtiI the

of

1792.

1O n the 2Sth of ANo'iiember,T7 86, the faid Htannah Whartoi 4
the tef1 trix, and devife-,of rbfeph Ogden, made her laft will;
by which/he devifed the premifes to her fon William Ogdei;z
in fee, appoiniedjhe Plaintiffs her Execi6t6rs ;"and; afterwArds
(on the T4th of jsJtiiry 1 7 4i) died.After the death- of his mother (at Mrch Term, x79)
William Ogden inftituted an ejament aainft the Defendant;
to reco{,er the pdmifes ar obtained a verdiaq ndj'udgmett
nd he rent Aeruinrig from tie time of
in Novenhber, qz:
the faid Hannah T'barton's deathuntil the. . -of
I 79 2, when poffeflion wasdelivered to the faid wiili, Ogden;
was duly paid to him by th6 Defendant',
But the prefent a&ion was broiight to recover a compenfation for the uIfe and occuption of the premifes, and the eents'
ieceived therefrom; from the 26th of Augufl, 17 S2, when the.
conveyancewas made to the Defendant, until the death of
Hannah Wharton the telhtrix, on the 24 th of January;

p
179 .
....
.
The dafe being thui optned; t& Coart called on the counfe!
for the Plaintiffs to thew on what ground they could maint'aihi
fuch arn affion ; when t.hey cited and relied on, Haldane s;
Duche'! Executor 2 D2a/l. Rep. ij 6 .
But, Bi't THE CbuR'r :-This is the c'afe of.abonhfid p r
thafor, for a valdable confideration, from the leirs of a diffei
for, aftef a defcqnt 6aff, and without ]notice of the diffeifen. It
is impoffible tHat an' preedent can be produced, that any
priizipl can be fuggefted, to author'ife fuch an at ion; There
Was an atquief6hce of ihore than fortk years, and all the fats
weir eqdially idi th knowledgi of both the parties. This circumftance make' the evfentidl diftin6lion between the prefent
lafe nd t6e iife of Hldand s:Pucbe'l Executors; w6r'
fhe fadts were ii the knowledge of the teftator only; and the
adfion was brought againft the reprefentatives of the perfori
himfelfj who had fuppreffed, if iot mifreprefentedi the truth.

0'o
-gtUI'.
Raw,'e and M. Levy, for the Plaintiff,
AI'l'Kean, for the Defendant.

ingerfoll and
RiETl

