378

CAs. ruled and adjudged in the

1793.

February Term, i798-

HOLLINGSWORTNH, et al. verfus VIRart'I.'.

T

HE decifion of the Court, in the cafe of Cbiholmn, Ex'or.

vefus Georgia, (.2 Dall. Rep. 419) produced a propofition in Congrefs, for amending the Conftitution of the United
States, according to the following terms :
" The Judicial power of the United States fhall not be conftrued to extend to any fuit in law and equity, commenced
" or profecuted againft one of the United States,.by citizens
of another flate, or by citizens or fubjets of any foreign

The propofition being now adopted by the conhfitutional
number of States, Lee Attorney-general, fubmitted this queftion to the Cort,-Whether the Amendment did, or did not,
fuperfede all fuits depending, as well as prevent the inflitution
of nw fuits, againil any one of the United States, by citizens
of. a, other State ?
W. Tilghnan and Rawle, argZued in the negative, contending, that the jurifdi&ion.of the C7ourt was unimpaired, in relation to all fuits inflituted, prevoufly to the adoption of the
amendment. They premifdd, that it would be a great hardfhip,
that perfons legally fuing, (hould be deprived of a right of aaion,
or be condemned to the payment of cofls, by an amendment of
the Conflitution exp./lfaRo.; 4 Bac. 16r. 636. 7. pI 5. And
that the jurifdiaion being before regularly eatabliffhed,the amendmenf notwithitanding the words "hall not be construed," &c.
muft be confidered, in faa, as introdu~lory of a new fyftern of
judicial authority. There are, however, two objedions to be
difcuffed ;

SUPREME COUtRT 6f th

United States.

379

-difcuifed: i{'. The amendment has iot been propofed in th'e
form 'refcribed

by the Conftitution, and, therefore, it is void.

Upon an infpedtion of the 6riginal roll, it appears that the
amendmnit was ne-Ver fubmitted to the Prefident for his' %approbation. Fhe Conrffitution declares that " every order, rec foi6tioh, or voie; tb Which the concurrence of the Senate and
" Houfe of Repfefentatives may be neceffary (except on a
queflion 'of adjournment)'lhall be prefented to the Prefident
",
" of the United States; and before the fame {hall take effed,
(hall be alpi-oved by him, or being difapproved by him, fhall
" be repaffed by two thirds of the Senate and Houfe of Repre"fentatives, &c." .4rt.. f 7.Now, the Conrditution, likewife
declares, that the concurrence of both Houfes ihall be neceffary to a propofitiori for amendments. Art. 5. And it is no anfwer to the obje&ion, to obferve, that as two thirds of both
Houfes are required jo originatethe propofition, it would be
nugatory to return it with the Prefident's negative, to be repa ed by the fame number ;. fince the reafons affigned for his
difapprobation might be fo fatisfa&ory as to reduce the majority below the confitutional proportion. The concurrence of
the Prefident is required in matters of infinitely lefs importance; and Whether on fubjects of ordinary legiflation, or of
conflitution'al amendments, the exprefflon is the fame, and

equally applies to the act of both Houfes of Congrefs.
ad. The fecond obje-tion arifes from the terms of the amendment itfelf. The words " cemmenced or profecuted," are
properly in the paft time ; but, it is clear, that they ought not
to be fo gramatically reftri&ed ; for, then, a citizen need only
difcontinue his prefent.fuit, and commence another, in order
to give the court cognizance of the caufe. To avoid this evident abfurdity, the words muff be conftrued to apply only to
The (pirit of the
fuits to be " commenced and profecuted."
conftitution is-oppofed to every thing in the nature of an ex
poffafb lw, or retrofpefive regulation. No ex poqt fadeo
law can be paffed by Congrefs, Coni. Art. i.f 9. No ex
polffa27o law can be paffed by the Legiflature of any individual State. Ibid.f 1o. It is true, that an amendment to the
Conftitution cannot be controuled by thofe provifions ; and it
the words were explicit and pofitive, to produce the retrofpecBut ,the words
tive effe& contended for, they muff prevail.
are doubtful ; and, therefore, they ought to be fo confirued, as
to conform to.the general principle of the Conftitution.* In
4 Bac
CHASI, euflici. The words " commenced and profecuted," Rti{ding
alone, would embrace cafes both paft and future.

PF. Tilghman. But if the ceurt can conftrue them, fo as to confine.
their operation to*future cafesj they will do it, in order to avoid the effect of an ex pof jlano law, which is evidently contrary to the fpirit ot
the conrfitution.

1798.
.

-,.

3980
!798.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

4 Bac. Xbr. 6 5o. pl. 64. it is flated, that " a ftatute hall never have an equitable conftru&ion, in order to ovcrihrow an
efiate ;" but, if the oppofite. do6lrine prevails, it.is obvious

that many vefted rights will be affeFted, many eflates will be
0'erthrown. ' For inftance ; Georgia has made and unmade
grants of land, and to compel a -efort to her courts," is, in efl
fedl, overthrowing' the eftate of the grantees. So, in the fame
book (p. 652. p1. 91. 92.) it is faid, that "1 a flatute ought to
be fo conitrued, that no man, who is innocent" be punifhed or
ndainaged;", and " no ftatute fhall be conftrued'if fuch manner, as to be inconvenient or gainft reafon:" whereas the
propofed conifrucion of the amendment would be highly injurious to innocent perfons ; and, driving them from the j.urifi&ion of this court faddled with cofts, is'agairift every
Prefuming,
principle of juftice, reafon, and convenience.
then, that there will be a difpofition to fupport any rational
expofition, which avoids fuch mifchievous confequences, it is
to be obferved, that'the words "1 commenced and profecuted",
are finonimoui. ',There was no n'eceffity for ufing the word
"lcommenced,'" as it is implied and included in the word
and admitting this gloffiry, the amendment
" profecuted;"
will only affed th6 future' jurifdidion of the court. It may
be faid, however, 'that the word " commenced" is ufed in re-,
lation to future fuits, and that the word " profecuted" is applied to fuits previou'fly inflituted. 'But it will be fufficient to
anfwer, in favor of the benign "confrudion, for which fhe,
Plaintiffs 'conteind, 'that the word "1commenicing" may, on
this ground, be cdnfined 'to a6lions originally inftituted here,
profecuted" to fuits brought hither by writ of
and the Word t.
erroi or appeal. " For, it is to be flewn, that a ftate may be
fued originally, iind yet' not in the Supreme Court, though the
Supreme Court will have an appellate jurifdiffion ; as where
the laws of a'ffate authorize fuch fuits in her own courts, and
there is drawn in, queftion the validity of a treaty, or flatute of,
or authoritj exercifed under, the United States, 'nd the decifion is againft tieir validity., i oL p.' 58. f 13. P. 63.f 25.
Upon the whole, the words of the amendment are ambiguous
and obfcure ; but as they are fufceptible of an interpretation,
iWhich will prevent the mifchief of an ex pe/1faaT Coniflitution
(worfe than an'expoft facio law, in as much as it is not fo ea-

fily refcinded, or repealed) that interprctation ought to be preferred.
Led, Attorney Genieral. The cafe beforo the court, is that
of a fuitagainft a late, in Which the Defendanit has never entered an appearance :but the amendment is equally operative in all'
the cafes againft flates,where there has been an appearance, or
evenhwhere there have been a trial and judgment. A n amendment
of4

SUPRFME.

CbiRT'of.the' Uited, States.

381

of the con~titution,. and the repedl of al n, -are not,'manifefrly, 1798.
on the fame footing: Nor can an explanatory lawbe expounded',k,v--j
by foreign matter. The amenidment, in the prefent inflance,
is merely explanatory, in fubftance, as.well as language. From
the moment thofe who gave the power to fue a flate, revoked
and annulled it, the power ceafed to be a part of the conftitution ; and if it does not exiff there,* it cannot in any degree be
found, or exercifed, el fe where. The policy and rules, which
in relation to ordinary ads of legiflation, declare: that no ex
poft fallo law fhall be paffed, do not apply to the formation,
The people limit and reor amendment, of a conrfitution.
ifrain the power of the legiflaturc, ataing under a delegated
authority ; but they impofe no reftraint on themfelves. They
could have faid by an amendment to the conftitution, that no
judicial authority fiould be exercifed, in any cafe, under the
United States ; and, if they had faid fo, could a court be held,
or a judge proceed, on any judicial bufinefs, paft or future,
from the moment of adopting the amendment ? On general
ground, then, it was in the power of the people to annihilate
the whole, and the queftion is, whether they have annihilated
a part, of the judicial authority of the United States? Two
9bjoftions are made: ift, That the amendment has not been
propofed in due form. But has not the fame courfe been purfued relative to all the other amendments, that have been
adopted ?* And the cafe of amendments is evidently a fiubifan'tire
unconneded with the ordinary bufinefs of legiflation,
and a&,
not within
the policy, or terms, of inveffing the Prefident
with a qualified negative on the ads and refolutions of Congrefs. 2d, That the amendment itfelf only applies to future
fuits. But whatever force there may be in'the rulesfor conferuing ifatutes, they cannot be applied to the prefent cafe. It
was the policy of the people to cut off that branch of the judicial power, which had been fuppofed to authorize fuits by individuals againft flates ; and the words being fo extended as to
iipport that policy, will equally apply to the paft and to the
future. A law, however, cannot be denominated retrofpedive,
or ex poft fqdo, which merely changes the remedy, but does
not affed the right: In all the ifates, in fome form or other, a
remedy is furni hed for the fair claims of individuals againft
The amendment is paramount
the refpedive governments,
to all the laws of the union ; and if any part of the judicial
a61 is in oppofition to it, that patt muft be expunged. There
can be no amendment of the conrfitution, indeed, which. may
not
There can, frelvy, be no neceflity to anfwer' that
CnAs., -u7flice.
argunlent. The negative of the Preli'dent applies only to the ordinary
cafes of legiflation : He has nothing to do with the propofition, or adop-.
ion, ofamendinents to th Confitution.

CASEs ruled and adjudged inthe
.1798.
v

not, in fome refpe&, be called ex poft/afo; but the moment it
is adopted, the power that it gives, or takes away, begins to
operate, or ceafes to exift.
TIHE COUR T, on the day fucceeding the argument, deliver-

ed an unnanimous opinion, that the amendment being conftitutionially adopted, there could not be exercifed any jurifdiction, in any cafe, paft or future, in which a flate was fued'by
the citizens of another ftate, or by citizens, or fubje6ts, of ain '
foreign late.

BIXr.HAM, Plaintiff in Error, veifus CABOT, et a.

T

HIS aion came again before the court,* on a writ of

error; and an objedion was taken to the record, that it
was not ftated, and did not appear in any part of the procefs
and pleadings, that the Plaintiffs below, and the Defendant,
were citizens of different States, fo as to give jurifdi&ion to
the Federal Court. The caption of the fuit was-" At the
Circuit Court begun and held at Bq/Ion, within and for the
"Adaffachufetts diiiri&, on Thurfday, the fir day of June,
"A. D. 1797, by the honorable OrrvER ELSWORtTH, Efq.
"Chief Juffice, and JON LOWELL,. Efq. Diftri& JudgcU

John Cabot, et aL verfus Xillam Bingham :" And the decla-

ration (which was for money had and received, to the Plaintiff's ufe) fet forth, " that John Cabot, of Eeverly, in the diftri~t of Alafrachufetts, merchant, and furviving copartner of
dndrew Cabot, late of the fame place, merchant, deceafed,
Mofes Brown, Ifrael T'horndike, and 7ofeph Lee, all of the
fame place, merchants, Jonathan Jackfon, Efq. of Newbury
Port, Samuel Cabnt, of Boflon, merchant, George Cabot, of
BrookylIn, hfq. Joqhua JVard, of Salem, merchant, and Ste"phenz Cleveland, of the fame place, merchant, all in our faid
"diftria of -Mafachufetts, and Francis Cabot, of B/cln,
"
*

See ant. p. 9.

aforefaid,

