CASEs ruled and adjudged inthe
.1798.
v

not, in fome refpe&, be called ex poft/afo; but the moment it
is adopted, the power that it gives, or takes away, begins to
operate, or ceafes to exift.
TIHE COUR T, on the day fucceeding the argument, deliver-

ed an unnanimous opinion, that the amendment being conftitutionially adopted, there could not be exercifed any jurifdiction, in any cafe, paft or future, in which a flate was fued'by
the citizens of another ftate, or by citizens, or fubje6ts, of ain '
foreign late.

BIXr.HAM, Plaintiff in Error, veifus CABOT, et a.

T

HIS aion came again before the court,* on a writ of

error; and an objedion was taken to the record, that it
was not ftated, and did not appear in any part of the procefs
and pleadings, that the Plaintiffs below, and the Defendant,
were citizens of different States, fo as to give jurifdi&ion to
the Federal Court. The caption of the fuit was-" At the
Circuit Court begun and held at Bq/Ion, within and for the
"Adaffachufetts diiiri&, on Thurfday, the fir day of June,
"A. D. 1797, by the honorable OrrvER ELSWORtTH, Efq.
"Chief Juffice, and JON LOWELL,. Efq. Diftri& JudgcU

John Cabot, et aL verfus Xillam Bingham :" And the decla-

ration (which was for money had and received, to the Plaintiff's ufe) fet forth, " that John Cabot, of Eeverly, in the diftri~t of Alafrachufetts, merchant, and furviving copartner of
dndrew Cabot, late of the fame place, merchant, deceafed,
Mofes Brown, Ifrael T'horndike, and 7ofeph Lee, all of the
fame place, merchants, Jonathan Jackfon, Efq. of Newbury
Port, Samuel Cabnt, of Boflon, merchant, George Cabot, of
BrookylIn, hfq. Joqhua JVard, of Salem, merchant, and Ste"phenz Cleveland, of the fame place, merchant, all in our faid
"diftria of -Mafachufetts, and Francis Cabot, of B/cln,
"
*

See ant. p. 9.

aforefaid,

SUPREME COURT

of the United Sates

383

taforefaid, now.refident at Philadejphia'aforifaid, merchant, 1798.
i,in plea of the cafe, for that faid William, at faid Boflon, on
" the day of the purchafe of :this-writ, being indebted to the
.l
Plaintiffs, &c. promifed to. pay, &c." The Defendant pleaded non'affumpfit, and an iffue being thereupon joined and tried,
there was a verdi& and judgment for the Plaintiffi, for 27,224
dollars and 93 cents, and cofts.
Lee, Attorney General, ontended for the Plaintiff inerror,
ccthat there was not a fufficient allegation on the record, of
the 6itizenfhip of the parties, to fuflain the jurifdi&on of the
Circuit Court, which is a limited jurifdidion. Though the
Conftitution declares, that It the citizens of each lfate thall be
" entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens of the
cc feveral ftates," XArt. 4. f. 2. it contemplates, in the judicial article, the diffinftion between citizens of' different
flates..- A citizen of one. ftate may refide, for, a tei.m of
another ftate, of *vhich he is not a citizen ; foe, citi"
years .ii
zenfhip is clearly not, co-extenfive with, inhabitancy. In the
prefent cafe, neither the Plaintiffs, generally, nor any individual of them, nor the Defendants, will be.found exprefily defignated as aliens, or as citizens of any other place, or fla,te,
than that in which the fuit was brought. Befides, there is
not an entirety of' parties, even as to the Plaintiffs , and they'
are not all flated as belonging to the fame ftate. Wherever
there is a limited jurifdition, the fags that bring the fuit
within the jurifdidtion muAf appear on the record. 9 Mod. 95.
Dexter, (of la/fachufetts) urged, on the other hand, that
fufficient appeared to fhew that, by legal inteadment, the caufe
was within the jurifdi-ion of the court; that though it is difficult to eflablifh a general rule, as to whAt makes citizenfhip,
yet that the citizenfhip of a, particular ffate,.may be changed,
by a citizen. of the United States, without going through the
forms and folemnities required in the cafe of an alien ; that,
on the principle of the conflitution, a citizen of the United
States, is to be confidered more particularly as a citizen of that
State, in which he has his houfe and family, is a permanent
inhabitant,. and is, in fhort, domiciliated; .that flating in the
declaration the party to be of a particular place defignates his
home, and, of courfe, his citizenfhip; and that the defcription
of Francis Cabot (of Bogcn, aforefaid, now refident in Philadelphia, &c.) proves what was intended, by flating tho places
of abode of the feveral parties. 2 Danv. Cont. p. 20. 5 Com.
Dig. 289. :zStra. 786. 29o . i L. Raym. 405. 2 L. Raym .
'403.

4 IHE COURT were clearly of opinion, that- it was neceffary to fet forth the citizenfhip (or alienage, where a foreigner
was concerned) of the rfpective parties, in order to bring the
cafe

384
1798.

CASES

ruled and adjfodged in the

cafe within the jurifdidion' of the Circuit Court ; and th ,tthe
record, in the prefent cafe, was in that refpe'defeliVe,.
This caufe and. many ofhers, in the fame predicamenit, wci'e
accordingly, ftruck off the docket.

JONES,

Indorfee, verfus LE

TOMBE.

(" APIASjn .afe.. This was an al1ion brought, originally,
l. in the Supreme Court, by Yohn offin 7ones, a citizen
of Maffachufetts, as- Indorfee of James Swan, againft the'De-

fendant, the Conful General of the French Republic, as Drawer of a number of protefted bills of exchange (for the aggregate amount of 385,964. livre turnois, 3 fols 8 den. equal to
70,052 dollars and 46 cent,) correfponding with the following form :
Philadelphie, le
an
dela Rvpublique Fran.aife, une & indivifible.
"

CONSULAT
GENERAL

P res

ARGENT TOUR NOIS

AN
No.
Y

'"

TROISIEME.
,

-de

P_ to

jour No.

S(Sig)

C,-

S
zt -v

0 (0
n~ GQ

Q!,s

Q1-.U

-

18 cents & 15loomes de cent
faifant, z't
de Dollar par livres tournois
. CITOYEN,
A trente Jours de vile, je vous prie de payer par
cotte troifi cme de change (la premiere, )a Ieconde
on la quatri6in ne l'6tant ) t P'ordre de
tournois,
la fomne
en dcus de fix livres o autres efp~ces d'or ou argent,
A la valeur r6duite de-dix-huit cens & quinze centiSmes de cent de Dollar, par livres tournois, ou ei
Lettres-de-change fur Harnbourg, "31 acceptatioi
& an change conventlus avec le Porteur, valeur reue
E e dit, conlforns~ment'au compte rendu an Miniiflre
No.
an
par d pch6 du
Ina lettre d' avis en date de cc
&
tinbree

es ETATS

UNIS.

-

---

79 (v.s.)

LE TomtBr, Le Con/ty Ganerrna
All Citovl'l Pa),cul Geno a!
des depee',Ls du D~partcntenf
A4 l

Treforerie Nationale,
A PARIS.
Je pric le Cioyen Miniftre de
de faire acqbitter ]a prfcnte de faq-uelie
j'ai garanti le payment fur P honneur tie ].
Nation Fran~aifez
Sign.
ADET
Le Miniltre Plunipotentiarede la Republique
Franf-aife pi d4 Ies Erats Uris d' AkrinTi

And

