COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

in order to prevent the creditor holding the waiver as to exempt property from taking a dividend on his whole claim from
the general assets, and thereafter availing himself of the right
resulting from the waiver to proceed against exempt pioperty.
The judgment of the _District Court is reversed, and the pro
ceeding is remanded to that court with directions to overrule

the exceptions to the trustee's assignment of homestead and
exemption, and to withhold the discharge of the bankrupt,
jf he be otherwise entitled thereto, until a reasonable time
has elapsed for the excepting creditor to assert in a state
tribunal his alleged right to subject the exempt property to
the satisfactionof his claim.

COSMOS EXPLORATION COMPANY v. GRAY EAGLE
OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued March 16, 17, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

The general administration of the Forest Reserve Act, and also the determination of the various questions which may arise thereunder before the
issuing of any patent for lands selected under the provisions of the act,
are vested in the Land Department.
The courts cannot be called upon, in advance of, and without reference to,
the action of the Land Department to determine the right and title of a
person, who has surrendered lands under the act of June 4, 1897, and
selected others, in the lands so selected, or to render a final decree determining the interest of the parties to the action in such lands, while
the questions in relation to the title are still properly before the Land
Department and have not yet been decided.
The Land Department has the statutory right to make rules and regulations, and the courts will take judicial knowledge of such rules and regulations as shall be made by it regarding the sale or exchange of public
lands.
Whether it is necessary under the Forest Reserve Act for the selector, at the
time of making his selection, to file in addition to his non-mineral affidavit, an affidavit that the land is not occupied in fact, is a question of
law for the Land Department to determine, although such decision might
not be binding on the court if such question properly arose in future liti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

gation. It is also for the Land Department to determine whether, if the
land were not known to be mineral at the time of the selection, the fact
that mineral in paying quantities was found thereafter would vitiate the
selection.

THIS is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, affirming the decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of California, sustaining
the defendants' demurrer to the bill of complainant, and dismissing the same. The questions arise under the act of June 4,
1897, making appropriations for the sundry civil expenses of
the Government, etc. 30 Stat. 11, 36. The particular portion
of the statute under which this litigation comes is set forth in
the margin.'
The material facts averred in the bill are as follows: The assignor of the complainant, one C. W. Clarke, was on November 16, 1899, the owner in fee simple absolute of certain land
in a forest reservation, non-mineral, and covered by a patent
from the United States. On December 8, 1899, there were
lands in the particular township described in the bill which for
more than a year continuously theretofore had been surveyed,
unappropriated and vacant public land of the United States,
opera to settlement, returned and characterized upon the official
records of the United States as agricultural land, free and open
to settlement and entry under the laws thereof. This land
did not then contain any known minerals, salines, petroleum or
mineral oils, nor had any minerals or petroleum or other mineral
oils or mineral substances of any kind ever been discovered
within the limits of such land, which was situated in the county
of Kern, within the Southern District of California, and within
'Page 36. That in cases in which a tract covered by an unperfected bona
fide claim or by a patent is included within the limits of a public forest reservation, the settler or owner thereof may, if he desires to do so, relinquish
the tract to the Government, and may select in lieu thereof a tract of vacant land open to settlement not exceeding in area the tract covered by his
claim or patent; and no charge shall be made in such cases for making the
entry of record or issuing the patent to cover the tract selected: Provided
.further, That in cases of unperfected claims the requirements of the laws
respecting settlement, residence, improvements, and so forth, are complied with on the new claims, credit being allowed for the time spent on
the relinquished claims.

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the district of lands subject to sale and disposition by the
United States land office at Visalia, California. On November 16, 1899, Clarke relinquished the land in the forest reservation to the United States by deed recorded in the office of the
county in which the land was situated, and on December 8,
1899, he duly delivered to the register and receiver of the
United States land office at Visalia, California, and filed in
that land office his deed to the United States, endorsed as recorded in the office where the land was situated, together with
his selection of the land in lieu of the land relinquished, and at
the same time he filed with the register and receiver a nonmineral affidavit showing the selected tract contained no known
minerals, and he also delivered to and filed with the register
and receiver an abstract of his title to the relinquished tract,
duly certified as such by the recorder of the county in which
the tract was situated, which abstract showed him to be the
owner-of the land by title in fee simple absolute, free of any
lien or encumbrance at the time of such relinquishment and at
the time the deed to the United States was made, and showed
that his conveyance to the United States vested in the Government the full, complete and perfect title thereto. On the same
day (December 8, 1899) the register and receiver of the United
States land office at Visalia, California, duly accepted, received
and filed the deed, abstract of title, non-mineral affidavit and
the selection of the land made by Clarke, and duly entered the
selection upon the official records of the land office, and the
register of the land office then certified that the land so selected
by Clarke was free from conflict, and that there was no adverse
filing, entry or claim thereto, and Clarke thereupon and thereby became vested, as complainant averred, with the complete
equitable title to the land so selected, and was thereupon and
thereby entitled to receive a patent for the land from the
United States in pursuance of that selection, under the terms
and in pursuance of the provisions of the act of Congress above
referred to. Clarke thereafter assigned and transferred to the
complainant an undivided three quarters interest in the land
taken in lieu of the relinquished land, and by virtue of the
above selection the full, complete and equitable title to the so

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

selected land became immediately vested in the complainant's
assignor without further act upon his part, and complainant
by virtue of those acts and the assignment to it is now the
complete and equitable owner of a three quarters interest in the
land and entitled to a patent therefor.
(Clarke did not file any affidavit of non-occupancy of the
land selected, so far as the record shows.)
It is then averred that this claim of the complainant is denied by the defendants, who assert that the land remained subject to entry, exploration, selection and purchase as mineral
land, until a patent shall be issued to the complainant's assignor,
and the complainant avers that the defendants since the. selection have entered upon the land, bored for and obtained petroleum oil and are engaged in taking it therefrom.
It is also averred that the right and title of the defendants
are based upon some one or more of four certain pretended
placer mining locations which the bill describes, and which
cover the land claimed by complainant, and that the defendants
assert title to and the right to the possession of the land described in those placer locations from some or all of the locators
thereof, but complainant alleges that these placer locations are
illegal and void, because they were not based upon any discovery
of mineral within the boundaries thereof, or of petroleum oil
vithin such boundaries, until after the land had been selected
by complainant's assignor Clarke.
That after the land had been selected by complainant's assignor, the defendants fied in the United States land office at
Visalia, California, a written verified protest against such selection, in which protest it was alleged that the land selected by
Clarke was not subject to selection by him under the act of June 4,
1897T, above referred to, because the same was mineral land and
was included within the boundaries of a valid placer mining location. The protest asks that the Commissioner of the General
Land Office should order a hearing to determine the mineral
character of theland and that the selection by Clarke be rejected
and disapproved, and the bill specifically avers that such protest
is now pending before the Commissioner of the General Land
Office.

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

That the protest does not show there was any known mine,
or that there were any known salines or any known or existing
petroleum wells or known petroleum deposits on any of the
land selected by Clarke at the time the land was selected, and
it is averred that the protest, failing to show such facts, is insufficient to warrant or justify a hearing being ordered by the
Land Department to re~stablish or redetermine the character of
the land or to change the present classification thereof as fixed by
the former report of the surveyor general and the confirmation.
thereof by the Land Department, and that such protest is insufficient to impair or affect the validity of Clarke's selection of the
land; that notice of such selection by Clarke had been given and
published on the - day of January, 1900, and that by law only
sixty days are allowed to any person or persons to file protests
in the local land offices of the United States against any selections
under the law of June 4, 1897, and that the only protest or adverse claim filed against the selection was the protest of defendants above referred to, and that such protest does not state any
facts which impair or affect the right of said Clarke or of the complainant in said selected land, nor does it show any grounds why a
United States patent therefor should not issue to Clarke, and that
defendants are bound and estopped by their protest and the contents thereof and the facts therein stated, and that if such facts
be admitted they do not show that defendants, or any of them,
have any interest in the lands as against Clarke or complainant, and it is averred that upon the facts as pleaded by the protest, the Land Department of the United States cannot lawfully
refuse or deny the issuance of a patent to Clarke, and that upon
such facts he is entitled to the approval of his selection by the
Land Department of the United States and to the issuance of a
patent therefor.
Notwithstanding complainant was the complete and equitable
owner of the land and entitled to the quiet and uninterrupted
possession of the same, so far as regarded the three quarters interest therein, yet the defendants herein, except Clarke, did, on
or about February 1, 1890, and frequently since then, by themselves and their employ(s, without right, title or claim, wrongfully and unlawfully, and in disregard of the right of Clarke,
VOL. Cxc-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

enter upon the land, erect derricks and other machinery thereon,
and proceed to excavate the soil thereof and bore wells and
drive iron pipes therein, seeking for petroleum oil and other mineral products in the land, for the purpose of taking the same, if
found, to their own use, and removing the same; that thereafter,
and on or about the last day of February, 1900, the defendants
discovered in the wells petroleum oil in profitable quantities, and
that the defendants are now wrongfully and unlawfully in possession of the premises, and unlawfully and continuously from
day to day pumping large quantities of petroleum oil from the
wells, and are about to and will, unless restrained by the court,
remove the same from the land and sell and dispose of and market
the same, and appropriate the proceeds thereof to their own use,
to complainant's great loss and damage, and will continue so to
do to the great waste and irreparable injury and damage of said
property and the complainant, unless restrained therefrom by
the court.
It was also alleged that the defendant Clarke is the owner of
an undivided one quarter interest in the selected land described,
and that complainant requested him to join with it in instituting
and prosecuting this suit, but he refused to join herein, and therefore complainant made him a defendant in order that all the parties interested in the premises might be before this court and
their rights finally adjudicated by a decree to be entered herein.
Upon these allegations complainant prayed for a writ of injunction restraining defendants from interfering with complainant's
entry upon the land and enjoining defendants, other than Clarke,
from excavating or digging upon the land for the purpose of taking petroleum oil from the wells thereon or from marketing or
disposing of the oil, until the further order and decree of the
court in the premises, and that upon final hearing the injunction
should be made perpetual by an order and decree of the court.
It was also prayed that complainant might have the judgment of the court that the full and complete equitable title to
an undivided three quarters interest in the property is vested
in the complainant, and an undivided one quarter interest in
Clarke, and that the adverse claims of defendants thereto should
be decreed to be wholly without right and unfounded, and that

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

complainant have judgment for the possession of the land, and
that a receiver should be appointed to take possession of the
land and to preserve the same and the product thereof on the
premises until the further order of the court, but not to operate the wells thereon except to the extent necessary, if at all,
to preserve the same from deterioration in value, nor to market or remove any oil therefrom.
Upon the filing of this bill the court granted an order to
show cause why the complainant should not have a preliminary injunction as asked for in the bill. The defendants appeared and interposed a demurrer to the bill, and upon the
hearing of the order to show cause they presented a large number of affidavits, which in substance averred that the complainant was guilty of fraud and bad faith in locating the claim, and
that such location was a fraud upon the statute under which
it was assumed to be made. Affidavits in reply were filed by
the complainant.
The demurrer was argued at the same time as the argument
was had upon the return of the order to show cause, and thereafter on September 24, 1900, an order was made by the Circuit
Court denying the application for a receiver and for an injunction, and a decree was also made sustaining the defendants'
demurrer and dismissing the bill with costs, and on September 26, 1900, such decree was entered dismissing the bill. 104
Fed. Rep. 20.
An appeal was taken from the decree sustaining the demurrer
and dismissing the bill, but none from the order denying the
application for a receiver and for an injunction. As the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was only from the decree
overruling the demurrer and dismissing the complainant's bill,
that court confined its discussion to the facts alleged in the bill.
After a hearing it affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court,
112 Fed. Rep. 4, and the complainant has by appeal brought
the case here.
'Fan Ves and Mfr. Jeferson Chandler for appelMr..C.
lant. Xr. John X. Thurston, .211.. Shirley C. Ward, 21r.
X. A. Ballinger, Mr. Horace F. Clark and .Mr. William C.
.Prentisswere on the brief,

OCTOBER TERIAM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

MJ!r. John S. Chapman for appellees.

190 U. S.

-Mr. .Frank 1tY. Sort

was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

An examination of the complainant's bill shows that it does
not ask for an injunction until the decision of the Land Department upon the matters pending therein. The complainant ignores those proceedings so far as to claim now the final adjudication by the court, based upon its alleged equitable title to
a thiee quarters interest in the land selected, and it avers that
the Land Department cannot lawfully refuse or deny the issuance of a patent to Clarke. It avers that the protest filed by
defendants is insufficient to impair or affect the validity of the
selection of land made by complainant's assignor. The court
is, therefore, called upon in advance of and without reference
to the action of the Land Department, to determine complainant's right and title to the three quarters interest in the selected
land, and a final decree is asked determining the interest of the
parties in this land, while the question in relation to the title is
still properly before the Land Department, and not yet decided.
This we cannot do.

ilarquez v.

,risbie,101 U. S. 473; United

States v. Sclurz, 102 U. S. 378, 395. If the Land Department
has any jurisdiction over the subject matter, the question as to
the sufficiency of the protest is one for the decision of that department, and its right to decide thereon is not taken from it
by the averment of a legal conclusion contained in the complainant's bill that the department has no legal right to decide otherwise than in favor of the complainant upon the facts before it.
But assuming that the quiestion of issuing a patent is still and
properly before the Land Department, the complainant avers
that it has an equitable title to the land which will be protected by the court. Whether complainant has a full, complete and equitable title to the land is a question depending
upon considerations hereinafter stated.
There can be, as we think, no doubt that the general administration of the forest reserve act, and also the determination

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the various questions which may arise thereunder b-efore The
issuing of any patent for the selected lands, are vested in the
Land Department. The statute of 1897 does not in terms refer

any question that might arise under it to that department, but
the subject matter of that act relates to the relinquishment of
land in the various forest reservations to the United States,
and to the selection of lands, in lieu thereof, from the public
lands of the United States, and the administration of the act
is to be governed by the general system adopted by the United
States for the administration of the laws regarding its public
lands. Unless taken away by some affirmative provision of
law, the Land Department has jurisdiction over the subject.
Catholic Bishop v. Gibbons, 158 U. S. 155, 166, 167. There is
no such law, and we must hold that the Land Department has
full jurisdiction over matters involving the right of parties to
a patent for lands selected under that act in lieu of lands
relinquished in a forest reservation. By virtue of that jurisdiction the General Land Department has power to review and
set aside (though not arbitrarily) the decisions of local officers
relating to those questions, where such officers have power to
make those decisions in the first instance. Orohardv. Alexander,
157 U. S. 372; Bank v. Bladow, 176 U. S. 448, 451; Halwley v.
-Diller,178 U. S. 476, 490.
The Land Department also has power to adopt and did adopt
rules and regulations for the administration of the forest reserve
act. The power existed by virtue of the provisions of the Revised
Statutes, sections 441, 453 and 2478. Courts will take judicial
notice of rules and regulations made by the Land Department
regarding the sale or exchange of public land. Caha v. United
States, 152 U. S. 211, 221. The rules and regulations promulgated by that department for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of the act of June 4, 1897, are found in 24 L, D.

589, 592, and we think the rules set forth below are reasonable and entitled to respect and obedience as valid rules and
regulations.
Among the rules it is provided:
"16. Where final certificate or patent has issued, it will be
necessary for the entryman or owner thereunder to execute a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

quitclaim deed to the United States, have the same recorded
on the county records, and furnish an abstract of title, duly
authenticated, showing chain of title from the Government
back again to the United States. The abstract of title should
accompany the application for change of entry, which must be
filed as required by paragraph 15, without the affidavit therein
called for."
"18. All applications for change of entry or settlement must
be forwarded by the local officers to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office for consideration, together with report as
to the status of the tract applied for."
The" consideration," mentioned in rule 18, is clearly not of
the character of a review of a decision already made by the
local land officers, but is in the nature of an .original consideration of the subject by the General Land Office, to which office
the final decision belongs. The applications are to be forwarded, not a decision by the local land office, together with
a report (not a decision) as to the status of the land. This
rule makes it the duty of the local land officers merely to forward the various applications to the General Land Office, and
an original decision is to be made by the latter office upon the
papers transmitted to it.
It will be noticed that the bill in this case alleges the proceeding before the local land officers and also that defendants
filed a protest, and that the questions raised thereby are still
before the Land Department and not yet decided. The complete equitable title of the complainant is not therefore made out,
and cannot exist until a favorable decision by that department
has been made regarding the sufficiency of complainant's proof
of his right to the selected land. That question the department is competent and it is its duty to decide. It may be that
when the decision of the Land Department is made, if it be favorable to the applicant, the complete equitable title claimed
will accrue from the time the selection of the lands was made
in the local land office, and when the patent subsequently issues the legal title will vest from the time of selection. But before any decision is made how can there be an equitable title?
We do not think that by the act of 1883, 22 Stat. 484, the

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

local land officers were given any power to decide upon the
sufficiency of the application in such a case as this. That act
simply imposed upon them the duty of furnishing plats of townships showing what lands were vacant and what lands taken.
It obviously referred to the lands that appeared vacant or appeared to have been taken on the records of their office. It did
not assume to provide that no other lands could be taken than
such as appeared so to be on those records.
The ground upon which complainant insists that it is the
equitable owner of the land selected is that it has relinquished
a title in fee in a forest reservation, and has selected in lieu
thereof vacant land open to settlement, and that the local land
officers duly accepted, received and filed the deed of the land
relinquished, and the affidavit that the land selected was nonmineral, and that the officers duly entered such selection upon
the official records of the land office, and then and there certified that the land selected was free from conflict, and that
there was no adverse filing, entry or claim thereto. Complainant asserts that was all that it could reasonably do; that nothing remained on its part to do, and that when such is the case,
the equitable title vests, and it is entitled to the protection of
a .court of equity to preserve and defend the title so acquired.
Counsel insists that the act of June 4, 1897, constitutes a
standing offer on the part of the Government to exchange any
of its "vacant land, open to settlement" for a similar area of
patented land in a forest reservation, and that whenever a person relinquishes to the Government a tract in a forest reservation and places his deed to the Government of record as required by the Land Department rules, and selects in lieu
thereof a similar area of vacant land, open to settlement, that
such offer of the Government has thereupon been both accepted
and fully complied with, and that a complete equitable title to
the selected land is thereby vested in the selector.
But even the complete equitable title asserted by complainant must, as it would seem, be based upon the alleged right
of the local land officers to accept the deed and approve the
selection, even though such approval may be thereafter the
subject of a review in the nature of an appeal from the action

OCTOBER TERMI, 19Wk.
Opinion of the Court.

190 IT. S.

of the local officers. There must be a decision made somewhere
regarding the rights asserted by the selector of land under the
act, before a complete equitable title to the land can exist.
The mere filing of papers cannot create such title. The application must comply with and conform to the statute, and the
selector cannot decide the question for himself:
We do not. see how it can be successfully maintained that,
without any decision by any official representing the Government, and by merely filing the deed relinquishing to the Government a tract of forest reserve land and assuming to select
a similar area of vacant land open to settlement, the selector
has thereby acquired a complete equitable title to the selected
land. The selector has not acquired title simply because he
has selected land which he claims was at the time of selection
vacant land open to settlement, nor does the filing of his deed
conveying the land relinquished and the abstract of title with
it show necessarily that he was the owner of the land as provided for by the statute. So far as his action goes, it is an assertion on his part that he was the owner in fee simple of the land
he proposed to relinquish, and that the deed conveys a fee simple
title to the Government, and also that he has selected vacant
land which is open to settlement, and that therefore he is entitled to a patent for such land. These assertions may or may
not be true. Who is to decide? Complainant asserts that if
a decision be necessary before the vesting of a complete equitable title, that in that case the local officers are to decide that
question, and by accepting the deed and making the certificate
already mentioned, they have decided it, and thereupon, at all
events, the complete, equitable title accrued, even though such
decision were subject to a review by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office and thereafter by the Secretary.
But, as has already been stated, there is nothing in the statute of 1897 which gives the local land officers the right to decide whether the selector has complied with the provisions of
the act, and unless those officers had that power they did not
acquire it by assuming to exercise it. We do not say they did
so assume. They received, accepted and filed the deed, the abstract of title, the non-mineral affidavit and the selection as

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made by Clarke. They entered that selection upon the official
records of the land office and they certified that it was free
from conflict, and that there was no adverse filing, entry or
claim thereto, but it cannot be said that they decided that the
selector had complied with the provisions of the statute or that
he had done all that he ought to have done in order to acquire
his alleged complete, equitable title.
Their certificate that the land was free from conflict was
simply a certificate as to what appeared on the books of the
local office, and the same may be said of the statement that
there was no adverse filing, entry or claim thereto upon such
books. No affidavit of non-occupancy was filed, and they did
not certify that the land so selected was in fact vacant or unoccupied, nor did they assume to certify that the selected land
contained no minerals, although an affidavit to that effect was
presented to them. In truth, all that these local officers did
was to certify that the selector had done certain things, and
that the land selected was vacant and open to settlement so
far as it appeared from the books of the local land office.
Taking into consideration, however, the fact that the statute
did not vest the local officers with the right to decide upon the
question of a compliance with its terms, and the further fact
that the Land Department had adopted rule 18, above referred
to, which provides for the forwarding of all applications for
change of entry or settlement to the Commissioner of the General Land Office for his consideration, together with a report
as to the status of the tract applied for, we must conclude that
the action of the local officers did not, as it could not, amount
to a decision upon the application of the selector, so that he
became vested with the equitable title to the land he assumed
to select. It is certain, as we have already remarked, there
must be some decision upon that question before any equitable
title can be claimed-some decision by an officer authorized to
make it. Under the rule above cited that decision has not been
made. The General Land Office has (so far as this record
shows) come to no conclusion in regard to it.
The protest by the defendants was duly filed within the time
permitted by the regulations of the offide, and the questions

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

arising thereunder are, as stated in the bill, still pending before
the General Land Office. Whether it was necessary, at the
time of making the selection, for the selector to file in addition
to his non-mineral affidavit an affidavit that the land was not
occupied in fact, is a question of law for the Land Department
to determine among the other questions to be decided by it.
Its decision of any legal question would not, of course, be binding on the courts whenever such a question might properly
arise in any future litigation. It is also for the Land Department to determine whether, if the land were not known to be
mineral land at the time of the selection, the fact that mineral
in paying quantities has been found since that time, will vitiate
that selection.
In Zern Oil Company v. Clarke, 30 L. D. 550, 567, referring
to the necessity of the filing of a non-occupancy affidavit, it
was said:
"That a non-mineral affidavit should accompany the selection
is not seriously questioned by appellant. It is just as essential
that it should be accompanied by a vacancy or non-occupancy
affidavit. Appellant's contention that the word 'vacant,' as
used in the statute, means public lands which are not shown by
the records of the local office or General Land Office to be
claimed, appropriated, or reserved, cannot be accepted. Portions of the public lands may be occupied, and for that reason
be not subject to selection, and yet there be no mention of
their occupancy in the records of the Land Department."
Again, in Gray Eagle Oil Company v. Clarke, 30 L. D. 570,
it was also held that under the act of June 4, 1897, it must be
shown that at the date of selection the selected lands were unoccupied as well as non-mineral in character, and that until
that proof was submitted a selector had not done that which
converts the offer of exchange into a contract fully executed
on his part whereby he secures a vested right in the selected
land. It is unnecessary for the court to express an opinion as
to the correctness of these views of the Land Department as
stated in its opinion in the above cases.
What may be the decision of the Land Department upon these
questions in this case, cannot be known, but until the various

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

questions of law and fact have been determined by that department in favor of complainant it cannot be said that it has a
complete equitable title to the land selected.
Concluding, as we do, that the question whether the complainant has ever made a proper selection of land in lieu of
the land relinquished, has never been decided by the Land
Department, but is still properly before that department, the
courts cannot take jurisdiction and proceed to decide such question themselves. The Government has provided a special
tribunal for the decision of such a question arising out of the
administration of its public land laws, and that jurisdiction
cannot be taken away from it by the courts. United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 395.
The bill is not based upon any alleged power of the court
to prevent the taking out of mineral from the land, pending
the decision of the Land Department upon the rights of the
complainant, and the court has not been asked by any averments in the bill or in the prayer for relief to consider that
question.
For the reasons stated, we think the bill does not state sufficient facts upon which to base the relief asked for, and that
the defendants' demurrer to the same was properly sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must, therefore,
be
Afimed.
Petition for modification of judgment. June 1, 1903.
M .

JUSTICE PECKIHAM: Ordered,That the decree dismissing

the bill in this case be modified by providing that the dismissal
is without prejudice to such future proceedings as complainant
may be advised, and as so modified, the decree is
Afflmed.

