OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 56. Argued January 12, 1903.-Decided May 18,* 1903.

When the United States conveys land bounded on a non-navigable lake it
assumes the position, so far as such conveyances are concerned, of a pri-

vate owner, subject to the general law of the State in which the land is
situate.

Since Hardinv. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, the law of Illinois has been settled
that conveyances of the upland on such lakes do not carry adjoining
lands below the water line.
When land is conveyed by the United States on a non-navigable lake tile
rules of law affecting the conveyance are different from those affecting a

conveyance of land bounded on navigable waters.
The common law as understood by this court and the local law of Illinois
with regard to grants bounded by navigable waters are the same.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A r. Thomas Dent for plaintiffs in error.
I. The case involves a question of title under patents from
the United States for public lands in Illinois.
One of such patents was to John Holbrook. It was dated
May 20, 1841, and was based upon an entry by Mr. Holbrook
at the land office in Chicago, December 24, 1838. The other
patent was to William B. Egan, and dated August 1, 1853.
Three of the tracts described in the patent to Holbrook bordered on a lake. The patent to Egan was also for a tract
that bordered on the lake. The two tracts of the defendant
in error were also on the lake. All the tracts were fractional..
It was claimed in the pleadings by the plaintiffs in error that
the tracts bordering on the lake extended to the center of the
lake, such lake being non-navigable, and having belonged to the
United States at the time of the survey and platting, and not
having been reserved in or in any way excluded from the grant.
1. That the lake was non-navigable is an unquestioned fact
in the case. It was so found in the decree to be reviewed.
There was a like finding in the earlier decree, with which, in
* Petition for rehearing filed June 1, 1903.

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

this particular, the Supreme Court of Illinois agreed.

Fuller

v. Shedd, 161 Illinois, 462, 473.
2. The title to the lake or submerged lands therein was in
the United States at the time of such survey and platting. Act
of Virginia of October 20, 1783, and the deed of cession thereunder of March 1, 1784; 1 Kent's Com. *258, 259; Johnson v.
.Aeclntosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 586; P-resident &c. of Commons v.
167 Illinois, 23, 35 ; Rogers v. Jones,1 Wendell, *237,
.fc
256; Roe v. Strong, 107 N. Y. 350.
3. The grant to Virginia and from that State to the United
States was, as to land and water alike, as broad as that to William Penn, which was construed in Coovert v. O' Conner, 8 Watts,
470, 477; Trustees of Schools v. Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509.
The doctrine which this court recognized in Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, was therefore applicable to the patents
which were in the usual form.
4. In the nature of the case, the usual common law principles
applicable to grants or conveyances, work the same result. 3
Kent's Com. *428 ; Elphinstone on Interpretation of Deeds, 182;
iXiddleton v. Pritchard,3 Scam. 510; Beckman v. HYrearner,
43 Illinois, 447; Bristol v. County of Carroll, 95 Illinois, 84;
Painev. Woods, 108 Massachusetts, 160-169; Hogg v. Beerman,
41 Ohio St. 81; and see NViles v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S.
300, 308, as to this class of waters non-navigable in fact, being
"generally the property of riparian owners."
II. Upon the question whether the state court should have declared the title to the lake under consideration to be in the
State, as was done by the decree under review, it is submitted:
1. Such finding ignored or disregarded the classification or
division of waters. The distinction between public or navigable waters and those which are private or non-navigable is
reasonable, and is well established. When the State of Illinois was admitted into the Union it entered the same "upon
the same footing with the original States, in all respects;" and
it is not denied that the State thereupon acquired, without any
other specific grant from the United States, the dominion and
sovereignty over and ownership of lands under its navigable
waters, the ownership being in trust for the people. -Martin

alure,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

v. IWaddell, 16 Peters, 410; Pollard v. Hagan, 3 Hlow. 212;
.C. R. R. Co. v. The People, 146 U. S. 387; Genesee Chief v.
Fitzhugh, 12 flow. 443; Barney v. Yeokuk, 94 U. S. 324.
But such cases as St. Paul & Pacific R. R. Co. v. S7hurmeier,
7 Wall. 272, and Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, make note
of the distinction observed in the acts of Congress between
streams navigable and those not navigable.
The effectiveness of grants from the United States of lands on
waters not navigable in fact was not intended to be thereby impaired, but it was considered that if any of the western States,
like Illinois, for example, chose "to assign to the riparian proprietor rights which properly belong to them in their sovereign capacity, it is not for others to raise objections." Arr.
Justice Field thus quoting in the latter case from Barney v.
Ifeokukc, supra.
But it would require an express grant from the United States,
to pass the title to a non-navigable body of water situated in
the public domain in any part of the Northwest Territory,
ffealy v. Joliet & Chicago R. R. Co., 116 U. S.191; Hfubbard
v. Bell, 54 Illinois, 110; and when it was found, as a matter of
fact, that the lake in this case was not navigable, no inference
of a grant of the same from the United States otherwise than
by the patents put in evidence, could be indulged. The fact of
non-navigability was of itself evidence that the United States
held the submerged lands, or the lake itself, while the bordering lands remained unsold.
2. What then was the ground upon which the Supreme Court
of Illinois adjudged the owiership of this non-navigable lake
to be in the State ? It was upon a supposition that the law of
boundary as applied to rivers is inapplicable to lakes; and the
question whether a lake should be held to be the property of
the State was made to turn upon the question whether it was
"meandered in the original survey," 161 Illinois, 489, which
was in effect saying, that if in the original survey a lake was
meandered, such lake became the property of the State. The
meandered line is not evidence of a grant to the State.
The Supreme Court of Illinois attributed to the meander in
the present instance an effect entirely different from its views

HARDIN v SHEDD.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of a meander in all other cases involving waters within its
borders, belonging, in the first instance, to the general government, and subject to sale according to the acts of Congress.
Among such other cases to be noticed as maintaining a rule
different from the result maintained by that court in this case
may noted: .Xfiddleton v. Pritchard,3 Scam. 510; Canal Tru&tees v. Raven, 5 Gim. 548 ; City qf Chicago v. Zaflin, 49 Illinois, 172 ; Houck v. Yates, 82 Illinois, 179 ; Washington lee Co.
v. Shortall, 101 Illinois, 46; Fuller v. Dauphin,124 Illinois, 542.
It is true that the expressions of the court, in its first opinion
in this case, 161 Illinois, 481, were not in the form of a disapproval of those cases, in their affirmance of the doctrine that a
meander in surveying government land bounded by a stream
or body of water is with reference to ascertaining the quantity of land in a fraction; yet the court attributed to the running of the meander a larger effect, in the present instance,
because a lake and not a stream was the object under consideration, in the territory surveyed.
In the matter of title, an examination of the cases or authorities cited to sustain the proposition will show that they
did not search for nor follow common law guidance in the matter. The real question, as this court held in Tiardin v. Jordan,
supra, ". had regard to the ownership of the beds of inland
lakes, not of such size as to be classed with the great navigable
lakes and rivers of the country ;" and it also held, as to the difficulty of determining titles, "We do not think that this argument ab inconvenienti is sufficient to justify an abandonment of the rules of the common law." And see also Gouverneur v. .Vational ee Co., 134 N. Y. 355; -Lamprey v. The
State, 52 Minnesota, 181 ; firkatrie v. Yates, 45 Missouri
App. 335; Grand Rapids Ice Co. v. S. Grand Rapids Ice Co.,
102 Michigan, 227; Olson v. Hluntamer, 6 So. Dak. 364; Shell
v. .Jatteson, 81 Minnesota, 38 ; Kanouse v. Slockbower, 48 N. J.
Eq. 42.
It should be further remarked that in observing the history
of land titles in different States it will be borne in mind that
in the older States on the Atlantic borders the primary source
of titles was from the crown and then passed under the States

OCTOBER TERTM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

themselves. But as to the public lands in the Northwest Territory, or in any of the States therein, these belonged to the
United States, and were under the power and control, not of
the States, but of the Congress; and hence if legislation similar to the Massachusetts ordinances, having the effect of changing the common law as affecting titles or the construction of
patents or conveyances, had been thought to be desirable, resort to Congress, to declare or provide for such changes, would
have been necessary.
3. The influence of cases based on ordinances adopted as
early as 1741 in Massachusetts will be recognized in the decision of the state Supreme Court. These ordinances became
"the foundation of a local common law in Massachusetts, including Maine, which led to a course of decisions with regard
to the title of lakes and ponds at variance with the common
law, and which have been followed in New Hampshire and
some other States." Hardin v. Jordan,supra, and see Shively
v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
4. If the policy favored by the state court had been in the
public mind when the government had the public domain, or
any great part of it, in the Northwest Territory, why was not
Congress memorialized to enact laws to withdraw lakes of a
certain size, or meandered lakes, from sale, as being reserved
for the benefit of the States respectively, o" the people thereof?
5. The government, while it was proprietor, was, of course,
at full liberty to have a resurvey made, with reference to replatting, if the original survey was made at an unfavorable
time, on account of the stage of water being too great, or if a
subsidence from any cause left too much dry land to go with
the fractions originally platted; and the books undoubtedly
show a number of instances of this having been done. One
such instance is shown by Bristol v. County of Carroll, 95 Illinois, 84.
This is but equivalent to saying that the lake did not lose its
non-navigable character, and did not pass from the proprietorship or control of the United States, by anything that was
done by the surveyor or the surveyor general in surveying
and platting the fractional township embracing a great part of

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the lake; and such again is the effect of Iowa v. Rood, 187
U. S. 87.
III. The plenary power of Congress over the public lands,
of which this fractional township was a part, is too clear to be
questioned. Constitution, Art. IV, § 3, par. 2; Wilcox v. Jae-,
son, 13 Pet. 498 ; Bagnell v. Broderice, 13 Pet. 436 ; IJvine v.
Marshall,20 How. 558; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92.
1. Under the Ordinance of 1787, art. 4, the legislatures in the
new States which it was expected would be formed out of the
iNorthwest Territory were nevek to "interfere with the primary
disposal of the soil by the United States in Congress assembled,
nor with any regulations Congress may (might) find necessary
for securing the title in such soil to the bona fide purchasers."
Nor could the state courts so interfere, and stamp any part of
the public domain as state property, or property not subject to
be conveyed by the government.
The question as to the effect of the surveying, platting and
sale by the United States, including the construction of the
patents is to be resolved by the laws of the United States, and
the decisions of this court in regard thereto should be held to
be binding on the state courts. Gilmore v. Sapp, 100 Illinois,
297; Seymour v. Landers, 3 Dillon, 440; Paige v. Peters, 70
Wisconsin, 178.
The state court should therefore have followed the decision
of this court in H~ardinv. Jordan,and MitchelZ v. Smale, and
not have disregarded the same.
As the common law prevailed in Virginia when the territory
was ceded, the grants from the United States followed it, and
it was not within the power even of the legislature of a State
to change it in respect to the rights of patentees of lands bordering on non-navigable lakes. Shell v. .atteson, supra.
Upon the question what the common law was this court had
a full right to speak, authoritatively too, especially in regard
to the public lands, under patents therefor. Yates v. ilwaukee,
10 Wall. 497; Nelson v. City of .Madison,3 Biss. 244.
The fact that this court has revisory power over the judgment of the state court, because of the right claimed under the"
Constitution and laws of the United States but denied by the
voL. oxc-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

state court, leads to the conclusion, also, that the state court
should have followed the decisions of this court inthe special
matter involved. Green v. Lessee qf HLeal, 6 Pet. 291, 298;
Dower v. Riehards, 151 U. S. 659 ; Republican River Bridge
Co. v. Kansas Pao. BRy. Co., 92 U. S.315, 31-7.
The first decree in the state court, having been reversed,
has no binding force or effect, and when the second decree is
found to have been based upon error of law, as to the effect of
the meander and the rights of the State, there is manifest and
eminent propriety in the exercise of the power in this court to
give the same effect to the writ of error as if the judgment or
decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a court of
the United States.
2. What, then, should be the judgment ? It should correct
the fundamental error, to wit: The declaration of title in the
State, and the limiting of the title of the plaintiffs in error to
the water's edge, as if the supposed meander line governed,
taking the water's edge as of a fancied "ordinary stage." It
should follow the decisions of this court in Hardin v. Jordan
and MJitchell v. Smale. The plat should govern, as no error
therein is shown.
IV. As to the apportionment of the lake bed:
1. The decisions in HTardin v. Jordan and .Mitchell v. Smale
should have prevailed, and should be applied in this case. The
findings in the state court do not bind; for those made by the
final decree were upon an erroneous view of the law. There
being error in the fundamental proposition of the state court,
the right of this court is not restricted or limited by the judgment of the state court, but the whole of such judgment is subject to be reversed. The case is resolved into a question of law
-What title had the plaintiffs in error in respect to the lake,
or lands originally submerged ?-and upon that question the
whole record is open for revision by this court. Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 Howard, 193; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.659;
Republican River Bridge Co. v. KYansas Pacific Railway Co.,
92 U. S. 315, 317. This is a case involving title and not
merely boundaries in the ordinary sense as was .Xoreland v.
Page, 20 How. 523, cited by appellees.

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The question is whether the state court could rightfully declare the title to the lake to be in the State, and make the
boundary of the government grant the water's edge, and therefore changeable, and subject to the winds, the seasons and the
march of public improvement. The question is whether from
supposed state policy the court should withdraw from the operation of the grant any land remaining submerged, continuing
the withdrawal, it may be, as long as an inch of water covers
the rather level surface of the lake bed. The plat and the field
notes should be considered, along with the patents, in the matter of legal construction. Such plat and field notes are to be
presumed to be correct until the contrary is shown. O'Gilvie
v. Copeland, 145 Illinois, 98; Town ofk ane v. Farrelly, 192
Illinois, 521. No objection thereto in the present case remains.
What there was of the lake as platted is therefore subject to
be apportioned. Forsyth v. Smale, 7 Biss. 201; Webber v.
Pere farquette Boom Co., 62 Michigan, 626; Houck v. Yates,
supra; JXiddleton v. Pritchard,supra; Grand Rapids &o.
R. R. Co. v. Butler, 159 U. S. 85; Schultes on Aquatic Rights,
138; Tyler on Boundaries, 94.
Each fractional subdivision situated on the lake should be
allowed its proper extension, as of the time when it was made
ready for sale by the United States. Jones v. Lee, T7 Michigan,
35, 42. The extension would be laterally, or by the side, having
regard to the water frontage. iMoore v. The WVillamette Trans.portationCo., 7 Oregon, 355 ; Webster's Dictionary, definition
of " laterally."
The side lines should run from the established corners.
The line between sections 29 and 30 was by the surveyor run
to the lake. The notes say the remainder of the line was or
would be in the lake.
The question of title is not controlled by what is sometimes
called "state law." -It is one of general law, applicable to patents for lands in the territory which was known as the Northwestern Territory, or it is a common law question when applied
to titles emanating from the United States, and as to such
titles free from state legislation, and of course exempt from
domination by the state courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error

190 U. S.

Those courts have in the main expressed views in harmony
with those announced by this court in Hardin v. Jordan, and
3fitchell v. Smale, supra, as to what is the common law on the
subject. It is not reasonable to apply to non-navigable waters
of this class the general rules to accretions. They properly
pertain only to navigable waters which are more permanent.
V. As to the question of jurisdiction:
Such jurisdiction is given by U. S. Rev. Stat. § 709.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois first given
was one of reversal in part, but with a remand to the Circuit
Court of Cook County for further proceedings, and without specific directions, and hence was not reviewable here. lfXoComb v.
Co. Com. of ]Dwx Co., 91 U. S. 1.
Until the later and final decision by the Supreme Court of
the State was made, the case could not be brought here for
review. Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522; -Davis v. Crouch,
94 U. S. 514.
The claim of title by the plaintiffs in error was presented on
the record in a variety of forms from first to last, by the pleadings and otherwise, and at each hearing in the Supreme Court
of the State.
The certificate of the Chief Justice of that court that the
Federal question arose in the state court is evidence of that
fact, corroborative of the record itself. Armstrong v. Treas. of
Athens Co., 16 Pet. 281, 286.
The pleadings show that the question arose, and this fact
may be observed. 3Medberry v. Ohio, 24 iHow. 413; Buel v.
Van 3ress, 8 Wheat. 313, 324.
M '. Harry S. 3lecartney for defendant in error.
I. No Federal question was specially raised in the state
courts. Spies v. Illinois, 121 U. S. 131 ; -J3axwell v. HLrewbold,
18 How. 511 ; Hoyt v. Thompson, 1 Black, 521 Columbia T.
P. Co. v. Columbia Elec. Sr. By. Co., 172 U. S. 476; Chappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132; Zadig v. Baldwin, 166 U. S.
485; Kipley v. Illinois,170 U. S. 182; Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co., 166 U. S. 649; Telluride Power &c. Co. v. Rio Grande
&c. R?. B. Co., 175 U. S. 642; Chapin v. Tye, 179 U. S. 127.

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The certificate of the Chief Justice of the Illinois Supreme
Court does not give this court jurisdiction. Powell v. Suervisors, 150 U. S. 433.
II. The decision of the Illinois Supreme Court complained
of involved a question of local law purely, upon which its
judgment was final. The pivotal question in this case is that
the local law of the State in which lands patented by the
United States lie governs the construction to be given to
grants of lands bordering upon waters, whether navigable
lake, navigable stream, or non-navigable lake or stream.
HYardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 3,71, and see cases cited in dissenting opinion; St. Louis v. Butz, 138 U. S.226; Barney v.
-Yeokuk, 94 U. S. 324; St. -Louis v. .yers, 113 U. S.566;
Packer v. Bird, 13-7 U. S.661. See also Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1; St. Anthony Falls Tater Power Co. v. Board of
Water Commissioners, 168 U. S.349.
It was decided in Hardinv. J7ordan that the shore owners
took to the center of the lake, and this decision was based
upon the theory that it was in accordance with decision of the
Illinois Supreme Court. Since then the Supreme Court of
Illinois has decided that shore owners do not take to the
center but only to the water's edge. Hammond v. Skiepard,
186 Illinois, 235. This court, however, is not bound to follow
the latest decisions under such circumstances. Fates v. 3 il-waukee, 10 Wallace, 497; Pease v. Peck, 18 Howard, 595;
Town of Roberts v. Bolles, 101 U. S.119; _forqan v. Cortenius, 20 Howard, 1; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S.439; Central
-Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.103; Wade v. Travis Co., 174
U. S.499 ; Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Peters, 291.
III. This court will not inquire into the alleged errors of
practice. Even if a Federal question were involved it would
examine such question alone. Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436;
AMallett v. Yorth Carolina,181 U. S.589 ; Cleveland &c. Co.v.
Backus, 154 U. S.439; Central Pac. &c. Co. v. California,
162 U. S. 91.
IV. No such errors of practice, however, were in fact committed.
V. The character of Wolf Lake and the State's title to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

bed thereof, and its jurisdiction thereover are all within the
scope of local law and are by the state court's decision foreclosed from inquiry here.
VI. The apportionment of accretions under the decree is accurate and just. For definition of accretion hand right thereto,
see 1 Am. & Eng. Ency. 2d ed. 462, 474; iXuniciality No. 2
v. llEew Orleans Cotton Press, 9 Louisiana, 437; -ehr v.
Snyder, 114 Illinois, 313 ; Benson v. .Morrow, 61 Missouri, 345 ;
Cooly v. Golden, 117 Missouri, 33; Bzuse v. Russell, 86 Missouri, 209; Bigelow v. -oover, 85 Iowa, 161; _27aylor v. Cox,
114 Missouri, 232.
AN. JUSTIcE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding under the Burnt IRecords Act of the State
of Illinois, by which the defendant in error, Shedd, seeks to
establish his record title to certain land adjoining and under
a non-navigable lake called Wolf Lake, lying partly in Illinois
and partly in Indiana. The plaintiff in error, Hardin, also owns
land adjoining the same lake, by succession to a title under patents from the United States, and under these patents makes
claims to land now or originally under the lake, which conflict
with the claim of Shedd and with the decree of the court. The
other plaintiff in error is a grantee of ilardin. The decree having been affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 177 Illinois, 123; S, C., 161 Illinois, 462, the case is brought here by
writ of error. .itchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406, 410 ; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 9, 10. It seems unnecessary to go into
details of the difference, as the main question here goes to the
foundation of Hardin's case, and we are against her on that.
Her title and a plan of the territory in which lies the disputed
land will be found set out in -Hardinv. Jordan,140 U. S. 371.
The claim of the plaintiffs in error to the land below the original water line depends on its having passed by the patent of the
United States. The patent to Holbrook, from which they derive an important part of their title, was dated May 20, 1841,
long before the Swamp Land Act. At that time the land under
the lake, as well as that surrounding it, belonged to the United

HARDIN v. SEIEDD.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, and if grants of the United States should be construed
without regard to state laws, it may be assumed that, subject to
all questions of the proper adjustment of lines, Hardin would
have prevailed. When land is conveyed by the United States
bounded on a non-navigable lake belonging to it, the grounds
for the decision must be quite different from the considerations affecting a conveyance of land bounded on navigable
water. In the latter case the land under the water does not belong to the United States, but has passed to the State by its
admission to the Union. Nevertheless it has become established almost without argument that in the former case as in
the latter the effect of the grant on the title to adjoining submerged land will be determined by the law of the State where
the land lies. In the case of land bounded on a non-navigable
lake the United States assumes the position of a private owner
subject to the general law of the State, so far as its conveyances
are concerned. Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 3'11; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 45; Grad Rapids & Indiana .1. Co.
v. Butler, 159 U. S. 87, 90, 93; St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Co. v. St. Paul Water Comamissioners, 168 U. S. 349, 363.
(Such cases are not affected by Rev. Stat. §§ 24:T6, 5251.) When
land under navigable water passes to the riparian proprietor,
along with the grant of the shore by the United States, it does
not pass by force of the grant alone, because the United States
does not own it, but it passes by force of the declaration of the
State which does own it that it is attached to the shore. The
rule as to conveyances bounded on non-navigable lakes does not
mean that the land under such water also passed to the State
on its admission or otherwise, apart from the Swamp Land Act,
but is simply a convenient, possibly the most convenient, way
of determining the effect of a grant. We are particular in
calling attention to this difference, because we fear that there
has been some misapprehension with regard to the point.
The law of Illinois has been settled since Hardin v. Jordan,
140 U. S. 3M1, and it now is clear, by the decision in this case
and later, that conveyances of the upland do not carry adjoining land below the water line. Fuller v. Shedd, 161 Illinois,
462; HEardinv. Shedd, 17 Illinois, 123 ; Hammond v. Shepard,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCOKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

186 Illinois, 235. Following these decisions, we must hold that
the title set up by the plaintiffs in error fails. Even accepting
the principles of the common law, it may be a question whether
one consideration in this case was not overlooked in Hfardin v.
Jordan. It was noted that the conveyance was by reference
to the official plat. The plat of the Illinois portion, unlike that of
the part in Indiana, describes the lake as a" navigable lake." It
is true that this was a mistake, but it might be urged that the
description must be taken to have the same effect as if it were
true when we are determining the effect of a conveyance adopting it. It would seem that if a conveyance of land bounded by
navigable water would not pass land below the water line, a
conveyance purporting to bound the land by navigable water
does not purport to pass land below the water line. The common law as understood by this court and the local law of Illinois with regard to grants bounded by navigable water are the
same. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 43, 47, 51; Seaman v.
Smith, 24 Illinois, 521.
Of course, it would result from the Illinois ruling that the
survey of the submerged land in 1874, referred to in Hardin v.
Jordan,and the conveyances in pursuance of it, may have been
good on the Illinois side of the state line, unless the State
had got a title before that date under the Swamp Land Act.
Whether it did so or not, it is unnecessary to consider in this case.
The land which Shedd gets under the decree of the state
court he gets, not in derogation of the foregoing principles, but
on findings of fact as to what land was above water at the date
of the patents from the United States, 161 Illinois, 469, 470,
and as to accretions to that land by the gradual drying up of the
water at a later date. 161 Illinois, 473, 494. We perceive no
need for considering the decree in detail.
Decree ajfiymed.
AIR. JUSTICE W-ITE, with whom concurs MR.
KENNA, dissenting.

JUSTICE

Mc

This case, in some aspects, involves contentions supposed to
have been finally decided by this court in Hlardin v. Jordan,

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENA, dissenting.

140 U. S. 371, and -Mitclellv. Smale, 140 U. S. 406. In those
cases there was a controversy between persons holding the patents of the United States to fractional lots abutting on the
meander line of Wolf Lake in Illinois and those holding the
patents of the United States subsequently issued to the bed of
the lake. The latter patents were based upon a survey made
of the bed, approved after contest in the Land Department. It
was held in the cases referred to that the rights of the claimants
to the bed of the lake were to be determined by the local law
of Illinois. Ascertaining what the local law was, it was decided
that the abutting lot owners took to the center of the lake, and
hence the subsequent patents to the bed were void.
The controversy presented by this record originated from
conflicting claims made in two suits (subsequently consolidated)
to the bed of Wolf Lake, between Mrs. Hardin (who was the
plaintiff in Hardinv. Jordan)and one of her grantees, as owners
of the border lots, Shedd, (grantee of Mitchell, the plaintiff in
AXitchell v. Smale,) also as an owner of border lots, and various
claimants under patents of the United States based upon the survey of the bed of the lake. Although the judgment below was
against the second patentees, they have not prosecuted error.
The Supreme Court of Illinois declined to apply the rule laid
down by this court because it held that this court had in Hardin
v. Jordanand Mitchell v. Smale misconceived the state law. By
the local law it was held that the lot owners by the conveyance
to them of lots abutting on the meander line took no title whatever to the bed of the lake. It was, however, decided that the
effect of the con' eyance by the United States to private persons
of the border lots was to transfer the title of the bed of the lake
to the State of Illinois. The doctrine of the Supreme Court of
Illinois on the subject is not only shown in the opinion of that
court in this case, Fuller v. Skedd, 161 Illinois, 462, but also in the
subsequent case of Hammond v. Slepard, 186 Illinois, 235. In
the first case, Fuller v. Shedd, after expressly deciding that the
State of Illinois did not acquire title to the bed of the lake under the swamp land act, the court declined to hold "that the
grant to the riparian owner conveys the bed of non-navigable
(meander) lake, and make its waters mere private waters;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKE-NA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

and, further, said that, "so long as such meander lakes exist,
over their waters, and bed when covered with water, the State
exercises control, and holds the same in trust for all the people,
who alike have benefit thereof, in fishing, boating, and the like."
In the second case, Hammond v. Shepard, the Supreme Court
of Illinois said (p. 241) :
"The law of this State, as repeatedly announced, is that
shore owners on meandered lakes, whether navigable or nonnavigable, take title only to the water's edge, the bed of the
lake being in the State.
"No shore owner can take away from the State its title to
the former bed of the lake unless he can establish by proof
that the dry land was formed by the water receding from his
shore line."
Under the doctrine thus stated, having treated the bed of the
lake as the property of the State, the court determined the
rights of the parties by reference to principles of accretion
which it deemed applicable to the property in the bed of the
lake owned by the State. Now, in -Kean v. Calumet Canal &
lln rovement Company, ante, p. 452, quite recently decided by
this court, the doctrine announced in Hardin v. Jcrdanwas reexamined, and it was in effect held that that case, whilst recognizing that the ownership of the beds of non-navigable lakes
on the public domain was in the United States, simply decided
that when the United States sold lots bordering on such a lake
the question whether or not the bed of the lake passed by the
grant of the border lots was to be determined by the principles
of conveyancing in force under the local law of the State where
the lake was situated. Now, as the settled rule in Illinois is
that under the principles of conveyancing prevailing in that
State no title to the bed of a lake passes to the patentees of
the United States by the sale of border lots, I do not perceive
how the United States has been divested of its title to the bed
of Wolf Lake. To say that, although on the principles of conveyancing under the local law, the bed did not pass, nevertheless, because the United States sold the border lots, the State
of Illinois thereby became the owner of the bed of the lake, is,

HARDIN v. SHEDD.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCoKENNA, dissenting.

as I understand it, to declare that it is in the power of the
State of Illinois to appropriate the property of the United
States.
The suggestion that the considerations just stated are immaterial, because, even although by the local law, the United
States did not convey to the patentees of the border lots title
to the bed of the lake, it may have parted with its title to the
bed by the swamp lands act, involves a departure from the
settled construction of the swamp lands act to which attention
was called in the dissent in .Kean v. Calumet Canal & Improvement Company, ante, p. 452. Besides the disturbance of vested
rights to which it seems to me such a suggestion must give rise,
it must be remembered that it is directly in conflict with the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in this very case,
where it was expressly declared that the State did not take
title to the bed of Wolf Lake under the swamp lands act, because as a matter of fact the converse had been explicitly decided by the Secretary of the Interior in a contest before the
Land Department to which the State of Illinois was a party.
The result of the suggestion as to the swamp lands act then, as
I see it, is to cause the State of Illinois to become the owner
of the bed of the lake under the swamp lands act, in derogation of the act of Congress, contrary to the rulings of this court
and of the Supreme Court of the State, and in disregard of the
express findings of fact made by the Secretary of the Interior
when he approved the second survey, and also when he rendered the decision on the contest to which the State of Illinois
was a party.
I fail to perceive if, as a matter of conveyancing under the
local law, the title to the bed of the lake did not pass with the
sale of the border lots, how the United States has lost its title.
If it be conceded that the view of the local law, announced by
this court in Hardinv. Jor.dan,was a mistaken one, and that
the local law must be taken to be what the lower court held it
to be in this case, then it seems to me the only foundation
upon which the title of the United States to the bed of the
lake can be disputed has disappeared, since in my opinion the
theory of accretion which the court below applied cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

sustained either by reason or authority. I content myself with
merely stating this view, which involves the merits and do not
elaborate, because, in my opinion, if it be-as the court now
decides-that the question whether the title of. the United
States to the bed of Wolf Lake passed to the State of Illinois
is to be determined solely by the local law of Illinois, as construed by the courts of that State, I do not perceive how a
Federal question arises on this record, since I find it impossible to think that there can be a Federal question depending
exclusively for its solution upon non-Federal or state law.
I am authorized to say that MB. JUsTIcE MCKExNA concurs
in this dissent.

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 259. Argued April 23, 24, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

There is a distinction between foreign States and foreign citizens. Congress did not mean to exclude a sovereign power which sees fit to submit
its case to our courts from the right to appeal to the court of last resort.
Under section 6 of the act of 1891 the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is not made final where one of the parties is a foreign State.
Where the parties to a controversy lave submitted the matter to a commission of three who have the power to, and do resolve that all decisions
shall be by majority vote, an award by a majority is sufficient and effective.
In an arbitration between a sovereign State and a railroad company and
affecting public concerns, whatever might be the technical rules for arbitrators dealing with a private dispute, neither party can defeat the
operation of the submission after receiving benefits thereunder, by withdrawing, or by adopting the withdrawal of its nominee, after the discussions have been closed.
Where a foreign State grants a concession to build a railroad to an individual
who assigns it and other contracts connected therewith to a corporation
and thereafter the State forfeits and cancels the concession but agrees,
as a compromise, to take over the road as far as built and pay the actual expense of construction, it is proper in estimating such expenses to

