OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

issippi, 390, 398; T. T. Haydock Carriage Co. v. Pier,18 Wisconsin, 579, 582; Clark v. Sawyer, 151 Massachusetts, 64.
We answer the questions as follows: (1.) No. (2.) Not
under the deed, but so far as the assignee would be allowed for
payment of the claim, the claim may be preferred in the right
of the assignee. (3.) Not on the facts appearing in the certificate. (4.) The charge for the preparation of the deed may be
proved as an unsecured claim.
Certificate accordingly.

GLOBE REFINING COMPANY v. LANDA

COTTON

OIL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 241.

Submitted April 16, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

In case of a breach of contract a person can only be held responsible for
such consequences as may be reasonably supposed to be in contemplation of the parties at the time of making the contract, and mere notice
to a seller of some interest or probable action of the buyer is not enough
necessarily and as matter of law to charge the seller with special damage
on that account if he fails to deliver the goods.
Where the amount of damages for breach of contract is made to appear to
be more than 52000, the judge of the Circuit Court may, on exceptions
properly taken, try the question of jurisdiction separately and if the damages have been purposely and fraudulently magnified he may dismiss the
cause. The grounds upon which he bases his decision are reviewable in
this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Sul'mitted by Mr. C. T. Odgen and .Xr'. J. D. Guinn for
plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Air. JUSTICE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of contract brought by the plaintiff in error,

GLOBE REFINING CO. v. LANDA COTTON OIL CO. 541
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a Kentucky corporation, against the defendant in error, a
Texas corporation, for breach of a contract to sell and deliver
crude oil. The defendant excepted to certain allegations of
damage, and pleaded that the damages had been claimed and
magnified fraudulently for the purpose of giving the United
States Circuit Court jurisdiction, when in truth they were less
than two thousand dollars. The judge sustained the exceptions.
He also tried the question of jurisdiction before hearing the
merits, refused the plaintiff a jury, found that the plea was sustained and dismissed the cause. The plaintiff excepted to all
the rulings and action of the court, and brings the case here by.
writ of error. If the rulings and findings were right there is
no question that the judge was right in dismissing the suit,
Yorth American Transportation & Trading Co. v. 3Iorrison,

178 U. S. 262, 267, but the grounds upon which he went are
re6xaminable here. TFetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115.
The contract was made through a broker, it would seem by
writing, and at all events was admitted to be correctly stated
in the following letter:
"Dallas, Texas, 7/30/97.
Texas.
Braunfels,
New
Oil
Company,
"Landa
"Gentlemen: Referring to the exchange of our telegrams today, we have sold for your account to the Globe Refining Company, Louisville, Kentucky, ten (10) tanks prime crude C/S
oil at the price of 151 cents per gallon of 7J pounds f. o. b. buyers' tank at your mill. Weights and quality guaranteed.
"Terms: Sight draft without exchange b/ldg. attached. Sellers paying commission.

"Shipment: Part last half August and balance first half September. Shipping instructions to be furnished by the Globe
Refining Company.
"Yours truly,
"Tnomi.s & GRiEEN, as Broker."
Having this contract before us, we proceed to consider the
allegations of special damage over and above the difference between the contract price of the oil and the price at the time of
the breach, which was the measure adopted by the judge. These

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

allegations must be read with care, for it is obvious that the
pleader has gone as far as he dared to go and to the verge of anything that could be justified under the contract, if not beyond.
It is alleged that it was agreed and understood that the plaintiff
would send its tank cars to the defendant's mills, and that the
defendant promptly would fill them with oil, (so far simply following the contract,) and that the plaintiff sent tanks. "In
order to do this theplaintiff wasunder the necessity of obligating
itself unconditionally to the railroad company (and of which
the defendant had notice) to pay to it for the transportation of
the cars from said Louisville to said New ]Braunfels in the sum
of nine hundred dollars," which sum plaintiff had to pay, "and
was incurred as an advancement on said oil contract." This is
the first item. The last words quoted mean only that the sum
paid would have been allowed by the railroad as part payment
of the return charges had the tanks been filled and sent back
over the same road.
Next it is alleged that the defendant, contemplating a breach
of the contract, caused the plaintiff to send its cars a thousand
miles, at a cost of a thousand dollars; that defendant cancelled
its contract on the second of September, but did not notify the
plaintiff until the fourteenth, when, if the plaintiff had known of
the cancellation, it would have been supplying itself from other
sources; that plaintiff (no doubt defendant is meant) did so wilfully and maliciously, causing an unnecessary loss of two thousand dollars.
Next it is alleged that by reason of the breach of contract
and want of notice plaintiff lost the use of its tanks for thirty
days-a loss estimated at seven hundred dollars more. Next it
is alleged that the plaintiff had arranged with its own customers
to furnish the oil in question within a certain time, which contemplated sharp compliance with the contract by the defendant, "all
of which facts, as above stated, were well known to the defendant, and defendant had contracted to that end with the plaintiff."
This item is put at seven hundred and forty dollars, with a
thousand dollars more for loss of customers, credit and reputation. Finally, at the end of the petition it is alleged generally
that it was known to defendant and in contemplation of the con-

GLOBE REFINING CO. v. LANDA COTTON OIL CO. 543
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tract that plaintiff would have to send tanks at great expense
from distant points, and that plaintiff "was required to pay additional freight in order to rearrange the 'destination of the
various tanks and other points." Then it is alleged that, by reason of the defendant's breach, the plaintiff had to pay three
hundred and fifty dollars additional freight.
Whatever may be the scope of the allegations which we have
quoted, it will be seen that none of the items was contemplated
expressly by the words of the bargain. Those words are before us in writing, and go no further than to contemplate that
when the deliveries were to take place the buyer's tanks should
be at the defendant's mill. Under such circumstances the question is suggested how far the express terms of a writing, admitted to be complete, can be enlarged by averment and oral
evidence, and if they can be enlarged in that way, what averments are sufficient. When a man commits a tort he incurs
by force of the law a liability to damages, measured by certain
rules. When a man makes a contract he incurs by force of the
law a liability to damages, unless a certain promised event comes
to pass. But unlike the case of torts, as the contract is by
mutual consent, the parties themselves, expressly or by implication, fix the rule by which the damages are to be measured.
The old law seems to have regarded it as technically in the
election of the promisor to perform or to pay damages. Brom,age v. Genning, 1 Roll. R. 368; Hulbert v. Hart, 1 Vern. 133.
It is true that as people when contracting contemplate performance, not breach, they commonly say little or nothing as to
what shall happen in the latter event, and the common rules
have been worked out by common sense, which has established
what the parties probably would have said if they had spoken
about the matter. But a man never can be absolutely certain of
performing any contract when the time of performance arrives,
and in many cases he obviously is taking the risk of an event
which is wholly or to an appreciable extent beyond his control.
The extent of liability in such cases is likely to be within his
contemplation, and whether it is or not, should be worked out
on terms which it fairly may be presumed he would have assented to if they had been presented to his mind. For instance,

OCTOBER TERMA,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

in the present case the defendant's mill and all its oil might
have been burned before the time came for delivery. Such a
misfortune would not have been an excuse, although probably
it would have prevented performance of the contract. If a
contract is broken the measure of damages generally is the
same, whatever the cause of the breach. We have to consider therefore what the plaintiff would have been entitled to
recover in that case, and that depends on what liability the
defendant fairly may be supposed to have assumed consciously,
or to have warranted the plaintiff reasonably to suppose that
it assumed, when the contract was made.
This point of view is taken by implication in the rule that
"a person can only be held to be responsible for such consequences as may be reasonably supposed to be in the contemplation of the parties at the time of making the contract."
Gr~bert-Borgnisv. -Yugent, 15 Q. B. D. 85, 92; Horne v. 3fidland Ry. 0o., L. R. 7 C. P. 583, 591; Hadley v. Baxendale, 9
Exch. 341, 354; Western Union Telegrph Co. v. Hall, 124
U. S. 444 , 456; Howard v. Stillwell & Bierce Manufacturing
Co., 139 U. S. 199, 206; Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 154 U. S. 1, 32. The suggestion thrown out by
Bramwell, B., in Gee v. -Lancashire& Yorkshire Ry. Co., 6 H. &
N. 211, 218, that perhaps notice after the contract was made
and before breach would be enough, is not accepted by the
later decisions. See further Hydraulic Engineering Co. v.
, MooJjie, 4 Q. B. D. 670, 674, 676. The consequences must be
contemplated at the time of the making of the contract.
The question arises then, what is sufficient to show that the
consequences were in contemplation of the parties in the sense
of the vendor taking the risk? It has been held that it may be
proved by oral evidence when the contract is in writing. JXessmore v. NYew York Shot & Lead Co., 40 N. Y. 422. See Sawdon v. Andrew, 30 Law Times, N. S., 23. But, in the language
quoted, with seeming approbation, by Blackburn, J., from
Mayne on Damages, 2d ed. 10, in Elbinger Actien-Gesellschaft
v. Armstrong, L. R. 9 Q. B. 473, 478, "it may be asked, with
great deference, whether the mere fact of such consequences
being communicated to the other party will be sufficient, with-

GLOBE REFINING CO. v. LANDA COTTON OIL CO. 545
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

out going on to show that he was told that he would be answerable for them, and consented to undertake such a liability?"
Mr. Justice Willes answered this question, so far as it was in
his power, in British Columbia Saw-[ill Co. v. Nettleshz,?, L.
R. 3 C. P. 499, 508: "I am disposed to take the narrow view,
that one of two contracting parties ought not to be allowed to
obtain an advantage which he has not paid for. . . . If [a
liability for the full profits that might be made by machinery
which the defendant was transporting, if the plaintiff's trade
should prove successful and without a rival] had been presented
to the mind of the ship owner at the time of making the contract, as the basis upon which he was contracting, he would at
once have rejected it. And, though he knew from the shippers
the use they intended to make of the articles, it could not be
contended that the mere fact of knowledge, without more,
would be a reason for imposing upon him a greater degree of
liability than would otherwise have been cast upon him. To
my mind, that leads to the inevitable conclusion that the mere
fact of knowledge cannot increase the liability. The knowledge must be brought home to the party sought to be charged,
under such circumstances that he must know that the person
he contracts with reasonably believes that he accepts the contract with the special condition attached to it." The last words
are quoted and reaffirmed by the same judge in Home v. Xidland Ry.Co., L. R. 7 C. P. 583, 591; S. C., L. iR. 8 C. P. 131.
See also Benjamin, Sale, 6th Am. ed. ยง 872.
It may be said with safety that mere notice to a seller of
some interest or probable action of the buyer is not enough necessarily and as matter of law to charge the seller with special
damage on that account if he fails to deliver the goods. With
that established we recur to the allegations. With regard to
the first it is obvious that the plaintiff was free to bring its tanks
from where it liked-a thousand miles away or an adjoining
yard-so far as the contract was concerned. The allegation
hardly amounts to saying that the defendant had notice that
the plaintiff was likely to send its cars from a distance. It is
not alleged that the defendant had notice that the plaintiff had
to bind itself to pay nine hundred dollars, at the time when the
VOL. xo--35

OCTOBER TERMN,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

contract was made, and it nowhere is alleged that the defendant assumed any liability in respect of this uncertain element
of charge. The same observations may be made with regard to
the claim for loss of use of the tanks and to the final allegations
as to sending the tanks from distant points. It is true that this
last was alleged to have been in contemplation of the contract,
if we give the plaintiff the benefit of the doubt in construing a
somewhat confused sentence. But having the contract before
us we can see that this ambiguous expression cannot be taken
to mean more than notice, and notice of a fapt which would
depend upon the accidents of the future.
It is to be said further with regard to the foregoing items
that they were the expenses which the plaintiff was willing
to incur for performance. If it had received the oil these were
deductions from any profit which the plaintiff would have
made. But if it gets the difference between the contract price
and the market price it gets what represents the value of the
oil in its hands, and to allow these items in addition would be
making the defendant pay twice for the same thing.
It must not be forgotten that we are dealing with pleadings,
not evidence, and with pleadings which, as we have said, evidently put the plaintiff's case as high as it possibly can be put.
There are no inferences to be drawn, and therefore cases like
Hammond v. Bussey, 20 Q. B. D. 79, do not apply. It is a
simple question of allegations which, by declining to amend,
the plaintiff has admitted that it cannot reinforce. This consideration applies with special force to the attempt to hold the
defendant liable for the breach of the plaintiff's contract with
third persons. The allegation is that the fact that the plaintiff
had contracts over was well known to the defendant, and that
"defendant had contracted to that end with the plaintiff."
Whether, if we were sitting as a jury, this would warrant an
inference that the defendant assumed an additional liability, we
need not consider. It is enough to say that it does not allege the
conclusion of fact so definitely that it must be assumed to be true.
With the contract before us it is in a high degree improbable
that any such conclusion could have been made good.
The only other allegation needing to be dealt with is that

GLOBE REFINING CO. -v.LANDA COTTON OIL CO. 547
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant maliciously caused the plaintiff to send the
tanks a thousand miles, contemplating a breach of its contract.
So far as this item has not been answered by what has been
said, it is necessary only to add a few words. The fact alleged
has no relation to the time of the contract. Therefore it cannot affect the damages, the measure of which was fixed at that
time. The motive for the breach commonly is immaterial in
an action on the contract. Grand Tower Co. v. Phillips,23
Wall. 471,480; Wood's Mayne on Damages, ยง 45; 2 Sedgwick,
Damages, 8th ed. ยง 603. It is in this case. Whether under
any circumstances it might give rise to an action of tort is
not material here. See Emmons v. Alvord, 17.7 Massachusetts,
466, 470.
The allowance of the exceptions made the trial of the plea
superfluous. If the question of fact was to be tried as to
whether the amount of damages that fairly could be claimed
was sufficient to give the court jurisdiction, the court had
authority to try it.
Fetnwre v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115, 121;
Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 5, 18 Stat. 472. In coming to
his conclusion, apart from what was apparent on the face of
the pleadings, the judge no doubt was influenced largely by a
letter from the plaintiff to the defendant, enclosing an itemized
bill for one thousand and twenty-one dollars and twenty-eight
cents. This letter suggested no further claim except for "any
additional mileage we may have to pay." Of course, if the
judge accepted the plaintiff's own view of its case as expressed
here, the pretence of jurisdiction was at an end. Some attempt
was made to make out this was an offer of compromise, and
inadmissible. But the letter did not purport to be anything of
the sort, it was an out and out adverse demand.
Judgment affirmed.

