OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 244. Argued April 16, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

After obtaining a divorce on the ground of his wife's desertion, she not opposing the decree, the husband executed and delivered a written contract
by which he agreed to pay the wife a specified sum annually for her own
support during her life or so long as she remained unmarried, and also
to pay her a specified sum annually for the support of their minor chil-

dren whose custody was awarded by the decree to the wife. Subsequently
the husband was adjudged a bankrupt and discharged. The wife sued
for amounts accrued prior to the discharge both for her own support and

for that of her children.
]geld, that as to the amount payable for her own support it was not a contingent liability provable under the bankruptcy act, and the contract was

not of such a nature as would permit the obligor to be discharged from
the obligations thereunder by a discharge in bankruptcy.
Held, that as to the amount payable for the minor children, the contract
was a recognition of liability on the part of the father to support them
and, as it does not appear that the amount was unreasonable, the contract

to do so could noc be affected by a discharge in bankruptcy; and the fact
that the money was payable to the mother did not affect the situation.

THE defendant in error, being the plaintiff below, brought
her action in October, 1899, against the plaintiff in error, in the
Municipal Court of Boston, to recover moneys alleged to be
due upon a contract, which was set forth in the complaint. Issue was joined and the case tried before a single justice, and judgment ordered for the defendant with costs. An appeal was taken
to the Superior Court of the county of Suffolk, and that court ordered judgment for the plaintiff for one branch only of her claim.
The case was reported to the Supreme Judicial Court for the
Commonwealth, and that court ordered the court below to enter
judgment for the plaintiff for both branches of her claim, 180
:Massachusetts, 170, and the case was remanded to the Superior
Court for the purpose of entering such judgment. Pursuant
to the directions of the Supreme Court, the Superior Court did
enter judgment against the defendant for both branches of her

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

claim, for the sum of $851.60 and costs. The defendant then
obtained a writ of error from this court, directed to the Superior Court of Massachusetts, where the record remained.
The case shows these facts: The parties were husband and
wife, who, in 1889, were living apart, the husband in Ohio and
the wife in Massachusetts. In May, 1889, the attorney for her
husband came to Massachusetts and saw Mrs. Dunbar, and told
her that her husband was about to seek a divorce from her.
The wife at this time had no means, and the two sons of the
marriage, then respectively nine and twelve years old, were living with her. The purpose of the visit of the attorney was to
obtain some assurance from her that she would not contest the
case, and if she did not that the husband would make provision
for aiding in the support of herself and her sons until they arrived of age. The wife denied any intended desertion of her
husband, but the result of the negotiations after the wife had
taken counsel of friends was to give assurance to the attorney
that no defence would be interposed if he made some suitable
provision for herself and her children.
Upon the return of the attorney to Ohio, a suit for divorce was
commenced by the husband, and the summons served by publication. No appearance was made and there was no opposition
to the decree of divorce which was obtained in July, 1889. It
adjudged that the marriage contract theretofore existing between
the parties was thereby dissolved, and both parties released from
the obligation of the same, and "that the custody of the children
of such marriage, one boy, Harry H. Dunbar, aged 12 years, and
Willie W. Dunbar, aged 9 years, be, and the same are, to remain
in charge and under the control of the said Lottie E. Dunbar,
the said Horace B. Dunbar to have the privilege of seeing said
children at all reasonable times."
The ground of divorce was stated, and the court found "upon
the evidence adduced that the defendant has been guilty of wilful absence for more than three years last past from plaintiff,
and that, by reason thereof, the plaintiff is entitled to a divorce
as prayed for."
After the divorce the husband sent to a friend of his wife, to
be delivered to her in performance of his agreement, a written

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

contract, in which he bound himself to pay to Lottie E. Dunbar,
of Ashburnham, Mfass., five hundred dollars yearly, so long as
she remained unmarried, in monthly installments. In that contract he also agreed to pay "to our children, Harry H. Dunbar
and Willie W. Dunbar, the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars
each yearly, until they each attain the age of fourteen years; after that age they are to be paid by me such extra allowance as will
give them a good and sufficient education befitting their station
in life, and a suitable maintenance until each attains the age of
twenty-one years." This writing was signed by the husband and
acknowledged before a notary public of Hamilton, Ohio.
Payments upon this contract were made by the husband, but
in 1896 they had become somewhat in arrears, and disputes arose
as to the validity of the agreement. Thereafter another contract
was entered into and payments were made as called for in that
contract until some months prior to December 2, 1898. On such
last named date the defendant was adjudged a bankrupt, on his
voluntary petition in bankruptcy, in the United States District
Court in Bankruptcy, Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, and on April 24, 1899, was discharged from all debts and
claims provable under the act of Congress, relating to bankruptcy, against his estate, existing on the 2d day of December,
1898.
In the schedule of the defendant it appeared that he named the
plaintiff as a creditor, as follows:
Lottie E. Dunbar, Charlestown, Mass.

$ 540

Alimony due up to present time.
Lottie E. Dunbar, Charlestown, Mass.

1300

Alimony payable yearly.
The plaintiff at the first meeting of the creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, which was held before a referee appointed
therein, appeared by an attorney, who produced and filed his
power of attorney, and filed her claim for $691.63, for install-

ments on the contract due to December 2, 1898. The husband
had paid nothing on the contract since some time before
December 2, 1898, and finally the wife commenced an action
to recover the amounts due thereon.

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The following is a copy of the contract sued on:
"Controversies having arisen concerning the agreement
heretofore made between Horace B. Dunbar and Lottie E.
Dunbar in September, 1899, in consideration of said Lottie E.
Dunbar's forbearance of suit on such controversies, and in settlement of all such controversies and in substitution of said
agreement of September, 1889, and in further consideration of
the release by Lottie E. Dunbar and in satisfaction of all claims
under said original agreement, Horace B. Dunbar agrees with
the said Lottie E. Dunbar as follows:
"That said Horace B. Dunbar will pay to Lottie E. Dunbar
during her life, or until sh6 marries, for her maintenance and
support, yearly, the sum of five hundred dollars, and will pay to
her yearly for the support and maintenance of her child, Harry H.
Dunbar, the sum of four hundred dollars until he shall attain the
age of twenty-one years; and shall pay to her yearly for the
support and maintenance of her child, Willie W. Dunbar,
the sum of four hundred dollars until he shall attain the age of
twenty-one years, all said sums to be paid in equal monthly
installments between the first and tenth of each and every
month-the first installment beingfor the month of May, 1896,
shall be paid between the first and tenth of June, 1896.
"And, in addition to the foregoing, said Horace B. Dunbar
agrees to pay the further sum of one hundred dollars between
the first and tenth of July, 1896, over and above the installment otherwise due for said month.
"And the said Lottie E. Dunbar hereby agrees that she has
not nor shall she have any other claim or demand against
Horace B. Dunbar for contribution to her support and maintenance, or for the support, maintenance or education of said children, save and except as fixed and limited by this agreement."
Properly signed by both parties and witnessed.
The particulars of her claim were stated as follows:
"Horace B. Dunbar to Lottie E. Dunbar
1. To installments due under covenant for alimony
from December, 1898, to October 1, 1899, ten
months, at $41.66 a month

.

Dr.
$416 60

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Amount brought forward,
$416 60
2. To monthly allowance due her for support and
maintenance of Willie W. Dunbar, from December, 1898, to October 1, 1899, ten months, at
$33.33 a month
333 30
$749 90"
The defendant pleaded his discharge in bankruptcy as a bar,
and the Supreme Judicial Court of the State held that it was
not good.
r'. James Hamilton Lewis and AXr. George Fred Williams
for plaintiff in error. X.. James A. Halloran was on the brief.
.XPl'. Frank H. Stewart for defendant in error.
Oscar ]eele was on the brief.

M'. John

M R JUSTICE PEOXIHA, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivgred the opinion of the court.

Had the pr visions of this contract, so far as contracting to
pay money/for the support of his wife is concerned, been embodiedirf the decree of divorce which the husband obtained
from -his wife in Ohio on the ground of desertion, the liability
of the husband to pay the amount as alimony, notwithstanding his discharge in bankruptcy, cannot be doubted. Audubon
v. Shlufeldt, 181 U. S. 575. We are not by any means clear
that the same principle ought not to govern a contract of this
nature when, although the judgment of divorce is silent upon
the subject, it is plain that the contract was made with reference to the obligations of the husband to aid in the support of
his wife, notwithstanding the decree. The facts appearing in
this record do not show a case of any moral delinquency on
the part of the wife, and the contract, considering the circumstances, might possibly be held to take the place of an order or
judgment of the court for the payment of the amount, as in the
nature of a decree for alimony. We do not find it necessary,
however, to decide that question in this case, because in any

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

event we think the contract as to the support of the wife is not
of such a nature as to be discharged by a discharge in bankruptcy.
Conceding that the bankruptcy act provides for discharging
some classes of contingent demands or claims, this is not, in our
opinion, such a demand. Even though it may be that an annuity dependent upon life is a contingent demand within the
meaning of the bankruptcy act of 1898, 80 Stat. 544, yet this
contract, so far as regards the support of the wife, is not dependent upon life alone, but is to cease in case the wife remarries. Such a contingency is not one which in our opinion
is within the purview of the act, because of the innate difficulty,
if not impossibility, of estimating or valuing the particular
contingency of widowhood. A simple annuity which is to terminate upon the death of a particular person may be valued
by reference to the mortality tables. Mr. Justice Bradley, in
Riggin v. agwire, 15 Wall. 549, speaking for the court, said
that so long as it remained uncertain whether a contract or engagement would ever give rise to an actual duty or liability,
and there was no means of removing the uncertainty by calculation, such contract or engagement was not provable under
the bankruptcy act of 1841. The fifth section of that act gave
the right to prove "uncertain and contingent demands," but
it was held that a contract such as above described was not
within that section.
It was remarked by the justice in that case that if the contract had come within the category of annuities and debts payable in future, which are absolute and existing claims, the
value of the wife's probability of survivorship after death of her
husband might have been calculated on the principles of life
annuities.
But how can any calculation be made in regard to the continuance of widowhood when there are no tables and no statistics
by which to calculate such contingency? How can a valuation
of a probable continuance of widowhood be made? Who can say
what the probability of remarrying is in regard to any particular
widow? We know what some of the factors might be in the
question; inclination, age, health, property, attractiveness, chil-

OCTOBER TERA,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

dren. These would at least enter into the question as to the
probability of continuance of widowhood, and yet there are no
statistics which can be gathered which would tend in the slightest degree to aid in the solving of the question.
In many cases where actions are brought for the violation of
contracts, such as Pierce v. Tennessee Coal &c. Railroad Company, 173 U. S. 1; Roehm v. Horst, 178 U. S. 1, and Schell v.
Plumb, 55 N. Y. 592, it is necessary to come to some conclusion
in regard to the damages which the party has sustained by reason of the breach of the contract, and in such cases resort may be
had to the tables of mortality, and to other means of ascertaining
as nearly as possible what the present damages are for a failure
to perform in the future, but we think the rules in those cases
are not applicable to cases like this under the bankruptcy act.
Taking the liability as presented by the contract, if the mortality tables were referred to for the purpose of ascertaining the
value so fax as it depended upon life, the answer would be no answer to the other contingency of the continuance of widowhood;
and if having found the value as depending upon the mortality
tables you desire to deduct from that the valuation of the other
contingency, it is pure guesswork to do it.
It is true that this has been done in England under the English
bankruptcy act of 1869. In -Exparte Blakemore, L. IR. 5 Ch.
D. 372 (1877), it was held by the court of appeal that the value
of the contingency of a widow's marrying again was capable of
being fairly estimated, and that proof must be admitted for the
value of the future payments as ascertained by an actuary. That
decision was made under the thirty-first section of the bankruptcy act of 1869. James, Lord Justice, said:
"1Nodoubt it is uncertain whether the appellant will marry
again, just as the duration of any particular life is uncertain.
But, though the duration of a particular life is uncertain, the expectation of life at a given age is reduced to a certainty when
you have regard to a million of lives. The value of the expectation of life is arrived at by an average deduced from practical
experience."
Although the English statute makes it necessary to arrive at a
conclusion upon this point, yet there is no "practical experience"

DUNB3AR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to the chances of the continuance of widowhood, such as may
be referred to where the probable continuance of life is involved.
In the latter case we have the experience tables in regard to
millions of lives, and under such circumstances there is, as Lord
Justice James said, almost a certainty as to the valuation to be
put on such a contingency. But under the English statute, the
thirty-first section makes every kind of debt or liability provable
in bankruptcy except demands in the nature of unliquidated damages arising otherwise than by reason of a contract or promise,
so long as the value of the liability is "capable of being ascertained
by fixed rules, or assessable only by a jury, or as matter of opinion." So under that act, in Eo parte -eal, L. R. 14 Oh. D. 579,
there was a separation deed between husband and wife, and the
husband was to pay an annuity to the wife, which was terminable "in case the wife should not lead a chaste life; in case the
husband and wife should resume cohabition; and in case the marriage should be dissolved in respect of any thing done, committed,
or suffered by" the other party, after the date of the deed.
The annuity was also to be proportionately dimnnished in the
event of the wife's becoming entitled to any income independent
of the husband, exceeding a certain amount a year. After the
execution of the deed the husband went through bankruptcy,
and it was held that the value of the annuity was capable of
being fairly estimated, and was provable in the liquidation. In
that case, speaking of the thirty-first section of the act of 1869,
it was stated that "words more large and general it is impossible to conceive; they cover every species of contingency." It
was also stated that it was "difficult to see how any case could
arise which would not come within" the language of this act.
Bramwell, Lord Justice, said: "But for the present bankruptcy
act our decision must have been the same as that in .Mudge v.
Rowan," L. R. 3 Ex. 85 (1868), but he said that the present
bankruptcy act was very different in its terms from the act
which was in force when that case was decided.
In the case of Mudge v. Rowan, supra, there was a deed of
separation between husband and wife, in which the husband
covenanted to pay an annuity to his wife by quarterly installments, the annuity to cease in the event of future cohabitation

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

by mutual consent. It was held that this was not an annuity
provable under the bankruptcy act of 1849, 12th and 13th Vic.
ch. 106, section 175, nor a liability to pay money under the
24th and 25th Vic. ch. 134, section 154.
The one hundred and seventy-fifth section of the act of 1849
expressly provided that the creditor might prove for the value
of any annuity, which value the court was to ascertain. Kelly,
Chief Baron, said:
"The annuity seems to me to be so uncertain in its nature as
to be impossible to be valued. In many cases the Commissioner
of Bankriptcy may have to deal with contingencies the value
of which depends on a variety of considerations, and where the
valhation is very difficult. But here I am at a loss to see any
single circumstance upon which a calculation of any kind could
be based."
Martin, Baron, said:
"This contingency depends on an infinite variety of circumstances, into which it is idle to suppose a commissioner could
inquire."
Channel], Baron, concurring, said:
"The tendency of recent legislation, and the course of recent
decisions, has been to free a debtor who becomes a bankrupt
from all liability of every kind ; but I do not think an order of
discharge a bar to such a claim as the present. . . . I quite
admit that, to bring an annuity within the act of 1849, it is not
necessary to have any actual pecuniary consideration. I also
feel that in many cases the difficulty of calculating the present
value of contingencies may be very great, and yet they may
be within the acts. But here it appears to me that the difficulty is insuperable."
In Pa.ker v. 1nee, 4 H. & N. 53 (1859), there was a bond
conditioned to pay an annuity during the life of the obligor's
wife, provided that if the obligor and his wife should at any
time thereafter cohabit as man and wife the annuity should
cease, and it was held that the annual sum thus covenanted to
be paid by the defendant was not an annuity within the one
hundred and seventy-fifth section of the bankruptcy law or consolidation act of 1849, nor a debt payable upon a contingency

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the one hundred and seventy-seventh section, nor a liability to pay money upon a contingency within the one hundred and seventy-eighth section, and consequently the discharge in bankruptcy was no bar to an action for a recovery
of a quarterly payment due on the bond. Martin, Baron, said:
"That cannot be such an annuity as would fall within the
one hundred and seventy-fifth section, because a value cannot
be put upon it. How is it possible to calculate the probability
of a man and his wife who are separated living together again?
Their doing so depends upon their character4 temper, and disposition, and it may be a variety of other circumstances. Then
is it money payable upon a contingency within the one hundred
and seventy-eighth section? I think it is not."
It is only, therefore, by reason of the extraordinarily broad
language contained in the thirty-first section of the English
bankruptcy act of 1869 that the English courts have endeavored
to make a fair estimate of the value of a contract based on the
continuance of widowhood, even though the value was not
capable of being ascertained by fixed rules, nor assessable by a
jury, but was simply to be estimated by the opinion of the court
or of some one entrusted with the duty.
In the Blakemore case, L. R. 5 Oh. D. 372, sifre, after the
announcement of the judgment, the report states that it was
then arranged that it should be referred to an actuary to ascertain the annuity as a simple life annuity, and to deduct from
that value such a sum as he should estimate to be the proper
deduction for the contingency of widowhood. In other words,
it was left to the actuary to guess the proper amount to be deducted.
No such broad language is found in our bankruptcy act of
1898. Section 63a provides for debts which may be proved,
which, among others, are (1) "A fixed liability, as evidenced
by a judgment or an instrument in writing, absolutely owing at
the time of the filing of the petition against him, whether then
payable or not, with any interest thereon which would have been
recoverable at that date or with a rebate of interest on such as
were not then payable and did not bear interest;" (4) "founded
upon an open account, or upon a contract express or implied."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

In section 63b provision is made for unliquidated claims
against the bankrupt, which may be liquidated upon application
to the court in such manner as it shall direct, and may thereafter be proved and allowed against his estate. This paragraph
b, however, adds nothing to the class of debts which might be
proved under paragraph a of the same section. Its purpose is
to permiit an unliquidated claim, coming within the provisions
of section 63a, to be liquidated as the court should direct.
We do not think that by the use of the language in section
63a it was intended to permit proof of contingent debts or liabilities or demands the valuation or estimation of which it was
substantially impossible to prove.
The language of section 63a of the act of 1898 differs from
that contained in the bankruptcy act of 1867, and also from that
of 184:1. The act of 1867, section 19, 14 Stat. 517, 525, carried
into the Revised Statutes as section 5068, provided expressly
for cases of contingent debts and contingent liabilities contracted
by the bankrupt, and permitted applications to be made to the
court to have the present value of the debt or liability ascertained and liquidated, which was to be done in such manner as
the court should order, and the creditor was then to be allowed
to prove for the amount so ascertained.
Section 5 of the act of 1841, 5 Stat. 440, provides in terms
for the holders of uncertain or contingent demands coming in
and proving such debts under the act. But neither the act of
1841 nor that of 1867 would probably cover the case of such a
contract as the one under consideration.
Cases have been cited showing some contingent debts which
were held capable of being proved under the bankruptcy act of
1898, among which are .oeh v. farkeet Street National Bank,
107 Fed. Rep. 897, Circuit Court of Appeals, Third Circuit, 1901,
and Cobb v. Overman, 109 Fed. Rep. 65, Circuit Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, 1901. And under former bankrupt acts,
the cases of _Fisher v. Tift, 12 R. 1. 56 (1878); Heywood v.
Shreve, 44 N. J. L. 94 (1882), and Sheltom v. Pease, 10 Missouri,
473 (1817).
The contingency in the case of loc v. NationalBank, supra,
was that the bankrupt was the endorser of commercial paper

DUNBAR v. DUNBAR.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not due at the time of filing the petition, and it was held that
under section 63a, subdivision 4, the creditor might prove
against the estate of the bankrupt after the liability had become
fixed.
In Cobb v. Overman, supra, the bond of the bankrupt to secure payment to the obligee of an annuity for life was held to
be properly proved under section 63a, clause 1.
These cases, it will be seen, do not come within the principle
of the case at bar. The other cases, arising under the acts of
1867 and 1841, do not affect this case.
The Massachusetts court held the debt herein not provable,
upon the authority of forgan v. WFordel, 178 Massachusetts,
350, and Goding v. 1?oscenthal, 180 Massachusetts, 43. Mr.
Justice Barker, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in the latter case, said:
"But in forgan v. lFordell, 178 Massachusetts, 350, this
court assumed that such claims were not provable under the
act, and we follow that view in the present case."
We think the contract, so far as it related to the payment to
the wife during her life or widowhood, was not a contingent
liability provable under the act of 1898.
In relation to that part of the husband's contract to pay for
the support of his minor children until they respectively became of age, we also think that it was not of a nature to be
proved in bankruptcy. At common law, a father is bound to
support his legitimate children, and the obligation continues
during their minority. We may assume this obligation to
exist in all the States. In this case the decree of the court
provided that the children should remain in the custody of the
wife, and the contract to contribute a certain sum yearly for
the support of each child during his minority was simply a
contract to do that which the law obliged him to do; that is,
to support his minor children. The contract was a recognition
of such liability on his part. We think it was not the intention
,of Congress, in passing a bankruptcy act, to provide for the
release of the father from his obligation to support his children
by his discharge in bankruptcy, and if not, then we see no rea$on why his contract to do that which the law obliged him to do

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 "U.S.

should be discharged in that way. As his discharge would
not in any event terminate his obligation to support his children during their minority, we see no reason why his written
contract acknowledging such obligation and agreeing to pay
a certain sum (which may be presumed to have been a reasonable one) in fulfillment thereof should be so discharged. It is
true his promise is to pay to the mother, but on this branch of
the contract it is for the purpose of supporting his two minor
children, and he simply makes her his agent for that purpose.
In In re Baker, 96 Fed. Rep. 954, in the District Court of
Kansas, it was held that a judgment in a bastardy proceeding
against the putative father, adjudging him to pay a certain
sum to the mother of the child for its maintenance, was not
such a debt as would be released by the discharge of the father
in bankruptcy, and it was put upon the ground that by virtue
of the judgment and bond given thereon, the father became
liable for the maintenance of the illegitimate son the same as
if he were his legitimate offspring, and that the bankruptcy
law was never intended to affect the liability of the father for
the support of his children.
In the case of -Inre Hubbatrd,98 Fed. Rep. '710,the District
Courtof Illinois held that a discharge in bankruptcy did not release the bankrupt from the obligation to obey in order made
by a state court requiring him to pay a certain sum for the support of his minor children. Kohlsaat, District Judge, said:
" The bankruptcy act was passed to relieve persons bringing
themselves within its provisions from the incubus of hopeless
indebtedness, but it was not intended to, nor does it, subvert the
higher rule, which casts upon a parent the care and maintenance
of his offspring. The welfare of the State, as also every principle of law, statutory, natural, and divine, demand that, so long
as he has any substance at all, he shall apply it to the maintenance of his children. Creditors, as well as all citizens, are interested in the enforcement of this rule."
As the defendant would still remain liable for the support of
his minor children, even if discharged from this contract under
the act, and he would remain liable for past support, why should
it be held that Congress intended that such a contract, to do what

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

the law enjoins upon him as a duty, should be released?

There

is no language in the act which plainly so provides, and we ought
not to infer it.
The amendments to the bankruptcy act passed in 1903, 32 Stat.
797, contain an amendment of section 17 of the act of 1898, which
relates to debts not affected by a discharge, and it provides,

among those not released by a discharge in bankruptcy, a debt due
or to become due for alimony, or for the maintenance or support of wife or child. It is true that the provisions of the amendatory act are not to apply to cases pending before their enactment. They are only referred to here for the purpose of showing
the legislative trend in the direction of not discharging an obligation of the bankrupt for the support and maintenance of wife
or children.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 26.

Argued April 29, 30, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

An administratrix of one who in 1818 became a member of a firm which
had in 1798 sustained losses, resulting in what are known as French
Spoliation Claims, presented the claims under the act of 1885 to the
Court of Claims and obtained awards therefor. The findings clearly
showed that the Court of Claims proceeded on the assumption that her
intestate was a member of the firm when the losses were sustained. In
1899, Congress appropriated money to pay certain claims which had been
favorably passed on by the Court of Claims including those awarded to
this administratrix as such and as representing such firm. After collecting the amounts she applied to a state court of competent jurisdiction for instructions as to distribution of the fund. Next of kin of the
partners of 1798 denied that her intestate could share in the fund under
.'the provisions of the act of 1885, which limited payments thereunder to
next of kin of the original sufferers ; she contended that the awards of
the Court of Claims and the appropriation by Congress to her as adminis- tratrix were conclusive as to the right of her intestate to participate in
the awards.
.Held,that it was not the duty of the Court of Claims under the act of 1885

VOL. Oxc-23

