SWAN & FINCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SWAN AND FINCH COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIAS.

No. 258. Argued April 22, 23, 1903.-Decided Bray 18, 1903.
The placing on board vessels in the United States and bound for foreign
ports of lubricating oils manufactured from imported rape seed on which
duty has been paid and which oils are for use in, and to be consumed by
the vessels is not such an exportation of the oils as entitles the sellers to
drawbacks under ยง 22 of the act of August 28, 1894, reenacted as ยง 30 of
the act of July 27, 1897.
This has been the uniform construction of the department charged with
the execution of the statute.
Where the burden is placed upon the citizen, if there be a doubt it must
be resolved in favor of the citizen; but as the right to drawbacks is a
privilege granted by the'government any doubt as to the construction of
the statute must be resolved in favor of the government.
SECTION 22, of the act of August 28, 1894, 28 Stat. 509, 551,
re6nacted as section 30 of the act of July 27, 1897, 30 Stat. 211,
is as follows:
"SEC. 22. That where imported materials on which duties

have been paid are used in the manufacture of articles manufactured or produced in the United States, there shall be allowed on the exportation of such articles a drawback equal in
amount to the duties paid on the materials used, less one per
centum of such duties: Provided, That when the articles exported are made in part from domestic materials the imported
materials, or the parts of the articles made from such materials,
shall so appear in the completed articles that the quantity or
measure thereof may be ascertained: And provided further,
That the drawback on any article allowed under existing law
shall be continued at the rate herein provided. That the imported materials used in the manufacture or production of
articles entitled to drawback of customs duties when exported
shall, in all cases where drawback of duties paid on such materials is claimed, be identified, the quantity of such materials
used and the amount of duties paid thereon shall be ascertained,
the facts of the manufacture or production of such articles in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

the United States and their exportation therefrom shall be determined, and the drawback due thereon shall be paid to the
manufacturer, producer, or exporter, to the agent of either or
to the person to whom such manufacturer, producer, exporter,
or agent shall in writing order such drawback paid, under such
regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe."
During the years 1895, 1896, 1897, the appellant, a corporation engaged in business as importer, manufacturer and exporter
of oils at New York city and elsewhere in the United States,
having used in the manufacture of certain kinds of lubricating
oils imported rape seed oil on which duties had been paid,
placed on board of vessels bound for foreign ports, lubricating
oils so manufactured, and claimed a drawback of the duties
paid on the imported rape seed oil used therein. The Treasury
Department allowed and paid the drawback on such manufactured oils as were shipped to foreign countries and there landed,
but refused to pay any oil such as were placed on board for use
and consumed in use on the vessels. The appellant brought
this suit in the Court of Claims to recover the drawbacks on the
last named oils. That court decided against it, 37 C. Cl. 101,
and from such decision this appeal was taken.
.lr. William B. Zing for appellant. X.r. George A. Zing
was on the brief.
Mr. Assista'nt Attorney General Pradt for appellee.
JusTicE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
31r.

The statute allows the drawback "on the exportation," and
the question is whether goods placed on board a vessel bound
for a foreign port, to be used and consumed on board the vessel
during its voyage, and in fact so used and consumed, are exported.
The careful opinion of the Court of Claims, which in general
we approve and to which we refer, relieves us from the necessity
of an extended discussion. Whatever primary meaning may

SWAN & FINCH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be indicated by its derivation, the word "export" as used in
the Constitution and laws of the United States, generally means
the transportation of goods from this to a foreign country.
"As the legal notion of emigrating is a going abroad with an
intention of not returning, so that of exportation is a severance
of goods from the mass of things belonging to this country
with an intention of uniting them to the mass of things belonging to some foreign country or other." 17 Op. Attys. Gen. 583.
True, the context may sometimes give to the word a narrower
meaning, and in the execution of the administrative affairs of
government it may have been applied to cases in which there
was not in the full sense of the term an exportation, yet these
are exceptions and do not destroy its general signification. It
cannot mean simply a carrying out of the country, for no one
would speak of goods shipped by water from San Francisco to
San Diego as "exported," although in the voyage they are
carried out of the country. Nor would the mere fact that there
was no purpose of return justify the use of the word "export."
Coal placed on a steamer in San Francisco to be consumed in
propelling that steamer to San Diego would never be so designated. Another country or State as the intended destination
of the goods is essential to the idea of exportation.
Counsel for appellant, after quoting from several dictionaries,
say :
"These definitions show that the word has two meanings:
"(1) Its primary, general or essential meaning-to carry or
send out of a place; and
"(2) Its secondary, specific or especial meaning-to send out
from one country to another.
"Of all goods sent out of this country but a small proportion
fails to reach a foreign country ; the amount consumed or lost
at sea is minute in comparison. In ordinary use, therefore,
the foreign destination is implied. We claim that, however
usual, it is not essential, and that here the original and primary definition of the word should be applied to goods carried
out of the country on vessels in the foreign trade, although
they never reach a foreign country."
To this we are unable to yield our assent:
voL. Oxc-10

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

First. The fact that the words "export" and "exportation"
are, as we have indicated, generally used in the sense of transportation from this to a foreign country, makes against the
contention that it is here used in a different sense.
Second. The purpose with which the drawback statute was
enacted is against it. In Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S.
407, 413, we said:
"The purpose of the drawback provision is to make duty
free, imports which are manufactured here and then returned
whence they came or to some other foreign country-articles
which are not sold or consumed in the United States."
So also in Tide Mater Oil Company v. United States, 171
U. S. 210, 216:
"The object of the section was evidently not only to build
up an export trade, but to encourage manufactures in this
country, where such manufactures are intended for exportation, by granting a rebate of duties upon the raw or prepared
materials imported, and thus enabling the manufacturer to
compete in foreign markets with the same articles manufactured
in other countries."
Third. The uniform construction placed by the department
charged with the execution of the statute has been against it.
Fourth. Being a governmental grant of a privilege or benefit it is to be construed in favor of the government and against
the party claiming the grant. Where the burden is placed
upon a citizen, if there be a doubt as to the extent of the
burden it is resolved in favor of the citizen, but where a privilege is granted any doubt is resolved in favor of the government. In HFartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609, 616, the one
rule was thus stated:
"We are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court
was correct. But, if the question were one of doubt, the
doubt would be resolved in favor of the importer, 'as duties
are never imposed on the citizen upon vague or doubtful interpretations." Powersv. Barney, 5 Blatch. 202; United States
v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496, 504; Gurr v. Scudds, 11 Exch. 190,
191; Adams v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner, 384. See also American
.Yet c Twine Company v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468, 474.

MUTUAL RESERVE &c. ASSN. v. PHELPS.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

On the other hand, in Hannibal &c. Railroad Company
v. Packet Company, 125 U. S. 260, 271, we said, citing several
authorities:
"But if there be any doubt as to the proper construction of
this statute, . . . then that construction must be adopted
which is most advantageous to the interests of the government. The statute being a grant of a privilege, must be construed most strongly in favor of the grantor."
For these reasons we think the judgment of the Court of
Claims was correct, and it is
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTiCe. BRowN and

IR. JUSTICE PE CKHAB dissented.

MUTUAL RESERVE FUND LIFE ASSOCIATION
PHELPS.

v.

APPEAL FROBE THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 263. Argued April 24, 27, 1903.-Decided May 18,1903.

Under the statutes of Kentucky service of a summons upon the insurance
commissioner in an action against an insurance company doing business
in the State is sufficient to bring the company into court. This applies
to a company whose license has been cancelled by the commissioner but
which after such cancellation has continued to collect premiums and assessments on policies remaining in force. A judgment based upon such
service is, in the absence of anything else to impeach it, valid.
A proceeding, based upon a judgment so obtained, for the appointment of
a receiver, is not a new and independent suit, but a mere continuation of
the action already passed into judgment, and in aid of the execution
thereof, and can be initiated by the filing of an amended or supplementary petition. When such an amended petition is filed the action cannot
be removed to the Federal courts, as the time prescribed therefor by the
statute has already passed. Nor has the Federal court jurisdiction in
an equity action to enjoin proceedings under the supplementary petition,
as it is a mere continuation of an action at law. Where a proceeding
is not warranted by the law of a State, relief must be sought by review
in the appellate court of the State and not by collateral attack in the
Federal courts,

