OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

We do not deem it necessary to determine the scope of those
sections; for, as we have seen, Wilkes County, independently
of those sections, had authority under the Ordinance of 1868 to
make the subscription and issue the bonds here in question.
And this conclusion rests upon the law of North Carolina as
declared by the Supreme Court of the State to have been at the
time Wilkes County made its subscription and issued its bonds.
This is sufficient to dispose of the case.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
APPEAL FROM1 THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOAIA.

I1o. 175.

Argued February 26, 1903. Decided June 1, 1903.

Until the title to lands within any townsite boundary has been finally disposed of as provided in the act of Oklahoma Townsite, May 14, 1890, no
suit can be maintained against the Townsite Trustees as such to divest
them of the title held by them in trust for occupants under that act; although a townsite occupant, after receiving title under the act, may be

sued by any one claiming that he had acquired under the homestead laws
a right as to the lands prior and superior to that held by the Townsite
Trustees for the use and benefit of the townsite occupants.

The Townsite Trustees do not hold an indefeasible title as of private right,
with power to dispose of at will, but only as trustees for such occupants

as may be ascertained, in the mode prescribed by the act of Congress, to
be entitled to particular lots within the towusite boundary.
The investiture of the Trustees with title is only a step towards the transmission, finally, to the occupants of the full interest of the United States
in the land.

THIs case involves the construction of the act of Congress
passed May 14, 1890, entitled "An act to provide for townsite
entries of lands in what is known as ' Oklahoma,' and for other
purposes." 26 Stat. 109, c. 207.
As the purpose and scope of the act can be ascertained only
by examining all of its provisions, it is here given in full:

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Oase.

"§ 1. That so much of the public lands situate in the Territory of Oklahoma, now open to settlement, as may be necessary to embrace all the legal subdivisions covered by actual
occupancy for purposes of trade and business, not exceeding
twelve hundred and eighty acres in each case, may be entered
as townsites, for the several use and benefit of the occupants
thereof, by three trustees to be appointed by the Secretary of
the Interior for that purpose, such entry to be made under the
provisions of section twenty-three hundred and eighty-seven
of the Revised Statutes as near as may be; and when such entry
shall have been made, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide regulations for the proper execution of the trust, by such
trustees including the survey of the land into streets, alleys,
squares, blocks, and lots when necessary, or the approval of
such survey as may already have been made by the inhabitants
thereof, the assessment upon the lots of such sum as may be
necessary to pay for the lands embraced in such townsite, costs
of survey, conveyance of lots, and other necessary expenses,
including compensation of trustees: Provided, That the Sec-

retary of the Interior may when practicable cause more than
one townsite to be entered and the trust thereby created executed in the manner herein provided by a single board of trustees, but not more than seven boards of trustees in all shall be
appointed for said Territory, and no more than two members
of any of said boards shall be appointed from one political
party.
"§ 2. That in the execution of such trust, and for the purpose of the conveyance of title by said trustees, any certificate
or other paper evidence of claim duly issued by the authority
recognized for such purpose by the people residing upon any
townsite the subject of entry hereunder, shall be, taken As evidence of the occupancy by the holder thereof of the lot or lots
therein described, except that where there is an adverse claim
to said property such certificate shall only be prima .faoie evidence of the claim of occupancy of the holder: Provided, That
nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to make
valid any claim now invalid of those who entered upon and
occupied said lands in violation of the laws of the United States

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

or the proclamation of the President thereunder: Provided
firther,That the certificates herein before mentioned shall not
be taken as evidence in favor of any person claiming lots who
entered upon said lots in violation of law or the proclamation
of the President thereunder.
"§ 3. That lots of land occupied by any religious organization, incorporated or otherwise, conforming to the approved
survey within the limits of such townsite, shall be conveyed
to or in trust for the same.
"§ 4. That all lots not disposed of as hereinbefore provided
for shall be sold under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior for the benefit of the municipal government of any such
town, or the same or any part thereof may be reserved for public use as sites for public buildings, or for the purpose of parks,
if in the judgment of the Secretary such reservation would be
for the public interest, and the Secretary shall execute proper
conveyances to carry out the provisions of this section.
"§ 5. That the provisions of sections four, five, six and seven,
of an act of the legislature of the State (of) Kansas, entitled
'An act relating to townsites,' approved March second, eighteen
hundred and sixty-eight, shall, so far as applicable, govern the
trustees in the performance of their duties hereunder.
"§ 6. That all the entries of townsites now pending on application hereafter made under this act, shall have preference
at the local land office of the ordinary business of the office and
shall be determined as speedily as possible, and if an appeal shall
be taken from the decision of the local office in any such case
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the same shall
be made special, and disposed of by him as expeditiously as the
duties of his office will permit, and so if an appeal should be
taken to the Secretary of the Interior. And all applications
heretofore filed in the proper land office shall have the same
force and effect as if made under the provisions of this act, and
upon the application of the trustees herein provided for, such
entries shall be prosecuted to final issue in the names of such
trustees, without other formality and when final entry is made
the title of the United States to the land covered by such entry
shall be conveyed to said trustees for the uses and purposes
herein provided.

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
190 U. S.

119

Statement of the Case.

"§ 7. That the trustees appointed under this act shall have

the power to administer oaths, to hear and determine all controversies arising in the execution of this act shall keep a record of their proceedings, which shall, with all papers filed with
them and all evidence of their official acts, except conveyances,
be filed in the General Land Office and become part of the
records of the same, and all conveyances executed by them
shall be acknowledged before an officer duly authorized for
that purpose. They shall be allowed such compensation as the
Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, not exceeding ten dollars per day while actually employed; and such traveling and
other necessary expenses as the Secretary may authorize and
the Secretary of the Interior shall also provide them with necessary clerical force by detail or otherwise.
"§ 8. That the sum of ten thousand dollars or so much
thereof as may be necessary is hereby appropriated to carry
into effect the provisions of this act, except that no portion of
said sum shall be used in making payment for land entered
hereunder, and the disbursements therefrom shall be refunded
to the Treasury from the sums which may be realized from the
assessments made to defray the expense of carrying out the
provisions of this act." 26 Stat. 110, c. 207.
The complaint shows that the appellees are the Trustees of
Townsite Board Number Six, duly constituted and appointed
by the Secretary of the Interior, and assigned to the townsite
of West Guthrie, Oklahoma Territory, and had acquired the
legal title to the western half of section eight, of township sixteen, north of range two, in Logan County, in'that Territory.
Bockfinger, claiming to have become entitled, under the
homestead laws of the United States, to the southwest quarter
of that land-which was embraced within the townsite boundary-brought this suit in a territorial District Court against
the appellees as Townsite Trustees. The relief sought was a
decree that the Trustees hold the title in trust for his use and
benefit, and be compelled to convey to him.
The defendants demurred to the complaint upon several
grounds, among others upon the ground that the court had no
jurisdiction of the subject of the action nor of the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

in their capacity as Townsite Trustees. The demurrer was
sustained, and the plaintiff, electing to stand on his complaint,
the suit was dismissed. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, the decree of the District Court was affirmed.
10 Oklahoma, 488.
-Mr. James R. Keaton for appellant. .J r. John IF. Sh]artel,
-Mr. F'ank Wells, Mq, Jo/tn H. Cotteral and -Mr.C. G. lornor
were on the brief.
.Mr. Horace Speed and Mr. -Marsden . Burch/ for appellees.
Miz. JuSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The decisive question in the case is whether the plaintiff's
claim to the land can be made the subject of a suit against the
Townsite Trustees as such. Upon a careful scrutiny of the
provisions of the act of 1890 we are of opinion that this question must be answered in the negative. The plaintiff asked a
decree declaring that the title acquired by the Trustees under
the act of Congress for the use of townsite occupants be held
in trust for and conveyed to him. But no such relief could
have been granted if the title acquired by the Trustees was
held by them in trust for the purposes of the act of Congress
and if, in every substantial sense, so far as real ownership is
concerned, the land still belonged to the United States.
That the title vas so held by the Townsite Trustees is, we
think, clear. They did not hold an indefeasible title as of private right with power to dispose of the land at will, but only as
trustees for such occupants as should be ascertained, in the
mode prescribed by the act of Congress, to be entitled to particular lots within the townsite boundary. The trust was not,
in any sense, of a permanent character. Its creation by Congress was only a step towards the ultimate transmission of the
title of the United States to occupants under the Township
Act. The United States retained its hold on the land until the
title by proper conveyances should pass absolutely from it or

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from its officers or agents, the Townsite Trustees, to such occupants. When an occupant thus acquired title, any one who
claimed that he was entitled to the land could litigate the matter with the occupant in some court of competent jurisdiction;
for, as between the United States and the occupant, the former
had then parted with its title.
It is suggested that, under this view, many years might elapse
before the person to whom, as occupant, the land was awarded
could be sued by the person claiming a superior right to that
acquired by the Townsite Trustees for the use and benefit of
occupants. This is true, but it cannot alter the fact that, under the act of Congress, the title remained, in every essential
sense, in the United States, until conveyed to the occupant.
The United States, as the primary owner of the land, could
prescribe the terms upon which it could be disposed of to occupants. A suit against the Townsite Trustees to compel them,
without regard to the act of Congress, to convey to one who
was not an occupant within the meaning of that act, was a suit
to compel them to convey land which really belonged to the
United States. Such a suit, it is plain, might defeat the execution of the act of Congress.
The general principle was fully stated in Johnson v. Towsley,

13 Wall. 72, in which this court, after observing that it had
firmly refused to interfere with the Land Department in its administration of the public lands, so long as the title was in the

United States, said: "On the other hand, it has constantly asserted the right of the proper courts to inquire, qfter the title
hadpassed fromrn the Government, and the question became one

of private right, whether, according to the established rules of
equity and the acts of Congress concerning the public lands,
the party holding that title should hold absolutely as his own,
or as trustee for another."
This was the ground upon which the court proceeded in
.21rXcDaid v. Oklahoma, 150 U. S. 209, in which case the question was as to the right of Townsite Trustees to withhold a
deed pending an appeal to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office. In that case it became necessary to declare the
scope and meaning of the act of 1890.

OCTOBER TERrM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

After referring to a decision of the Land Department, under
the act of 1890, to the effect that "the issue of the patent to
Townsite Trustees under the act was not a disposition of the
Government title, but a conveyance in trust to be held under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior," the court in
that case, speaking by Chief Justice Fuller, said: "This proposition is denied, and it is insisted that the authority of the
Secretary relates solely to public lands, the title to which is
still in the United States, and that by the issue of the patent
to ToNvnsite Trustees the title passes and all control over the
lands embraced therein is lost. Ience that in this case the
title of the United States passed by the patent to the trustees,
and that they held it thereafter in trust for the occupants, free
from the control of the Land Department. Reference is made
to Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S.530, and like cases, to the point
that when a patent has been awarded, issued, delivered, and
accepted, all right to control the title or to decide on the right
to the title has passed from the Executive Department of the
Government. But those cases refer to the legal title directly
and finally conferred, and the principle invoked can only be
applicable on the assumption that by the townsite conveyance
title was granted to the Oklahoma trustees for the purpose of
divesting the Government of all authority and control over the
final disposition of the property, and not for the purpose of
putting title in the trustees as agents of the Government for
the execution of the trust devolving upon them as such.
Whether this assumption is justified or not must depend upon
the terms and true construction of the act of May 14, 1890."
The court then examined the several sections of the act of
1890, and proceeded: "In the light of these provisions we perceive no reason for doubting that the trustees appointed by
the Secretary under the act, and whose compensation and expenses were fixed by him, were agents of the Government for
the purpose of carrying out the trust thereby created to the
extent and as specified, and this included the ascertainment of
the beneficiaries in the first instance and the transfer of the
title to them. While on the final entry the title of the United
States was to be conveyed to the trustees, such conveyance was

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

explicitly declared as made 'for the uses and purposes in the
act provided,' and among these uses and purposes was the determination of controversies between contesting claimants by
the trustees, who were to administer oaths, pass on evidence,
and keep a record of their proceedings, to be deposited in the
Land Department. They unquestionably acted in that regard
as the representatives of the Government, and their decisions
were properly subject to that appeal to the Commissioner
and the Secretary, for which the Secretary's regulations provided. As matter of convenience, the trustees were the instrumentality for the transmission of title in respect of lands
disposed of to actual holders, while the Secretary, notwithstanding the patent, was the medium as to surplus lands, which
he could not be if the legal title had definitively passed to
the trustees by the patent for the whole site. The result is
the same if the fourth section be construed as directing the
Secretary to cause the trustees to execute the conveyances
therein referred to. The trust upon which the title was held
was to be discharged in accordance with the regulations, and
was necessarily subject to the supervisory power of the Department of the Interior. Section 2387 of the Revised Statutes
confirms this view, for the townsites there referred to were to
be entered by the corporate authorities of the town, if incorporated, or, if not, by the judge of the county court for the
county in which the town was located, and the trust as to the
disposal of the lots and the proceeds of the sales thereof was to
be executed in accordance with such regulations as might be
prescribed by the legislative authority of the State or Territory
in which the town might be situated, while under this special
act, in reference to Oklahoma, the entry was to be made by
trustees appointed by the Secretary and the trust conducted
under such regulations as might be established by him. In the
one case the Government parted with its connection with the
land when the patent issued to the local authority ;,in the other,
the Government retains its connection by having the entry
made by its own agents, and the trust executed in the manner it directs. By the scheme of this act, the title is held
in trust for the occupying claimants, it is true, but also in trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

sub modo for the Government until the rightful claimants and
the undisposed of or surplus lands are ascertained."
It is suggested that the question decided in the .Ao.Daidcase
was not the same as the one now under consideration. That
is true, but the decision required the court to determine the
meaning of the act of Congress of 1890; consequently, what
was said in that case as to the scope of the act is pertinent
here.
Several cases were cited in argument as sustaining such a
construction of the act of Congress as would authorize a suit
like this. We allude to In 'e mblen, 161 U. S. 52, 56; Germania iron Co.v. United States, 165 U. S. 379; and Payne v.
Robertson, 169 U. S. 323.
In _Enbleans case it appeared that pending a contest before
the Secretary of the Interior between Emblen and Weed as to
whom a patent should be issued for a tract of land in Colorado,
Congress passed an act confirming Weed's entry and directing
that a patent issue to him, which was done. Then Emblen
sought by mandamus to compel the Secretary to rehear the
case, and to decide the issue between him and Weed, independently of the act of Congress, which was alleged to be unconstitutional. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, said:
"Such being the state of the case, it is quite clear that (even if
the act of Congress was unconstitutional, which we do not intimate) the writ of mandamus prayed for should not be granted.
The determination of the contest between the claimants of conflicting rights of preemption, as well as the issue of a patent to
either, was within the general jurisdiction and authority of the
Land Department, and cannot be controlled or restrained by
mandamus or injunction. After the patent has once been issued,
the original contest is no longer within the jurisdiction of the
Land Department. The patent conveys the legal title to the
patentee; and cannot be revoked or set aside, except upon
judicial proceedings instituted in behalf of the United States.
The only remedy of Emblen is by bill in equity to charge
Weed with a trust in his favor. All this is clearly settled by
previous decisions of this court, including some of those on
which the petitioner most relies "-citing Johnson v. Towsley,

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

13 Wall. 72; JHioore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Xarquez v.
Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636;
Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447; 3fonroe Cattle Co. v.
Becker, 147 U. S. 47; Turner v. Sawyer, 150 U. S. 578, 586.
So far from militating against the doctrine of the .HoDaidcase,
the above observations by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the
court in the Emblen case, sustain the views expressed in the
previous case. The patent referred to in the Emblen case was
a formal, regular patent, designed to pass the title of the
United States, and to invest the patentee with all the rights of
the United States in the land.
In Germania Iron Co. v. United States, 165 U. S. 379, 383,
the question was whether the court could by decree, in a suit
brought by the United States, cancel a patent that had been
issued by inadvertence and mistake, and thereby restore the
jurisdiction of the Land Department to determine .such disputed questions of fact as involved the title to the land patented.
That suit was maintained and the patent was cancelled. It
is clear that the decision has no bearing on the question now
before us.
In Payne v. Robertson the question as to the right to maintain a suit directly against the Townsite Trustees for the purpose of divesting them of the title to the land in dispute does
not appear to have been raised by the parties; it certainly was
not decided by the court. The sole question, the court took
care to say, was whether by reason of his entry into the Territory, and his presence there, under the circumstances stated,
the plaintiff, who was a deputy marshal of the United States,
was disqualified from making a homestead entry immediately
upon the lands being 6pened for settlement. The court held
against the plaintiff on that point, and that being conclusive of
the case, the judgment of this court was placed entirely upon
that ground. It was not necessary to go farther and decide
the question here presented.
Nor is there anything in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, and
United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 402, at all in conflict with
the decisions in the above cases. Both the Wilcox and Schurz
cases recognize the principle that after the title to public lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

has passed from the United States, that is, after the Land Department has performed the last act in the series necessary to
pass the title of the Government, the courts will, as between
parties asserting conflicting rights in such lands, determine, by
appropriate judicial proceedings, which of the parties has the
better right. But those cases equally recognize the principle
that the courts will not interfere with the Land Department in
its control and disposal of the public lands, under the legislation
of Congress, so long as the title in any essential sense remains in the United States.
Without further reference to authorities, we adjudge that until
the title to lands within any townsite boundary has been finally
disposed of as provided in the act of 1890, no suit can be maintained against the Townsite Trustees to divest them of the title
held by them in trust for occupants under that act; although
a townside occupant, after receiving title under the act, may be
sued by any one claiming to have acquired under the homestead laws a right to the lands prior and superior to that held
by the Townsite Trustees for the use and benefit of townsite
occupants.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is

.4ffirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE WHiTE

dissented.

MR. JUSTIcE McKENN& did not hear the argument of this
case nor participate in the decision.

