INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.
190 U. S.

273

Syllabus.

tion that title by adverse possession, under state statutes of
limitation, may be acquired by individuals to land within the
right of way of a railroad. None of the cases adverted to as
holding the affirmative of the proposition even suggest that the
rule would be applicable where its enforcement would conflict
with the powers and duties imposed by law on a railroad corporation in a given case. As here we find that the nature of
the duties imposed by Congress upon the railroad company
and the character of the title conferred by Congress in giving
the right of way through the public domain are inconsistent
with the power in an individual to acquire, for private purposes,
by limitation, a portion of the right of way granted by Congress, the cases in question are inapposite.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota must be
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUsTIcE

HARLAN

and Mnr. JusTioE

BROwN

dissent.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
A-PPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 214. Argued April 13, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.
1. When competition which controls rates prevails at a given point a dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions is created justifying a carrier
in charging a lesser rate to such point, it being the longer distance, than
it exacts to a shorter distance and non-competitive point on the same line.
2. A nearer and non-competitive point on the same line is not entitled to
lower rates preyailing at a longer distance and competitive place on the
theory that it could also be made a competitive point if designated lines
of railway carriers by combinations between themselves agreed to that
end. The competition necessary to produce a dissimilarily of conditions
must be real and controlling and not merely conjectural or possible.
3. Where a charge of a lesser rate for a longer than a shorter haul over the
same line is lawful because of the existence of controlling competition at
the longer distance place the mere fact that the less charge is made for
the longer distance does not alone suffice to cause the lesser rate for the
longer distance to be unduly discriminatory.
VOL. CxC-18

OCTOBER TERTM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

4. The Commission having found a rate to be unreasonable solely because
it was violative of the act which forbids a greater charge for a lesser than
for a longer distance under stated conditions and which prohibits undue
discrimination, held that as the grounds upon which such holding was
based resulted from an error of law it was proper not to conclude the
question of the inherent unreasonableness of the rates, but to leave it
open for further action by the Commission to be considered free from
the errors of law which had previously influenced the Commission.
5. A carrier, in order to give particular places the benefit of their proximity
to a competitive point and thereby afford them a lower rate than they
would otherwise enjoy, may take into consideration the rate to the point
of competition and make it the basis of rates to the points in question.
To give a lower rate as the result of competition does not violate the provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
6. Held, that where a late was based on an error of fact, which was not
complained of before, or acted on by, the Commission, and had been corrected by the carriers long before the decision below, and the corrected
rate had been in force for a longperiod, it was not necessary to revise the
decree of the court below, which was in all other respects correct, so as
to secure a continuance of the corrected rate.

THE connecting roads of the appellees form the short line496 miles in length-between New Orleans and Atlanta. The
through line consists of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
from New Orleans to Montgomery, the Western Railway of
Alabama between Montgomery and West Point, and the Atlanta and West Point Railroad from West Point to Atlanta.
LaGrange is on the Western Railway of Alabama, 104 miles
from Montgomery. Opelika lies between Montgomery and
LaGrange, 38 miles distant from the latter. LaGrange and the
following stations between it and Atlanta are distant from Atlanta, as follows: LaGrange, '71 miles; Hogansville, 58 miles;
Newnan, 30 miles; Palmetto, 25 miles; and Fairburn, 18 miles.
Pursuant to ยง 13 of the act to regulate commerce, Fuller E.
Calloway, a merchant of LaGrange, filed a complaint against
the appellees with the Interstate Commerce Commission. We
take from the opinion rendered by the Commission the following synopsis of the averments of the complaint and answer:
"The complaint alleges, in substance, that defendants are
subject to the provisions of the act to regulate commerce;
that rates charged by them for the transportation by continuous carriage or shipment of freights, wholly by railroad, from
New Orleans, La., to LaGrange, Ga., are unjust and unregson-

INTERSTATE COMM,.
190 U. S.

v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.

275

Statement of the Case.

able in themselves, and relatively unjust and unreasonable as
compared with lower rates charged by defendants for carrying the same commodities over longer distances from New Orleans through LaGrange to Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto
and Fairburn, Ga., and other localities; that defendants' said
rates from New Orleans to LaGrange and said longer-distance
points and other localities unjustly discriminate against complainant and others, the city of LaGrange and vicinity and
traffic carried thereto, and subject merchants and dealers therein
to undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage, and
give undue and unreasonable preference and advantage to merchants and dealers at Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto, Fairburn and other localities and traffic consigned thereto; that
defendants' said rates from New Orleans to LaGrange, Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto and Fairburn give them greater aggregate compensation for the transportation of like kind of
property, under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, for the shorter distance from New Orleans to LaGrange
than for the longer distance over the same line, in the same
direction, from New Orleans to Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto
or Fairburn; that the rates charged by defendants as aforesaid
are in violation of sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the act to regulate
commerce. The rates and distances involved are set forth in
the complaint, and it is further alleged therein that the lowest
rate charged by defendants from New Orleans to LaGrange
yields them over 1* cents per ton for each mile of haul, and
that their highest rate between said points affords them nearly
61 cents revenue per ton per mile.
"The defendants filed a joint answer, in which they admit
that the rates charged are substantially as alleged in the complaint; that their rates to LaGrange amount for each mile to 1.36
cents per ton on the lowest class of frieght (D), and to 6.71
cents per ton on the highest class (1), and that the rates for the
shorter distance from New Orleans to LaGrange are more than
they charge for the longer distances in the same direction from
New Orleans to iHogansville, Newnan, Palmetto and Fairburn;
but they deny that the transportation to LaGrange, HIogansville
and other points mentioned is conducted under substantially

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

similar circumstances and conditions, and thereupon further
deny that their said rates are in violation of section 4 of the
statute. The defendants also deny the unreasonableness, injustice, wrongful discrimination and undue and unreasonable prejudice and preference, advantage and disadvantage, alleged by
complainaint under the first, second and third sections of the
act. The answer contains statements of rates from New Orleans to the points in question, and to and from Montgomery,
Ala., and Atlanta, Ga., showing also that the through rates to
LaGrange, Eogansville and other points mentioned are made by
combination of rates to Atlanta with local rates back over the
same line to Fairburn, Palmetto, Newnan, Iogansville and LaGrange; and it is further averred that the disparities in rates
complained of are caused by a competitive situation at Atlanta
which compels low rates to that point from New Orleans. The
competitive circumstances and conditions at Atlanta are stated
in the answer to be the competition of such supply markets as
New Orleans, Baltimore and other northeastern cities, Cincinnati, Louisville and other Ohio River cities, and the competition
of carriers from such markets to Atlanta, and to have resulted,
after frequent and disastrous rate wars, in the establishment
of certain relative rates from these various market cities to Atlanta, a disturbance of which would immediately lead to a repSimilar competitive conditions are
etition of such wars.
exist at Mon tgomery, Ala., through
to
defendants
the
by
claimed
through line to LaGrange
defendants'
over
passes
freight
which
to in the complaint,
referred
or
mentioned
and the other points
of rates to
relation
present
the
that
assert
further
and they
circumexisting
under
also,
must
Montgomery and Atlanta
answer
the
from
extract
stances, be maintained. The following
case:
this
in
position
seems to succinctly set out the defendants'
Larespectively,
stations,
"The rates from Atlanta to those
are
Fairburn,
and
Grange, Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto
and
just
are
and
Commission,
fixed by the Georgia Railroad
reasonable. The rates from New Orleans to Atlanta are fixed
by the competition between markets, and the competition between carriers, as explained above, and are just and reasonable.
The rates charged by respondents are the sum of those rates,

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. IL
190 U. S.

277

Statement of the Case.

and, therefore, respondents' rates themselves are just and reasonable. The reason that Fairburn, Palmetto, Newnan and
Hogansville have lower rates than LaGrange is due alone to the
fact that they are nearer to Atlanta, and not to any favoritism
or discrimination on the part of the respondents."
The evidence introduced at the hearing before the Commission, in support of the complaint, consisted solely of the testiinony of the complainant, which dealt merely with the discrimination alleged to exist against LaGrange in the lesser rates
accorded to greater distance points from New Orleans beyond
LaGrange towards Atlanta, viz., Hogansville, Newnan, Palmetto and Fairburn. Much evidence-both oral and documentary-was introduced on behalf of the railroads in support of
the averments of the answer.
The various contentions contained in the complaint were
sustained by the Commission, which made voluminous findings, and issued an order requiring the railroads in general
terms to "wholly cease and desist from each and every of the
violations of law" found and set forth in its report and opinion. The remaining clauses of the order are set out in the
margin'
' Portion of order of Commission.
It is further ordered and adjudged that said defendants, The Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, The Western Railway of Alabama and
The Atlanta and West Point Railroad Company, do more particularly cease
and desist from violations of the law, so found and set forth in said report
and opinion as follows, to wit:
1. That said defendants and each of them cease and desist from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving rates for the transportation of the
several kinds or classes of freight from New Orleans, La., to LaGrange, Ga.,
which, as a whole or upon any article of merchandise, are in any respect
unreasonable or unjust.
2. That said defendants and each of them cease and desist from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving the following unreasonable, unjust
and unlawful rates for the transportation from New Orleans, La., to LaGrange, Ga., of articles embraced in the various classes of their freight
classification, that is to say:
Per
barClasses; rates in cents per 100 pounds.
rel.
E.
H. F.
B.
C. D.
A.
6.
5.
3.
4.
2.
1.
66
'74 59
33 1-229
41
48
59
74
109 93
124
143

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

The railroads not having obeyed the order, the Commission
instituted the present proceeding in equity, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
That court sustained the order of the Commission. 102 Fed.
3. That said defendants and each of them cease and desist from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving rates or charges for the transportation of freight articles from New Orleans, La., to LaGrange, Ga., which
are equal to rates or charges contemporaneously in force over their railroads
on like traffic carried from New Orleans through LaGrange to Atlanta, Ga.;
added to local rates in force on such traffic for local service over the Atlanta and West Point Railroad back from Atlanta to LaGrange, such combined rates having been found and held in and by said report and opinion
of the Commission herein to be unreasonable, unjust, unduly prejudicial
and unlawful, and so unreasonable, unjust, unduly prejudicial and unlawful to the extent of such added local charges of the defendant the Atlanta
and West Point Railroad Company.
4. That said defendants, and each of them, cease and desist from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving any greater compensation in the
aggregate for the transporting of freight articles from New Orleans, La.,
for the shorter distance to LaGrange, Ga., than they contemporaneously
charge, demand, collect or receive for transporting the like kind of freight
traffic from New Orleans for the longer distance over the same line in the
same direction to Hogansville, or Newnan, or Palmetto, or Fairburn, Ga.,
the shorter being included within the longer distance.
5. That said defendants, and each of them, 5ease and desist from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving unreasonable, unjust, unduly prejudicial and unlawful rates for the transportation of freight articles from
New Orleans to LaGrange, which are higher than aggregate rates contemporaneously charged, demanded, collected or received by them, or either
of them, for the transportation of like kind of freight from New Orleans
to Hogansville, or from New Orleans to Newnan, or from New Orleans to
Palmetto, or from New Orleans to Fairburn.
6. That said defendants, and each of them, in the transportation of
freight articles from New Orleans, cease and desist from charging and collecting rates or compensation which subject complainant and other
dealers and consignees at LaGrange, Ga., their traffic, or the city of
LaGrange itself, to undue and unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in
any respect whatsoever, and also cease and desist from giving any undue
or unreasonable preference or advantage to merchants, dealers and consignees at Atlanta, Fairburn, Palmetto, Newnan or Hogansville, or to their
traffic or to either of such cities or localities, namely, Atlanta, Fairburn,
Palmetto, Newnan, or Hogansville, as against complainant and said other
dealers and consignees at LaGrange, or the city of LaGrange itself.
And it is further ordered and adjudged that said defendants be, and
they severally are hereby, recommended to so revise their schedules of

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.

279

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Rep. 709. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree
of the Circuit Court and remanded the cause, but "without
prejudice to the right of the Commission to proceed, upon the
evidence already introduced before it, or upon such further
pleadings and evidence as it may allow to be made or introduced, to hear and determine the controversy according to
law." 112 Fed. Rep. 988.
The cause was thereupon appealed to this court.
NP . L. A. Shaer for appellant.
.Mr. Ed. Baxter for appellees.
MR. JUsTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court concurred in the finding of the Commission, that by the exaction of the rates to LaGrange complained
of, the third and fourth sections of the act to regulate commerce were violated, and, being unable to say that error clearly
appeared in the finding that the first section of the act was also
violated, refused to overrule the action of the Commission in
any particular.
Whilst the Circuit Court of Appeals announced its conrates and charges that the aggregate compensation charged and collected
by them for the transportation from New Orleans to LaGrange of freight
articles embraced in the several freight classes shall not exceed reasonable,
just and lawful class rates in cents per hundred pounds and per barrel on
Class F as follows, to wit:
Class.... 1.
Rates.... 103

2.
88

3.
77

4.
64

5.
52

6.
42

A.
24

B.
31

C.
24

D.
20

E.
44

H.
49

F.
40

and that they make corresponding reductions or relatively reasonable and
just charges in commodity rates, otherwise known as exceptions to class
rates, from New Orleans to LaGrange, aforesaid.
And it is further ordered, that a notice embodying this order be forthwith sent to each of the defendant corporations, together with a copy of
the reportand opinion of the commission herein, in conformity with the

fifteenth section of the act to regulate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

clusions in a per curian opinion, it is fairly inferable from the
authorities which are cited in that opinion that the court concluded that the rates charged to LaGrange did not constitute
a violation of the third and fourth sections of the act, prohibiting undue discrimination and a greater charge for a shorter
than for a longer haul under substantially similar circumstances and conditions. It is also inferable from the argument
at bar that the appellate court, so far as the reasonableness
per se of the rates was concerned, ordered the case to be dismissed, without prejudice to further proceedings, because it
was of opinion "thatin the consideration of this question the
Commission had been in effect controlled by its finding, held
to have been erroneous, that there had been violations of the
third and fourth sections of the act. It was, therefore, deemed
that the controversy, in so far as the intrinsic reasonableness
of the rates was concerned, should not be foreclosed, but should
be left for further consideration and decision upon the evidence
already introduced and such additional evidence as might be
taken on a further hearing before the Commission if such new
hearing was desired.
Whether or not the Circuit Court of Appeals was correct in
the conclusions reached by it as above stated, is the question
now for decision.
The record convinces us that the appellate court correctly
decided that there was no legal foundation for the contention
that the third and fourth sections of the act to regulate
commerce had been violated. It was and is conceded that the
rates on through freight from INew Orleans to Atlanta were
the result of competition at Atlanta, and that there was hence
such a dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions as justified
the lesser charge for the carriage of freight from New Orleans
to Atlanta, the longer distance point, than was exacted for the
haul from New Orleans to LaGrange, the shorter distance
point.
The sum of the rate to LaGrange was arrived at by charging
the low rate produced by competition at Atlanta, and adding
thereto the sum of the local rate back from Atlanta to LaGrange. The same rule was applied to the stations between

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.
190 U. S.

281

Opinion of the Court.

LaGrange and Atlanta, each of those stations receiving, therefore, a somewhat lower rate than LaGrange, although they
were located a greater distance from New Orleans and nearer
Atlanta. The sum by which the rates from New Orleans to
'these respective stations between LaGrange and Atlanta were
lower than the LaGrange rate, was dependent upon the distance
these respective stations were from Atlanta. It was shown,
however, and is unquestioned, that, except in a particular to
which we shall have occasion hereafter to refer, if the charge
had been based on the nearest competitive point south of LaGrange-that is, Montgomery-and there had been added to
the competitive rate to Montgomery the local rate from Montgomery to LaGrange and the other stations beyond, the freight
rates on shipments from New Orleans to LaGrange would have
been much greater than the rates now complained of as excessive. In other words, the railroads, instead of putting out of
view the competition prevailing at Atlanta, when they fixed
the rates to the non-competitive points, took the low rates
prevailing at Atlanta as a basis and added thereto the local rate
from Atlanta, the result being that the places in question were
given the advantage resulting from their proximity to Atlanta,
the competitive point, in proportion to the degree of such proximity.
When the situation just stated is comprehended it results
that the complaint in effect was that a method of rate-making
had been resorted to which gave to the places referred to a
lower rate than they otherwise would have enjoyed. In this
situation of affairs, we fail to see how there was any just cause
of complaint. Clearly, if, disregarding the competition at Atlanta, the higher rate had been established from New Orleans
to the non-competitive points within the designated radius from
Atlanta, the inevitable result would have been to cause the
traffic to move from New Orleans to the competitive point
(Atlanta), and thence to the places in question, thus bringing
about the same rates now complained of. It having been established that competition affecting rates existing at a particular
point (Atlanta) produced the dissimilarity of circumstances and
conditions contemplated by the fourth section of the act, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

think it inevitably followed that the railway companies had a
right to take the lower rate prevailing at .Atlanta as a basis
for the charge made to places in territory contiguous to Atlanta,
and to ask in addition to the low competitive rate the local rate
from Atlanta to such places, provided thereby no increased
charges resulted over those which would have been occasioned
if the low rate to Atlanta had been left out of view. That is
to say, it seems incontrovertible that in making the rate, as
the railroads had a right to meet the competition, they were
authorized to give the shippers the benefit of it by according to
them a lower rate than would otherwise have been afforded.
True it is, that by this method a lower rate from New Orleans
than was exacted at LaGrange obtained at the longer distance
places lying between LaGrange and Atlanta, but this was only
the result of their proximity to the competitive point, and they
hence obtained only the advantage resulting from their situation. It could be no legal disadvantage to LaGrange, since if
the low competitive rate prevailing at Atlanta had been disregarded, and the rate had been fixed with reference to Montgomery, and the local rate from thence on, the sole result
would have been, as we have previously said, to cause the traffic to move along the line of least resistance to Atlanta, and
thence to the places named, leaving LaGrange in the exact
position in which it was placed by the rates now complained of.
It is to be observed that it is shown that the local charges
on freight moved between Atlanta and LaGrange and the stations intermediate-all of the points being in the State of
Georgia-conformed to the requirements of the Georgia State
Railroad Commission.
In the report of the Commission a suggestion is found that
LaGrange should be entitled to the same rate as Atlanta, because
if the carriers concerned in this case in connection with other
carriers reaching LaGrange chose to do so, they might bring
about competition by the way of a line between Macon and
LaGrange which would be equivalent to the competitive conditions existing at Atlanta. We are unable, however, to follow the suggestion. To adopt it would amount to this: that
the substantial dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.
190 U. S.

283

Opinion of the Court.

provided by the act to regulate commerce would depend, not
as has been repeatedly held, upon a real and substantial competition at a particular point affecting rates, but upon the mere
possibility of the arising of such competition. This would destroy the whole effect of the act and cause every case where
competition was involved to depend, not upon the fact of its existence as affecting rates, but upon the possibility of its arising.
What the fourth section of the act to regulate commerce has reference to is an actual dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions, not a conjectural one. Of course, if by agreements or com.binations among carriers it were found that at a particular point
rates were unduly influenced by a suppression of competition,
that fact would be proper to consider in determining the question
of undue discrimination and the reason ablenessPer se of the rates
at such possible competitive points. As, however, the finding
of the Commission concerning unjust discrimination was predicated solely upon the conclusion that the fourth section of
the act had been violated, we may put that subject out of view.
So far as the reasonableness per se of the rate is concerned, we
come now to its consideration.
Whilst there was nothing in the evidence taken before the
Commission to lend support to the finding that the rates to
LaGrange were intrinsically unreasonable, in the report of the
Commission considerable reference was made to facts and circumstances which it is to be presumed were upon the files of
the Commission and which were deemed to conduce to the conclusion that the rates to LaGrange were unreasonable per se.
But when the statements on this subject made in the report are
considered in connection with the report as a whole and the
subjects to which no reference is made in the report are recalled, we think it clearly results that every conclusion reached
by the Commission concerning the unreasonableness per se of
the rates to LaGrange rested wholly upon the error of law
committed by the Commission when it decided that the railroad companies were powerless to consider the competitive
rates prevailing at Atlanta and to use those rates as a basis for
the charges to points within the competitive areain order thereby
to give a lower rate to such points than they otherwise would

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

have enjoyed. Thus, it was held in effect that because the
competitive rate to Atlanta was not unduly low, therefore any
higher charge to LaGrange, the shorter distance, was unreasonable. And the same misconception was manifested by the
reasoning adopted concerning the rates to Ifogansville and the
other stations between LaGrange and Atlanta, since it was held
that because the charges to these points were lower than to
LaGrange, therefore the rates to the last named point were unreasonable per se. Both of these conclusions, however, but
held that if the carriers elected to meet the competitive rate at
Atlanta they must at once correspondingly reduce their rates
to all shorter distance and non-competitive points. But such
a ruling was equivalent to overthrowing the settled construction
of the Interstate Commerce Act allowing carriers to charge the
lesser rate for the longer than for the shorter distance, if at the
futher point the lesser rate was justified by a substantial dis-.
similarity of circumstances and conditions there prevailing, consequent upon real competition. A clause in the order of the
Commission makes it clear that no independent finding as to
the unreasonableness of the rates was made, since it allows
the carriers to continue to charge the rates complained of to
LaGrange, provided no higher rates were charged to the more
distant points between there and Atlanta. The inconsistency
between such order and the conclusion that the rates to the
shorter distance point were unreasonable fie se was pointed
out in East Tennessee, ]7irginia & Georgia Railway Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 181 U. S. 1, where it was said
(p. 23):
"A decree which ordered the carriers to desist from charging a greater compensation for the lesser than for the longer
haul, would be in no way responsive to the conclusion that the
rate for the lesser distance was unreasonable in and of itself.
Such a decree would in effect authorize the carrier to continue
to charge at its election a rate which was in itself unreasonable
to the shorter point."
And when, in connection with the matters just stated, it is
observed that the report of the Commission makes no reference
whatever to any intrinsic disparity between the LaGrange

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.
190 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

rates and those prevailing at other non-competitive points between New Orleans and LaGrange, no room in reason is left
to sustain the view that the Commission could have held that
the rates to LaGrange were in and of themselves unreasonable,
irrespective of the competitive condition prevailing at Atlanta,
and the arrangement of rates which arose from it which formed
the main subject of the complaint.
We conclude that, under the circumstances disclosed by the
record, the Circuit Court of Appeals committed no error in refusing to enforce the order of the Commission and in remanding the case to that body for such independent consideration
of the question of the reasonableness per se of the rates as the
ends of justice might require.
It remains only to consider a special question concerning the
third and fourth sections of the act, which was passed over in
an earlier part of this opinion. As has been said, the complaint
made before the Commission alleged a disparity and discrimination alone because of the difference of rates between LaGrange and the points beyond to Atlanta, and the report of the
Commission in effect dealt only with such alleged grievances.
However, in the course of its report, it was remarked by the
Commission that Opelika, which was 38 miles south of LaGrange, was a competitive point, and that if Opelika was used
as the basis for calculating the rate to LaGrange, a slightly
lesser rate on some articles would be enjoyed by LaGrange than
was the case by basing the rate on Atlanta as the nearest competitive point. The Commission, however, would seem to have
attached no great importance to the matter which it thus noticed, since nothing in the order entered by it was responsive
to the suggestion. It was stated, however, at bar that in the
argument of the case in the Circuit Court of Appeals that court
directed the attention of the counsel of the railroads to the
fact that, even if their theories of the case were sound and
were approved, there was a suggestion in the report of the
Commission which indicated that Opelika and not Atlanta was
the proper basing point for fixing the rates to LaGrange, as
thereby LaGrange would enjoy on some classes of freight a
slightly lower rate than resulted from using Atlanta as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

basic point. It was also conceded at bar by counsel for all
parties that when this suggestion was made the counsel for the
railroad companies immediately declared that such fact had
escaped attention, that it would at once be brought to the notice of the railroad companies, and a change of rates would be
immediately put into effect upon that basis. And the brief of
counsel for the Commission states that a modified tariff, based
on Opelika, was put into operation by the railroad companies
in May, 1900, immediately after the argument of the case in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and has been continued in force
from that time to this, the decree below having been entered
more than one year after the submission of the cause. It is,
however, now insisted that the change made by the railway
companies to conform to the development as to Opelika is a
confession that there was error in the action of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and therefore requires that the decree of
that court should be at least in part reversed. It would be,
it is said, indeed dangerous to allow a railway company to exact illegal rates, and persist in doing so even after the order of
the Commission had been issued, and then escape the consequences of its wrongdoing by at the last hour changing its
rates in order to prevent the entry of a decree against it. The
reasoning has abstract force, but its application to the case in
hand is devoid of merit, since neither in the complaint made before the Commission nor in the evidence introduced for the
complainant was any claim made that wrong had been done
because of a combination of rates based on Atlanta instead of
Opelika. Indeed, the relief sought by the complaint and that
accorded by the Commission was inconsistent with the theory
that the rates should be based on either Opelika or Atlanta. As
the altered tariff based on Opelika had been in force more than
one year prior to the entry of the decree below, the court
doubtless considered it unnecessary to provide for its continuance. The record does not disclose, nor was it suggested, that
any application was made to the Circuit Court of Appeals to
modify its decree so as to direct the continuance of such new
tariff, both parties evidently acting on the reasonable assumption that it was an accomplished fact. Under these circum-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. WATSON.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

stances, we do not think a formal modification of the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is required; and that decree is
therefore

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 223. Argued and submitted March 20, 1903.-Decided May 4, 1903.

In an action to recover value of cotton burned while stored on a platform
near a railroad track held, there was no error in admitting evidence:
1. That about the time of the fire and the passing of the locomotive which
it was charged occasioned the fire, other fires were observed near the
track and the cotton. Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Bichardson, 91 U. S. 454.
2. In view of the condition of the record, that certain witnesses did not
know of, and saw, no opportunity for the cotton to have caught fire except from the locomotive in question.
3. In answer to a hypothetical question to a witness duly qualified as an
expert, as to whether the number of fires indicated the condition of the
locomotive and the spark arresters.
4. By reading the deposition of a witness who was in court, but who it appeared was afterwards called by the defendant and testified as to the
evidence in the deposition, the error if any not being sufficiently grave
to require a reversal of the case. Also held:
5. That on the evidence as it appeared on the record, it was properly left
to the jury to determine if the company used the best spark arrester and
the plaintiff was free from contributery negligence, the jury being also
instructed that the verdict must be for the company if it did use the
best spark arrester, at the time in good condition, and operated the locomotive with ordinary prudence.
6. That it was not necessary to charge the jury that in placing the cotton
on the platform the plaintiff assumed risks which were to be anticipated
from engines properly equipped and operated, as that was to be deduced
from the charge as made.
7. That the plaintiff was not bound by stipulations in the lease of the platform from the railroad company to the lessee, it appearing that the plaintiff was not in privity with the lessee and had no knowledge of sucU
ptipul~tions,

