OCTOBER TERI

1902.

Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
ORIGINAL.

IN EQUITY.

No. 6. Submitted May 18, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

Report of commissioners appointed to ascertain, retrace, re-mark, and reestablish the real, certain and true boundary line between the States of
Tennessee and Virginia from White Top Mountain to Cumberland Gap
confirmed.
A compact having been entered into by the States of Tennessee and Virginia expressed in concurrent laws of said States which received the

consent of Congress, this court modifies the line delineated in the report
of the commissioners as to so much thereof as is affected thereby,
and that portion of the line is determined, fixed and established in accordance with such compact.
The commissioners having ascertained and recommended the straight line
from the end of the "1diamond-marked " compact line of 1801-1803 to the
corner of the States of North Carolina and Tennessee as the true boundary
line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee between those two
points, this court approves and adopts such recommendation.

THE proceedings appear in the decree of the court.

Xr. Charles T. Cates, Jr., attorney general of the State of
Tennessee, for complainant.

.Afr. lFilliamr A. Anderson, attorney general of the State of
Virginia, for defendant.
MR.

CHIEF JusTioE FULLER

announced the decree of the court.

This cause came on to be heard on May 18, 1903, on the proceedings heretofore had herein, and upon the report of William
0. Hlodgkins, James B. Baylor and Andrew H. Buchanan, commissioners appointed by the decretal order herein of April 30,
1900, to ascertain, retrace, re-mark and re6stablish the real, certain and true boundary line between the States of Tennessee
and Virginia, as actually run and located from White Top
Mountain to Cumberland Gap, under proceedings had between

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

the two States in 1801-1803, and as adjudged and decreed by
this court in its decree of April 3, 1893, in a certain original
case in equity, wherein, the State of Virginia was complainant
and the State of Tennessee was defendant; which report is annexed hereto and made part hereof.
And it appearing to the court that said report was filed in
this court on the 5th day of January, 1903, and that the same
is unexcepted to by either party in any respect; therefore, upon
the motion of the State of Tennessee, by her Attorney General,
and of the State of Virginia, by her Attorney General, it is
ordered that said report be, and the same is hereby, in all things
confirmed.
It is thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed that the real,
certain and true boundary line between the States of Tennessee
and Virginia, as actually run and located under the compact
and proceedings had between the two States in 1801-1803, and
as adjudged by this court on the third day of April, 1893, in
said original cause in equity, wherein the State of Virginia was
complainant and the State of Tennessee was defendant as aforesaid, was at the institution of this suit, and now is, except as
hereinafter shown, as described and delineated in said report
filed herein on January 5, 1903, as aforesaid.
And it further appearing to the court, and it being so admitted by both parties, that since the institution of this suit and
the decretal order of April 30, 1900, as aforesaid, a compact
was entered into by the States of Tennessee and Virginia, expressed in the concurrent laws of said States, namely, the act
of the general assembly of Tennessee, approved January 28,
1901, entitled "An act to cede to the State of Virginia a certain narrow strip of territory belonging to the State of Tennessee, lying between the northern boundary line of the city of
Bristol, in the county of Sullivan, and the southern boundary
line of the city of Bristol, in the county of Washington, State
of Virginia, being the northern half of Main street, of the said
*two cities," and the reciprocal act of the general assembly of
Virginia approved February 9, 1901, entitled "An act to accept
the cession by the State of Tennessee to the State of Virginia,
of a certain narrow strip of territory claimed as belonging to
VOL. oxc-5

OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

the State of Tennessee, and described as lying between the
northern boundary line of the city of Bristol, in the county of
Sullivan, State of Tennessee, and the southern boundary line of
the city of Bristol, in the county of Washington, State of Virginia, being the northern half of the Main street of the said two
cities."
And it further appearing that said compact received the
consent of the Congress of the United States by joint resolution approved March 3, 1901, as follows:
" Resolved by the Senate and -House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That a recent
compact or agreement having been made by and between the
States of Tennessee and Virginia, whereby the State of Tennessee, by an act of its legislature approved January twentyeighth, nineteen hundred and one, ceded to the State of
Virginia certain territory specifically described in said act and
being the northern half of the main street between the cities
of Bristol, Virginia, and Bristol, Tennessee, and the State of
Virginia, by act of its general assembly, approved February
ninth, nineteen hundred and one, having accepted said cession of
the State of Tennessee, the consent of Congress is hereby
given to said contract or agreement between said States fixing
the boundary line between said States as shown by said acts
referred to, and the same is hereby ratified."
And said commissioners, in their said report, having ascertained and recommended the straight line from the end of the
"diamond-marked" or compact line of 1801-1803 to the corner
of the States of North Carolina and Tennessee as the true
boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee
between those two points, the court, approving said recommendation and finding of said commissioners, doth adopt the
same.
And the court, being of opinion that it is proper to recognize
the line so established by said last-mentioned compact of 1901
as the real, certain, and true interstate boundary line within
and between said two cities, and to definitely determine and
fix in this cause what is the real, true and certain boundary
line between said States throughout the entire length thereof

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

from the corner of the States of North Carolina and Tennessee,
on Pond Mountain, to the corner of Virginia and Kentucky,
at Cumberland Gap, doth therefore adjudge, order, and decree
that the entire real, certain, and true boundary line between
the States of Tennessee and Virginia is the line described and
delineated in said report filed herein on January 5, 1903, modified as to so much of said line as lies between the two cities of
Bristol, by the aforesaid compact of 1901 between the two States,
and as so described, delineated, and modified said boundary line
from the said North Carolina corner to the eastern end of the
compact line of -1801-1803, known as the "diamond-marked"
line, and thence to Cumberland Gap, is hereby determined,
fixed, and established.
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the compensation and expenses of the commissioners and the expenditures attendant upon the discharge of their duties be, and they
are hereby, allowed at the several sums set forth in their report, as hereinbefore confirmed, and that said charges and
expenses, together with all the costs of this suit to be taxed, be
equally divided between the parties hereto.
It is further ordered that the clerk of this court do, at the
proper charges of the parties to this cause, deliver fifty printed
copies of this decree including said report to the Attorney
General of each of said States.
The report of the commissioners, filed January 5, 1903, is as
follows:
To the Honorable the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of the United States:
Your commissioners, appointed by the decree of this honorable court, dated April 30, 1900, to ascertain, retrace, re-mark
and re~stablish the boundary line established between the
States of Virginia and Tennessee, by the compact of 1803,
which was actually run and located under proceedings had by
the two States in 1801-1803, and was then marked with five
chops in the shape of a diamond, and which ran from White
Top Mountain to Cumberland Gap, respectfully represent that
they have completed the duties assigned to them by the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

decree of April 30, 1900, that they have retraced and re-marked
the said boundary line as originally run and marked with five
chops in the shape of a diamond in the year 1802, and that for
the better securing of the same they have placed upon the said
line, besides other durable marks, monuments of cut limeston6,
four and a half feet long and seven inches square on top, with
V's cut on their north faces and T's on their south faces, set
three and a half feet in the ground, conveniently located as
hereinafter more fully described, so that the citizens of each State
and others, by reasonable diligence, may readily find the true
location of said boundary; all of which is more particularly set
forth in the detailed report of their operations, which your
commissioners herewith beg to submit, together with two maps
explanatory of the same, a list of the several permanent monuments and other durable marks, and a complete bill of costs
and charges. And your commissioners further pray that this
honorable court accept and confirm this report; that the line
as marked on the ground by said commissioners in the years 1901
and 1902 be declared to be the real, certain-and true boundary
between the States of Tennessee and Virginia; that your comnissioners be allowed their expenses and reasonable charges
for their own services in these premises, as shown on the bill of
costs which forms a part of this report; and finally, that your
commissioners be discharged from further proceedings in these
premises.
[SEAL.]
WILLIAM C. HODGKINs,
Commissioner.
JAMES

B.

BAYLOR,

[sEAL.]

Commissioner.
ANDREW

H.

BUCHANAN,

[SEAL.]

Commissioner.
Detailed report of the operations of the commission appointed
by the Supreme Court of the United States, April 30, 1900,
to retrace and re-mark the boundary line between the States
of Tennessee and Virginia.
At the date of the above decree and for several months thereafter the State of Virginia had no funds available for the pro-

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U S.

Decree of the Court

ceedings ordered by the court, and none could be had until
there could be a session of the state legislature to make the
needed appropriation. It was therefore necessary for your
commissioners to seek an extension of the time within which
they might make their report and'upon the motion of the Attorney General of Virginia an extension was granted until the
next term of court.
At a session of the General Assembly of Virginia, held in
the winter of 1900-1901, the sum of five thousand dollars was
appropriated for the purpose of paying Virginia's share of the
expenses of this boundary survey.
The Tennessee legislature had previously made a like appropriation.
Your commissioners therefore made preparations for beginning the execution of their duties under your decree of April 30,
1900, as early in the season of 1901 as the weather conditions
should permit.
The commission held its first meeting at Washington, D. C.,
on May 16, 1901, and organized by -choosing William C. Hodgkins, of the State of Massachusetts, as chairman; James B.
Baylor, of the State of Virginia, as secretary, and Andrew H.
Buchanan, of the State of Tennessee, as treasurer.
At this meeting there was a full discussion of the problem
presented and of the method of work which might be most
suitable under all the conditions. Arrangements were also
made for procuring the necessary camp outfit and supplies.
Through the courtesy of the Superintendent of the U. S.
Coast-and Goedetic Survey, your coiimissioners were able to
procure from that bureau, without charge, not only the outfit
of tents and camp furniture required for the shelter and comfort of the party, but also the valuable instruments needed for
the survey.
This relieved the States of Tennessee and Virginia of a considerable expense which would otherwise have been unavoidable. The two States were spared another heavy item of expense by the fact that each of your commissioners is a civil
engineer and entirely. familiar with work of this nature. It
was, therefore, unnecessary to follow the usual course of em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

ploying engineers or surveyors to carry out the field-work under the direction of the commissioners. Instead of that, your
commissioners themselves conducted all the field-work, hiring
only such rodmen, axemen, etc., as were necessary from time
to time. By such methods and by exercising rigid economy in
all of their expenditures, your commissioners have been able
to complete the entire work, including the setting of cut-stone
monuments, and also including the amount charged for their
own remuneration, for the sum of $9475.99, which is but little
more than the amount charged to the State of Virginia alone
by the joint commission of 1858-1859.
It having been decided at the first meeting of the commission that the most convenient place for beginning field operations would be the city of Bristol, which is located directly
upon the boundary line, the commission adjourned to that
place.
Field-work was begun on May 22, 1901, with the examination of a portion of the line east of Bristol, where a number of
trees were found which bore the marks of the surveys of 1802
and 1858-'59. As there has been considerable controversy
and conflicting testimony in regard to the nature of these old
marks, it may be well to show by diagrams and photographs
the actual arrangement and appearance of those of both years,
as well as of the somewhat different mark which was used for
the present re-marking by your commissioners.
1902.

1859.

1802.
\

/

\

/

\

/

While the marks made in 1858-'59 are still numerous in
forested areas and are generally easily distinguishable, those
made in 1802 are becoming scarce and sometimes are barely
discernible when found.

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

This is shown in the accompanying photograph of a large
white-oak tree, upon which the marks of 1858-'59 can readily
be traced, while only three of those made in 1802 can be distinguished and those with difficulty. The marks of 1802
were apparently made with a small and light hatchet and on
many trees which have a thick and rough bark the hatchet
does not seem to have reached the wood and in such cases the
gradual exfoliation of the bark has often nearly or entirely
obliterated the mark. Where the wood was wounded a small
burr has formed which can nearly always be recognized, but
cuts which did not completely penetrate the bark have sometimes disappeared.
The marks left by the survey of 1858-'59 were found of
very great value as guides to the older "diamond" marks of
1802. Both marks were often found on the same tree and it
was a rare occurrence to find the diamond mark without the
mark of 1859, either above or below it. In fact, it was very
soon noticed that the mere fact of finding the mark of 1858-'59
either above or below the normal position on a tree was an
almost certain indication that a diamond mark had been found
there at the date of the later marking, even though, through
the action of time and the elements, all vestiges of it may now
have disappeared. Since the date of the last survey, very
many marked trees have been destroyed through various agencies, especially since the more rapid development of this section in recent years has caused a greater demand for lumber,
and in some places the trees bearing the old marks are so far
apart and the marks themselves are so faint that great trouble
and delay would often have been experienced in the search for
these old marks had it not been for the aid afforded by the
marks of 1858-'59, which always proved reliable guides by
which to find the older marks.
In this connection it may not be inappropriate for your commissioners to state that they everywhere found that the joint
commission of 1859 did its work in a careful and conscientious
manner, and that they believe its line, as marked on the growing timber, is identical with that marked by the joint commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

sion of 1802, and that full credence should be given to statements of fact in the report of that survey.
From a point about a mile and a quarter east of Bristol, the
line was traced without difficulty, other than that due to the
broken nature of the country traversed, as far as the beginning
of what is commonly known as the Denton Valley offset.
At this point occurs the greatest and most remarkable irregularity in the whole course of this line, there being a deflection
from the direct course of 66' 10' for a distance of 8715.6 feet.
The portion of the boundary east of the offset is further north
than that west of the offset, so that the deflection is to the south
in going westward from the eastern end of the line, the direction in which it was originally run out, or to the north in working eastward from Bristol, as was done in the present survey
for reasons of convenience. In either case, the deflection is to
the left hand; but it is not the same in each case, as the two
portions of the line east and west of the offset are not exactly
parallel to each other. This difference of direction amounts to
1 30' as shown on the map of the line accompanying this report.
Owing to the long controversy over this offset and the persistent assertions of certain parties that marked timber would be
found on the eastern prolongation of the portion of the line extending from Bristol to Denton's Valley, if the same were run
out, your commissioner felt obliged, in order to settle the question for all time, to run out this line and make a careful search
for marked timber along its course. This was accordingly done,
and a careful examination of the timber on each side of the
transit line was made as the work progressed; but with only
negative results.
Although several weeks were spent in running this line across
the series of very rough and heavily timbered mountains lying
between Denton's Valley and Pond Mountain, near the corner
of North Carolina, and although every story brought to the
commissioners by people interested in the result was carefully
examined, your commissioners were utterly unable to find or to
have pointed out to them one authentic mark of the line of
1802, either on this line or anywhere in its vicinity.

TENNESSEE t. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

On the other hand, the "offset line" and the portion of the
line running eastward from the offset to the vicinity of the
White Top Mountain were found well marked; both the 1802
and the 1858-'59 marks were found at frequent intervals.
In order to be assured that these marks were authentic, blocks
were cut from several of these trees, at different points on said
offset line, and the ages of the marks were determined by counting the rings of the annual growth. These tests showed that
the marks were of the supposed age. The ages of the most important marks were verified by the U. S. Bureau of Forestry.
As was found in 1858"59 the marking of the timber ceased
(or began) on a comparatively low eminence, known as Burnt
Hill, which from the neighboring heights of White Top or of
Pond Mountain seems to be in the bottom of a hollow.
The apparent discrepancy between this situation and the language of the report of the joint commission of 1802, which reads
-" Beginning on the summit of the mountain generally known
as the White Top Mountain," etc., has led some to suppose that
the line should be extended further east, to the summit of the
so-called "divide" or watershed between the tributaries of the
Holston and New Rivers.
There seems, however, nothing to support this theory except
the somewhat hazy idea that the eastern end or point of beginning of this line ought to be on a summit.
As a matter of fact, the actual end of the line on Burnt Hill
is on quite as much of a summit as if it had been on the "divide," which in this place is so low and flat as to be scarcely
perceptible as an elevation of any importance. It certainly
could never be supposed to be the summit of White Top Mountain, which towers far above it, its huge, dome-like bulk filling
the northeastern horizon.
No marked trees of 1802 or of 1858-'59 could be found east
of Burnt Hill, though the line was produced. through heavy
timber of original growth to the "divide" and careful search
was made for them. The same condition was found in 1859,
as reported by the commission of that year. A point which
that commission seems to have overlooked is the important fact
that the eastern end-of the marked line at Burnt Hill is almost

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

exactly in line between the corner of North Carolina, on Pond
Mountain, and the summit of White Top Mountain. What
more likely than that the commissioners of 1802, who agreed
to lay out a line equally distant from the older lines, known as
Walker's and Henderson's and beginning on the summit of the
mountain generally known as the White Top Mountain, should
begin at the point where the Walker line reached the northwestern corner of North Carolina, and where accordingly the
jurisdiction of Tennessee should begin, and run thence in the
direction of the most important peak to the northward and eastward until they reached the desired middle point between the
lines of Walker and Henderson, and from that point started on
their westerly course. It is hard to understand why they should
have omitted to mark this part of their line; but this small bit
of boundary, extending from the northeast corner of Tennessee
to the northwest corner of North Carolina, seems to have been
somewhat overlooked in more recent proceedings. Your commissioners respectfully recommend that the straight line between
these two points be declared to be the boundary, believing, as
they do in the absence of any marks to the contrary, that this
was the original and true line. All of this section is composed
of very rugged and densely wooded mountains with but a scanty
population.
The progress of the work in this mountainous and almost inaccessible region was delayed not only by the nature of the
country and by the fact that in this very worst part of the whole
line it was necessary to run out these two independent lines,
doubling the labor to be expended, but also by the unfortunately
rainy weather which was experienced. The frequent and heavy
rains often stopped field-work, washed the few roads so badly
that they became almost impassible and raised the streams so
high that sometimes for days at a time it was impossible to ford
them.

It was not until September 21 that your commissioners were
able to close work in the White Top region and return to Bristol to start westward from that place toward Cumberland Gap.
For the remainder of the season, however, both the weather
and the nature of the country were much more favorable for

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

field operations and excellent progress was made, though it
was impossible to entirely complete the work before the approach of winter.
So far as the portion of the boundary passing through the
central part of the city of Bristol is concerned, the labors of
your commissioners were forestalled by a special act of the
General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, approved January twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and one, ceding to the
State of Virginia the northern half of the main street of the
two cities. The General Assembly of Virginia accepted
the cession by an act approved February ninth, nineteen hundred and one, and the action of the two legislatures was
subsequently ratified by the Congress and approved by the
President of the United States, March third, nineteen hundred and one. This cession covers, however, but a small part
of the boundary, extending only from the northwest corner
of the old town of Bristol on the west to the western boundary
of the Bristol cemetery on the east. As it is important to
guard against the possible renewal of this long-standing controversy, and as the town is already extending beyond the
above limits, it was deemed proper to mark the old diamond
line by monuments, just as if there had been no legal change
in the boundary for this short distance. But your commissioners regret to report that they have been unable to reach
a unanimous conclusion in regard to the true location of the
said diamond line within and near the above limits.
Commissioners Hodgkins and Buchanan, after careful study
of all the evidence of record and after diligent examination of
the ground, are of the opinion that the said diamond line of
1802-1803 runs from monument No. 25, near the first. marked
tree east of Bristol, in a straight line, to monument No. 26, on
the western boundary of the Bristol cemetery and on the north
line of Main or State street; thence along the northern line of
said Main or State street to "a planted stone in the edge of a
field formerly owned by Z. L. Burson, being the northwest corner of the corporate territory of the old town of Bristol," referred to in the act of cession, su ,; and thence in a straight

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

line to monument No. 28 in the fork of the main road and
near the first marked trees west of Bristol.
Commissioner Baylor, on the other hand, after equally careful consideration of all the evidence of record and diligent examination of the ground, is of the opinion that the said diamond
line of 1802-1803 runs from monument No. 25, near the first
marked tree east of Bristol, in a straight line to monument
No. 27, situated just outside of the wall of the Bristol cemetery and on the middle line of Main or State street as it runs
west from this point; and thence in a straight line along the
middle of Main or State street to monument No. 28, near the
center of the fork of the main road, and near the first marked
trees of 1858-'59, west of Bristol.
The said line, running through the center of Main or State
street, is just 30 feet south of monument No. 26 on the north
property line of Main or State street, outside the western wall
of Bristol cemetery.
Westward from Bristol, the boundary was retraced without
difficulty by the marked trees, just as in the previous work to
the eastward.
Only one marked deviation from the general course of the
line was encountered during the remainder of the season. This
was on the property formerly known as the Hickman place, in
the vicinity of the village of Bloomingdale, Tennessee.
Here the line was found to have a deflection of 8' 30' to the
right, or north, for the distance of 3161.8 feet. From the western end of this offset, the line resumed its general westerly
course, and so continued until the end of the work of that year.
As the season advanced, it became evident that even under the
most favorable conditions it would be impossible to complete
the survey without working far into the winter, which on many
accounts was undesirable.
The Attorneys General of the two States therefore joined in
a request for a further extension of time within which your
commissioners might file their report, and this honorable court
thereupon extended that time until the opening of the October
term, 1902.
The field operations for the season of 1901 were closed at the

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

end of October, at which time the survey had been extended

to the Clinch River, 43 miles east of Cumberland Gap the total
length of boundary retraced being 70 miles, besides 16 miles
of trail line run on the extension of the "straight line" from
Denton's Valley to Pond Mountain.
Before the opening of field-work for the season-1902, a complaint reached your commissioners from a citizen of Johnson
County, Tennessee, supposed to be reliable, to the effect that
interested parties were interfering with the marks placed on
the line the previous year, and that in some cases at least the
monuments had not been properly placed by the persons employed for that purpose.
Although these statements seem scarcely credible, in view
of the general interest taken in the work by the inhabitants,
your commissioners thought it best to investigate the matter
and to satisfy themselves by personal inspection that the monuments had remained undisturbed in their proper places.
This was accordingly done at the outset of the season's work
and it was ascertained that the stories of falsification of the
marking were without any foundation of fact, that all of the
monuments between the northeast corner of Tennessee and
Bristol had been properly set and that none of them had been
disturbed.
These preliminary operations occupied the time from June 23
to July 4, on which your day your commissioners returned to
Bristol. After placing some additional monuments on the old
line in and near Bristol, they proceeded to Gate City, Virginia,
where the camp outfit had been stored at the close of work in
the preceding autumn, and at once went into camp at Robinett,
Tennessee, west of the North fork of Clinch River.
The survey of the boundary line was resumed at the point
where it had been suspended the year before, at the crossing
of Clinch River near Church's Ford.
From this point to Cumberland Gap the line crosses a succession of mountains and valleys, with comparatively little
level or cleared land. Little difficulty was experienced in tracing the line in this part of its course, the marked trees being
generally found at frequent intervals. The line preserved its

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

general course as before, except that two deflections to the
northward were found which were similar to that found the
year before near Bloomingdale.
The first of these occurred on the mountain called Wallen's
Ridge, where the line made a deflection of 190 to the north
before reaching the summit, and kept that course for a distance
of 4643.7 feet before resuming its usual direction. There were
numerous trees with both the 1802 and 1859 marks on this deflected line.
The final deflection of 40 10' to the north for a distance of
6503.3 feet began at the "old furnace road" near Station
Creek,'less than three miles from the west end of the line on
Cumberland Mountain. From the western end of this offset
the line runs straight to the terminus.
There has been considerable controversy and litigation over
these last three miles of the boundary and a number of witnesses have testified in the case of Virginia Ag't Tennessee,
Supreme Court, U. S., Oct. term, 1891, that there were none of
the marks of the previous surveys remaining between Station
Creek and the summit of Cumberland Mountain, owing to the
destruction of the timber in that area during the military operations of the Civil War.
Your commissioners were able to find, however, three trees
well marked with the mark of the 1859 survey, and at least
one of these bore evidence in the position of this mark that an
old diamond mark was formerly visible above it.
These marked trees were found on the east and west part of
the line west of the offset and are in excellent alignment, and
settled beyond the possibility of doubt the location of this part
of the boundary, and hence the short remaining distance to the
summit of Cumberland Mountain. This line passes near and
a little south of the old mill several times referred to in the
case above .cited, and thence across the Union Railroad station,
leaving most of the town of Cumberland Gap in Tennessee.
The summit of Cumberland Mountain was reached on Saturday, August 23d, 1902, and on the following Monday the fieldwork of the survey was completed and the camp outfit was
packed and shipped to Washington. Your commissioners then

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

separated, Professor Buchanan returned to his home at Lebanon, Tennessee, to work up his field-notes; and Mr. Hodg.
kins to Washington to attend to business of the commission
and to draft a report of its operation; while Mr. Baylor remained on the ground until September 13, superintending the
placing of monuments along the part of the line surveyed in
1902.
In conclusion, your commissioners state that they have found
the duties imposed upon them by your instructions often arduous and exacting and that the survey just completed proved
far more laborious and was attended by greater hardships than
any of them had anticipated, but that they have nevertheless
given the same careful attention to every part of it and that
they believe it to be correct throughout.
List of -Monuments of Cut Limestone and Other Durable
.Marks,as Hereinafter Xore Fully Described.
(1)-At northeast corner of Tennessee, at Burnt Hill.
(2)-On summit of Flat Spring Ridge.
(3)-On Valley Creek road, on John Toliver place.
(4)-On road from Laurel River to White Top Mountain
near an old mill.
(5)-On road up Laurel River, near a double ford.
On summit of Iron Mountain, near the north end of the
rocky bluff, a cairn of rocks was erected.
(6)-At eastern foot Holston Mountain, a short distance from
Beaver Dam Creek, and the Virginia and Carolina Railway.
Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation station "Damascus"
Us

on summit of Holston Mountain, a stone marked +
cs
(7)-On Rockhouse Branch road in the valley, on Mary
Nealy place.
(8)-On road from Barron Railway station to New Shady
road, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
(9)-In woods, north of New Shady road where the line
changes its course to south 230 50' west (mag.) a marked deflection from the general course of the line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

(10)-On the New Shady road, where this deflected line
crosses it.
(11)-In woods, on Little Mountain, west of Cox Creek,
where this bearing of 23 50' west (mag.) ends, and the line resumes its general course to the westward.
(12)-On road just north of cross-road leading to Thomas
Denton place.
(13)-On road on hill on C. D. Short place.
(14)-On road on east bank of the South fork Holston
River, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
(15)-On hill in George Garrett's cow lot, west and north of
South fork IHolston River.
(16)-On road to King's mill, near John Buckly house.
(1)-On road to King's mill, via Thomas place.
(18)-On summit of open hill east of Painter place, concrete
monument.
(19)-On road running east of Painter house.
(20)-On road running west of Painter house, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
(21)-On road through woods west of Painter property.
(22)-On summit of first high ridge east of Paperville road.
(23)-On Paperville road, at Jones place.
(24)-On road west of Carmack house.
(25)-On Booher place near first marked tree, (of 1858-'59)
east of Bristol.
(26)-On north property line of the main street of Bristol
outside the western wall of the cemetery. Commissioner
Baylor does not consider this a part of the true line.
(27)-Outside the street wall of the Bristol cemetery, at the
point where the average center line of main street intersects
said wall. Commissioners Hodgkins and Buchanan do not consider this a point on the boundary.
A stone post in the edge of a field, formerly owned by
Z. L. Burson, at the northwest corner of the old corporate territory of the old town of Bristol. Commissioner Baylor does
not consider this a point on the boundary.
(28)-In the fork of the main road, west of the town of
Bristol.

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

(29)-On road to Bristol, east of Worley place.
(30)-On road to Bristol, west of Worley place.
Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation station "Dunn"
Us

on summit of ridge, on old Dunn place stone marked

+
0S

(3)-On Dishner Valley. road.
(32)-On road to Bristol, east of Gum Spring.
(33)-On road to Bristol, near Tallman house.
(34:)-On road in valley, west of old abandoned railway bed.
(35)-On Scott road.
(36)-On road west of Akard place.
(3)-On road near Jackson place.
(38)-On Boozey Creek road.
(39)-On road to Hilton ford, cut-stone monument 1858-'59.
(40)-On Timbertree road.
(41)-Between two roads just east of Gate City road.
(42)-In woods, west of Gate City road, where there is a deflection of 80 30' to the right, or north, from the general course
of the line, on old Hickman place.
(43)-In woods northeast of Bloomingdale, where this 80 30'
deflection from the general course of the line ends, in going
westward, and line resumes its general course.
(44)-On road to Bloomingdale.
(45)-On Wall Gap road.
(46)-On road up ravine.
(47)-On Carter Valley road.
(48)-On Gate City and Kingsport road, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation station "Cloud"
us

on bluff of North Holston IRiver, stone marked

+
as

(49)-On east bank of North Holston River.
(50)-On road on west bank of North Holston River.
(51)-At cross-roads on Stanley Valley road, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
(52)-On Stanley Valley road, on hill at turn in road.
VOL. oxo-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

(53)-On Cameron Post-office road.
(54:)-On Stanley Vallet road south of barn of N. J. Bussell,
cut-stone monument of 1858-59.
(55)-On Stanley Valley road, cut-stone monument of 1858'59.
(56)-On road which runs across Opossum Ridge.
(57)-On Moore's Gap road.
(58)-On Caney Valley road.
(59)-On Little Poor Valley road, south of Mary Field
house.
(60)-On Poor Valley road, cut-stone monument of 1858-'59.
On summit of Clinch Mountain cairn of rocks erected, a few
feet south of the Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation station
Us

"Wildcat," which station marked with + cut in sandstone rock.
as
(61)-On Clinch Valley road.
(62)-On road on east bank of Clinch River, above Church's
ford.
(63)-On road at Jane Bagley's house.
On summit of open hill east of Fisher Valley road line crosses
solid rock. Small hole drilled in it, with T cut south of hole,
and V north of it.
(64)-On Fisher Valley road.
On summit of high ridge, east of Robinett line crosses solid
rock. Small hole drilled in it, with V cut on north side of
hole, and T on south of it.
(65)-On road at Robinett.
On side of ridge at east edge of woods line crosses rock.
Small hole drilled in it, with V cut on north side of hole and
T on south of it.
On summit of Newman's Ridge line crosses rock similarly
marked.
(66)-On Rogersville and Jonesville road.
(67)-On Little Creek Road.
(68)-On Sneedville and Black Water Salt Works road.
(69)-On Black Water Valley road, near J. M ullen's house.
.Coastand Geodetic Survey triangulation station " Powell," on

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.
Us

summit of Powell Mountain, large sandstone rock marked

±
cs

(10)-On Mulberry Gap and Wallen Creek road, near large
poplar.
(71)--Near junction of Mulberry Gap and Jonesville roads.
('2)-On east face of Wallen Ridge, on edge of trail over
ridge, where there is a deflection to the right, or north, of 19'
from the general course of the line.
On summit of Wallen Ridge line crosses large sandstone
rock. Small hole cut in it with V. cut north of hole and T.
south of it.
(73)-On west face of Wallen Ridge, in open field, on the
boundary fence of Mollie Thompson and J. W. Moore, where
this deflection of 19' from the general course of the line ends,
in going westward, and line resumes its general course.
(74)-On road east of Powell River, and north of Welch or
Baldwin ford.
On rock bluff west of Powell River, a small hole was cut
with V north of this hole and T. south of it.
('75)-On Powell River and Sneedville road, on hill west of
Powell River, rough stone monument with V. cut on north face
and T on south face.
(76)-On Powell River and Sneedville road.
(-77)-On Martin Creek road.
(78)-On Low Hollow road.
(79)-On Four Mile Creek road.
(80)-On Bayles' Mill road.
(81)-On Ball's Mill road.
Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation station Mintr,"
on summit of hill, near gate and fence corner.
(83)-On road south of Jacob Estep's house.
(84)-On East Machine Branch road.
(85)-On West Machine Branch road.
(86)-On Dicktown road.
(87)-On Mud Hollow Hole road, near large limestone
spring.
(88)-On Hoskins' Valley road, near large limestone spring.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

(89)-On George Souther's saw mill road.
(90)-On Louisville and Nashville Railway, near Brook's
crossing.
(91)-On old iron-works road, where there is a deflection
of 4 10' to the right, or north, from the general course of
the line.
(92)-On Station Creek road.
(93)-On east side of Poor Valley Ridge, where this deflection of 40 10' from the general course of the line ends, in
going westward, and line resumes its general course.
(94)-On Cumberland Gap and Virginia road, east of Cumberland Gap.
(95)-On small hill just east of road connecting Cumberland
Gap with Old Virginia and Cumberland Gap road, in the edge
of the old town park.
(96)-On the side of open bill facing south, about 21 squares
east of the Tazewell and Kentucky road, at Cumberland Gap.
(97)-On west side of Tazewell and Kentucky road, and just
east of woolen factory at Cumberland Gap.
(98)-At foot of Cumberland Mountain, west of the Union
Railway station, and in line with the south edge of the south
chimney of said Union Railway station.
(99)-On summit of Cumberland Mountain. The monument
of cut limestone has "V" and "T" cut on its adjacent vertical
faces, and "Corner" cut on its top. Its base is set in cement
and broken rock with one diagonal running east and west.
The summit of the sandstone ledge was blasted in order to set
this monument.
In addition to the cut-stone monuments and other durable
marks, your commissioners marked with six chops, thus: e

t/

the trees on and within ten feet of this line on each side.

TENNESSEE

,-. VIRGINIA.

Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

Your commissioners unanimously agree in recommending
that the rights of individuals having claims or titles to lands
on either side of said boundary line, as ascertained, re-marked,
and reestablished by your commissioners, shall not in consequence thereof in anywise be prejudiced or affected, where said
individuals have paid their taxes, in good faith, in the wrong
State.
WILuM C. HODGECINS,

[SEAL.]

Commissioner.
JAmEs B.

[SEAL.]

BAYLOR,

Commissioner.
ANDREW

H.

BUCHANAN,

-

[SEA'L.]

Commission er.

13, 1902.
Rejport of the Treasurer of the Tennessee and JFirginia
Boundary Commission.
To the Honorable the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court of the United States:
The treasurer of the commission appointed by the decree of
this honorable court, dated April 30, 1900, to re~stablish the
boundary between the State of Virginia and Tennessee, herewith submits the abstracts of the monthly expenditures of the
entire work-ten in number-beginning May, 1901, and ending
September, 1902, as follows:
OCTOBER

$ 384.05

May 1901
June 1901.
July 1901

August 1901
September 1901
October 1901
June 1902
July 1902
August 1902
September 1902

Amount chargeable to eachi State

..

1083.75
1070.18
1197.76
1263.11
1565.63
262.13
1045.45
1245.34
358.59
$9475.99
4738.00

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

General Summary.
Remuneration of commissioners at $10 per day. $5730.00
274.04
Transportation to and from field
1085.58
(about)
field
in
Transportation
678.90
1707.47

Stone monuments
Labor, freight, etc..
Total

.

Cash received from Virginia
Cash received from Tennessee

$9475.99

$4737.99

.

4738.00
$9475.99

Total

The above is respectfully submitted.

A. H. BUCHANAN,
ZTreasurer of the Boundary Commission.
J. C. W. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of
Forestry, Washington, D. C.
Office of the Forester.
AUusT 20, 1901.
This beech block came from the "offset"
end and just east of the "Shady road."

near its western

J. B.

BAYLOR,

Commissioner.
Mr. J. B. Baylor, Tenn.-Va. boundary commission, Abingdon,
Virginia.
DEA.R SIR: Your letter of August 17, and also the beech
block are at hand. In the absence of Mr. Sudworth, with whom
your previous correspondence has been, I am glad to give you
my opinion as to the questions stated in your letter.
Owing to the very slow growth of the tree, from which this
block was cut, in early life, it is not possible to count the annual
rings, even with the aid of a strong magnifier, with absolute
certainty of accuracy. The results I have obtained show that
its age in 1802 was 96 years, and that its diameter, not includ-

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
190 U. S.

Decree of the Court.

ing bark, was about six inches, or about 61 inches including

the bark. There are five wounds shown in this block. Two
of these occurred in my judgment, 43 years ago, or in theyear
years
1858. The three older wounds I believe were made 99
ago, or in 1802.
This beech block will be carefully stored away in this bureau.
OVERTON W. PRICE,
(Signed)
Very truly,
Acting Forester.
J. 0. W.

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of
Forestry, Washington, D. 0.
Division of forest investigation.
NOVEMBER 11,

1901.

the
This hemlock block came from near the eastern end of
trees
marked
the
where
"off-set line "-a short distance from
end.

J. B.

BAYLOR,

Commissioner.
Mr. J. B. Baylor, Tenn.-Va. boundary commission, Bloomingdale, Sullivan County, Tenn.
time
DEAR SiR: The hemlock blocks sent to this office some
abmy
of
account
on
long
so
ago have remained unexamined
answer
the
delayed
thus
sence from the office. I regret to have
so long.
I have just examined the specimens, and find that the deeper
scar in the larger of the two specimens was made in the year
1802. Ninety-nine annual rings were formed since the scar
was made. This year's growth is still in a formative stage.
The somewhat superficial scar in the smaller specimen was
made in 1858, 4:2 annual rings having been laid on since the
mark was made. The last season's growth is not complete.
As requested in your letter of Sept. 8, these blocks will be
retained subject to further advices from you.
Very truly yours,
SuDwORTH, Chief.
B.
GEoRGE
(Signed)

88

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1902.
Decree of the Court.

190 U. S.

Property List Purchasedfor Field Outfit in the Boundary Survey.

3
1
1
8
1
I

saddles, bridles and blankets
cooking stove and repairs
heating stove
joints of stovepipe
crowbar
shovel
1 grindstone .
6 axes
2 files
4 lamps
1 saw (large)
1 trowel
2 pairs of tree-climbers.
1 cot .
1 office table
1 dining table
Total

*.

.

.

$27.50
7.00
2.25
1.35
.65
.85
.90
3.90
.20
1.00
1.35
.50
3.50
2.50
2.50
1.00
$56.95

.

Of the above at the close of the field-work the following were sold:

2 saddles.
2 stoves
2 tables .
3 lamps
I grindstone
1 saw .
2 axes
1 cot
1 shovel .
Total

.

.

$3.00
2.50
2.00
.50
.50
.75
.65
.50
.60
$11.00

For the remainder, not worn out, purchasers could not be
found without the delay of a commissioner in the field at a
greater expense than they were worth. The proceeds of the
sales made-$11.00-have been returned, one half to each State.
A. H. BUCHANAN, Treasurer.
.Decreeentered accordingly.

