OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

AIR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

190 U. S.

concurring.

I concur in that part of the opinion of the court which shows
that there was'no evidence whatever upon which to base a

judgment for contempt against Watts and Sachs, or either of
them. That view of the evidence is sufficient to dispose of the
case without reference to any other question arising on the
record. My concurrence in the judgment discharging the petitioners is solely on the ground just stated.

O'NEAL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 534. Submitted Mlay 4, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

This was a proceeding in contempt and the contention was that on the facts
no case of contempt was made out.

Held:

(1) That the contention was addressed to the merits of the case, and not
to the jurisdiction of the court, and therefore that the case did not
come within the class of cases specified in section 5 of the judiciary

act of March 3, 1891, in which the jurisdiction of the court is in
issue.
(2) And that as the judgment was in effect a judgment in a criminal
case, this court had no jurisdiction to revise it on error.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

ftr. T. A. Blount for plaintiff in error.
Xr. B. C. Tunison for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding in the District Court of the United

States for the Southern District of Florida, commenced by the

O'NEAL v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

filing of an affidavit of Greenhut, a trustee in bankruptcy, charging W. C. O'Neal with contempt of court in committing an assault upon him.
A rule to show cause was entered and served on O'Neal, to
which lie filed a demurrer, assigning as grounds that the affidavit did not show that respondent had committed any offence
of which the court had jurisdiction, or had done any act punishable by the court as a contempt thereof; or had committed
any act of contempt against the court.
The demurrer was overruled and O'Neal answered. Hearing
was had on the rule and answer, and evidence introduced on
both sides, and the court found respondent guilty of the acts
and things set forth in the affidavit, and that they constituted
a contempt of court, and thereupon sentenced O'Neal to imprisonment in the county jail at Pensacola, Florida, for the term
of sixty days.
The District Court certified the question of its jurisdiction
for decision, and a writ of error directly from this court was
allowed on the assumption that the case came within the first of
the six classes of cases enumerated in section 5 of the judiciary
act of March 3, 1891. That class embraces cases "in which
the jurisdiction of the court is inissue," that is, where the power
of the Circuit and District Courts of the United States to hear
and determine is denied. Smith v. 3fcJay, 161 U. S. 355;
Trance v. Thndercook Company, (No. 2,) 170 U. S. 468, 472;
.fexican Central Railway Company v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429,
432.
But the question here is asserted in the certificate to be
whether the District Court had "jurisdiction to try and punish
the said defendant for contempt thereof, upon the facts and for
the causes stated in said rule and affidavit."
Jurisdiction over the person and jurisdiction over the subject
matter of contempts were not challenged. The charge was the
commission of an assault on an officer of the court for the purpose of preventing the discharge of his duties as such officer,
and the contention was that on the facts no case of contempt
was made out.
In other words, the contention was addressed to the merits

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

190 1U. S.

of the case and not to the jurisdiction of the court. An erroneous conclusion in that regard can only be reviewed on appeal
or error, or in such appropriate way as may be provided. Louisville Trust Company v. Contingor, 184 U. S. 18, 26; .Fxparte
Gordon, 104 U. S. 515.
And while proceedings in contempt may be said to be sui
generis, the present judgment is in effect a judgment in a criminal case, over which this court has no jurisdiction on error.
Section 5, act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, as amended
by the act of January 20, 1897, 29 Stat. 492, c. 68; Chetwood's
Case, 165 U. S. 443, 462; Tinslej v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101,
105; 0ary fl anufacturing Company v. Acme Flexible Clasp
Copany, 187 U. S. 427, 428.
W~2it of error,dismissed.

TUBMAN v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 574. Submitted

1iay

18, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

1. The general rule is that a final judgment cannot be set aside by the court
which rendered it, on application made after the close of the term at
which it was entered; and as this case comes within that rule the judgment is affirmed.
2. The Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal, but inasmuch as if it bad entertained it, that court would have been compelled to affirm the order
appealed from, this court is not obliged, in the circumstances disclosed
by the record, to modify or reverse even if that court might have maintained jurisdiction of the appeal.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

X.. William A. iXeloy for plaintiff in error.
.lk. George E. tiamilton and
for defendant in error.

kXr. Frederic D. .lfCtenney

