OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

190 1U. S.

of the case and not to the jurisdiction of the court. An erroneous conclusion in that regard can only be reviewed on appeal
or error, or in such appropriate way as may be provided. Louisville Trust Company v. Contingor, 184 U. S. 18, 26; .Fxparte
Gordon, 104 U. S. 515.
And while proceedings in contempt may be said to be sui
generis, the present judgment is in effect a judgment in a criminal case, over which this court has no jurisdiction on error.
Section 5, act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, as amended
by the act of January 20, 1897, 29 Stat. 492, c. 68; Chetwood's
Case, 165 U. S. 443, 462; Tinslej v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101,
105; 0ary fl anufacturing Company v. Acme Flexible Clasp
Copany, 187 U. S. 427, 428.
W~2it of error,dismissed.

TUBMAN v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 574. Submitted

1iay

18, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

1. The general rule is that a final judgment cannot be set aside by the court
which rendered it, on application made after the close of the term at
which it was entered; and as this case comes within that rule the judgment is affirmed.
2. The Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal, but inasmuch as if it bad entertained it, that court would have been compelled to affirm the order
appealed from, this court is not obliged, in the circumstances disclosed
by the record, to modify or reverse even if that court might have maintained jurisdiction of the appeal.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

X.. William A. iXeloy for plaintiff in error.
.lk. George E. tiamilton and
for defendant in error.

kXr. Frederic D. .lfCtenney

TUBMAN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO %. R.
100 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The declaration in this action was filed
March 26, 1895, and several demurrers were interposed thereto
the following June. August 6,1901, the case was dismissed for
want of prosecution. After the term at which that judgment was
entered had expired, and on May 19, 1902, plaintiff made a
motion to set it aside, and the motion was denied. From the
order denying the motion, plaintiff took an appeal to the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which was dismissed,
and this writ of error then allowed. The case comes before us
on a motion to dismiss or affirm. The appeal to the Court of
Appeals was dismissed on the ground that the order overruling
the motion to vacate the judgment of dismissal was not the
subject of appeal, and we think there was color for the motion
here to dismiss the writ of error. But in the view we take,
we must decline to sustain that motion, and will dispose of the
case on the motion to affirm.
In its opinion the Court of Appeals said, among other things,
that the "motion to vacate was not made until after the lapse
of more than two terms of the court in which the original judgment was entered. It is not shown that there was any fraud
or surprise in procuring the judgment of dismissal of the action
by'the court." The Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court
of the District obviously agreed in this finding, and a careful
examination of the record affords no basis for questioning the
conclusion, if it were permissible for us to do so. The general
rule is that a final judgment cannot be set aside on application
made after the close of the term at which it was entered, by
the court which rendered it, because the case has passed beyond
the control of the court.. Bronson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410,
415; Phillipsv. -egley, 117 U. S. 665.
In the latter case jurisdiction was taken on error to review a
final order setting aside a judgment on motion made at a subsequent term. And in Hume v. Bowie, 148 U. S. 245, Phillips
v. Vegley was considered, and the distinction between a judgment ordering a new trial when the court has jurisdiction to
make such an order and a judgment where such jurisdiction
does not exist was pointed out. See Aafarland v. Brown,
187 U. S. 239, 243.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

In the present case the motion to set aside was denied, not
granted, and as it was made after the lapse of the term, and
came within no exception, the general rule was applicable. If
then the Court of Appeals had entertained jurisdiction, the result would have been an affirmance; and even if the court erred
in declining jurisdiction, the difference between dismissing the
appeal and affirming the order does not, in the circumstances,
require reversal or modification.
Judgment affirmed.

WRIGHT v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 661. Argued April 28, 29, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

1. The general principle of international law in cases of extradition is that
the act on account of which extradition is demanded must be a crime in
both countries.
2. As to the offence charged in the case, this applicable treaty embodies
that principle in terms by requiring it to be "made criminal by the laws
of both countries."
3. If the offence charged is. criminal by the laws of the demanding country
and by the laws of the State of the United States in which the alleged
fugitive is found, it comes within the treaty and is extraditable.

4. Bail cannot ordinarily be granted in extradition cases, but it is not held
that the Circuit Courts may not in any case, and whatever the special circumstances, extend that relief.
WHITAXER WRIGHT

applied to the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Southern District of New York for writs of
habeas corpvus and certiorari on March 20, 1903, by a petition
which alleged:
(1.) That he was a citizen of the United States restrained of
his liberty by the Marshal of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, by virtue of a warrant dated March 16,
1903, issued by Thomas Alexander, "United States Commis-

