OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

QUEEI{AN v. OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 246. Argued April 16, 17, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.
but
1. A witness for the defence in a murder trial, who is not an expert,
he
opinion
the
state
may
killing,
the
before
who knew the prisoner
formed at the time as to the mental condition of the prisoner, and sum
the
up his impressions received at the time he saw the prisoner before
killing, but, except under special circumstances, he may not state an
opinion formed since the killing.
2. It is not error to instruct the jury that under § 1852 of the Oklahoma
Statutes of 1893 they should acquit if they found the accused was not
able to know that the act of taking his victim's life was wrongful, and
was not able to comprehend and understand the consequences of such
guilty
act, if the jury also was instructed that in order to find him
take
to
wrong
was
it
that
understood
and
knew
they must find that he
of
the life and was able to comprehend and understand the consequences
such act.
3. When, during the course of a murder trial in Oklahoma it transpires
that a juror, contrary to his statements on the voir dire, is disqualified
and the prisoner has an opportunity to have him excused and the trial
begun anew and his counsel refrain from making any objection at that
time, it is too late for him to complain after the verdict of guilty has
been rendered.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

21r. Stillwell H. Russell for plaintiff in error.
Johnson, .AXrr. C. B. Ames and _r.

Xrl. J. TF.

. H. Howard were on the

brief.
Mr.J. C. Robberts, attorney general of the Territory of Oklahoma, for defendant in error. .lk. C. H Woods was on the
brief.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment for murder upon which the plaintiff in
error has been found guilty, and has been sentenced to be hanged.
It comes here by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Oklahoma, that court having decided that there

QUEENAN v. OKLAHOMA.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was no error in the proceedings and having affirmed the judgment. 11 Oklahoma, 261. The errors assigned will be taken
up in the order in which they were argued.
1. The only defence was insanity. A lawyer, called as a witness for the defendant, stated that he knew the prisoner quite
well; that the prisoner was his barber for some years, and that
he saw him on the day before the killing. He then described
the appearance and conduct of the prisoner, and said that at
the time he did not notice any difference from the prisoner's
usual demeanor. He then was asked if since the killing he had
formed an opinion as to the prisoner's mental condition at that
time. This opinion he was not allowed to state, and this is alleged as error. It will be seen that the witness was allowed to
sum up his impressions received at the time. The court said in
terms that he might state any condition that existed then or
any impression that it made upon the witness's mind as to the
prisoner's condition. That is all that was decided in Connecticut .M-utual Ife Insu'ance Company v. Iathrop, 111IU. S.612.
Some States exclude such opinions, even when formed at the
time. But, as is pointed out in the case cited, it is impossible
for a witness to reproduce all the minute details which he saw
and heard, and most witnesses make but a meagre and halting
effort. Therefore, in this as in many other instances, after
stating such particulars as he can remember, generally only the
more striking facts, an ordinary witness is permitted to sum
up the total remembered and unremembered impressions of the
senses by stating the opinion which they produced. To allow
less may deprive a party of important and valuable evidence
that can be got at in no other way. But, on the other hand,
to allow more, to let a witness who is not an expert state an
opinion upon sanity which he has formed after the event, when
a case has arisen and become a matter of public discussion, must
be justified, if at all, on other grounds. It is unnecessary to
lay down the rule that it never can be done, for instance, when
the opinion clearly appears to sum up a series of impressions
received at different times. .Hathaawa'yv. Yational Life Insurance Co., 48 Vermont, 335, 350. It is enough to say that, at
least, it should be done with caution and not without special

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reasons. In this case the only knowledge shown by the witness was the familiarity of a man with his barber. So far as the
evidence went, his present opinion might have been the result
of interested argument, and, leaving such suggestions on one
side, no reason of necessity or propriety was shown for the
statement that would not have applied to any other man who
had had his hair cut in the prisoner's shop. It does not appear
that there was error in the ruling of the court.
2. The next error alleged is in the following instruction of
the court :
"Homicide committed by one who has not sufficient knowledge and understanding to understand right from wrong and
to comprehend and understand the consequences of his act is
excusable for any act in reference to which his mind is in such
weakened condition. But it is not every derangement of the
mind that will excuse one from the commission of crime. If
one has sufficient mind and understanding to know right from
wrong regarding the particular act, and is able to comprehend
and understand the consequences of such act, the law recognizes him as sane, and holds him responsible for such acts; and
in this connection, if you should find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendant took the life of Ella Queenan, as charged
in the indictment, and that at the time of such homicide he
knew and understood that it was wrong to take her life and
was able to comprehend and understood the consequences of
such act., then and in that event it will be your duty to find
the defendant guilty of murder, as charged in the indictment.
But, on the other hand, if you should find that he was not able
to know that the act of taking her life was wrongful, and was
not able to comprehend and understand the consequences of
such act, then you should find the defendant not guilty."
By § 1852 of the Oklahoma Statutes of 1893, "All persons
are capable of committing crimes, except

.

.

all persons

of unsound mind, including persons temporarily or partially
deprived of reason, upon proof that at the time of committing
the act charged against them they were incapable of knowing
its wrongfulness." It was argued very earnestly that the
latter part of the instruction added a second condition to ac-

QUEENAN v. OKLAHOMA.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quittal by directing it if the jury found that the prisoner was
not able to know that the act was wrongful, "and was not
able to comprehend and understand the consequences of such
act." But, on the other hand, the condition of a verdict of
guilty was made to be a finding that the prisoner knew and
understood that it was wrong to take the life, "and was able
to comprehend and understood the consequences of such act."
So that the most material part of the charge, that relating to
conviction, was favorable to the prisoner. If it be supposed
that such abstract language was remembered and was nicely
considered and analyzed by the jury, the total effect of the
charge was that, unless the two conditions concurred, the prisoner must be acquitted. We do not mean to imply that any
part of the instruction, fairly understood, was wrong, but for
purposes of decision it is enough to say what we have said.
The instructions asked and refused were covered by that which
was given as stated above.
3. In the course of the trial the government announced that
since the last adjournment it had been informed that one of
the jurors, named, had been convicted in Nebraska of'what, by
the law of that State, was a felony, grand larceny, at a time
and place mentioned, contrary to the statement of the juror on
the voir dire. We assume, for purposes of decision, that this disqualified the juror from serving in any case. Stat. Oklahoma,
§§ 3093, 5182, 5183. The court asked the counsel for the
prisoner what they desired to do, and its intimation indicated
that if the objection were pressed the juror would be excused.
This, of course, meant that the trial would have to be begun
over again. The counsel for the prisoner answered that they
had nothing to say, and the trial went on. It now is argued
that the defendant was deprived of a constitutional right, which
he could not waive. Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343. The
contrary plainly is the law as well for the Territories as for
the States. See Kohl v. .ehlaok, 160 U. S.293, 299 et seq.;
.Raubv. Carpenter,187 _U. S. 159, 164.
It is argued that the court could not have permitted a challenge at that time, because the statutes of Oklahoma, § 5177,
provided that "the court for good cause shown may permit a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

190 U. S.

juror to be challenged after he issworn to try the cause, but not
after the testimony has been partially heard." This statute
cannot be construed as going merely to the order of procedureas depriving a party of the right to challenge pending the trial,
but as preserving the right for the purpose of a motion for a new
trial. Either it does not apply to the case of a disqualification
discovered, as this was, after a part of the evidence was in, or it
purports to take away the right altogether. Whatever may
be the true construction of the last clause, the court seems to
have been ready to stop the trial. But if the court's view was
wrong, if the statute is constitutional-as to which we do not
mean to express a doubt-the prisoner had no right to complain, and if it is not, it was his duty to object at the time if
he was going to object at all. He could not speculate on the
chances of getting a verdict and then set up that he had not
waived his rights.
Judgment ajirmed.

HUTCHINSON v. OTIS.
APPEAL FROM1 THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

No. 634. Submitted May 4, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

A creditor obtained attachments against one who within four months
thereafter was adjudged a bankrupt and attached debts, which, upon
entry of judgments, were paid over to the attaching creditor who there-

upon satisfied the judgments guaranteeing the garnishees against loss.
The trustee in bankruptcy demanded payment of the debts from the

garnishees and under its guarantee the creditor who had collected them
paid the amount over.
Held, that the action of the trustee undid the satisfaction of record of the

judgments and they were not a bar which would prevent the creditor
from proving its claim against the estate in ,the hands of the trustee.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
r. reedom Hutchinson and M. Frederic D. MrCenney
for appellant.

