JAMES v. BOWMAN.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No.

213. Argued March 16, 1903.-Decided May 4, 190

Although section 5507, Rev. Stat., which provides for the punishment of
individuals who hinder, control or intimidate others from exercising the
right of suffrage guaranteed by the Fifteenth Amendment, purports on
its face to be an exercise of the power granted to Congress by the Fifteenth Amendment, it cannot be sustained as an appropriate exercise of
such power. That Amendment relates solely to action by the United
States or by any State and does not contemplate wrongful individual acts.
While Congress has ample power in respect to elections of Representatives
to Congress, § 5507 cannot be sustained under such general power because Congress did not act in the exercise of such power.
On its face the section is clearly an attempt to exercise power supposed to
be conferred by the Fifteenth Amendment in respect to all elections,
State and Federal, and not in pursuance of the general control by Congress over particular elections. It would be judicial legislation for this
court to change a statute enacted to prevent bribery of persons named in
the Fifteenth Amendment at all elections, to one punishing bribery of any
voter at certain elections.
Congress has the power to punish bribery at Federal elections but it is all
important that a criminal statute should define clearly the offence which
it purports to punish, and that when so defined it should be within the
limits of the power of the legislative body enacting it.

IN December, 1900, an indictment was found by the United
States District Court for the District of Kentucky against the
appellee, Henry Bowman, and one Harry Weaver, based upon
section 5507 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. The
indictment charged in substance that certain "men of African
descent, colored men, negroes, and no.t white men," being citizens of Kentucky and of the United States, were, by means of
bribery, unlawfully and feloniously intimidated and prevented
from exercising their lawful right of voting gt a certain election
held in the Fifth Congressional District of Kentucky on the 8th
day of November, 1898, for the election of a Representative in
the Fifty-sixth Congress of the United States,

OCTOBEI

ERmi, 1902.

Argument for Appellants.

190 U. S.

No allegation is made that the bribery was because of the
race, color or previous condition of servitude of the men bribed.
The appellee, Henry Bowman, having been arrested and held
in default of bail, sued out a writ of habeascorpus on the ground
of the unconstitutionality of section 5507. The District Judge
granted the writ, following reluctantly the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Lackey v. United
States, 46 C. C. A. 189; 107 Fed. Rep. 114. From that judgment the government has taken this appeal.
Section 5507 is as follows:
"SEC. 5507. Every person who prevents, hinders, controls, or
intimidates another from exercising, or in exercising the right
of suffrage, to whom that right is guaranteed by the Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, by means
of bribery br threats of depriving such person of employment
or occupation, or of ejecting such person from a rented house,
lands, or other property, or by threats of refusing to renew
leases or contracts for labor, or by threats of violence to himself or family, shall be punished as provided in the preceding
section."
The Fifteenth Amendment provides:
"SEC. 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote
shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any
State on account of race, color, or previous condition of
servitude.
"SEC. 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt for appellants.
The indictment was for an offence committed at a Federal
election, therefore the only question in the case is as to the
constitutionality of section 5507, Rev. Stat., with respect to
such elections. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit in Lackey v. United States, 107 Fed. Rep.
114, holding that section 5507 was invalid as applied to state
elections, has no application, even if it were controlling in this
court. The source of the power, and the extent of the power
of Congress in each case is quite different. The authority of

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
Argument for Appellants.

190 U. S.

Congress over Federal elections is derived primarily from Article I, sec. 4, of the Constitution. This authority is "plenary
and paramount," and under the decisions of this court extends
to the protection of persons entitled to vote at such elections
against the unlawful acts of individuals as well as officers of
election, the right to vote for a member of Congress being itself founded upon the Constitution. Ex pcrte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371; Exparte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; -n re Coy,. 127 U. S. 731. On the
other hand, the power of Congress over state elections is derived exclusively from the Fifteenth Amendment, and is limited
to appropriate legislation to enforce that amendment.
It may be observed, however, as fortifying the argument
in the abstract, that the general right of suffrage, at state as
well as Federal elections, is contemplated by the law if the
crucial discrimination occurs, because1. The Constitution so indicates,
(a) The language of the Fifteenth Amendment being unqualified, "the right . . . to vote;"
(b) The language of section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment, on an associated subject and showing a cognate intention, including elections for state as well as Federal officers.
2. The statutes shows that intention: e. g., section 2004 obviously applies to state elections and officers, and section 2010,
although now repealed by the act of February 8, 1894, 28
Stat. 36, may be cited to show how the original intent, still
apparent in section 2004, was followed up in other provisions
of the act of 1870.
3. The clear inference from decisions of this court is to the
same effect.
In the Yarbnrough case, 110 U. S. 664, when the court said:
"The Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution .
clearly shows that the right of suffrage was considered to be
of supreme importance to the national government," etc., it
is evident from the paragraphs following that the learned
judge who delivered the opinion had passed on from exclusive
consideration of the right to vote for a member of Congress.
But the questions as to the constitutionality of section 5507
VOL. oxc-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

190 U. S.

in respect of Federal elections, and its application or constitutionality as to state elections, are distinct and separable. The
validity of the statute in the one case cannot be made to depend upon its validity, or the circumstances which would control its validity, in the other case. It cannot be doubted that
a law containing no substantive provision beyond the power
of Congress-no provision clearly encroaching upon a field
outside the competency of Congress-is none the less constitutional because there are occasions (in this instance, state
elections) with respect to which its application might be challenged.
In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, the court merely held
that a general statute relating to state as well as Federal elections, but which contained no reference to the Fifteenth Amendment, or to acts committed because of the race, color, or previous condition of the voter, when considered solely with reference to the power of Congress under that amendment, was
not "appropriate legislation" for its enforcement. The court
did not say, or intimate, that the statute was unconstitutional as
an exercise of the power of Congress over Federal elections
under the fourth section of the First Article of the Constitution. On the contrary, it expressly avoided that question.
This itself is a complete answer to appellee's contention, as it
shows that, in a case arising under a general statute, it is not
necessary to consider the validity of the statute from any other
point of view than that presented by the record. That the
court in the Reese case, would have sustained the statute with
respect to Federal elections, was affirmed by the Circuit Court
in United States v. J]Yunford, 16 Fed. Rep. 223, where the same
statute, as incorporated into the Revised Statutes, was upheld
in regard to such elections.
In the T.rade-Afark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, the court held void
an act of Congress dealing with the subject of trade-marks
generally, because the power of Congress over trade-marks was
limited to those used in interstate commerce. The principle of
both the Reese and Trade-Afark cases is simply that, where
Congress possesses only a special or limited power over a given
subject, it must appear, in the act itself, or from its essential

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
190 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

nature, that it is legislating with regard to that subject and
within the limits of the power granted. But the power of
Congress over Federal elections is absolute; though its power
with respect to state elections is limited. A general act relating to elections should therefore be construed to relate to
Federal elections over which Congress has general control. If
such a statute would be invalid as applied to state elections,
and such invalidity would affect the entire statute, the intention of Congress to go beyond its jurisdiction must be clearly
and explicitly shown. In the present case, the application of
the statute to state elections is a matter of construction only,
and, under well settled principles, that construction should be
rejected, if it would have the result contended for.
In a case arising under section 5507 at a Federal election,
it cannot be said, as was said in the Reese case (where the acts
in question were committed at a state election), that section 5507
provides for an offence not within the jurisdiction of Congress.
The power of Congress to punish bribery per se at a Federal
election, without regard, to motive, cannot be disputed. The
court would not, therefore, be called upon in such a case, to alter
or amend the statute so as to make it relate to an offence within
the control of Congress. Whether section 5507 relate to bribery pure and simple, or to bribery committed because of the
race, color, or previous condition of the voter, it is entirely
within the power of Congress over Federal elections. The
power to punish briberyper se being conceded, no question can
be raised as to the power to punish bribery for any cause. The
greater power necessarily includes the less.
Mr. Swager Sherley, with whom -Mr. WF.B. Dixon was on
the brief, for appellee.
I. Congress has power to control Federal elections and to
make punishable offences committed against the suffrage at such
elections, irrespective of any power derived from the Fifteenth
Amendment. .ExarteSiebold,100 U. S. 375 ; Exparte Carke,
100 U. S. 399. In these cases Mr. Justice Bradley held sections
5515 and 5522 constitutional and in emphatic language declared
the power of Congress to regulate and control Federal elections

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellee.

190 U. S.

and make punishable offences committed at such elections. Such
power in Congress was not rested upon the Fifteenth Amendment, but on the provisions relative to the election of Representatives and the broad power of protecting the sources of its
own existence. In Es parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, and
-Loganv. United States, 144 'U.S. 263, these cases were approved and followed, and so far as the actual facts decided,
the court went a step further and held an indictment under
§§ 5508 and 5520 found against an individual citizen, not an
election officer, to be good.
II.The Fifteenth Amendment is the sole source of power
whereby Congress is vested with the right to legislate as to
state elections, but it is in addition to this a curb on the power
of Congress to legislate as to Congressional elections. By its
very terms it applies both to the Federal and state governments.
What is prohibited to one is also prohibited to the other. The
effect is to both enlarge and curtail Congressional power.
The second clause of the Fifteenth Amendment provides that
"the Congress shall have the power to enforce this article by
appropriate legislation." Now, in order for legislation making
penal acts against the suffrage to be appropriate legislation
under this amendment, such acts must be committed on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, and must be
committed by the State or some agent of the State clothed with
state power, though not necessarily acting within or in accordance with such state power. So far as this amendment is concerned, and we are now to be considered as limiting ourselves
to it, the same would be true as to the United States and its
officers or agents. United States v. R-eese, 92 U. S.214; United
Statesv. Cruiks/iank, 1 Woods, 308 ; S. C., 92 U. S. 555 ; .Xinor
v. ffappersett, 21 Wall. 178.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has just
rendered a decision involving these questions in the case of
Karem v. UnitedStates. The opinion has not yet been reported
in any publication, but we have received a record copy from
which we quote. Karem, with certain other persons, was indicted in the District Court for the Western District of Kentucky for violation of § 5508, Rev. Stat. The indictment, in

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
190 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

substance, charged him with having conspired with others to
injure, oppress, threaten, and intimidate certain negroes in the
free exercise of the right of suffrage at a state election on account of their race, color, and previous condition of servitude.
The court held that § 5508 did not embrace offences committed
as a state election and reversed the case with instructions to
sustain the demurrer to the indictment, quoting from
lVirginia, 100
xarte
Slaughter H~ouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36 ; Eiv
U. S. 339 ; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; United
States v. ifafris, 106 U. S. 629, 638; Vi4,ginia v. 1Rives, 100
U. S. 313; Civil Rights Case, 109 U. S. 3, 11; Chicago, B. &
Q. B. R. v. Oicago, 166 U. S. 226.
The court said: "Appropriate legislation grounded on this
amendment is legislation which is limited to the subject of
discrimination on account of race, color or condition. The act
commonly known as the enforcement act, being the act of
May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 140, contained a number of sections
which were plainly intended to enforce the provisions of the
Fifteenth Amendment. These sections were the first, third,
fourth and fifth. The first has been carried into the Revised
Statutes as section 2004. The third, having been held unconstitutional, is dropped out. The fourth, in a somewhat changed
form, is carried into the Revised Statutes as section 5506, and
the fifth section is section 5507 of the Revised Statutes. The
third, fourth and fifth sections of that act have been held to
have been in excess of the jurisdiction of the Congress under
the Fifteenth Amendment, and therefore null and void. The
ground upon which this conclusion was reached was that
neither section was confined in its operation to discriminations
on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude,
and were broad enough to cover wrongful acts both within
and without the jurisdiction of Congress under this article.
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Lackey v. United States,
46 C. C. A. 189."
While the Circuit Court of Appeals in the KYarem case was
addressing itself to state elections, yet so far as the Fifteenth
Amendment, and the power derived alone therefrom, the reasoning is equally applicable and valid as to Federal elections,

OCTO1ER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellee.

190 U. S.

and as to limitations upon the United States government as
well as the state governments.
III. It is not contended that there are any statutes relating to
offences at Federal elections other than sections 5507 and 5508.
Section 5508 is a conspiracy section and is not involved here.
The whole case, then, narrows down to the question of whether
Congress has constitutionally exercised the power given it over
offences of bribery committed at Federal elections. That it
has the power to make punishable such offences we conceded
in the fore part of this brief.
That section 5507 was intended to be appropriate legislation
under the Fifteenth Amendment only is, we think, apparent.
It was so regarded by the District Judge below, and in the
opinion of that court, referring to this section, it is said: "Is
this appropriate legislation, and within the power of Congress,
under section 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment?"
And nowhere
in that opinion is there any attempt to base the constitutionality of the section upon other clauses of the Constitution.
That the section is not appropriate legislation under the
amendment, though based on it, is, we think, apparent. This was
the exact question decided by the Lackey case, supra, and the
reason there given was "that section 5507 is void, as including
within its operation offences not grounded upon race, color, or
previous condition of servitude."
Can, then, a statute that is based on the Fifteenth Amendment, and that is meant to apply to offences committed at all
elections, Federal and state, but which is not appropriate legislation under that amendment, and therefore not constitutional
as to state election offences, be limited by judicial construction
to Federal elections and upheld by reference to powers granted
Congress as to Federal elections only?
We believe the answer to this question is found in the following cases: United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; TradeMark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; United States v. Harris,106 U. S.
629.
Section 5507 is a very different section in its scope and purpose from section 5508. This latter section is a general law
that applies to a conspiracy to injure, etc., any person in the

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

free exercise of a right secured to him by the Constitution and
laws of the United States. It applies to all manner of rights
other than those simply of suffrage. It is limited to a Federal
right. No question could arise as to its constitutionality; the
only question would be whether it applied to any given case,
and since the statute is general and does not show that Congress intended it to apply to any particular state of facts, the
question of whether it so applies becomes one of whether Congress had the power to legislate as to the particular case. If
it did not, the conclusion is that section 5508 was not meant to
cover such a case, the presumption being that Congress intended
to pass a constitutional law. So we find the courts holding
the section constitutional in Federal elections, as in the Yarbrough case, and holding it not to apply in state elections, as in
the Karem, case.
But section 5507 plainly applies to all elections, and it requires judicial construction in the face of its plain meaning
to restrict it to Federal elections. The court must add the
words "at a Federal election" to so narrow it; and this is just
what this court has said may not be done. The only case not
in accord with this position that we have found is that of United States v. Aitunford, 16 Fed. Rep. 223. That court held
section 5506 constitutional, and distinguished it from the Reese
case by holding that when Congress reenacted section 4 of the
enforcement act as section 5506, it modified it sufficiently to
make that section apply only to Federal elections, "leaving
out of it the words which, in the case of Reese, had been considered to bring it under the Fifteenth Amendment."
The appellee contends that section 5507 is unconstitutional,
and while Congress may provide for the punishment of bribery
by an individual at Congressional elections, it has not constitutionally done so, and that the judgment of the District Court
must be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question presented for our consideration is
whether section 5507 can be upheld as a valid enactment, for if

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

not, the indictment must also fall, and the defendant was
rightfully discharged. On its face the section purports to be
an exercise of the power granted to Congress by the Fifteenth
Amendment, for it declares a punishment upon any one who
by means of bribery prevents another to whom the right of
suffrage is guaranteed by such amendment from exercising
that right. But that amendment relates solely to action "by
the United States or by any State," and does not contemplate
wrongful individual acts. It is in this respect similar to the
following clauses in the Fourteenth Amendment:
"1No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States;
nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
Each of these clauses has been often held to relate to action
by a State and not by individuals. As said in Virginiav.
Bives, 100 U. S.313, 318:
"The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution we have quoted all have reference to state action exclusively, and not to any action of private individuals."
Again, in ]Ex2parte Viginia, 100 U. S.339, 346:
"They have reference to actions of the political body denominated a State, by whatever instruments or in whatever
modes that action may be taken. A State acts by its legislative, its executive, or its judicial authorities. It can act in no
other way. The constitutional provision, therefore, must mean
that no agency of the State, or of the officers or agents by
whom its powers are exerted, shall deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
Again, in United States v. Cruikshane, 92 U. S.542, 554:
"The Fourteenth Amendment prohibits a State from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws; but this provision does not, any more than the
one which precedes it, and which we have just considered, add
anything to the rights which one citizen has under the Constitution against another. The equality of the rights of citizens
is a principle of republicanism. Every republican government

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is in duty bound to protect all its citizens in the enjoyment of
this principle, if within its power. That duty was orignally
assumed by the States; and it still remains there. The only
obligation resting upon the United States is to see that the
States do not deny the right. This the amendment guarantees,
but no more. The power of the national government is limited
to the enforcement of this guaranty."
In COivil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 13:
"And so in the present case, until some state law has been
passed, or some state action through its officers or agents has
been taken, adverse to the rights of citizens sought to be protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, no legislation of the
United States under said amendment, nor any proceeding under
such legislation, can be called into activity; for the prohibitions
of the amendment are against state laws and acts done under
state authority. Of course, legislatidn may, and should be,
provided in advance to meet the exigency when it arises; but
it should be adapted to the mischief and wrong which the
amendment was intended to provide against ; and that is, state
laws, or state action of some kind, adverse to the rights of the
citizen secured by the amendment. Such legislation cannot
properly cover the whole domain of rights appertaining to life,
liberty and property, defining them and providing for their
vindication. That would be to establish a code of municipal
law regulative of all private rights between man and man in
society. It would be to make Congress take the place of the
state legislatures and to supersede them. It is absurd to affirm
that, because the rights of life, liberty and property (which include all civil rights that men have) are by the amendment
sought to be protected against invasion on the part of the State
without due process of law, Congress may therefore provide
due process of law for their vindication in every case; and
that, because the denial by a State to any persons of the equal
protection of the laws is prohibited by the amendment, therefore Congress may establish laws for their equal protection.
In fine, the legislation which Congress is authorized to adopt
in this behalf is not general legislation upon the rights of the
citizen, but corrective legislation, that is, such as may be nec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

essary and proper for counteracting such laws as the States
may adopt or enforce, and which, by the amendment, they are
prohibited from making or enforcing, or such acts and proceedings as the States may commit or take, and which, by the
amendment, they are prohibited from committing or taking."
In United States v. Harris,106 U. S.629, 639:
"The language of the amendment does not leave this subject
in doubt. When the State has been guilty of no violation of
its provisions; when it has not made or enforced any law
abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; when no one of its departments has deprived any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, or
denied to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws; when, on the contrary, the laws of the State, as
enacted by its legislative, and construed by its judicial, and
administered by its executive departments, recognize and protect the rights of all persons, the amendment imposes no duty
and confers no power upon Congress."
See also Slaughter-Hlouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36 ; Scott v. fcNeal,
154 U. S.34, 45 Cicago,Burlington&c. Railroadv. Chicago,
166 U. S.226, 233.
But we are not left alone to this reasoning from analogy.
The Fifteenth Amendment itself has been considered by this
court and the same limitations placed upon its provisions. In
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.214, 217, we said:
"The Fifteenth Amendment does not confer the right of
suffrage upon any one. It prevents the States, or the United
States, however, from giving preference, in this particular, to
one citizen of the United States over another on account of
race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Before its
adoption this could be done. It was as much within the power
of a State to exclude citizens of the United States from voting
on account of race, etc., as it was on account of age, property
or education. Now it is not. If citizens of one race having
certain qualifications are permitted by law to vote, those of
another having the same qualifications must be. Previous
to this amendment, there was no constitutional guaranty
against this discrimination; now there is. It follows that the

JAMES r. BOWMAN
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amendment has invested the citizens of the United States with
a new constitutional right which is within the protecting power
of Congress. That right is exemption from discrimination in
the exercise of the elective franchise on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude. This, under the express provisions of the second section of the amendment, Congress may
enforce by ' appropriate legislation.'"
In passing it may be noticed that this indictment charges
no wrong done by the State of Kentucky, or by any one acting
under its authority. The matter complained of was purely an
individual act of the defendant. Nor is it charged that the
bribery was on account of race, color or previous condition of
servitude. True, the parties who were bribed were alleged
to be "men of African descent, colored men, negroes, and not
white men," and again, that they were " persons to whom the
right of suffrage and the right to vote was then and there
guaranteed by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States." But this merely describes the parties
wronged as within the classes named in the amendment. They
were not bribed because they were colored men, but because
they were voters. INo discrimination on account of race, color
or previous condition of servitude is charged.
These authorities show that a statute which purports to
punish purely individual action cannot be sustained as an appropriate exercise of the power conferred by the Fifteenth
Amendment upon Congress to prevent action by the State
through some one or more of its official representatives, and
that an indictment which charges no discrimination on account
of race, color or previous condition of servitude is likewise destitute of support by such amendment.
But the contention most earnestly pressed is that Congress
has ample power in respect to elections of Representatives in
Congress; that the election which was held, and at which this
bribery took place, was such an election; and that therefore
under such general power this statute and this indictment can
be sustained. The difficulty with this contention is that
Congress has not by this section acted in the exercise of such
power. It is not legislation in respect to elections of Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

officers, but is levelled at all elections, state or Federal, and it
does not purport to punish bribery of any voter, but simply of
those named in the Fifteenth Amendment. On its face it is
clearly an attempt to exercise power supposed to be conferred
by the Fifteenth Amendment in respect to all elections, and
not in pursuance of the general control by Congress over particular elections. To change this statute, enacted to punish
bribery of persons named in the Fifteenth Amendment at all
elections, to a statute punishing bribery of any voter at certain
elections would be in effect judicial legislation. It would be
wresting the statute from the purpose with which it was enacted and making it serve another purpose. Doubtless even
a criminal statute may be good in part and bad in part, providing the two can be clearly separated, and it is apparent that the
legislative body would have enacted the one without the other,
but there are no two parts to the statute. If the contention be
sustained it is simply a transformation of the statute in its single.
purpose and scope. This question has been by this court in two
cases carefully considered and fully determined. In United
States v. Reese, supra, there was an indictment, one count of
which was based upon the third and another upon the fourth
section of the act of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 140, the fifth section
of which act is substantially repeated in section 5507, Rev.
Stat. It is true that, as stated, section four contains "no
words of limitation or reference even that can be construed as
manifesting any intention to confine its provisions to the terms
of the Fifteenth Amendment. That section has for its object
the punishment of all persons who by force, bribery, etc., hinder,
delay, etc., any person from qualifying or voting." And it is
also true that the government expressly waived the consideration of all claims not arising out of the enforcement of the
Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution. Nevertheless the
decision is directly in point. We said (p. 221):
"We are, therefore, directly called upon to decide whether
a penal statute enacted by Congress, with its limited powers,
which is in general language broad enough to cover wrongful
acts without as well as within the constitutional jurisdiction,
can be limited by judicial construction so as to make it operate

JAMES v. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

only on that which Congress may rightfully prohibit and
punish. For this purpose, we must take these sections of the
statute as they are. We are not able to reject a part which is
unconstitutional, and retain the remainder, because it is not possible to separate that which is unconstitutional, if there be any
such, from that which is not. The proposed effect is not to be
attained by striking out or disregarding words that are in the
section, but by inserting those that are not now there. Each of
the sections must stand as a whole, or fall altogether. The
language is plain. There is no room for construction, unless
it be as to the effect of the Constitution. The question, then,
to be determined, is, whether we can introduce words of limitation into a penal statute so as to make it specific, when, as
expressed, it is general only.
"It would certainly be dangerous if the legislature could set
a net large enough to catch all possible offenders, and leave it
to the courts to step inside and say who could be rightfully detained, and who should be set at large. This would, to some
extent, substitute the judicial for the legislative department of
the goverment.

.

.

To limit this statute in the manner now

.

asked for would be to make a new law, not to enforce an old
one. This is no part of our duty."
Again, in the Trad&.eark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, the validity of
an indictment under the fourth and fifth sections of the act of
Congress to punish the counterfeiting of trade-marks, 19 Stat.
141, was considered. The Congressional enactments at that time
attempted to authorize trade-marks generally, and the statute
referred to was equally general. It was held that under the
Constitution, Congress did not have control over the subject of
trade-marks generally, and, referring to the contention that to
a limited extent it had, we said (p. 98):
"It has been suggested that if Congress has power to regulate
trade-marks used in commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States, these statutes shall be held valid in that class
of cases, if no further.

.

.

.

While it may be true that when

one part of a statute is valid and constitutional, and another
part is unconstitutional and void, the court may enforce the
valid part where they are distinctly separable, so that each can
stand alone, it is not within the judicial province to give to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

words used by Congress a narrower meaning than they are
manifestly intended to bear in order that crimes may be punished which are not described in language that brings them
within the constitutional power of that body. This precise
point was decided in United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214. In
that case Congress had passed a statute punishing election
officers who should refuse to any person lawfully entitled to do
so the right to cast his vote at an election. This court was of
the opinion that, as regarded the section of the statute then under consideration, Congress could only punish such denial when
it was on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. It was urged, however, that the general description of
the offence included the more limited one, and that the section
was valid where such was in fact the cause of denial. But the
court said" (and then follows the quotation we have already
made from that case).
We deem it unnecessary to add anything to the views expressed in these opinions. We are fully sensible of the great
wrong which results from bribery at elections, and do not question the power of Congress to punish such offences when committed in respect to the election of Federal officials. At the
same time it is all-important that a criminal statute should define clearly the offence which it purports to punish, and that
when so defined it should be within the limits of the power of
the legislative body enacting it. Congress has no power to
punish bribery at all elections. The limits of its power are in
respect to elections in which the riation is directly interested,
or in which some mandate of the National Constitution is disobeyed, and courts are not at liberty to take a criminal statute,
broad and comprehensive in its terms and in these terms beyond the power of Congress, and change it to fix some particular transaction which Congress might have legislated foi if it
had seen fit.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affi.med.
MR.
case.
M

TusTic.

MOKENNA

. JUSTIcE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this

and MR.JUSTIcF, BnowN dissented.

