BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

the law enjoins upon him as a duty, should be released?

There

is no language in the act which plainly so provides, and we ought
not to infer it.
The amendments to the bankruptcy act passed in 1903, 32 Stat.
797, contain an amendment of section 17 of the act of 1898, which
relates to debts not affected by a discharge, and it provides,

among those not released by a discharge in bankruptcy, a debt due
or to become due for alimony, or for the maintenance or support of wife or child. It is true that the provisions of the amendatory act are not to apply to cases pending before their enactment. They are only referred to here for the purpose of showing
the legislative trend in the direction of not discharging an obligation of the bankrupt for the support and maintenance of wife
or children.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 26.

Argued April 29, 30, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

An administratrix of one who in 1818 became a member of a firm which
had in 1798 sustained losses, resulting in what are known as French
Spoliation Claims, presented the claims under the act of 1885 to the
Court of Claims and obtained awards therefor. The findings clearly
showed that the Court of Claims proceeded on the assumption that her
intestate was a member of the firm when the losses were sustained. In
1899, Congress appropriated money to pay certain claims which had been
favorably passed on by the Court of Claims including those awarded to
this administratrix as such and as representing such firm. After collecting the amounts she applied to a state court of competent jurisdiction for instructions as to distribution of the fund. Next of kin of the
partners of 1798 denied that her intestate could share in the fund under
.'the provisions of the act of 1885, which limited payments thereunder to
next of kin of the original sufferers ; she contended that the awards of
the Court of Claims and the appropriation by Congress to her as adminis- tratrix were conclusive as to the right of her intestate to participate in
the awards.
.Held,that it was not the duty of the Court of Claims under the act of 1885

VOL. Oxc-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

to investigate and determine the rights of each individual of a class, but
only to determine the validity and amount of a claim with a specification of ownership sufficient to identify the claim itself for the payment
of which an appropriation might thereafter be made, and the particular
individuals of the class would be matter for subsequent investigation by
some other tribunal.
Held, that it was not within the intention of Congress to conclusively determine by the appropriation act of 1899 what persons were entitled
thereto, but the payments were intended to be for the next of kin of the
original sufferers.
Held, that as it was clear in this case that the party named in the appropriation act was not entitled absolutely to the money as her own, and
as she had submitted the question of distribution to a court of equity,
that court had jurisdiction to determine the real meaning and proper
construction of the act of Congress and who were entitled to the funds
in her hands.
Held, that on the facts in this case, there was no error in holding that the
next of kin of the members of the firm in 1798 were entitled to the fund
to the exclusion of the next of kin of one who subsequently became a
member thereof.

plaintiff in error, Esther S. Buchanan, filed her bill in
Circuit Court No. 2, of Baltimore city, on August 17, 1899,
against the parties defendant, for the purpose of obtaining the
instructions of that court as to whom and in what proportions
she should pay and distribute certain sums of money received
by her from the United States under what are termed the
French Spoliations acts of Congress. Answers were made by
the various parties and a decree was subsequently entered giving directions for the distribution of the funds. An appeal
from that decree was taken by some of the defendants to the
Court of Appeals, and that court reversed a portion of the decree, (as to the proper distribution of the money,) and remanded
the case for further proceedings. 92 Maryland, 334. The trial
court then entered a decree in accordance with the directions
of the Court of Appeals, and thereupon the original plaintiff,
Esther S. Buchanan, appealed to the Court of Appeals, and that
court then affirmed the decree of the court below. 94 Maryland, 534. Plaintiffs in error bring the case here by writ of
error.
The first act of Congress relating to the French Spoliations
was passed January 20, 1885. 23 Stat. 283.
THE

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Miss Buchanan was, in May, 1885, duly appointed administratrix upon the estate of her father, William B. Buchanan,
deceased. She then, through her counsel and in common with
other claimants for losses sustained by the seizures of the two
vessels Patapsco and Jane, came into the Court of Claims and
proved the facts upon which the rights of the several claimants
were based as against the United States. In presenting the
claims, she did in truth represent, with their consent, all the
parties interested therein, including those now claiming against
her.
The court reported (May 18, 1887) that the seizures of the two
vessels complained of were illegal, and that the claimants were
entitled to the following sums from the United States. A list
was then given of those entitled to an appropriation, on account
of the ship Patapsco, in which was included the name of Esther S.
Buchanan, as follows:
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix of the estate of William
Buchanan, who was the surviving partner of the firm of S. Smith
& Buchanan, deceased, to the sum of $25,056."
In relation to the ship Jane, in the list of those entitled to
an appropriation was the following:
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix, representing Smith &
Buchanan, $11,660.21."
After this report had been made, and on March 23, 1891,
Esther S. Buchanan was duly appointed administratrix de bonis
non with the will annexed of the personal estate of James A.
Buchanan, her grandfather.
No action of Congress in relation to these claims was had
until 1899, when an act was passed, approved March 3, 1899,
30 Stat. 1161. The act provided for the payment of claims
allowed under the Bowman and Tucker acts by the Court of
Claims, and on page 1191 it provided as follows:
"French Spoliation Claims.
"To pay the findings of the Court of Claims on the following
claims for indemnity for spoliations by the French prior to
July thirtieth, eighteen hundred and one, under the act entitled
'An act to provide for the ascertainment of claims of American

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

citizens for spoliations committed by the French prior to the
thirty-first day of July, eighteen hundred and one:' Provided,
That in all cases where the original sufferers were adjudicated
bankrupts the awards shall be made on behalf of the next of
kin instead of to assignees in bankruptcy, and the awards in
the cases of individual claimants shall not be paid until the
Court of Claims shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury
that the personal representatives on whose behalf the award is
made represent the next of kin, and the courts which granted
the administrations, respectively, shall have certified that the
legal representatives have given adequate security for the legal
disbursements of the awards, namely."
Then follow appropriations to a number of claimants in satisfaction of the losses sustained by the illegal seizures of vessels
and cargoes.
Among them, on page 1194, is included the following:
"On the ship Jane, John Wallace, master, namely:
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix, representing Smith &
Buchanan, $11,660.21."
On page 1195 is the following:
"On the ship Patapsco, William Hill, master, namely:
(names of various claimants for other interests in same ship).
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix of the estate of William B. Buchanan, who was the surviving partner of the firm
of S. Smith & Buchanan, deceased, $25,056, the value of the
cargo shipped by said firm."
Pursuant to the proviso in the act of 1899, the Court of
of Claims, upon the application of the attorney of record for
Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix, representing Smith &
Buchanan, deceased, ordered, in the case of the ship Jane, a
certificate to be issued to the Secretary of the Treasury, as
follows:
"The Court of Claims hereby certifies that it appears by evidence on file in the above-entitled case that said Esther S. Buchanan, on whose behalf an appropriation or award was made by
the act of March 3, 1899, entitled 'An act for the allowance of
certain claims for stores and supplies reported by the Court of
Claims under the provisions of the act approved 'March third,

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

eighteen hundred and eighty-three, and commonly known as
the Bowman act, and for other purposes,' for the sum of eleven
thousand six hundred and sixty dollars and twenty-one cents
($11,660.21), represents the next of kin of William B. Buchanan, the surviving member of the firm of Samuel Smith &
Buchanan, deceased, the original owner of the claim upon which
said award was made.
"And the court further certifies that it appears on the record of the said case that at the time when the award of this
court was made the said claim was not held by assignment or
owned by an insurance company."
The same kind of a certificate was made in relation to the
ship Patapsco.
These certificates were made on June 15, 1899, and were
filed with the Secretary of the Treasury, and the moneys mentioned, being a total of $36,716.21, were thereafter paid to
Miss Buchanan.
Having received the money from the Government, the plaintiff in error then commenced this suit individually, and as administratrix of the estate of William B. Buchanan, deceased,
and as administratrix de bomis ion with the will annexed of
James A. Buchanan, deceased, in Circuit Court No. 2, of Baltimore city, in which she stated the various facts under which
the money had been paid her, and that she had in her hands
for distribution, among the persons particularly entitled to the
same, the sum of $22,629.47, after the payment of all costs,
etc. She also averred that she was advised that she held
funds for the benefit of and distribution among, not only the
next of kin of her own decedent, the said William B. Buchanan,
but also the next of kin of the other partners of said firm of
S. Smith & Buchanan, to wit, Samuel Smith and James A.
Buchanan, in the proportions and according to the laws of distribution which the court might hold to be proper in the cause.
She also gave the names of the next of kin of William B.
Buchanan, namely, herself and her brother, Wilson C. Buchanan, and then stated who were the next of kin of James A.
Buchanan, deceased, living at the date of the passage of the act
of Congress directing the payment of the claims, to wit, March 3,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

1899, so far as they were known to her, and she stated that
she had given the names of all of the next of kin of Samuel
Smith and James A. Buchanan living at the time of the passage
of the act of Congress, March 3, 1899, although she said there
might be others unknown to her who might lay claim to participate in the distribution of the fund, and she was in doubt as
to the proportion in which the beneficiaries should participate
in the shares of their ancestors in the fund. She then stated:
"Twelfth. That according to the information and belief of
your oratrix, the said Samuel Smith, James A. Buchanan and
William B. Buchanan were equal copartners, but a claim has
been made on your oratrix by Robert Carter Smith, one of the
distributees of Samuel Smith, and a paxty defendant herein,
wherein he asserts that his ancestor, the said Samuel Smith,
had a one half interest in the property of said copartnership,
and that, therefore, the next of kin of the said Samuel Smith
are entitled to have for distribution among them one half of
the fund now in the hands of your oratrix for distribution;
but your oratrix is informed and does verily believe that distribution of said fund should be made in three equal parts
among the next of kin of the three partners in said firm of
S. Smith & Buchanan."
Other facts were given in relation to the existence of parties
who might possibly claim some interest in the fund, and in her
complaint she finally said that, by reason of the facts above
set forth, she was in doubt to whom and in what proportion
she should pay and distribute the sum of money in her hands,
and that she was advised and therefore alleges that a distribution of the same can only bE had under the order of a court of
equity in a manner adequate to insure her own protection in
the future. She thereupon asked that the court assume jurisdiction of the fund in her hands as administratrix, as already
set forth, and that it direct and supervise the distribution of
the same among the parties whom the court may find to be
entitled to participate therein, according to the proportion
and rule which this court may declare to govern the same.
Answers were made by some of the parties and the bill taken
as confessed as against others. Upon the trial evidence was

BUCHANAN
190 U. S.

ti. PATTERSON.

Counsel for Parties.

given under objection, and the state court has found that at
the time of the illegal seizures of the vessels in 198 William B.
Buchanan was about three years old, he having been born on
September 9, 1795; that in 1798, the year the losses occurred,
there was a firm of S. Smith & Buchanan, consisting only of
S. Smith and James A. Buchanan, the father of William B.
Buchanan, and they were the only original sufferers from the
illegal seizures of the ships. William B. Buchanan did not
become a member of the firm until about twenty years later,
or until January 1, 1818, and he became the survivor of the
firm formed in 1818, which was also known as S. Smith &
Buchanan.
It thus appears that although William B. Buchanan was the
survivor of a firm of S. Smith & Buchanan, as that firm was constituted in 1818, he was not the survivor of the firm of S. Smith &
Buchanan, as that firm was constituted in 1798, when these
illegal seizures occurred.
The trial court held that the moneys should be divided into
three portions, one of which should go to the next of kin of
Samuel Smith, another to the next of kin of James A. Buchanan
and another to the next of kin of Willian B. Buchanan, being
Esther S. and Wilson C. Buchanan.
The Court of Appeals, on appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court, held that this was an erroneous disposition of the money,
and that it should be divided into two portions, one of which
should go to the next of kin of Samuel Smith, and the other to
the next of kin of James A. Buchanan; Samuel Smith and
James A. Buchanan being the only members of the firm that
sustained the losses and being the original sufferers from the
illegal seizures. The writ of error has been sued out for the purpose of reviewing this decree.
X1. Arch'cibald H. Taylor and MrM. Edward P. lfeech, J'.,
for plaintiffs in error. Xr. John Pierce Bruns was on the
brief.
M. Artleur TT.achen, Jr., r . Frank P. Clark and Mr.
Arthur W. Machen for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM1,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PeCKHKM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of the plaintiffs in error is that Congress, by
the acts mentioned, and particularly that of Mfarch 3, 1899,
ratified and adopted the findings and decisions of the Court of
Claims made in pursuance of the act of 1885, in the cases
of the two ships Patapsco and Jane, and that the act of
1899 recognized and designated William B. Buchanan as an
original sufferer within the meaning of Congress, by virtue of
his being a partner, and the surviving partner,'of S. Smith &
Buchanan, and that the act gave to the personal representative
of William B. Buchanan the awards in question, for the benefit
of his next of kin and the next of kin of his two partners.
They also assert that the Court of Claims having made the additional final certificate required by the act of Congress, and
the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with those certificates, having paid the money to the plaintiff in error, administratrix, for the benefit of the next of kin of William B. Buchanan, to the full extent of his partnership interest in th6 firm,
there was no power in any court to in anywise alter the statute
or make any other distribution than such as would give to the
next of kin of William B. Buchanan one third of the total sum
to be distributed.
It becomes necessary, in order to fully appreciate the action
of the Court of Claims and of Congress subsequently to the
passage of the act of 1885, to examine the latter act and determine its scope and purpose. The act provided for an investigation to be undertaken by the court as to the validity of
the claims for indemnity upon the French Government, for
losses of citizens of the United States or their legal representatives, arising from illegal captures, seizures, etc., of vessels or
cargoes prior to the treaty of 1800 between France and the
United States. The act did not assume to provide for the
identification of all the next of kin of the original sufferers from
such illegal seizures. The court was to determine the validity
and the amount of the claims included within the description
contained in section 1 of the act of 1885, and it was also to de-

3UCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

termine the present ownership of such claims. The matter of
chief importance between the claimants and the United States
was for the court to ascertain and determine the validity and
the extent of the claims.
The particular class of persons who were the owners of the
claims and to whom the moneys might be properly paid was
at this time of subsidiary importance, so far as the United
States was concerned. Although the present ownership was
to be determined, and if by assignee, the date of the assignment and the consideration paid therefor, yet this was obviously
for the mere purpose of informing Congress as to the present situation of a claim, whether owned by next of kin of those
who suffered the loss or by assignees, but the particular individuals who composed the next of kin or the assignees were not
then of importance, as gathered from the language and purpose
of the act. All this action of the court was by the terms of
the act made advisory only. Congress specifically withheld
from the court any right to render a judgment which would in
any manner conclude the United States or commit it to the
payment of any claims determined by the court under the third
section of the act. All that Congress did was to give jurisdiction to the Court of Claims to inquire into the matter of each
claim which might be pr:esented to it and to report to Congress
its opinion of the validity and the amount of the claim with a
statement as to its ownership. The whole subject thereafter
remained with Congress subject to its future action.
Regarding its powers and duties under this act, the Court
of Claims itself stated its opinion in the case of The i871ip Jane,
24 C. 01. 74. It held that the court could not determine to
whom the money should be distributed, which Congress might
thereafter award as indemnity in the French Spoliations cases,
nor could it determine who were the next of kin of a deceased
claimant, nor whether there were any. All that the court
could determine in its report to Congress was the validity of a
claim against France, its relinquishment by the United States
and the amount thereof. It also held that its decisions in these
cases were not judgments which judicially affect the rights of
any one, and that after the court had reported a French Spolia-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

tion case it remained with Congress to determine, first, the measure of the indemnity which the United States should give;
and, second, the persons who were equitably entitled to participate therein. The purpose of the court was, as it stated, to
require a claimant to file his letters of administration and
prove to the satisfaction of the court that the decedent whose estate he administered was the same person, who suffered loss
through the capture of a vessel.
Again, in The Leghorn Seizures (Field,Administrator, v.
United States), 27 C. C1. 224, the court held that the French
Spoliations act of 1885 conferred jurisdiction, but did not impose liabilities; that Congress conceded that several classes of
claimants seeking redress for French spoliations might come
into the Court of Claims and have the question of the liability
of the United States determined, and conceded nothing more.
From these extracts it is plain that the Court of Claims did
not regard it as its duty under the act of 1885 to investigate
and determine the rights of each individual of a class, but
only to determine the validity and amount of a claim, with a
specification of ownership sufficient to identify the claim itself,
for the payment of which an appropriation might be thereafter
made. The particular individuals of the class would be matter
for subsequent investigation by some other tribunal.
In Blagge v. Balch, 162 U. S. 439, the meaning and purpose
of the act of 1885, together with the act of March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 862, 908, came before this court for consideration, and it
was held that the result of the action of Congress was to place
the payments prescribed under the act of 1891 within the category of payments by way of gratuity and grace, and not as of
right as against the Government; that under the proviso contained in the act of 1891, Congress intended the next of kin to
be beneficiaries in every case, and excluded creditors, legatees,
assignees and all strangers to the blood, and that the words
"next of kin," as used in the proviso, meant next of kin living
at the date of the act (1891), to be determined according to the
statute of distribution of the respective States of the domicil
of the original sufferers.
The court distinguished the case from Comegys v. lFasse, 1

13UCIIANAN ?. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pet. 193, and Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529. In these
cases it was held that assignees in bankruptcy took title to the
moneys.
The same proviso mentioned in _Blagge v. Bale, swcra, and
contained in the act of March 3, 1891, is found in the act of
1899, 30 Stat. 1161, 1191. So we know from the above case that
the desire of Congress was to make payments to the next of
kin of the original sufferers of the losses, and that assignees in
bankruptcy should not take. The identification of the particular persons belonging to the class that Congress desired to aid
was evidently not within the purpose of the act of 1891 or that
of 1899.
Under the act of 1885, the plaintiff in error, Esther S. Buchanan, presented the claims arising out of the capture of the
vessels Patapsco and Jane, together with their cargoes. It is
not disputed-on the contrary, it is admitted-that she represented on the trial before the Court of Claims, with their consent, all the parties interested in the claim of S. Smith & Buchanan, including those who now claim in opposition to her so
far as the proportion of the award to be paid to the different
parties is concerned. That she represented these different persons, with their consent, in the examination before the Court of
Claims, shows that there was between them at that time no diverse interest involved; that, so far as regarded the validity of
the whole claim and its amount, the parties were situated alike,
and had the same interest as against the United States in proving the validity of their claim and the amount thereof. That
she was authorized to receive the amount that might be awarded,
and that thereafter the question of proportion and distribution
would arise, is a plain deduction from the facts stated. As the
material point before the Court of Claims was the validity of
the claim and its amount, in regard to which all claimants appeared in the same interest, it was not of much moment who
should be named to receive the award (if any were to be made),
and therefore the statement by the court that Esther S. Buchanan was the administratrix of William B. Buchanan, the survivor of the firm, was not calculated to call for any comment,
for the reason, as stated, that the appropriation would be to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

representative of the next of kin, the individual members of
which might be thereafter identified. The history given by
the Court of Claims was, upon the question of ownership, just
enough to form a basis for an appropriation to some one, who
would thereupon distribute to the proper persons among themselves. The reports of the court were not intended as an identification of such persons.
After the report of the Court of Claims to Congress, Miss
Buchanan had in 1891 taken out letters of administration upon
the estate of James A. Buchanan. Soon after the passage of
the act of 1899 she obtained the certificates already referred to
from the Court of Claims, in one of which, in regard to the
ship Jane, it was stated that she "represents the next of kin of
William B. Buchanan, the surviving member of the firm of
Samuel Smith & Buchanan, deceased, the original owners of
the claim upon which said award was made," and in the other
certificate, in regard to the ship Pataipsco, it was stated that
she "represents the next of kin of William B. Buchanan, surviving partner, etc., deceased, the original owner of the claim
upon which said award was made." These certificates obviously proceeded upon the report which the courts had theretofore made in these two cases, and in which it is plain that the
court reported the fact that the members of the firm of S.
Smith & Buchanan, as that firm was constituted in 1798, were
the original sufferers of the loss in 1798. It is also plain that
the court assumed that the William B. Buchanan named in the
certificate was a member of the firm in 1798, which suffered
the loss, and it was to the administratrix of the survivor of
that firm (1798) that the certificate in truth applied. This
simply carried out the purpose of the court, expressly stated
in this case, to insist that the decedent whose estate was administered was the same person who suffered loss through the
capture of a vessel. In the certificates, as well as in the report
of the Court of Claims, it is evident that the court assumed
that the persons entitled to the distributive share of the moneys
were the next of kin of the original sufferers, whoever they
might turn out to be, although the court supposed that William
B. Buchanan was the survivor of the firm that suffered the loss
in 1798.

BUCHANAN v. PATTLERSON.

100 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case of United States v. Giliiat, 164 U. S. 42, simply
holds that under the special statute therein referred to the certificate made by the Court of Claims and sent to the Secretary
of the Treasury was conclusive, and the United States had no
right of appeal from the conclusion stated in the certificate.
In this case, the Court of Claims thought there were three
members of the firm of S. Smith & Buchanan at the time of
these captures. In the fourth finding, in regard to the ship
Patapsco, the court reported that "John Donnell and the firm
of S. Smith & Buchanan owned jointly the cotton shipped on
that vessel, and that Samuel Smith, James A. Buchanan and
William B. Buchanan, citizens of the United States, formed the
said firm of S. Smith & Buchanan ;" that is, formed the firm
at the time of the capture in 1798; and in the tenth finding
the court found that on November 9, 1820, "said Samuel Smith,
James A. Buchanan and William B. Buchanan, copartners, and
trading as hereinbefore set forth as copartners, under the firm
name of S. Smith & Buchanan, assigned" to assignees for the
benefit of their creditors. Thus the court assumed that the
firm consisted of the same members in 1798 and in 1820, and
that William B. Buchanan was the survivor. This is clearly a
mistake. William B. Buchanan was born in 195, and was
then, at the time of these captures, but three years old, and
was not a member of the firm at that time, as the state court
finds. But clearly the Court of Claims had reference to the
firm as it was composed when the losses occurred, whoever in
fact were then the members of that firm.
There is nothing in its report which would show that it regarded William B. Buchanan as one of the original sufferers
because of his being a member of the firm of 1818, of S. Smith
& Buchanan. The whole history of the case as given by the
court shows that William B. Buchanan was mistakenly supposed to have been a member of the firm in 1798, and it was
on that account that he was regarded as the survivor of that
firm. Whatever equity the parties might claim on account of
William B. Buchanan becoming a member of the firm in 1818,
it is plain that those equities were not regarded or known or
supposJed tp p.4 by the Court of Claims.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Taking this report of the Court of Claims, it seems to us evident that the appropriations for the payment of the claims
made by the act of 1899, 30 Stat. 1194, 1195, proceeded upon
the report made by that court to Congress in these cases, and
that the language of that act, in the case of the ship Jane, to
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix, representing Smith &
Buchanan, $11,660.21," and in the case of the ship Patapsco,
"Esther S. Buchanan, administratrix of the estate of William
B. Buchanan, who was the surviving partner of the firm of
S. Smith & Buchanan, deceased, $25,056, the value of the cargo
shipped by said firm," when taken in connection with the
other facts as to the firm of 1798, shows that the appropriation
was intended for the administratrix of the survivor of the original firm existing in 1798, at the time the losses occurred, and
that the next of kin of the members of that firm at that time
were in reality the parties intended by Congress to receive its
gratuity. It was not within the intention of Congress to determine by the appropriation who those persons were, but the
appropriation was to Esther S. Buchanan as a representative
of the class; in other words, the representative of the next of
kin of the original sufferers, without therein determining who
they were. The intent of Congress to make the payment in
each case to the representative of those who were next of kin
of the original sufferers, or in other words, of the firm as it
stood in 1798, we think is perfectly certain. Whoever they
might be, Congress intended the payment to be for those who
were the next of kin, and it did not conclude the fact as to
who they were, by appropriating the money to Esther S. Buchanan. It was to be for her as the representative of the next of
kin of the original sufferers.
Congress could, of course, have given this fund to any one it
chose, as it was a case of gratuity in any event; but the question is, what did Congress, in fact, mean when it made the appropriation in the act of 1899, and that meaning, we feel convinced, was as we have already stated.
The cases of United States v. Jordan, 113 U. S. 418; United
States v. Price,116 U. S. 43, and United States v. -Louisville,169
U. S. 249, ari jot in conflict with this result. In those cases the

BUCHANAN v. PATTERSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appropriation was to the party named in the act and a specific
sum was directed to be paid to such party. It was not a payment to him in trust for some other and unidentified members
of a class to which he belonged, but it was a positive and absolute direction by Congress to pay to the individual named in the
act the amount stated therein. In such cases there is no subject for identification of the members of any class and no
occasion for the further action of any one before payment is
to be made.
In the case at bar, it js clear that the party named in the
appropriation was not entitled to the money absolutely as her
own. It was an appropriation to her for the benefit of others,
herself included, and those others were identified only as a
class, and that class was intended as the next of kin of the firm
of S. Smith & Buchanan, as it existed in 1798.
Having obtained payment of the sum appropriated by Congress, the plaintiff in error, Esther S. Buchanan, came into a
court of equity and asked to have the fund distributed under
its authority. She stated all the facts, and while claiming the
right to share in the distribution of the money in her character
as one of the next of kin of William B. Buchanan, yet she still
submitted the whole question as to the proper distribution to
the court. The court had jurisdiction to determine as to the
real meaning and the proper construction of the act of Congress, and the highest court of that State, upon appeal from the
trial court, has held in substance that it appears that there
were but two members of the firm in 1798, and it accordingly
decided that the intent of Congress was clearly to make the
gift to the next of kin of the members of the firm in 1798, which
would result in giving one half to the next of kin of S. Smith
and the other one half to the next of kin of James A. Buchanan,,
among whom are found Esther S. Buchanan and her brother,
Wilson C. Buchanan.
We see no error in the decree of the Maryland Court of Appeals, and it is, for the reasons stated,
_Affirmed

