OCTOBER TERNI, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL AND IMPROVEMENT
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUpREME COURJT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 8. Argued January 9, 12, 1903.-Decided Mray 4, 1903.

The common law, as understood by this court, and the local law of Indiana
as to the effect of conveyances of land bordering on non-navigable waters
are the same.

Where the State of Indiana acquired land from the United States under the
Swamp Land Act of September 28, 1850, the patent describing the whole

of certain fractional sections enumerated and bordering on non-navigable
water
water between Indiana and Illinois, it acquired all the land under
makThe
Indiana.
of
law
local
the
being
such
State,
the
of
up to the line
ing of a meander line has no certain significance and does not necessarily

or will not
import that the tract on the other side of it is not surveyed
border on the
pass by a conveyance of the upland shown by the plat to

S. 406,
lake. Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371; Mitchell v. Smale, 140 U.
followed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Jr. Williar P. Fennell for plaintiffs in error.
Under section 2396, U. S. Rev. Stat., the original survey of
1834 did in fact and in law stop at the " water course."
A survey made by proper officers of the United States and
confirmed by the Land Department cannot be shown to be inaccurate by collateral attack in the courts. Russell v. .Afaxwell
Zand Grant Co., 158 U. S.253.
The fact that the survey under which the patents issued was
contested at every step by the interested parties and was finally
decided after six months' consideration by the Secretary of the
Interior affirming the decision of the land office affords strong
evidence of its correctness and honesty. United States v. San
Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273.
Wolf Lake must be taken as a whole, not in sections. It is
a lake between two States.
This case is identical in law and in fact with Hlardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 379, only the rule of property is different in In-

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

diana from what this court assumed to be the law in Illinois.
State v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, 106 Indiana, 459.
The defendant in error must recover on the strength of its
own title, just as in Hardin v. Jordan.
By reference, a plat of a section becomes a part of the conveyance, as much so as if it had been copied into the patent
deed. Pi)per v. Conelly, 108 Illinois, 646; Louisville &
_Hashville Railroad Co. v. Koelle, 104: Illinois, 455; XoCormick
v. Huse, 78 Illinois, 363, citing McClintock v. Rogers, 11 Illinois, 279.
If defendant in error has not the paramount title to the land
in question it is a mere intruder without title.
But the success of appellant in this case does not depend
upon a construction of the swamp land act of September 28,
1850. Whether or not that act operated as a grant inprsenti
to the various States of all the swamp land within their borders
is not the question before this court, unless it finds also that
the title passed to the appellees as riparian owners, because if
appellees have no title to the water, they are mere intruders,
and as to them, the patents issued under the new survey are
conclusive "that the lands were of the character which by the
patents they were represented to be." Wright v. Roseberry, 121
U. S. 488; Eberhardtv. Hogaboom, 115 U. S. 67. All presumptions are to be indulged in support of proceedings upon which a
patent is issued, and the patent is not open to collateral attack in
an action of ejectment or to quiet title. .Eberhardtv. Hogaboom, 115 U. S. 67; The Iowa Railroad Land Company v.
Antoine, 52 Iowa, 429.
Riparian rights have nothing to do with the title to land
Diedrich v. The -. TF. Ry. Co., 42 Wisunder the water.
consin, 262.
It was evidently the intention of both the National and state
governments to convey the border lands to the edge of the
pond, and according to the general rules of conveyancing if
there is a discrepancy between the meander line as indicated on
the map and the actual water line, the natural monument which
was intended by the parties to be the boundary, would be the
boundary and not the artificial meander line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190 U. S.

Nothing could be clearer than that the Indiana Supreme
Court has held in this case that the deeds of the border lands
did not convey the bed of the lake to defendant in error. And
the court is not the less explicit upon the question of riparian
ilk, 11 Fed. Rep. 389 ; Boorman
rights. State of Indiana v.
Sate v. Gilmanton, 9 New
233;
Wisconsin,
42
v. Sunnues,
Illinois, 521; Fletcher v.
24
Bis,
Hampshire, 461; Seaman v.
Blake, 62 Maine, 38;
v.
Phelps, 28 Vermont, 257; -Mansur
on Water Courses,
Angell
377;
York,
New
4
IV-heeler v. Spinola,
160; DiedMassachusetts,
section 41; Paine v. Wood, 108
T
248.
Wisconsin,
'ich v. 3 orth- Western liy. Co., 42
The action of the Land Department in issuing a patent is conclusive in all courts and in all proceedings where by the rules
of law the legal title must prevail. Johnson v. Towsley, 13
Wallace, 83 ; Wfa-rner v. Van Brunt, 19 Wallace, 653 ; Shepley
et al. v. Cowan et al., 91 U. S. 340; 11foore v. Robins, 96 U. S.
530; .f2arguez v. Frisbie,101 U. S. 473; Vance v. Tan Brunt,
101 UI. S. 519 ; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 401 ; Smelting Company v. Eemp, 104 U. S. 646; State v. Smelting
Company, 106 U. S. 447 ; Quinn v. Conlon, 104 U. S. 421;
Baldwin v. Stark, 107 U. S. 465; Cornell v. fLammers, 21 Fed.
Rep. 2900; Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 593; Gazzam v. Lessee
of Elam Phillips et al., 20 Ilow. 374.
Land cannot pass as appurtenant to land.
In Child v. Starr, 4 Hill, 396, it is held: "A conveyance of
one acre of land can never be made by any legal construction
to carry another acre by way of incident or appurtenance to
the first." Such is the doctrine laid down in 2 Mlet. 147 ; 8
Mlet. 260; 10 Pet. 25; 15 John. 447.
If this were an action of ejectment it would be barred by the
statute of limitation on account of the twenty years' adverse
possession. Vandugan v. Hepner, 45 Indiana, 589. But this
being a suit to quiet title is barred by the fifteen years' statute.
Caress v. Foster, 62 Indiana, 145 ; iMilner v. Hyland, 77 Indiana, 458.
That unnavigable lakes and ponds have always had a legal
status distinguished from swamp lands, see Huberus, Book 2,
tit. 1, par. 25, p. 104; 1 Huber. Book 2, tit. 1, par. 25, p. 104;

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Roman Law, Digest, Lib. 41, tit. 1, De aq. A. R. D., section 12;
Callistratus, Lib. 2, Institutes; Ulpian; Digest, Lib. 43, tit. 14,
sec. 4; French Law, section 1566, arts. 556, 558, Code Civ. ;
Traite du Domaine Publique Frangais; Treatise of Proudon &
Dumay on the 'Public Domain of France, Book 4, § 1566;
Barrett's Code Napoleon, § 558; German Law, Frederican
Code, § 35, Book 1, art. 7, p. 45; Bracton, Ed. 14, 1569, Book 2,
chap. 2, p. 2, fol. 9; Fleta, Lib. 3, chap. 2, §§ 8, 9; Lib. 3,
chap. 2, p. 8; Grotius, Lib. 2, chap. 3, §§ 9, 16; chap. 8, § 12;
1 Huberus, 123, § 33, and p. 104; Roman Civil Law, Dig.
Lib. 41, tit. 1, § 16; Heinnecius Jus. Nat. & Gen. Lib. 1,
chap. 9, § 25; Heinnecius Elementa Juris. Lib. 2, tit. 1, § 358.
.fr. Frederick S. Winston, with whom .A-r. James F. -Yeagler, Mfr. Silas _U. Strawn and _Yr. G. E. Hfamilton were on
the brief, for defendent in error.
I. The Supreme Court of Indiana, having held that all of the
land involved in this suit was in fact included in the survey of
1834-35, this court will not disturb that finding of fact. Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188;
]Dower v. Richa'rds, 151 U. S. 658; Hedricek v. A., T. & S. F
R. 1?., 167 U. S. 673 ; Republican River Bridge Co. v. -ansas
.Pac.R. R., 92 U. S. 315.
The Supreme Court of Indiana, not only in the opinion in the
case at bar, but also in the opinion of Kean v. Boby, 145 Indiana, 221, has held, as a matter of fact, that all of the land in
question was surveyed by the Federal Government in 1834-35.
II. All of the land in question having been included in the
survey of 1834-35, the United States having conveyed it all
under that survey to the State of Indiana in 1853, and defendant in error holding under mesne conveyances from the State,
by the same description, the survey of 1875 was void, and plaintiffs in error acquired no rights thereunder, as held by the Supreme Court of Indiana in Kean v. Calumet Canal & .bnprovement Co., 150 Indiana, 699; Kean v. Roby, 145 Indiana, 221 ;
following Tolleston v. State, 141 Indiana, 197, and as held by
this court in Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, and fitchell v.
Smale, 140 U. S. 406. See also Davis v. Wiebold, 139 U. S.
507.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

190 U. S.

The facts in the case at bar are much more favorable to the
defendant in error than were the facts in the Hardinand .7itchell cases to the prevailing party in those cases. Here we
have a finding by the Supreme Court of Indiana that, as a matter of fact, all the land in question, whether in the bed of the
lakes or elsewhere, was actually surveyed in 1834-35. More
than that, the defendant in error in our case holds under a patent from the Federal Government all the land in question,
made pursuant to and after the passage of the swamp act in
1850, while Hardin holds under a patent issued by the Government in 1841, prior to the passage of the swamp act. In this
case, also, there is no question of any interest of the State or
of the United States in and to the land in question. And that
is just as true with respect to the land in the beds of Wolf Lake
and Lake George as it is with respect to the upland. On this
point see further, Mfoore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Smelting Co.
v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 640; W'ight v. Boseber]ry, 121 U. S. 488;
Doolanm v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618.
We therefore say that the cases cited by the plaintiffs in error, upon the proposition that the decision of the Secretary of
the Interior is res adjudicata,are not in point.
III. The rights of the owners of land bordering on inland
non-navigable lakes are settled by the law of the State wherein
the land lies.
This principle has been so frequently laid down by this court
that we believe any extended comment superfluous. Notwithstanding the difference of opinion in the Hard n and _Mitchell
cases upon other points, the court has always been unanimous
on this question.
Since the decisions in the Jardin and Xlitchell cases this
court has repeatedly reaffirmed that doctrine, particularly in
the cases of Lowndes v. Huntington, 153 U. S. 1, 19; Grand
Rapids & Indiana R.R. Co. v. Butler, 159 U. S. 87; Water
Power Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349, 363.
IV. What then is the law of the State of Indiana respecting
non-navigable lakes, and particularly respecting Wolf Lake
and Lake George.
In Ross et al. v. Faustet al., 54 Indiana, 471, decided in

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

Argument for DSfendant in Error.

1876, the court held that the title of riparian proprietors on
White River, in said State, extended to the thread of the stream,
regardless of the facts that the survey lines of the United
States surveyors meandered the banks and did not include the
bed thereof, and that such bed was not, in terms, sold to, nor
paid for by, purchasers of the lands bordering on such river.
See also Ridgway v. Ludlow, 58 Indiana, 248; Edwards v.
Ogle, 76 Indiana, 302; State v. Portsmouth Scvings Bank, 106
Indiana, 435; Tollestom, Club of Chticago v. State, 141 Indiana,
197; State of Indiana v. -Milk, 11 Fed. Rep. 389; Stoner v.
Rice, 121 Indiana, 51; Bro hy v. ?icheson, 137 Indiana, 114;
Tolleston Club of Chicago v. Clough, 146 Indiana, 93; KEean v.
Roby, 145 Indiana, 221.
It appears therefore to be the settled law in the State of
Indiana that, where an inland non-navigable lake covers a subdivision of land and the government survey designates the dry
land in such subdivision as a fractional subdivision, or lot, the
purchaser from the Government of such subdivision or lot takes
the title to all that portion of the bed of the lake contained
within the subdivision. That is to say, he takes as a riparian
owner, his title includes, and he owns, the land beneath the
lake far enough beyond the meander line and water's edge
to make out the full subdivision in which his land is so situated.
The decision in this case is the latest expression of the SuWade
preme Court of that State, and is in no sense dictum.
v. Travis County, 174 U. S. 499. See also Leffingwell v. WarPen, 2 Black, 599; Faiqfteld v. Gallatin County, 100 T1. S.
47.
V. If the common law of Indiana were as found by this
court, in Hardinv. Jordan, to be the common law of Illinois,
then the defendant in error, as a riparain owner of bordering
lands, owns to the center of the lakes, and, consequently, all
of the land in controversy.
For the sake of the argument, let us assume, contrary to the
fact, that the survey made in 1834-35 of township 37 north,
range 9, and township 37 north, range 10, did not include
Wolf Lake and Lake George. Then we submit that, under the
rule of the common law, as stated by this court in Hardinv.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Jordan, defendant in error, as the owner of the land bordering
on these lakes, would take to the center thereof. Forsythe v.
Smale, 7 Biss. 201 ; F-uller (lEar'din)v. Skedd, 161 Illinois, 462.
VI. Counsel for plaintiffs in error would impose upon this
court the burden of examining the record to ascertain whether
or not the defendant in error in the prosecution of this suit is
barred by the statute of limitations of the State of Indiana.
This was a question of fact, which has been decided adversely
to the plaintiffs in error, both by the nisi prius and the Supreme Courts of the State of Indiana.
If this court would go into the record to determine this question, its conclusion must necessarily, we submit, affirm that of
the state courts. A jury was waived, the case tried before the
court, and the finding and judgment of the trial court having
been affirmed by the state Supreme Court, the question as to
whether or not the defendant in error complied with the statute
of limitations of the State of Indiana cannot be here reviewed.
It is not a Federal question. Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S.
362, 370; River Bridge Co. v. Kansas Pacific B y. Co., 92
U. S. 315; -Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Egan v. Hfart,
165 U. S. 188; HMedrick v. A., T. & S. F. R. R?., 167 U. S.
673; Murdoch v. City of 3femphis, 87 U. S. 590.
M:R. JUSTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding to quiet title brought by the Calumet
Canal and Improvement Company in a court of the State of
Indiana. The company got judgment, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State, 150 Indiana, 699, and the case
'is brought here by writ of error. The land in question is land
bordering on and extending under certain non-navigable water
up to the state line, the Illinois side of which was the subject
of the decisions in Hfardin v. Jordan,140 U. S. 371, and MJitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406. But the facts in this case are
somewhat different. The Calumet company claims title through
mesne conveyances from the State of Indiana. The State of
Indiana got its title under the Swamp Land Act, September 28,
1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 520 ; Rev. Stat. §§ 2479 et seq., and patents

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States dated 1853, purporting to be in pursuance
of that act, and referring to the official plat of survey, which
was made in 1834. The patent set forth describes "the whole
of fractional sections" enumerated and bordering on the water,
in which sections lies the disputed land. The State afterwards
conveyed by the same description. It is not denied that the
company got the land above the water line, as shown in the plat
referred to, but it is denied that it got more. The water has
been receding and drying up, so that the question is important.
The defendant set up a later survey in 1875 of the land which
was covered by water in 1834, and is covered, to a less extent,
still, and patents from the United States in,pursuance of the
same, for tracts below the original water line. They deny
that the State ever owned this land, or, if it did, that it conveyed
it, and they allege the later survey to be conclusive.
On general principles of conveyancing the State would have
acquired the land in controversy here by a conveyance from
the United States describing the upland according to the survey, because the local law of Indiana and the common law as
understood by this court are the same, so far as this case is concerned. Stoner v. Rice, 121 Indiana, 51; Hardin v. Jordan,
140 U. S. 371. The case is stronger if the land passed under
the Swamp Land Act, as has been held by the state court with
regard to this and similar patents. _-Mason v. Calumet Canal
& Improvement Co., 150 Indiana, 699; -ean v. Roby, 145 Indiana, 221; Tolleston Club of Chicago v. Clough, 146 Indiana,
93; Tolleston. Club of Chicago v. State, 141 Indiana, 197. See
lMitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S.406, 414.
The making of a meander line has no certain significance.
French-Glenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47, 52.
It does not necessarily import that the tract on the other side
of it is not surveyed or will not pass by a conveyance of the upland shown by the plat to border on the lake. It is not always
a boundary. Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272; Hardin
v. Jordan,140 U. S.371, 380; Mitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S.406,
414; iforne v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40, 43 ; GrandRapids & fIndiana
Railroad v. Butler, 159 U. S.87, 93. In this case its immediate
import was only to indicate the contour of the lake. It would

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

seem, to be sure, that the settled understanding of the land department has been that in cases like the present the meander line
marked the limit of the grant. But probably the cases are comparatively rare in which that understanding was acted on by an
attempt subsequently to convey the land under water on the
farther side of the line at dates before the transactions with which
we have to deal. The title to such land was not considered of
much importance in the early days or worth the trouble of an
independent survey. See -Afewson v. Pryor, 7 Wheat. 7, 11.
The United States was more anxious for settlers than for revenue
from that source. It is not necessary to consider how we should
decide the case with our present light if the question were a new
one. It is not new. For twelve years the decisions in Uardin
v. Jordanand .Jiteiell v. Smale have stood as authoritative declarations of the law. Probably in most cases the statute of limitations has cured the defects of title which those cases may have
shown. Meantime many titles must have passed on the faith
of those decisions. The United States can meet them by the
form of its conveyances. It seems to us that it would be likely
to do more harm than good to allow them to be called in question now.
It is said that the land under water was not embraced in the
survey of 1834. It would seem from the plat and the field notes
that the sections and dividing lines were clearly marked off and
posts set. The case is similar to Kean v. Roby, 145 Indiana, 221,
where the survey was pronounced sufficient. No difficulty was
felt on the ground that the survey did not cover the submerged
land in Hardin v. Jordan,140 U. S. 371. But furthermore, the
land was selected as "swamp and overflowed lands" by the
State. It not appearing otherwise, the selection must be presumed to have included the land overflowed, and if so it was
confirmed to the State by the act of March 3, 1857, c. 117, 11
Stat. 251; Rev. Stat. § 2484. The confirmation encounters
none of the difficulties of cases like Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158
U. S.240. The land surrounding the water, at least, was surveyed, so that the identification of the submerged portion was
absolute. We are of opinion that the State of Indiana got a
title to the whole land in dispute.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U.

S.

JusTcEs WHITE and McKE wA, dissenting.

If the State of Indiana got a title, it gave one. There is not
much controversy on this point. We should follow the decision
of the state court in this case so far as this question is concerned,
if there was no other evidence of the state law. But the law
of Indiana is shown by the other cases cited above to be clear
on this point.
The resurvey by the United States in 1874 does not affect
the Calumet company's rights. As the United States already
had conveyed the lands,.it had no jurisdiction to intermeddle
with them in the form of a second survey. Jardinv. Jordan,
140 U. S. 371, 400; Grand Rapids & indiana _Railroad Co.
v. Butler, 159 U. S. 87, 94, 95; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7
Wall. 272, 289.
Of course, we shall not undertake to revise the finding of
the state courts that the statute of limitations had not run in
favor of the plaintiffs in error, and that, if any one is to profit
by it, the Calumet company would prevail.
Judgment aoffrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurs
KENNA, dissenting.

MR.

JusTIcE Mc-

The importance of the question which this cause involves and
the far reaching and injurious consequences which, in my opinion, must arise from the continued application of what seems
to me to be the erroneous theories upon which it is now decided, not only constrain me to dissent, but cause me to state
fully the reasons by which I am controlled.
The controversy is between opposing claimants to lands once
a part of the beds of certain non-navigable bodies of waters,
styled lakes-and which shall be hereafter referred to by such
designation. Both parties asserted title under patents of the
United States.
In 1834 surveys were made by the United States of townships 37 north, in ranges 9 and 10 west, second principal meridian, lying in Lake County, in the extreme northwestern portion of the State of Indiana. Township 37 in range 9 was
bounded on the west by township 37 in range 10, and the latter was bounded on the west by the State of Illinois. From

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

the eastern boundary of township 37 in range 10 there was less
than a mile intervening to the Illinois boundary on the west.
In consequence, the sections or fractional sections appearing on
the plat of survey of that township were only the extreme
easterly tier of sections, being those numbered 1, 12, 13, 24, 25
and 36. A copy of a portion of the government plat of survey of the townships named, in which are embraced the lands
whose title is in dispute, is inserted for convenience of reference
on opposite page.
The easterly of the two bodies of water, lying partly in both
townships, is known as Lake George or IMud Lake. The westerly body is called Wolf Lake. As shown by the plat, the lines
of survey were not actually run across the water of the lakes,
and, consequently, no attempt was made to subdivide the lands
in the then beds of the lakes into legal subdivisions. The lines
of survey were in fact run around the rim of each lake, and the
fractional lots resulting from the meander line were given numbers, as was customary in such cases.
The land about the margin of the lakes was very flat, and the
average depth of water at the time of the surveys was conjectured to be about five or six feet.
iNone of the fractional lots abutting on the two lakes in the
townships in question had been disposed of by the United States
prior to the passage of the swamp land act of September 28, 1850.
Thereafter, the State of Indiana transmitted a list of lands which
it desired should be patented to the State under said act, and the
list embraced the portions of the townships in which Wolf
Lake and Lake George were situated. This list, however, referred only to entire sections, took no note of the plat of survey
and made no reference to the fractional lots abutting on the
lakes or the other subdivisions of sections. In the approved list
of selections made by the Secretary of the Interior the general
description of the lands as given in the state lists was followed,
except that where by the meander line shown on the plat of survey it appeared that a section was made fractional, the section
was termed a fractional section, and the quantity of land shown
on the plat to be contained in each minor subdivision or fractional section was specifically stated.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKERNNA, dissenting.

463

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MOV0KENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

A patent dated March 24, 1853, was issued to the State of
Indiana for the approved selections. The mode in which the
lands were described in the patent is illustrated in the following
excerpt:
"Also, the whole of fractional sections one, twelve, thirteen
and twenty-four, the north half of the southeast quarter, the
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter and the northeast
quarter of section twenty-five and the whole of fractional section thirty-six all one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one
acres and sixty-hundreths of an acre.
After the description of the lands was the following:
"According to the official plats of survey of the said lands
returned to the General Land Office by the surveyor general."
Soon after acquiring title in this manner to the border lots,
the State of Indiana conveyed them, by the plat numbers, to private individuals.
While the record does not show the causes which led to the
drying up of the beds of the two lakes within the meander lines
on the plats of surveys of 1834, it is nevertheless certain that
about the year 1874 the waters of these lakes had in great part
disappeared. In the years 18'74 and 1875 various persons settled
on the uncovered lands referred to, with the intent of acquiring
title under the homestead law. Application was made to the
Interior Department for a survey thereof. In virtue of this
application, a survey was made in 187 5-known as the Walcott
survey-and a plat was drawn exhibiting the subdivisions thereof.
The confirmation of this survey was resisted in the Land Department by one who had acquired title to border lots from
the State of Indiana, on the ground that the United States had
the
no land to survey in the beds of the lakes, as the effect of
pass
to
been
conveyance by the United States to the State had
title to the beds of the lakes. This controversy before the Land
Department was finally disposed of on February 23, 1877, by the
Secretary of the Interior, in favor of the validity of the Walcott
survey. Thereafter patents for the lands in the beds of the
lakes covered by the survey were issued by the United States.
In 1895, the Calumet Canal and Improvement Company
to
brought an action in the Lake Circuit Court of Indiana,

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U.

S.

JusTIcEs WniTE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

quiet its asserted title to certain of these border lots and its
alleged title as riparian owner to land in front thereof, once
part of the beds of the lakes, and, upon a second trial of the
action, obtained judgment. On appeal, the Supreme Court of
Indiana affirmed the judgment, and the cause was then brought
to this court on a writ of error prosecuted by claimants under
the Wolcott survey, based upon the contention that the decision of the Supreme Court of Indiana was against a title and
right specially set up "under the statutes, patents, deed of conveyance and authority of the United States of America." In
deciding against the validity of the Wolcott survey and the
patents to land in the beds of the lakes based on such survey
the Supreme Court of Indiana said (p. 699):
"In 1875, certain persons, under the assumption that the
beds of the lakes had not been surveyed in 1834, procured a
resurvey of that part of the lands formerly covered by the
waters; and it is through this last survey, and the sales made in
pursuance thereof, that appellants claim title. The case before
us, therefore, in so far as concerns source of title, does not differ
from that of Kean v. Roby, 145 Indiana, 221. On the authority of
the decision in that case, there can be no question that the resurvey of 1875, as also the sales made thereunder, were wholly
invalid, and, consequently, that appellee's title, as based upon
the original survey of 1834, and the sales made under that survey, is good. No real distinction in this regard has been shown
between the two cases."
It becomes necessary, therefore, to refer to the case of Kean v.
Roby, upon which the Supreme Court of Indiana rested its
conclusion. As, moreover, the comprehension of the doctrines
involved in that case necessitates a consideration of the course
of previous decisions in Indiana relative to the subject involved,
I shall review the Indiana cases preceding -ean v. Roby, in
order, as far as may be, to an exact elucidation of the legal
principles by which the decision of this case was below controlled.
Ross v. Faust, (1876) 54 Indiana, 471, involved the title to
land under the bed of a non-navigable river. The land abutting on the stream had been surveyed and the stream had been
VOL. cxc-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WuITE

and

MCKENNA,

dissenting.

190 U. S.

meandered. The question was whether patents of the United
States conveyed land under water within the meander lines.
Determining the construction of the patent solely by reference
to the laws of the United States, the court decided that, as the
to
stream was in fact non-navigable, the holder of the patent
the
despite
stream
the
the border lots had title to the center of
meander line.
conRiidgway v. Ludlow, (18V7) 58 Indiana, 248, involved a
of
part
forming
troversy respecting the ownership of land once
the
on
the bed of a non-navigable lake. The land bordering
lake had evidently been acquired from the United States and
the lake had been meandered. The rule in Ross v. Faust was
applied, the court saying:
"We can see no difference in principle in this rule, whether
applied to non-navigable rivers or non-navigable lakes, when
they are within the Congressional surveys."
Edwards v. Ogle, (1881) t6 Indiana, 302, presented the following state of facts: On a plat of survey of a section of land,
the
which was in great part covered by the waters of a pond,
of
lines
the
but
meandered,
as
shown
were
banks of the pond
extended
were
sections
quarter
and
the sections, half sections
of the
across the pond by dotted lines. A fractional portion
dry
-the
acres
39
containing
as
southwest quarter, represented
States
United
the
by
patented
land outside of the meander-was
act,
in 184-5. In 1851 the United States, under the swamp land
of
half
east
the
for
patent
a
Indiana
of
executed to the State
1858
In
line.
meander
the
within
the southwest quarter, being
half
the United States issued a patent to one Ogle for the west
thirtythe
of
owner
as
Edwards,
of the same quarter section.
nine acre tract, asserted a right to the center of the pond, which
Edif allowed would have absorbed the land claimed by Ogle.
in
specified
land
of
quantity
wards was confined to the actual
recourt
the
the patent. Ross v. -Faust was distinguished,
surmarking of that case: "The bed of the river had not been
that
theory
the
on
but,
veyed as a part of the public domain,
White River was a navigable stream, the government surveys
had been terminated at the margin thereof."
State v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, (1886) 106 Indiana, 435,

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

459, involved the question whether conveyances of fractional lots
bordering on Beaver Lake, in Newton County, Indiana, passed
title to land under the bed of the lake. The controversy was
between the State claiming the bed of the lake and certain private individuals who deraigned title from the State, claiming
that as the State had transferred to them rights derived under
patents from the United States, their rights were coterminous
with the patent and extended across a meander line to the center of the lake. Beaver Lake was a body of water covering
about seventeen thousand acres of land, and averaging from
five to seven miles in length and from two to four miles in
width. The border lands had been surveyed in 1835 by authority of the United States, and were subject to private entry.
In making the survey the same was extended around the lake
and a meandering line established. As a necessary result of the
meander line fractional lots were shown on the plat around the
margin of the lake. Under the swamp land act the border
lands, by the government subdivisions, were selected by the
Secretary of the Interior and patented to the State of Indiana.
The Supreme Court of Indiana declared that it was not necessary "to determine whether the patents of the United States
to the State for the fractional lots bordering upon and surrounding the lake, being grants from one government to another, by their own force carried the bed of the lake." Reviewing previous decisions of this court, construing the swamp
land act, the Indiana court held that that act was a grant in
prrcsenti. It was further held that, although the bed of Beaver
Lake was not embraced in the list of selections made by the
State, yet by the acts of its officials, immediately after the
grant to it of the border lands, the State had treated the bed
of the lake as swamp and overflowed land, and constructively
selected the same, and that an act of Congress, approved January 11, 1873, 17 Stat. 409, releasing and quitclaiming the bed
of Beaver Lake to the State of Indiana, did not operate as
a grant, but simply as a confirmation of the prior selection,
thereby perfecting the title as indefeasible.
The court came next to consider the claims of the grantees
of the State of border lots, described in the patent from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and ISMCKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

State according to the plat of survey which had been made by
the United States. It was declared that state patents for border lots must be construed with reference to the power conferred upon state officials by the state law, and not by the rule,
which would govern a conveyance by a private individual; and
applying this rule, it was held that the patents for border lots
carried to the grantees "no more of the swamp and overflowed lands than were included in the several surveyed subdivisions bounded by the lake."
Stoner v. Rice, (1889) 121 Indiana, 51, was a controversy between owners of border lots as a meandered non-navigable lake
claiming under patents of the United States and patentees of
the United States under a subsequent survey of the bed of the
lake.- Despite its previous ruling in Ridgway v. Ludlow, supra,
it was now held that the rule giving a riparian owner of fractional lots abutting on a meander line title to the thread or center of the stream, was not applicable. The case was decided upon what the court assumed to be the law of the United States
governing surveys of the public domain, the court said (p. 54):
"The true doctrine to apply, in the disposition of such land
as is covered by the body of such lakes, we think, is that the
government in making surveys included in such surveys all the
land within the district surveyed, and if there was a lake or
large pond which covered a part of a subdivision, it was meandered out, and the dry land in such subdivison designated as a
fractional subdivision, or lot; that in the purchase of such fractional subdivision, or lot, the purchaser took title to it as a riparian owner, with the right to the land as the water receded within
the boundary lines of the subdivision conveyed to the purchaser.
In other words, the purchaser acquired title to all the land
within the subdivision, though it was described as a fractional
subdivision, or lot. The authorized survey divided all the land
within the district into subdivisions, and if, by reason of water
upon a tract of the land, a portion of it was regarded at the
time as worthless and unsalable, there was a meander line run
to ascertain the amount of dry land, and such subdivision was
designated as fractional subdivision, or lot, and although thus
described the sale passed title to the whole subdivision."

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

The court declared that the doctrine thus announced by it
was not in conflict with its previous ruling in Edwards v. Ogle.
Brophy v. Richieon, (1894) 137 Indiana, 114, was a contest
between the patentees of a fractional tract of dry land termed
the southeast fractional quarter of a certain section; lying north
and east of a meandered lake, and the patentees under a later
survey made by the United States of the bed of the lake. It
was held-following Stoner v. Rice-that the claimant under
the first patent took title to all the land within the quarter section, whether dry or covered by the waters of the lake.
Tolleston Club v. State, (1894) 141 Indiana, 197, was an action
brought by the State of Indiana for the recovery of lands within
the meander lines of a United States survey. The claim was
that the State had acquired title to the lands within the meander upon selections made under the swamp land act of certain
land, for which patents of the United States had been issued to
the State of Indiana in 1853. Although the State had conveyed
the border lots which she had acquired from the United States,
the theory of the claim of the State was that, despite this conveyance, she remained the owner of and was entitled to recover
the land within the meander, because it was deemed, in accordance with the ruling in the Portsmouth Bank case, (involving
Beaver Lake,) that the State, in transferring the border lots,
by their designation on the government plat of survey, had
retained to herself and not conveyed her title to the land under
water. The defendants asserted title derived from the United
States under patents issued subsequent to 1870, based upon a
survey made of the bed of the water by reason of an act of
Congress, which is excerpted in the margin.

IAct

approved July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 187.
Chap. CXCIX.-An act in relation to certain unsold lands in the counties
of Porter and Lake, in the State of Indiana.
Whereas there is lying along the Little Calumet River, in the counties of
Porter and Lake, in the State of Indiana, a body of lands supposed to contain about four thousand acres, which has never been sold or surveyed,
and which was described in the original government surveys as impassable
morass ; and whereas the Calumet Draining Company has been organized
under the laws of said State, for the purpose of draining the valley of said
river including said morass: Therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and

MOKENNA,

dissenting.

190 U. S.

It suffices to remark that it was held that, although the United
States survey showed a meander line and fractional lots or
sections thereon, that this meander line, under the laws of the
United States, was not a boundary, because, under said laws,
its sole purpose was, not to limit the survey in any way, but
simply to indicate how much dry land there was in the subdivision purchased. Consequently, it was determined that the
land, both dry and wet, should be treated as having been
wholly surveyed, because the lines of survey might be protracted across the meander so as to make complete surveyed
sections, embracing both the dry and the wet land. The enumeration in the plat of the quantity of land contained in the
subdivisions of the sections was considered as immaterial, and
the doctrine of Stoner v. Rice was applied.
Whilst the claims of the patentees under the subsequent
United States survey of the land within the meander was therefore rejected, and the act of Congress directing the survey was
decided to be void, it was yet held that, as the State must recover upon the strength of her own title, she was not entitled
to judgment for any land within the meander lines, because the
grants made by the State of the fractional lots passed title to
the legal subdivision beyond the meander lines, upon the theory
of survey above noticed and the controlling effect of the decision
in Stoner v. Rice. A petition for rehearing was filed on behalf
of the State. An opinion denying such rehearing is reported
in 141 Indiana, 214. The principal contention on behalf of the
State was that " the court erred in holding that the land in
controversy had been surveyed either by the government of the
United States, or by the State of Indiana, at the time of the
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That said unsold lands shall be
subject to a lien under the laws of the State of Indiana for its proper proportion of the cost of such drainage, and such lien may be enforced against
said lands in the same manner and to the same extent as if the said lands
were owned by private persons : Provided, That no claim shall be held to
exist against the United States for such drainage.
SEC. 2. And be itfurther enacted, That said lands may be surveyed and
sold to the highest bidder, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior, subject to said lien.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKExxA, dissenting.

sale of such border lots by the State." The court, however,
observing that this contention was dangerous ground for the
State to stand upon, considered at length the provisions of
sections 2395 and 2396 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and concluded as follows:
"The land in controversy was therefore surveyed into sections, as provided by law, by the United States government
surveyors, in 1834. But even if we were mistaken in this, it
would, as we have said, be a dangerous contention for appellee
to undertake to show that such survey was not made. The
swamp land act of 1850, under which the State claims title, requires that the lands should be selected, and the selections approved by the Secretary of the Interior, as swamp lands. The
land in dispute consists of parts of surveyed sections of land,
selected, approved and certified from the General Land Office
of the United States. The land so selected is described as in
' township No. 36, range 8 west,' and being ' all of . . . [sections] 12, 15, 17, 18, 19 and 20. All of 21 and 22 [and] N. W.
4 23. But if there were in fact no survey, then no such sections
would exist, at least between the meanders of the Calumet
River and so no selections would ever have been made by the
State or approved by the Secretary of the Interior. The consequence would be that the State had never received title, and
the unsurveyed lands having remained in possession of the general government, were correctly surveyed, and sold under the act
of Congress of 1870. If, therefore, we should admit this main
contention of counsel for appellee, the consequence would inevitably follow that the State had never acquired title, to the land
in dispute. We are satisfied, however, that the conclusions
reached in the original opinion-that the lands were surveyed
in 18341; that they were selected, and the selections approved,
under the swamp land act of 1850; that the State, therefore,
acquired good title under that act; and that the act of 1870,
with the resurvey and sales thereunder, was a nullity-are all
correct; and we are quite unable to understand why counsel
should here insist upon a contention which, if agreed to, would
cut the ground entirely from under their own feet."
The Portsmouth Savings Bank case was distinguished by

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

the statement that "Beaver Lake was a large body of water,
of shallow depth, which had not been surveyed by the United
States government."
The precise import of the doctrine which, following Stoner v.
Rice, the court applied in the case just reviewed is so aptly portrayed in the case of Tollestonr Club v. Clough, 146 Indiana,
93, that it is here noticed out of its chronological order. The
plaintiff commenced his action to quiet title to land derived
from the State through patents issued to the State by the
United States under the swamp land act. The lands in controversy were part of those which were involved in the case of
Tolleston Club v. State, supra. The exact situation of the lands
is shown on the following plat which is reproduced from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Indiana:
Sec.17

To convey a clear conception of the situation and character
of the land, a passage is here excerpted from the opinion in
:To/leston Club v. State, ub. sup.:
"The lands claimed by the State are within the meander
lines of the United States survey on each side of the Little
Calumet :River, being a tract about six miles in length and
from about three quarters of amileto about a mile and a quarter
in width. In the original field notes of the survey the region
is referred to as a 'lake, ' while on the plat it is marked 'rnpassable Marsh.' At the time of the United States survey, in
1834, the territory was completely covered with water, in which,
outside the river proper, there was a heavy growth of cat tails,
wild rice and other swamplike products."

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U. S.

JUSTICES WmHTE and MOKENNA, dissenting.

The plaintiff, deriving title from the patents of the United
States covering the fractional lots outside of the meander line,
claimed to be the owner of the marsh land inside of the meander up to the thread of the stream marked on the plat as a
river.
The court followed its ruling in Tolleston Club v. State, and
said:
"It is plain that the lots described, being lot one and parts
of lots two and three, in section 19, and lots one, two, three
and four, in section 20, all extend north to the north section
lines of their respective sections."
By this ruling the lots abutting on the meander were made
to cross that line, embrace the marsh land lying between them
and the river, and would have extended across the river, so as
to include practically the entire river in those sections, except
where in the sinuosity of the river it crossed the section line.
As, however, the court found that the owner of the lots abutting on the meander had only claimed to the bed of the river,
it limited his rights in consequence of the pleadings to that
extent, thus preventing the acquisition of the entire section
where the section line was beyond the bed of the river.
I now come to the case of Eean v. Roby, (1896) 145 Indiana,
221, upon the authority of which case the Supreme Court of
Indiana affirmed the judgment of the trial court in the case at
bar. -Yean v. Roby was an action brought by the owner of
lands abutting on Wolf Lake, to quiet her title to land once
part of the bed of the lake. The plaintiff claimed title to the
border lots as well as to the lake bed land by virtue of the
survey made in 1834 and a patent from the United States to
the State, made in 1853, under the swamp land act. The
defendants claimed title under patents, based upon the Walcott
survey of 1875, of lands once part of the bed of the lake.
Despite the fact that on the plat of survey the lake was
meandered and there were no sectional corners to which the
lines could be protracted, the court held that the case was
covered by the lolleston Club decision, because it was deemed
that the field notes showed that it would be possible to protract the lines so as to make regular and complete sections,

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JusTIcEs WHITE and MOcKENA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

and it was therefore held that the owner of the border lots
was entitled to the adjacent land under water as well.
It therefore results that the doctrine embodied in the case of
iean v. Roby, and the previous cases commencing with Stoner
v. Rice, was the rule applied in the decision of the case now under review, and by which the beds of the lakes were given to
the owner of the border lots.
All the cases which have been recapitulated, I submit, divide
themselves into two classes, the first, those prior to Stoner v.
Rice; the second, the case of Stoner v. Rice, and those subsequent to it, including the ruling therein made. Without pausing to ascertain whether the cases in the first class are reconcilable with each other, or those in the second class can be made
to harmonize with those in the first, one thing it seems to me is
apparent: that is, that all the cases in both the classes, including the decision in the case at bar, indubitably held1. That the government of the United States owned the soil
under all bodies of non-navigable water lying within the public
domain of the United States, and that the title thereto remained
in the United States until it had parted with it pursuant to the
laws of the United States; and
2. That in determining whether the United States had parted
with title to such lands the Indiana court always decided that
question, not upon the controlling effect of any supposed rule of
state or local law, but by what it deemed to be the proper construction of the laws of the United States governing the survey
and disposition of the public domain.
The right of the defendants under patents of the United
States, which they specially set up, having been denied, because
it was conceived by the court below that no title vested in them
under the laws of the United States, it would seem that the
question arising for decision is this: Did the court correctly interpret the statutes of the United States?
This is a Federal question. But it is pressed that what title
to the beds of the lakes passed to the State from the United
States, either under the swamp land act or in virtue of the patents issued to the State, is to be determined, not by the law of
the United States, but solely by the state or local law; hence it

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE

and MCKENNA, dissenting.

is insisted the case must be decided by the law which is rightfully applicable to it and not by the law of the United States,
which the Supreme Court of Indiana erroneously deemed was
essential to its decision. If I entertained the opinion that the
state or local law governed, and in consequence that this case
was to be disposed of by considerations inherently local, I would,
of course, be obliged to conclude that the controversy must be
judged by that law which properly controlled it and not by the
law of the United States, which was mistakenly applied by the
lower court. In that view my mind would be driven to the conclusion that this case should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, since here there is no authority to review the action of the
state court in a cause inherently depending upon the state or
local law. Nor would this result be changed because the defendants asserted rights to the beds of the lakes under patents
of the United States issued subsequent to those relied upon by
the plaintiff, as its ultimate source of title. This follows, since
the claim of the plaintiff was that title had passed to it and out
of the United States by the swamp land act or the patents issued prior to those upon which the defendants relied. Now, if
the question whether the land claimed by both parties had
passed to the plaintiff or its grantors, prior to the issue of the
patents to the defendants, is to be determined solely by the state
or local law, it would follow that a decision of the state court
in favor of the right of the plaintiff involved only a conclusion
of state or local law broad enough to sustain the judgment,
wholly irrespective of the Federal rights asserted by the defendants, and also entirely without reference to the soundness
of the reasoning by which the court had reached its all-sufficient
and non-Federal conclusion. Before therefore coming to consider the correctness of the ruling of the state court concerning
the United States law which that court deemed to be decisive,
it becomes necessary for me to ascertain whether, as asserted,
the question as to the extent of the title derived from the United
States by the plaintiff or its grantors is to be determined by the
state or local law.
The issue which first arises then is, by what law is the quantity of land which passed to the State under the statutes of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MKKEmNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

United States and its patents to be determined, by the law of
the United States which conferred on the State whatever rights
it acquired or solely by the state or local law, which had no
agency or influence in passing rights from the United States to
the State?

In solving this question it is at once conceded that

there are two cases-decided by this court on the same day, one
resting upon the other, and therefore virtually but one caseannouncing the doctrine that where the United States has conveyed land bordering on the meander line of a non-navigable
body of water the question of what rights in the land under
water passed from the United States to its grantee is to be determined solely by the state or local law.
The cases referred to are Hardinv. fo'rdan and _itchell v.
iSmale, reported respectively in 140 U. S. 371 and 406. Both
cases were actions of ejectment, and the judgments reviewed
were rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois. The plaintiff in each case was the
owner, by mesne conveyances, under patents of the United States,
based upon surveys made in 1834 of fractional lots abutting on
the portion of Wolf Lake situated in the State of Illinois, and
they claimed as such abutting owners title to land once forming
part of the bed of the lake. The defendants asserted title to the
lake bed lands upon the survey made in 1874 by the United
States, and patents issued to them founded upon such survey.
The trial court had held that the title of the owners of the border
lots extended only to low water mark and found in favor of the
defendants as to the land under water. The ground upon which
the decision of the court reversing the trial court in both cases
was based is shown in the following excerpts from the opinion
in Hctrdin v. Jordan,pages 379, 380, 381 and 384:
"The government surveys made in 1834-35 upon which the
patent was issued, not only laid down a meander line next to the
lake, but also described said lines as running ' along the margin
of the lake;' and the plat of the survey, returned to the general
and local land offices, and referred to in the patent for identification of the land granted, exhibited the granted tracts as actually bordering upon the lake; and the lake itself on said plat
was marked with the words ' Navigable lake,' although the fact

KEAN v. CALUMET' CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

- JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

found by the court is that the lake was not and is not a navigable
lake, but a non-navigable fresh water lake or pond. The patent
itself does not contain all the particulars of the survey, but the
grant of the lands is recited to be according to the official plat
of the survey of said lands, returned to the General Land Office
by the surveyor general, thereby adopting the plat as a part of
the instrument.
"It has never been held that the lands under water, in front
of such grants, are reserved to the United States, or that they
can be afterwards granted out to other persons, to the injury of
the original grantees. The attempt to make such grants is calculated to render titles uncertain, and to derogate from the value
of natural boundaries, like streams and bodies of waters.
*

*

*

*

*

*.

*

*

"Such being the form of the title granted by the United States
to the plaintiff's ancestor, the question is as to the effect of that
title in reference to the lake and the bed of the lake in front of
the lands actually described in the grant. This question must
be decided by some rule of law, and no rule of law can be resorted to for the purpose except the local law of the State of
Illinois.
"It has been the practice of the government from its origin,
in disposing of the public lands, to measure the price to be paid
for them by the quantity of upland granted, no charge being
made for the lands under the bed of the stream, or other body
of water. The meander lines run along or near the margin of
such waters are run for the purpose of ascertaining the exact
quantity of the upland to be charged for, and not for the purpose of limiting the title of the grantee to such meander lines.
"We do not think it necessary to discuss this point further.
In our judgment the grants of the government for lands
bounded on streams and other waters, without any reservation
or restriction of terms, are to be construed as to their effect
according to the law of the State in which the lands lie."
What was the law of Illinois with regard to such grants was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MOKExmNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

next considered, and it was determined "that the law of Illinois in this regard is the common law, and nothing else," and
that the title of the owners of border lots on a non-navigable
body of water extended to the middle of the water.
If the doctrine announced in the cases referred to is to be
here applied, then, as I have said, there is an end to this case
and the writ should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, since
in that view there is no substantial Federal contention in this
record, for the reason, as I have previously remarked, that the
decision of the state question would be broad enough to sustain
the judgment without reference to the Federal rights asserted
by the defendants. The doctrine, however, of Hardin v. Jordan, as it is given me to understand it, is not only unsound in
reason but incompatible with many cases decided in this court
prior to and since its announcement, and besides is in conflict
with the legislation of Congress and the practice of the government from the beginning. Impressed with the correctness of
these views, and entertaining the conviction that the enforcement of the doctrine will lead to the gravest consequences in
the future, it is proposed to consider its correctness as an original
question, before agreeing that its application in the case at bar is
proper. If the result of my investigation be the conclusion that
the state or local law should not be applied, contrary to the ruling
in ffardn.v. Jordan,I shall then proceed to ascertain what are
the rights of the parties, when measured by the law of the
United States. If that investigation develops that the court
below erroneously interpreted the law of the United States,
and therefore wrongfully denied the title of the plaintiffs in
error, it will be left for me to consider whether it is my duty,
under the principle of stare decisis, to give my assent to the
legal wrong which, under the views stated, was below committed.
It is unnecessary to elaborately demonstrate the elementary
proposition that the United States, under the Articles of Confederation, was the owner of the public domain, however acquired, and that, since the adoption of the Constitution, the
United States had also possessed, in full proprietorship, the
public domain, from whatever source its title has been derived.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE

and MCKENNA, dissenting.

The doctrine on the subject' was summarized by Chancellor
Kent, Com. vol. 1, p. 257, in the following language:
"Upon the doctrine of the court in Johnson v. )Jclntosh,
(1823) 8 Wheat. 543, and Fletcher v. Peck, (1810) 6 Cranch,
142, 143, the United States own the soil as well as the jurisdiction of the immense tracts of unpatented lands included within
their territories, and of all the productive funds which those
lands may hereafter create. The title is in the United States
by the treaty of peace with Great Britain, and by subsequent
cessions from France and Spain, and by cessions from the individual States."
The matter was aptly epitomized in Irvine v. -farshall,
(1858) 20 How. 558, where it was said (p. 561):
"It cannot be denied, that all the lands in the Territories,
not appropriated by competent authority before they were acquired, are in the first instance the exclusive property of the
United States, to be disposed of to such persons, at such times,
and in such modes, and by such titles, as the government may
deem most advantageous to the public fisc, or in other respects
most politic."
It is also elementary that land covered by water within the
public domain of the United States is as much a part thereof
as the dry land. Thus', in Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. City of
Chicago, (1900) 176 U. S. 646, speaking through Mr. Justice
Brown, it was said:
"We do not question the general principle that the word
'lands' includes everything which the land carries or which
stands upon it, whether it be natural timber, artificial structures
or water, and that an ordinary grant of land by metes and
bounds carries all pools and ponds, non-navigable rivers and
waters of every description by which such lands, or any portion
of them, may be submerged, since, as was said by the court in
Regina v. Leeds & -LiverpoolCo., 7 Ad. & El. 671, 685: 'Lands
are not the less land for being covered with water.'"
But whilst the ownership of the United States, under the Confederation and under the Constitution, both of the dry land and
that covered with water in the public domain, cannot be controverted, from the beginning it was conceded that the owner-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKExxA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

ship of the public domain did not carry with it navigable waters
or the land constituting the beds thereof, as such waters were
considered within the class of public waters to be forever devoted to the public use. This was recognized by a provision
of the ordinance of 1787 for the government of the Northwest
Territory, as follows:
"The navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and Saint
Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be
common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants
of the said Territory as to the citizens of the United States,
and those of any other States that may be admitted into the
Confederacy, without any tax, impost, or duty therefor."
And, early in the history of Congress, prior to the adoption
in 1805 of a general system for the survey of the whole public
domain of the United States, the same principle was expressed
in the act of May 18, 1796, 1 Stat. 464, the ninth section of
which act was as follows:
"SEC. 9. And be itfartherenacted, That all navigable rivers,
within the territory to be disposed of by virtue of this act, shall
be deemed to be, and remain public highways. And that in
all cases, where the opposite banks of any stream, not navigable, shall belong to different persons, the stream and the bed
thereof shall become common to both."
And because navigable waters were thus from the beginning
recognized as public highways and have ever since been then
treated as sacredly devoted to the public use, they were always
in principle excluded from the sales of the public domain. But
the contrary rule has from the beginning prevailed as respected
non-navigable waters, which have always been surveyed and
sold and paid for. I shall take occasion hereafter in reviewing the legislation of Congress to demonstrate this fact, and
therefore to point out that the statement to the contrary in the
passage from the opinion in HTardin v. Jordan,which I have
already quoted, must have been the result of confounding the
general practice not to sell public waters with the universal
practice to survey and sell non-navigable or private waters.
No better illustration of the truth of this statement is required
than is shown by this case, where the United States sold and

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190

U. S.

JUSTICES WHiTE

and MCKEN-NA, dissenting.

surveyed the beds of the non-navigable waters to the defendants below long after the grant of the border lots; and the
same condition of things is evidenced by other of the Indiana
cases which have been reviewed, and it is to be observed that
in two of the cases the grant or direction to sell the land covered by non-navigable waters was made by special acts of Congress long after the border lots had been disposed of.
Doubtless as the result of the provisions treating navigable
waters as public highways and from a consideration of the nature and extent of the powers vested by the Constitution in the
Federal government and those reserved to the States, and by a
consideration of the doctrine of public and private waters
known to the common law, it was early decided and has been
repeatedly reiterated that the navigable waters and the land
under them belonged to the States-as well the new as the old
-in virtue of their sovereignty, to be held in trust for their
people subject to the power of Congress to regulate commerce.
And in harmony with the principle just stated, it has been decided that such navigable waters and the land under them
in the public domain of the United States within the Territories, while subject to be disposed of by Congress, under
the trust for public use, were yet held by the United States to
be transmitted to the new States to be formed, and which
should, when endowed with statehood, possess them with the
same rights and powers as the original States. A list of the
cases in which this doctrine is stated is appended in the margin.1
IMartin v. Waddell, (1842) 16 Pet. 367, 410 ; Pollardv. Hagan, (1845) 3
How. 212 ; Goodtitle v. Kibbe, (1850) 9 How. 471 ; Doe v. Beebe, (1851) 13
How. 25 ; United States v. Pacheco, (1864) 2 Wall. 587; Nuinford v. Wardwell, (1867) 6 Wall. 423 ; Smith v. Maryland, (1855) 18 How. 71,74 ; Weber
v. Harbor Commissioners, (1873) 18 Wall. 57 ; Barney v. Keokuk, (1876)94
U. S. 324 ; McCready v. Virginia, (1877) 94 U. S. 391 ; St. Louis v. M1yers,
(1885) 113 U. S. 566 ; Manchester v. Massachusetts,(1891) 139 U. S. 240;
Packer v. Bird, (1891) 137 U. S. 661 ; St. Louis v. Butz, (1891) 138 U. S. 226;
San Francisco v. Le Roy, (1891) 138 U. S. 656, 671; Knight v. Land Association, (1891) 142 U. S. 161, 183 ; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green
Bay & M. Canal Co., (1891) 142 U. S. 255; Illinois Central B. B. Co. v. Blinois, (1892) 146 U. S. 387 ; Shively v. Bowlby, (1894) 152 U. S. 1 ; Grand

VOL. exc-31

OCTOBER TERTN,

1902.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

The doctrine of the cases was clearly stated in the opinion
delivered by IM]r. Justice Field, speaking for the court, in illinois
Central R?. R. Co. v. -Illinois,146 U. S. 387, 435, where it was
said:
" It is the settled law of this country that the ownership of
and dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide waters,
within the limits of the several States, belong to the respective
States within which they are found, with the consequent right
to use or dispose of any portion thereof, when that can bedone
without substantial impairment of the interest of the public in
the waters, and subject always to the paramount right of Congress to control their navigation so far as may be necessary for
the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among
the States. This doctrine has been often announced by this
court, and is not questioned by counsel of any of the parties.
Pollard's-Lesseev. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57.
"The same doctrine is in this country held to be applicable
to lands covered by fresh water in the Great Lakes over which
is conducted an extended commerce with different States and
foreign nations. These lakes possess all the general characteristics of open seas, except in the freshness of their waters, and
in the absence of the ebb and flow of the tide. In other respects
they are inland seas, and there is no reason or principle for the
assertion of dominion and sovereignty over and ownership by
the State of lands covered by tide waters that is not equally
applicable to its ownership of and dominion and sovereignty
over lands covered by the fresh waters of these lakes."
And as a necessary consequence of the ownership by the
States, in trust, of the navigable waters and the land under
them within their territorial jurisdiction, it came to be decided
that rights in and incident to such navigable waters or the land
under them were to be determined solely with reference to the
law of the State in which such navigable waters were situated.
Barney v. Ke'okuk, (1876) 94: IT. S. 324; St. Louis v. -Myers,
Rapids & I. R. R. Co. v. Butler, (1897) 159 U. S. 87; St. Anthony Falls
Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water Comrs., (1897) 168 U. S. 349, and 3tobile Transportation Co. v. Mobile, (1903) 187 U. S. 479.

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

dissenting.

(1885) 113 U. S. 566; Packer v. Bird,(1891) 137 U. S. 661,
690 ; St. Louis v. Rutz, (1891) 138 U. S. 226, 242; Shively v.
Bowlby, (1894) 152 U. S. 1, 40; Grand _Rapids & 1.R. Co. v.
Butler, (1897) 159 U. S. 87; St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Co. v. St. Paul Water Comrs., (1897) 168 U. S. 349. But, resting as this last rule necessarily does upon the ownership of
such waters by the States, it can have no application to the
proposition that rights in and to the land beneath the non-navigable waters of the public domain which belong to the United
States, are to be determined solely by the law of the States.
On the contrary, the decision that the right to the property
belonging to the States is to be determined by the state law,
because of the state ownership, involves the converse proposition that the effect of a grant of land and waters in the public
domain of the United States, which are not navigable, and,
therefore, belong to the United States, is to be determined by
the law of the United States.
The ownership by the United States of the public domain
being thus unquestionable, there can be no room for the contention that the quantity and character of property in the public
domain which passes by grant from the United States is not to
be exclusively measured by the law of the United States, because of want of power in the United States over the subject
matter of sale of the public domain. Such a contention would
be obviously without merit, in view of the express delegation
of authority concerning the property of the United States, contained in the third section of the fourth article of the Constitution, whereby Congress was vested with power "to dispose of
and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States."
The comprehensive system of legislation, beginning with the
very birth of the government, providing for the survey and
sale of the public domain, the administrative machinery devised
for executing these laws and the multitude of decisions of this
court concerning questions which have arisen thereunder, which
have ever been deemed proper to be determined solely from a
consideration of the laws of the United States, to my mind
serve to demonstrate the unsoundness of the proposition that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA,

dissenting.

190 U. S.

any other law than that of the United States measures the nature and extent of title to the public domain conveyed by authority of the laws of the United States.
Besides the implication resulting from the general legislation of Congress concerning the sale and disposition of the public domain, the special statutes granting rights in and regulating the use of the non-navigable waters upon the public lands
are very. conclusive. Act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 253; Act
of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377; Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
1095 ; Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388. See, in this connection, Gutierresv. Albuquerque Land & IrrigationCo., 188 U. S.
545, and United States v. Rio Grande Dam and IrrigationCo.,
174 U. S.690, 704, et seq.
I refer to a few cases in which the complete and efficient
power of the United States and the controlling effect of its
laws have been considered and lucidly stated.
In Bagnell v. Broderick, (1839) 13 Pet. 436, it was held
that a state legislature was not competent to declare a certificate of purchase of equal dignity with a patent; and it was
observed (p. 450):
"Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity and
effect of titles emanating from the United States."
Wilcox v. Jackson, (1839) 13 Pet. 498, was an action in ejectment, brought in a state court of Illinois, to recover property
which had at one time been part of a military post. The plaintiff based his claim upon a register's certificate, which the laws
of Illinois declared to be evidence of title sufficient to support
an action in ejectment. In reversing the judgment for the
plaintiff, the court, in the course of the opinion, speaking through
Mr. Justice Barbour, said (p. 516):
"It has been said, that the State of Illinois has a right to
declare by law, that a title derived from the United states,
which, by their laws, is only inchoate and imperfect, shall be
deemed as perfect a title as if a patent had issued from the
United States; and the construction of her own courts seems
We hold the true prin.
to give effect to her statute. .
in any court, state
question
the
whenever
that
this,
be
ciple to
had once been the
which
land
to
title
a
or Federal, is, whether

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U.

S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

property of the United States has passed, that question must
be resolved by the laws of the United States; but that whenever, according to those laws, the title shall have passed, then
that property, like all other property in the State, is subject
to the state legislation, so far as that legislation is consistent
with the admission that the title passed and vested according
to the laws of the United States."
Irvine v. Mlarshlall, (1858) 20 How. 558, was an action originally brought in a court of the Territory of Minnesota. It
was alleged that the defendant Marshall, as the agent of the
plaintiff, had purchased certain public lands with funds belonging to plaintiff and a co-defendant; that Marshall thereafter
took a patent certificate in his own name and refused to convey an undivided half of the land to the plaintiff. The bill of
complaint was demurred to upon the ground that the action
could not be maintained because of - certain provisions of the
territorial statute relating to resulting trusts. Applying its
previous ruling in Wilcox v. Jackson, the court, in the course
of the opinion, speaking through Mr. Justice Daniel, said
(p. 563):
"Within the provisions prescribed by the Constitution, and
by the laws enacted in accordance with the Constitution, the
acts and powers of the government are to be interpreted and
applied so as to create and maintain a system, general, equal,
and beneficial as a whole. By this rule, the acts and the contracts of the government must be understood as referring to
and sustaining the rights and interests of all the members of
this Confederacy, and as neither emanating from, nor intended
for the promotion of, any policy peculiarly local, nor in any
respect dependent upon such policy. The system adopted for
the disposition of the public lands embraces the interests of all
the States, and proposes the equal participation therein of all
the people of all the States. This system is therefore peculiarly
and exclusively the exercise of a Federal power. The theater
of its accomplishment is the seat of the Federal government.
The mode of that accomplishment, the evidences or muniments
of right it bestows, are all the work of Federal functionaries
alone."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

In Unitecl States v. Gratiot, (1840) 14 Pet. 526, 537, considering an objection that Congress was without power to lease
the public lands, it was said (p. 537) :
"Congress has the same power over the public lands as over
any other property belonging to the United States; and this
power is vested in Congress without limitation."
In Gibson,v. Ghouteau, (1872) 13 Wall. 92, a state statute of
limitations was held ineffective as against a patent from the
United States. The court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field,
said (p. 100) :
"The same principle which forbids any state legislation interfering with the power of Congress to dispose of the public
property of the United States, also forbids any legislation depriving the grantees of the United States of the possession and
enjoyment of the property granted by reason of any delay in
the transfer of the title after the initiation of proceedings for its
acquisition. The consummation of the title is not a matter
which the grantees can control, but one which rests entirely
with the government. With the legal title, when transferred, goes the right to possess and enjoy the land, and it
would amount to a denial of the power of disposal in Congress
if these benefits, which should follow upon the acquisition of
that title, could be forfeited because they were not asserted
before that title was issued."
In Fink v. O'NTeil, (1882) 106 U. S. 272, 283, Mr. Justice
Matthews delivering the opinion of the court, considering the
fourth section of the homestead act of May 20, 1862, which
provided that no lands acquired thereunder should, in any event
become liable to any debt contracted prior to the issuing of the
patent therefor, it was declared that Congress by such provision
had made the exemption of such lands from sale on execution
apermanent part of the national policy.
In Packerv. Bird, (1891) 137 U. S. 661, the court passed on
the extent of the grant contained in a patent of the United
States, to land in California, one portion whereof abutted on
the Sacramento River. The patent was issued upon a decree
of confirmation on a previously existing right or equity of the
patentee to the lands, and the survey made pursuant to the

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTIcEs WHITE and McKE1NA, dissenting.

decree was incorporated in the patent. In the course of the
opinion, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, the court said

(p. 669):
"The courts of the United States will construe the grants
of the general government without reference to the rules of
construction adopted by the States for their grants; but
whatever incidents or rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed by the government will be determined by the
States, subject to the condition that their rules do not impair
the efficacy of the grants or the use and enjoyment of the
property by the grantee."
In Shively v. Bowlby, (1894) 152 U. S. 1, 44, Mr. Justice Gray
delivering the opinion, the language just quoted was approvingly referred to; and Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the
court, in St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. Water Commissioners, (1897) 168 U. S. 349, 362, again approvingly referred to
the statement.
How completely these authorities apply to this case becomes,
I think, manifest when it is borne in mind that the question is
whether the United States by the conveyance which it made of
the land abutting on the water parted with the title which it
confessedly owned prior to the conveyance, to the beds of the
lakes themselves. The reservation as to rights and incidents referred to in the excerpt made above from the opinion in Packer
v. Bird, is but a reiteration of the doctrine enunciated by the
court in the concluding sentences of the opinion in Irvine v.
AMarshall, supra,and its import is further shown by the opinion
in Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324. In the latter case, the
question presented was what rights in the beds of navigable
streams attached to abutting lands conveyed by grants of the
United States, and the court said that as the beds of navigable
waters within a State were the property of the State, by virtue
of its sovereignty, no rights in the bed of such a stream could
be conferred by a conveyance from the United States, unless the
state law vested such rights in the owners of the upland without reference to the source from which the title to the upland
had been derived. If such be the power of the States as to navigable waters which they hold in trust, it necessarily follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

that what rights pass by a conveyance from the United States
to land under non-navigable waters must be determined by the
laws of the United States, to whom such land and water when
situated in the public domain belong in absolute ownership.
The ownership in the United States and its exclusive power
under the Constitution to administer and control its property
being thus demonstrated, it follows that the state law is not the
proper criterion by which to ascertain what the United States
conveyed, and, therefore, there is a Federal question to be examined.
The court below held although the United States survey had
not, in fact, been extended beyond the meander line and the lots
conveyed by the United States were described as fractional on
the plat and in the patents, that the patentees yet took full subdivisions. The principle applied was this: Where marsh land
or non-navigable waters were within a meander line upon which
fractional lots abutted, the conveyance of such lots by the United States carries also the marsh land or non-navigable water
beyond the meander to the extent of a full subdivision. And
in order to accomplish this result the marsh land and water inside of the meander will be considered to have been surveyed,
and the lines of the survey be hence protracted across the meander so as to embrace a full subdivision. Whilst this theory
was plainly irreconcilable with the construction given to the
United States law by the Supreme Court of Indiana in cases decided by it prior to Stoner v. Rice, ub. sup., that case announced
the rule, and the subsequent cases in Indiana have sanctioned it
down to and including Ifean v. Roby, upon which the decision
in this case was rested. In Ilardin.v. Jordan the doctrine of
Stoner v. Rice was criticised as an unwarranted departure from
the common law, and it was observed-as was undoubtedly the
case-that the Indiana court in Stoner v. Rice but adopted the
rule announced by the Supreme Court of Michigan in Clute v.
]T isher, 65 Michigan, 48, decided in 1887, shortly before the decision in Stoner v. Rice. Now, the opinion in Clute v. -ishker
shows that the Michigan court in that case but followed a prior
ruling made by it at the same term, in Palmer v. Dodd, 64
Michigan, 474. The latter case involved title to land within a

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190

U. S.

JUSTICES WmTE and McKENNA, dissenting.

section made fractional by a meandered lake or marsh, and the
controversy turned upon whether under the law of the United
States the rights of the owner of the fractional section extended
beyond the meander line. The Supreme Court of Michigan, in
deciding the question, said:
"When the United States grants by patent land described
by a legal subdivision, the grantee is entitled to all the land
embraced within the legal subdivision contained in his grant,
and is not limited by the number of acres specified in the patent or upon the government plat. The meanders have no significance as boundaries, and are not intended as such. They
are run simply to afford a means of computing the area contained in the fraction which the United States requires payment for on sale of the public domain. But no grantee by
such patent, granting, a legal subdivision of land, can derive
title to land upon another legal subdivision. This we have
decided in the cases of Wilson v. offman, 54 Michigan, 246;
Jeyser v. Sutherland, 59 Michigan, 455, which were based upon
the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in
Brown's Lessees v. Clements, 3 How. 650."
It is hence apparent that the rule in Olute v. -Fisherwas
based upon the construction of the law of the United States expounded by this court in Brown v. Clements, 3 How. 650. But
long prior to the decision in Clute v. Fisher this court, in Gazzam, v. Phillips,(1857) 20 How. 372, had reviewed the case of
Brown v. Clments, and decided that the sale of a fractional
lot did not convey a full subdivision; and in consequence of
this view the case of Brown v. Clements was expressly overruled. In subsequent cases in Michigan the fact that that court
had mistakenly predicated its conclusion in Clute v. Fisher on
a case which this court had overruled, has been conceded.
Grand Rapids 1ice & Coal Co. v. South Grand Rapids ice &
Coal Co., 102 Michigan, 227. But whilst the Michigan court
has thus recognized the error into which it inadvertently fell
in Clute v. Fisher, the Indiana court has continued to apply
that rule, although the sole authority upon which it rests has
been repudiated.
Besides the error in the ruling below which is thus shown to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and 34CKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

exist, the principle applied is moreover in conflict with decisions
of this court since the ruling in Gazzarn v. _Phillips.
In Btorne v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40, certain fractional lots appeared by the plat of survey to be bounded on the west by the
meander line of the Indian River. It was, however, found as
a fact that the water line which was surveyed and made the
boundary of the lots was the line of a bayou or savannah, and
that there had been an omission to make a survey of the
land west of the bayou and between it and the main bed of the
Indian River. The court, speaking through Mr. Justice Brewer,
said (p. 45):
"Although it was unsurveyed it does not follow that a patent for the surveyed tract adjoining carries with it the land
which, perhaps, ought to have been, but which was not in fact,
surveyed. The patent conveys only the land which is surveyed,
and when it is clear from the plat and the surveys that the
tract surveyed terminated at a particular body of water, the
patent carries no land beyond it."
In Tiles v. Cedcar Point Club, 175 U. S. 300, it appeared that
a survey was made in 1834-1835 of fractional townships in the
northern part of Ohio, adjacent to Lake Erie. By the field
notes and plat certain sections were shown as fractional, because a tortuous meander line was shown upon the plat of survey upon which the fractional lots abutted. Across this meander line there was a region of country described as a marsh,
and agreed in the statement of facts to be a body of low,
swamp land, partly boggy and partly dry, stretching beyond to
the shores of Lake Erie. The claim of the owner of the abutting lands was that his boundary was not the meander at the
edge of the marsh, but Lake Erie. By referring to the plat
previously excerpted in reviewing one of the Tollestom Club
cases, showing the situation of the land which was in controversy in those cases, it will be seen that the precise condition
passed upon in those cases was involved in -Niles v. Cedar
Point Club, supra. With the exact situation confronting it,
instead of applying the erroneous rule announced in Indiana,
this court held that the purchaser of the fractional lots abutting
on the meander did not take a complete subdivision, but was

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKXExA, dissenting.

confined by the meander line and got only the land which he
bought and paid for. The court, speaking through Mr. Justice Brewer, said (p. 306):
"It appears distinctly from the field notes and the plat that
the surveyor, Rice, stopped his surveys at this ' marsh' as he
called it. These surveys were approved and a plat prepared,
which was based upon the surveys and field notes, and showed
the limits of the tracts which were for sale. The patents, referring in terms to the survey aud plat, clearly disclose that the
government was not intending to and did not convey any land
which was a part of the marsh.
"It may be that surveyor Rice erred in not extending his surveys into this marsh, but his error does not enlarge the title
conveyed by the patents to the surveyed fractional sections.
The United States sold only the fractional sections, received only
pay therefor, an amount fixed by the number of acres conveyed,
and one receiving a patent will not ordinarily be heard to insist
that by reason of an error on the part of the surveyor more land
was bought than was paid for, or than the government was
offering for sale."
And the same meaning was attributed to a meander line
in French-Glenn -LiveStock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 41, 54.
But it is said the State of Indiana was entitled to the land under
the beds of the lakes in and by virtue of the act of Congress of
September 28, 1850, known as the swamp land act, and, therefore, the error committed below, as to the meaning of the survey
and patents, is without importance. But the State could not acquire a legal title to land under the swamp land act except by
patent, Niles v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S. 309; Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 413; Rogers' Locomotive .Yachine Works
v. American Emigrant Cormpany, 164 U. S. 559, 574 ; -Michigan
Land and Lumber Co. v. Bust, 168 U. S. 589, 592, and such patent must have been based upon a survey, as the statute clearly
contemplated the selection and patenting only of "legal subdivisions." Act September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519. The surveyhaving stopped at the bank, and the bed of the lake not having been
surveyed, platted or subdivided, or the area thereof ascertained,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MoKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

no right of the State had attached to the lake bed land under
the swamp land act. Indeed, whilst some of the earlier cases in
Indiana construed the swamp land act in direct conflict with the
meaning of that act as interpreted by this court in the cases
above cited, in a later case, Tolleston Club v. State, the Indiana
court, on the rehearing, pointed out that under a correct construction of the swamp land act a survey and a patent were
essential prerequisites to the passing of rights to the State under the swamp land act. And the confirmatory act of March 3,
1857, 11 Stat. 251, clearly has no application, as patents had
issued in 1853 upon all the selections made for the State.
The mind cannot fail at once to perceive the serious disturbance
to vested rights which must follow from the suggestion that title
passed to the State of Indiana, under the swamp land act, to
land belonging to the United States, which at the time of the
issue of the patents to the State had not been surveyed or selected
by the Secretary of the Interior for account of the State, and
-which was not parcelled into legal subdivisions until 1875, when
the lake bed land in question was surveyed as the property of
the United States.
I am brought, then, to these questions: Did the United States,
by running meander lines, lose her title to the lands within such
lines? and did she, by issuing patents for the fractional lots
abutting on lakes which were thus meandered, convey to her
grantees title to the center of the lakes?
It cannot be successfully controverted that from the beginning, both under the Confederation and since the adoption of
the Constitution, the laws for the survey and sale of the public
domain have contemplated as well the survey and sale of both
dry land and land covered by water, except that under navigable waters. This so clearly results from the text of the statutes that I content myself with making reference to the sections
of the Revised Statutes relating to the subject and to a citation
in the margin of some of the earlier statutes.'
I Ordinances of Confederation : May 20, 1785, 1 Birchard's Land Laws,
p. 11; July 13, 1787, art. 4, 1 Birchard, p. 18; July 23, 1787, 1 Birchard,
p. 24 ; June 20, 1788, 1 Birchard, p. 29 ; and July 9, 1788, 1 Birchard, p. 33.
Acts of Congress: April 21, 1792, 1 Stat. 257 ; May 5, 1792, 1 Stat. 266 ;

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

The fact that land under non-navigable waters was subject to
survey and sale, and the settled practice of meandering navigable
streams and making fractional abutting lots, is aptly illustrated
by the case of Surgett v. Lapice, (1850) 8 How. 48. The question presented in that case arose under the act of March 3, 1811,
2 Stat. 662, relating to the mode of surveying public lands in
the Territory of Orleans. By the second section of that act
power was conferred to depart from the rectangular mode of
survey as respected lands abutting on certain waters in the Territory. Such lands were to be laid out into tracts as near as
practicable of a specified frontage and depth on a river or bayou,
and to be bounded by such lines as the nature of the country
would render practicable and most convenient. By the fifth section of the act certain rights of preemption or double concessions
in the lands back of tracts fronting on such waters were created
under described conditions in favor of the front proprietors, it
being provided in the act that double concessions should in no
event extend so far in depth as to include lands fit for cultivation "1bordering on another river, creek, bayou or water course."
Within the area of a double concession involved in the controversy in the case named there was a bayou, and the claim on
one side was that the double concession should extend back and
embrace the lands on the bayou on the theory that it was nonnavigable, while,on the other hand, it was contended that the
bayou should be treated as navigable, and that the double concession could not be extended back to embrace the lands borConsidering the contention that the
dering on the bayou.
though non-navigable, came
question,
in
waters of the bayou
recited in the act, the
courses
water
of
within the description
court said (p. 69):
"To what description of water course did the legislature reMay 18, 1796, 1 Stat. 464; May 10, 1800, 2 Stat. 73 ; March 3, 1803, 2 Stat.
233 ; March 26, 1804, 2 Stat. 277 ; February 11, 1805, 2 Stat. 313 ; March 2,
1805, 2 Stat. 324; March 3, 1811, 2 Stat. 662 ; April 24, 1820, 3 Stat. 566;
April 5, 1832, 4 Stat. 503. Revised Statutes: Title XXXII, The Public
Lands, particularly chapter four (Preemptions), chapter five (Homesteads),
chapter seven (Sale and Disposal of the Public Lands), and chapter nine (Survey of the Public Lands).

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

fer ? The enacting clause provides that every person who owns
a tract of land 'bordering' on any river, creek, bayou, or water
course, shall have the right of preEmption to the back land.
The act of 1811 has been construed, in the Department of Public
Lands, for nearly forty years, to mean that those owners whose
lands fronted on a navigable stream were only provided for;
and that the word 'border,' both in the enacting clause and
in the exception, meant to front on a navigable water course;
that is to say, such waters as are described in the third section of
the act of February 20, 1811, by which Louisiana was authorized to form a state constitution and government, by which act
the river Mississippi, and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the same, or into the Gulf of Mexico, were declared to
be common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said State, as to other citizens of the United States.
"Similar provisions as respects navigable waters are common
to other States where there are public lands, and the practice
has been uniform to survey and sell the lands Ibordering' on
navigable streams as fractional sections; nor is the channel
ever sold to a private owner. Of necessity, it had to be left
almost exclusively to the Department of Lands executing the
public surveys to ascertain what stream was navigable, and
should be bordered by fractions and reserved from sale; and, on
the other hand, what waters were not navigable, and should be
included in square sections, and the channel sold."
Whilst, of course, the case arose under the act of 1811, the
opinion points to the general rule obtaining for years in the
Land Department on the subject of the sale of land under nonnavigable waters and the exclusion of land forming the beds of
navigable or public waters from survey and sale.
Without presently developing this subject further, I append
in the margin' a reference to acts of Congress, rules of the
of July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 187 ; Act of January 11, 1873, 17 Stat. 409
Act of February 19, 1874, 18 Stat. 16; Act of December 21, 1874, 18 Stat.
293; Manual of Surveying Instructions, February 22, 1855, approved by
Congress, May 30, 1862, 12 Stat. 409 ; Instructions of Commissioner of
General Land Office of July 13, 1874, Copp's Public Land Laws, p. 765 ;
Report of Commissioner of General Land Office, 1868, p. 131 ; Manual of

IAct

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

Land Department governing surveys and reports of the executive officers charged with the survey and disposition of the public domain, which beyond peradventure show that from the
very beginning of the government up to the decision in Hardin
v. Jordan, the general practice was to treat the land under nonnavigable waters as the property of the United States, and to
survey and sell the same as part of the public domain. Indeed,
the proposition just stated is established by the facts disclosed
in the various cases decided by the Supreme Court in Indiana
which I have at the outset reviewed.
Whilst, as pointed out in Surgett v. Lapice, the existence of
a navigable stream was the reason which usually occasioned
a meander line, and hence fractional subdivisions, the provisions
of the surveying laws, both under the Confederation and since,
contemplated such a meander line also wherever there existed
an Indian reservation or private land claim which at the time
of the survey was made prevented the extension of the public
surveys. But it is apparent that from an early day meander
lines and resulting fractional sections came to be established
not only when occasioned by navigable rivers, Indian reservations or private land claims, but from other causes. Thus where
the deputy surveyor encountered a morass or swamp which he
deemed impassable or such a body of non-navigable water as
in his judgment it would not be profitable then to survey, a
meander line would be run and fractional sections created.
When this practice first originated, and whether the surveyor
general of the respective surveying districts applied uniform
rules concerning it, the official documents of which I can take
judicial notice do not enable me to determine. But certain it
is that the practice prevailed prior to 1827. This is evidenced
Surveying Instructions, May 3, 1881, p. 34, January 1, 1890, p. 33, and
June 30, 1894, p. 57, which last was approved by act of August 15, 1894,
28 Stat. 285 ; Report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, 1877,
p. 11 ; Letter of Secretary of Interior in response to a resolution of the House
of Representatives respecting the survey of Lakes Wolf and George in Indiana and Illinois, H. R. Ex. Doc. No. 83, 45th Congress, 2d session; Report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, in response to Senate resolution of January 14, 1896, giving information relative to certain
lakes in Louisiana, Sen. Doe. No. 101, 54th Congress, 1st session.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WmITE

and MCKEN-A, dissenting.

190 U. S.

by a communication from the Land Department to the surveyor
general at Washington, Mississippi, dated January 30, 1827, 2
Birchard's Comp. p. 862, and also by a letter from the Commissioner to the surveyor general at Cincinnati, Ohio, dated
March 11, 1836, 2 Birchard's Comp. p. 962. That complaint
was sometimes made that deputy surveyors had mistakenly
meandered marsh land, which it was asserted should have been
surveyed, subdivided and platted, is also indicated by the official
communication last referred to. The practice as to non-navigable lakes above alluded to is moreover shown by the meandering of the very lakes here in controversy (Wolf and George)
as early as 1835, of Beaver Lake and the lands adjacent to the
Calumet River about the same time, as shown by the Indiana
decision in the P~ortsmouthBank and Tollestom Club cases, and
of Cross, Soda, Clear and Fairy Lakes in Louisiana in 1839.
Sen. Doc. 101, 54 Cong. 1st session.
The general practice as to meandering lakes and ponds prevailing in the surveying districts created prior to 1850 is, however, conclusively shown by the "Manual of Instructions"
dated February 22, 1855, issued by the Land Department for
the guidance of the surveyors and deputy surveyors. In a letter transmitting this manual, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office directed attention to the fact that it was a revised
edition of the previous instructions on the subject. Among
the instructions contained in this manual was the following,
1 Lester Land Laws, p. 714:
"3. You are also to meander, in manner aforesaid, all lakes
and deep ponds of the area of twenty-five acres and upwards;
also navigable bayous; shallow ponds, readily to be drained,
or likely to dry up, are not to be meandered."
This manual was approved by Congress on May 30, 1862,
12 Stat. 409. Like manuals, reiterating the instructions above
referred to, were issued on May 3, 1881, January 1, 1890, and
June 30, 1894 (p. 57); and the manual of 1894 was approved
by Congress on August 15, 1894, 28 Stat. 285.
Whilst the statements already made are sufficient to demonstrate that the rule contained in the manuals but substantially expressed the practice prevailing from the beginning, such

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MoKENNA, dissenting.

fact is additionally demonstrated by the report of the Commissioner of the General Office for 1868, (p. 131,) wherein, referring to the rule, he said that in substance it but reiterated
the practice always followed in the Land Department.
There is in reason then no support for the proposition announced in some cases decided by state courts-presumably
on the authority of the rule in.-ardin v. Jordan-that the
stopping of a survey at the margin of a non-navigable body
of water and the meandering of the same operate to deprive
the United States of the title to land within the meanders,
which the United States had owned before the meander lines
were run. To say this would be only to declare that power
existed in the executive officers of the government to strip the
United States of its property by a mere method of survey,
when from the beginning no authority to that effect had been
conferred, and no such purpose was contemplated. The practice of the government and the decisions of this court, it seems
to me, leave no room for controversy on this subject. Thus,
where a navigable stream was meandered, and within the
meander lines were unsurveyed islands forming part of the
public domain of the United States, and a request was subsequently made under the provisions of the statutes of the
United States for their survey, 12 Stat. 410, the practice of
the department was to comply with -the request and survey
and dispose of the islands as parts of the public domain. Report Land Office, 1868, p. 121. And, as said in the same report, in referring to the rule prevailing from the beginning
concerning the meandering of lakes and ponds, where, subsequently to such meandering, lake beds were reported as dry,
they " were surveyed and brought into the market. In all
these instances the United States has but exercised the ordinary
right of proprietorship."
The decisions of this court already referred to conclusively
establish at the same time that the mere running of a meander
line did not affect the title of the United States to the land
within such meanders. Without going over all the cases, it
suffices to call attention on this point to Gazzam v. Phillips,
20 How. 372, and Hiles v. Cedar Point CMub, 175 U. S. 300.
vOL. cxc-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

dissenting.

190 U. S.

Quite recently the subject was again passed upon in United
States v. .issiom Rock Company, 189 U. S. 391. In that case
there existed in navigable waters a small island, and whilst the
title of the State to the land under the navigable waters was
sustained, the title of the United States to the island was upheld.
The prior title of the United States being unaffected by the
meander, did the conveyance by the United States of a specified quantity of land contained in described fractional lots abutting on a meander, the land under water within the meanders
being unsurveyed and unplatted, convey by legal intendment
more than the grant purported to embrace?
It cannot be controverted that at common law, as elaborately
pointed out in Rardin v. Jordan,the owner of land abutting
on an unnavigable body of water, by conveying the upland as
bounding on the water, without restriction or reservation in the
deed, in legal effect caused the center of the stream to be the
boundary of the land conveyed. But, it seems to me, it cannot
be questioned that the statutes of the United States relating to
the disposal of the public domain confer no power whatever to
sell unsurveyed public land nor do such statutes invest courts
with the authority to enlarge the grants actually specified in
the patents of the United States. A grant by the United States
is to be interpreted by the statutes of the United States, and
therefore is not subject to be enlarged by any principle of conveyance beyond the express intendment of the statute under
the authority of which the grant is made. The difference between the rules of construction applicable to grants made by a
government and the grant made by an individual is that grants
of the government are to be strictly construed in its favor and
against the grantee; in other words, that nothing passes by the
grant but that which is necessarily and expressly embraced in
its terms.
The doctrine on this subject was aptly stated by the court in
Shively v. Bowiby, speaking through Mr. Justice Gray, where
it was said (152 U. S.10):
"It was argued for the defendants in error that the question
presented was a mere question of construction of a grant bounded

'KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190

U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and McKENNA, dissenting.

by tide water, and would have been the same as it is if the grantor
had been a private person. But this is not so. The rule of
construction in the case of such a grant from the sovereign is
quite different from that which governs private grants. The
familiar rule and its chief foundation were felicitously expressed'
by Sir William Scott: 'All grants of the Crown are to be
strictly construed against the grantee, contrary to the usual
policy of the law in the consideration of grants; and upon this
just ground, that the prerogatives and rights and emoluments
of the Crown being conferred upon it for great purposes, and
for the public use, it shall not be intended that such prerogatives, rights and emoluments are diminished by any grant, beyond what such grant by necessary and unavoidable construction shall take away.' Thie Rebec7kah, I C. Rob. 227, 230.
Many judgments of this court are to the same effect. CaTrles
River Bridge v. Warren Bidge, 11 Pet. 420, 544-548; Martin v. Vaddell, 16 Pet. 367, 411; Central Transportation Co.
v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 49."
Applying this doctrine to the lands in question, as the law of
the United States conferred no authority to transfer unsurveyed
land and confined the patentee to the land actually described
in the patent as strictly construed, it follows that by the issue
of its patents for fractional lots abutting on the water the
United States did not transfer the title to the beds of the lakes
in question within the meander lines.
And the Land Department in executing the acts of Congress
and Congress itself in dealing with the subject have so uniformly manifested the purpose that the grants of the United
States to land bordering on a non-navigable body of water
should not convey the land under the water belonging to the
United States beyond the limits of the land actually expressed
in the patent as conveyed, that it seems to me the statutes for
the disposition of the public domain should be read as if they
contained an express provision to that effect.
I have already shown the rule prevailing from the earliest
day for the meandering of non-navigable lakes and ponds, and
in doing so called attention to the report of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office made in 1868, in which he stated

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCoKEYNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

that it had been the constant practice from the beginning, after
lakes had been meandered and on the lakes becoming dry, to
survey and dispose of the beds thereof. As evidencing this
practice, I call attention to the following:
The Land Department, on July 13, 1874, Copp's Public Land
Laws, 1875, p. T65, issued directions which were to govern the
survey of the beds of non-navigable lakes and other like bodies
of water which had been meandered at the time of the original
survey and which had become suitable for survey and sale. As
the circular of instructions related only to districts where the office of surveyor general had been abolished and could not have
been intended to create a rule in such districts different from
that obtaining in other districts, the legitimate inference from
the instructions is that it was intended to put in effect in such
districts the practice usual in other districts where the office of
surveyor general had not been done away with. This view
finds support in the prelude to the letter forwarding the
circular of instructions, which says: "As inquiries arise in regard to the survey of the beds of meandered lakes or other
similar bodies of water in districts where the office of surveyor
general has been discontinued, the following is communicated,"
etc. The instructions which followed authorized the survey of
the beds of such lakes as the property of the United States,
when the waters had "so permanently receded or dried up as
to leave within the unsurveyed area dry land fit, in ordinary
seasons, for agricultural purposes." The remainder of the
instructions dealt with the mode of proceeding to have a
survey made and title obtained by individuals.
Here, again, as in the case of the rule of 1855, concerning
the meandering of non-navigable lakes, the fact that it but in
substance formulated the practice prevailing from the beginning, is shown by the report of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office made in 1877, Report, Land Office, p. 11, where,
referring to the practice of the department as to surveying
islands situated in navigable waters within a meander and the
circular in respect thereto issued in 1868, and also referring to
the circular of July 13, 1874, above referred to, it was said :
"The regulations embraced in these circulars were not new

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

in their substance, but were simply a formulation of the preexisting practice of the office theretofore administered with
reference to the class of lands to which they were applicable."
It is then established that from the very beginning of the
government, until at least the date of the circular just referred
to, the practice was, after non-navigable bodies of water had
been meandered, when the beds thereof became uncovered, to
dispose of such beds as the property of the United States, separately from the former border lots. As the record does not
disclose the number of instances in which this practice was
observed during nearly one hundred years prior to Hardin v.
Jordan,I may not state them, but, as no single instance to the
contrary appears, it seems to me that the statement in Hardin
v. Jordan,that the contrary rule had always prevailed, is left
without any support whatever, and must have arisen from confounding the uniform practice not to sell the channel of navigable rivers, which belonged to the States, with the uniform
practice to the contrary as to non-navigable waters, which belonged to the United States. But, the acts of Congress on the
subject are so clear that they leave no room for substantial controversy, and they, in effect, amount to a legislative approval
of the construction of the laws of the United States affixed by
the administrative officers to those laws from the very foundation of the government. Thus, on July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 187,
after the sale of border lots abutting on the meander of a marsh
and the Little Calumet River, Congress provided for the survey
and sale of the lands within the meanders. So, also, after the
patenting to the State of Indiana of the fractional lots abutting
on Beaver Lake, Congress, by act of January 11, 1873, 17 Stat.
409, granted the bed of the lake to the State. Again, by the
act of February 19, 1874, 18 Stat. 16, the bed of a meandered
lake, known as Tarkio Lake, situated in Holt County, Missouri,
was conveyed to the county, with a reservation, however, that
the county should make title to such person as might have settled upon any portion of the land once part of the bed of the
lake, under the homestead and preemption laws. Yet a further
illustration, which, because of its brevity and importance, is ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WBITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

cerpted in full. Congress passed an act, approved on December 21, 1874, 18 Stat. 293, which reads as follows:
" Be it enacted by the Senate and house of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That so
much of the bed of the marsh or pond in sections fourteen,
twenty-three, and twenty-six, in township sixteen north, of
range twenty east of the fourth principal meridian, in the
county of Sheboygan, in the State of Wisconsin, as shall or
may be reclaimed by draining the water from the same, shall
be owned and held, so far as any rights or interests of the
United States are concerned, by the owners of the lands
abutting upon said marsh or pond, and draining the same to
the center or thread thereof, and divided among the several
owners adjoining and abutting said marsh or pond, according
to the rules of law, upon payment by said adjoining owners
into the Treasury of the United States of one dollar and twenty
five cents per acre for the amount of land that has been or
may be so reclaimed."
But, it is said, although it be conceded that the patentee,
under the law of the United States, was confined to the land
within the actual boundaries of the fractional lots conveyed,
nevertheless if, as a matter of conveyancing, a grant by an individual would be construed under the state law as extending
beyond the dry land to the center of the water, such construction should be applied to the patents of the United States.
This, however, but asserts the same proposition which I have
already fully considered, and whilst seemingly accepting the
true meaning of the law of the United States and the interpretation given to it from the beginning, proceeds to overthrow it.
To argue that because conveyances made by individuals are
controlled by the law of the States, therefore conveyances
made by the United States are likewise so controlled, involves,
as I see it, not only a non sequitur, but besides amounts to
denying, so far as the public domain is concerned, that there is
a government of the United States having complete ownership
and supreme power in the premises. The suggestion that
courts as a matter of convenience will determine by the state

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MOKENNA, dissenting.

law the extent of a grant made by the United States is
without force, since courts have no power upon their conception of convenience to deprive the United States of its property
by resorting to the laws of a State in order to divest the title
of the United States in and to property which it owns, and
which it has never voluntarily parted with if its own laws be
applied. Moreover, the argument of convenience, when inherently considered, is without merit, since it rests on the assumption that for the purpose of convenience it will be held
that what property passed by a grant of the United States is
to be measured by a variable standard, the divergent laws of
the several States, instead of the law of the United States
operating generally throughout the United States, thus creating uncertainty and confusion by causing it to come to pass
that a grant made by the United States in virtue of the authority conferred by the statutes of the United Staies will
mean one thing in one State and a wholly different thing in
another.
As pointed out by this court in Irvine v. -3arshall,20 How.
558, 563, one of the very objects of the provision of the Constitution conferring ample power upon Congress with respect to
the property of the United States was to prevent this very condition of things. In other words, the proposition is that for the
sake of assumed convenience a rule of interpretation should be
resorted to to bring about the very condition of inconvenience
which it was the purpose by the constitutional provision in question to guard against.
Conceding, however, arguendo, that a grant by the United
States should be construed as a matter of conveyancing by
the local law prevailing in a particular State, it nevertheless
seems to me clear that the conclusion which the court reaches
is erroneous. As has been shown in the Portsmouth Bank
case the Supreme Court of Indiana expressly dedided that a
conveyance of border lots by the State was to be governed, not
by the rules of conveyancing applicable to private individuals,
but that the power of the state officers was to be ascertained
from the statutes of the State alone; consequently, it was
decided that where the State bad conveyed the lots abutting

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MICKENNA, dissenting.

190 U. S.

on Beaver Lake by the exact description contained in the patents of the United States, such conveyances gave no right to
the bed of the lake, because power existed in the officers of
the State only to sell lands which had been regularly surveyed
and platted.

In

other words, the local decisions in

Indiana

establish the exact distinction between the rule of conveyancing applicable to individuals and those controlling the grant
by a government, which was pointed out by this court in the
passage from the opinion in Shively v. Bowlby, previously
quoted.
Surely, if it be the rule in Indiana that the construction of a
grant made by the State of its public lands is to be controlled
by the state statutes, it should not now be held that a grant
by the United States of its lands situated in Indiana is not to be
construed by the statutes of the United States, but by the rules
of conveyancing applicable to private grants. In other words,
that in dealing with the lands of the United States the government is to be subjected to the local law of Indiana and yet at
the same time be deprived of the rights which are accorded by
that law to the State, regarded as a government. To now so
hold, it seems to me, is but to declare that it is within the
province of the local law to strip the United States of its governmental attributes and reduce it to the condition of a mere private
individual. This difficulty cannot be avoided by suggesting that
in this particular case the Indiana courts have decided that the
transfer of the border lots carried the beds of the lakes, and
hence it must be construed that such land passed by the local
law. As has been previously demonstrated, the decision of
the Supreme Court of Indiana in this case was in effect predicated on its previous rulings in Stoner v. Rice and the Tolleston
Club cases. In those cases it was declared that the doctrine
previously announced in the Portmouth Bank case was not
overruled, but the court proceeded upon the theory that that
case was inapplicable, because it held in the subsequent cases
that there had been in those cases a survey of the land under
water at the time the border lots were conveyed by the United
States. This was based not upon any local law, but upon the
law of the United States as construed by the state court. That

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.

190 U.

S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

construction being overthrown by the decision of this court in
Gazzarn v. Phi1lips and the many other cases in this court
which have followed it, it results that by the Federallaw, upon
which the court based its decision, the beds of the lakes did not
pass. And that this result was understood by the Supreme
Court of Indiana is shown by the opinion on the rehearing in
the Tolleston Club case, where it was expressly declared that
if the theory of survey announced by the court was incorrect,
it was its opinion that the bed of the lake did not pass and
title thereto remained in the United States. The decision now
announced, therefore, holds that the question whether the beds
of the lakes passed is to be determined by the local law as a
matter of conveyancing. When it develops by the decision of
the Indiana court that under the local law, as a matter of conveyancing, the beds of the lakes did not pass it is then in effect
decided that the beds did pass, because it has been decided by
the Supreme Court of Indiana that there had been a survey
under the law of the United States, although the fact that
there had been none conclusively results from a line of decisions
of this court which are not now questioned. It comes then, as
my mind sees it, to this: The beds of the lakes did not pass by
the local law, and they did not pass by the Federal law correctly construed; but, although passing by neither the Federal
nor the local law, they must yet be held to have passed because
of a principle of law which it is impossible for me to state,
because my mind does not perceive it.
Pretermitting, however, this view, and considering the case
as controlled by the rule of flardin v. Jordan, it only remains
to determine whether, under the principle of stare decisis, my
duty is to assent to its application in the case at hand. Undoubtedly, since Hardin v. Jordan was decided rights of property may have accrued predicated on the ruling made in that
case, but it is also unquestionable that rights of property which
had vested prior to that ruling under the.acts of Congress, and
the settled construction and practice of the government prevailing for almost a century would be divested if that case were
applied. Indeed, the case in hand is but an illustration of this
fact, since patents of the United States to land once forming

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA,

dissenting.

190 U. S.

part of the beds of the lakes which are in controversy in this
case were issued prior to the decision in Har'din v. Jordan.
Two classes of rights of property then must be considered-the
one resting on the true rule existing from the foundation of the
government, and the other upon the mistaken theory of Hardin
v. Jordan. I do not feel at liberty to indulge in the conjecture
that the rights which were brought into existence during a century are less important than those which may have arisen in
the comparatively short period since the decision in Hardin
v. Jordan. Putting this view aside, if only the rights of those
who had actually received the patents of the United States for
the beds of the lakes which had once been meandered were
concerned, it might be that I should consider it my duty to
accept as controlling, under the rule of stare decisis, the decision in Iardinv. Jordan,and thus deprive the plaintiffs in error,
whose rights are here at issue, of their property, and this upon
the assumption that the legislative department of the government would rectify the wrong which would be thus inflicted.
Aly mind, however, cannot escape the conviction that the consequence of adhering to the doctrine of Hardin v. Jordan cannot be limited merely to the rights of those who may have in
the past actually acquired from the United States title to land
once forming the beds of meandered lakes. On the contrary,
that doctrine strips the United States of the title to the bed
of every pond or lake whih was meandered during nearly a
century which preceded the decision in Haardin v. Jordan,
where the lots bordering on such meandered lakes had been disposed of by the United States. This shows the inadequacy of
the suggestion that the United States may, by a change of the
form of conveyancing, obviate the doctrine now maintained.
Whatever be the change in the rules of conveyancing, whenever the bed of a meandered lake hereafter becomes fit for sale,
the question must recur and call for a reiteration of the ruling
now made. Under these circumstances, the line upon which I
should act seems to me to have already been plainly pointed
out by the court in Gazzagn v. Phillips, 20 How. 372, supra.
There the court, as I have said, having been called upon to consider the correctness of the rule announced by it twelve years

KEAN v. CALUMET CANAL CO.
190 U. S.

JUSTICES WHTE and MOKENNA, dissenting.

before in Brown v. Clements, 3 How. 650, and having concluded
that that case had been wrongly decided, was required to determine whether it was its duty under the rule of stare decisis to
perpetuate an erroneous principle or apply a correct one. In
deciding to follow the latter course, the reason which controlled
to the conclusion is so directly applicable to the subject matter
of this case, and was so frankly and ably stated, that I excerpt
a passage from the opinion, as follows (p. 378):
"It is possible that some rights may be disturbed by refusing to follow the opinion expressed in that case; but we are
satisfied that far less inconvenience will result from this dissent,
than by adhering to a principle which we think unsound, and
which, in its practical operation, will unsettle the surveys and
subdivisions of fractional sections of the public land, running
through a period of some twenty-eight years. Any one familiar
with the vast tracts of the public domain surveyed and sold,
and tracts surveyed and yet unsold, within the period mentioned, can form some idea of the extent of the disturbance and
confusion that must inevitably flow from an adherence to any
such principle. We cannot, therefore, adopt that decision or
apply its principles in rendering the judgment of the court in
this case."
Concluding that the patents of the United States to the State
of Indiana for the fractional lots abutting upon Wolf Lake and
Lake George did not convey title to land under the water, and
that the patents subsequently issued by the United States, based
upon the Walcott survey of 1875, purporting to pass the title
land to once a part of the beds of the lakes were valid, I dissent.

I am authorized to say that MB. JUsTICE
this dissent.

MOKENNA

joins in

