WILKES COUNTY v,. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ters that are legislative in their nature and which, under the
Constitution, could only be determined, in the first instance, by
Congress. It is sufficient now to say that the legislation upon
which the defendant relies to justify the construction of the works
in question does not, when reasonably interpreted, indicate any
purpose upon the part of Congress to assume such complete and
absolute control of the navigable waters of the United States as
will make of no avail the action of the States in respect of the
erection by private parties of structures in waters wholly within their respective limits.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is
A4ffmed.

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 247. Argued April 17, 20, 1903.-Decided MIay 18, 1903.

The North Carolina ordinance of March 8, 1868, has been declared by
the Supreme Court of that State and by this court, (180 U. S. 532,)
to have been the law of North Carolina when bonds were issued by
Wilkes County for subscription to stock of the Northwestern North
Carolina Railroad Company. All the conditions of the ordinance as to
the route of the railroad and the approval of a majority of the qualified
electors of the county having been met, the county had power to subscribe to the stock of the road and to issue its bonds therefor, and it
cannot now contend that the bonds are invalid for want of power on its
part to issue them.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

'. A. C. Avery for petitioners.
Xr. .7ohn F. -Dillonfor respondents. -Mr. HBar'ry Hubbard,
'. Johnf -.Dillon and X'. Charles Price were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action against Wilkes County, North Carolina,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

100 U. S.

upon certain bonds, each reciting that it was issued in payment
of the subscription by that county to the capital stock of the
Northwestern North Carolina Railroad Company, "by authority of an act of the General Assembly of North Carolina, ratified the 20th day of February A. D. 1879, entitled ' An act to
amend the charter of the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad for the construction of a second division from the towns
of Winston and Salem, in Forsyth County, up the Yadkin Valley, by Wilkesboro, to Patterson's factory, Caldwell County,'
and authorized by a vote of a majority of the qualified voters
of Wilkes County, by an election regularly held for that purpose on the 6th day of November A. D. 1888, and by an order
of the Board of Commissioners of Wilkes County made .on the
first day of April A. D. 1889."
Coler & Co., holders of some of the bonds, obtained a judgment against the county in the Circuit Court. The case was
then carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which certified
certain questions to this court under the Judiciary Act of
[arch 3, 1891, c. 517. Those questions were answered, and
the answers having been certified to the court below, the case
was finally tried, resulting in the affirmance of the judgment
against the county. Wilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506;
Board of Commissioners v. Coler, 113 Fed. Rep. 725. It is
now here on writ of certiorari sued out by Wilkes County.
The facts out of which this litigation arose are fully set forth
in the former opinion. It is necessary to restate some of them
as well as to recall the points heretofore decided.
It appears that the principal question in the case, when formerly here, was as to the effect of the recitals in the bonds.
The plaintiffs contended that being bona fde holders they
were entitled to assume that there bad been a compliance with
all the provisions of the act of February 20, 1879, upon the
authority of which the bonds purported to have been issued.
The defendant contended that as the journals of the respective houses of the Legislature did not show that the yeas and
nays were entered on the second and third readings of the bill
subsequently published as the act of February 20, 1879, that
act was void under section 14 of Article 2 of the state constitu-

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, providing that "No law shall be passed

to im-

pose any tax upon the people of the State, or to allow the
counties, cities or towns to do so, unless the bill for the purpose
shall have been read three several times in each house of the
General Assembly, and passed three several readings, which
readings shall have been on three different days, and agreed to
by each house respectively, and unless the yeas and nays on the
second and third reading of the bill shall have been entered on
the journal."
This contention of the county was supported by several
decisions of the Supreme Court of North Carolina that are
referred to in our former opinion; and one of the questions
propounded to this court was whether the Circuit Court should
accept those decisions as controlling in respect of the alleged
invalidity of the act of 1879. That question was answered
in the affirmative, this court being of opinion that as matter
of propriety and right the decision of the state court on
the question as to what is a law of the State was binding
upon the courts of the United States. 180 U. S.506, 526.
That answer, of course, eliminated from the case the act of
1879 as giving authority to issue the bonds in suit; and it,
therefore, became necessary to inquire whether such authority
could be found elsewhere in the legislation of the State-this
court being of opinion that the invalidity of the act of 1879, as
conferring power to issue the bonds, did not estop holders of
bonds from showing that there was in fact ample authority to
issue them.
It was insisted that sufficient authority was to be found in
the Ordinance of March 8, 1868, passed by the Convention that
assembled at Raleigh, North Carolina, on January 14, 1868,
for the purpose of framing a constitution for that State.
By that Ordinance, which took effect from its passage, it
was provided: "That for the purpose of constructing a railroad of one or more tracks, from some point on the North Carolina Railroad, between the town of Greensboro, in Guilford
County, and the town of Lexington, in Davidson County, running by way of Salem and Winston, in Forsyth County, to
some point in the northwestern boundary line of the State, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

be hereafter determined, a company is hereby incorporated
under the name and style of the Northwestern North Carolina
Railroad Company, with a capital stock of two millions of
dollars, which shall have a corporate existence as a body politic,
for the space of ninety-nine years, . . . § 1. . . . That
the capital stock of said company may be created by subscriptions on the part of individuals, corporations and counties, in
shares of, one hundred dollars. § 2. . . . That after the
organization of said company and the election of the president
and other necessary officers, the officers so elected shall proceed,
under the advice of the directors, to locate the eastern terminus
of the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad, and shall proceed
to construct said road, with one or more tracks, as speedily as
practicable, in sections of five miles each, to the towns of
Winston and Salem in Forsyth County, which portion of said
railroad, when completed, shall constitute its first division:
Provided,That if the distance from the nearest section to the
towns of Winston and Salem be less than five miles, the same
shall be considered a section. § 5. . . . That the stockholders of said company may pay the stock subscribed by them
either in money, labor or material for constructing said road,
as the board of"directors may determine, and that all counties
or towns subscribing stock to said company shall do so in the
same manner and under the same rules, regulations and restrictions as are set forth and prescribed in the act incorporating the North Carolina and Atlantic Railroad Company, [ Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company,] for the government of such towns and counties as are now allowed to
subscribe to the capital stock of said company. § 12.
That the company shall have power to construct branches of
said road, one of which shall run from the towns of Winston
and Salem by way of Mount Airy, in Surry County, to the
line of the State of Virginia." § 13.
The act incorporating the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company, referred to in the Ordinance of 1868, was
passed in 1852. Laws of N. C. 1852, pp. 484, 499. By section
33 of that act it was made "lawful for any incorporated town
or county near or through which said railroad may pass to

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subscribe for such an amount of stock in said company as they
shall be authorized to do by the inhabitants of said town or the
citizens of such county, in manner and form as hereinafter
provided." By section 35 it was provided "that if upon the
return of such constable

.

.

.

it shall appear that a majority

of the qualified voters of such town and by the return of the
sheriff that a majority of the qualified voters of such county
voting upon the question are in favor of the subscription, the
corporate authorities of such town, and the justices of such
county shall appoint an agent to make the subscription in
behalf of such town and county, to be paid for in the bonds of
such town and county and on such time as shall be agreed on
by said town officers and the justices of such county." Laws
of N. C. 1852, c. 136.
After referring to certain decisions of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina, relating to the Ordinance of 1868-particularly
Hill v. Com'rs, 67 N. C. 367, and Belo v. Com'rs, 76 N. C. 489
-we said: "It results that when the bonds here in question
were issued in 1889, it was the law of North Carolina that the
Ordinance of 1868, constituting the charter of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company, was not superseded
by the constitution of 1868, but was in force and therefore
gave power to counties embraced by itsprovisions to take stock
in that company and pay for it in county bonds just as Forsyth
County had done., 180 IT. S. 529.
Another principle announced in our former opinion was
that the rights of the parties were to be determined by the law
of the State as it was declared by the state court to be at the
time the bonds were issued in the name of the county and put
upon the market.
As indicating some of the points left undecided, we make
this extract from our opinion:
"We have referred fully to the Hill and Belo cases because
of the earnest contention of learned counsel that under the law
of North Carolina, as declared in those cases before the bonds
in question were made, the Ordinance of 1868, without the aid
of subsequent legislation, gave full power to Wilkes County to
issuesuch bonds. This view suggests various questions as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

scope and effect of that Ordinance. Assuming, as we must,
that the Belo and Hill cases held that the Ordinance of 1868
remained in force after the adoption of the constitution, did the
general power given by that Ordinance to the North Western
Railroad Company to construct a railroad from its eastern terminus, 'running by way of Salem and Winston, in Forsyth
County, to some point in the northwestern boundary line of
the State, to be hereafter determined,' invest Wilkes County

with authority to subscribe to the stock of the company and
to issue bonds in payment of such subscription? Was 'Wilkes
County in the same category with Forsyth County? Was the
route of the road northwest of Salem and Winston to some
point in the northwestern boundary line of the State to be
determined by the legislature or by the company? If by the
legislature, was that route ever determined otherwise than by
the act of 1879, which has been adjudged never to have become
a law of the State? Did Wilkes County have authority, under
the Ordinance of 1868 alone, to aid, by a subscription of stock
and bonds, the construction of the second division of the road
referred to in the act of 1879, extending from the towns of
Winston and Salem, up the valley of the Yadkin by way of
Jonesville and Wilkesboro, in the county of Wilkes, to Patterson's Factory, in the county of Caldwell? These are matters
about which we do not feel disposed to express an opinion
under the very general and indefinite questions certified from
the Circuit Court of Appeals. Nor do we deem it proper to
express any opinion as to the scope and the effect upon the
rights of the parties of sections 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 of
the Code of North Carolina. The certified questions do not
directly or explicitly relate to any question arising under those
sections of the Code; and it is not appropriate that this court
should, under the questions certified, consider and determine
the entire merits of the case." 180 U. S.532.
That the qualified voters of Wilkes County gave their sanction to a subscription to the capital stock of the Northwestern
North Carolina Railroad Company; that the bonds in suit are
part of those issued in payment of such subscription; that stock
was issued to the county to the full amount subscribed; that

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the road desired by the people of the county was constructed
and is in operation : that for many years the county paid interest upon the bonds; and that the plaintiff purchased the
bonds in suit for value and in good faith; these propositions
are not disputed. However strongly these facts appeal to every
one's sense of right and justice, they do not estop the county
from raising the question of its power to have made the subscription and issued the bonds in question. We repeat what
was said in the former opinion-indeed what had been held in
many previous decisions-that if there was an absolute want
of power to issue the bonds in question every purchaser of them
was charged, in law, with notice of that fact, and could not look
to the county in whose name they were issued. Such power
could not be created by mere recitals in the bonds.
Did the county of Wilkes have power to issue these bonds?
The plaintiff insists that the county had double legislative authority for issuing them; first, under the ordinance of 1868 incorporating the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad Company; second, under the above sections of the Code of North
Carolina of 1883.
We have seen that at the time the bonds were issued the Ordinance of 1868 was in force and gave power to counties embraced by its provisions to take stock in the Northwestern
North Carolina Railroad Company and pay for it in county
bonds. This was held, in our former opinion, to be taken as
the law of North Carolina, because so declared by the Supreme
Court of that State when the bonds were issued, and therefore
as the law by which the rights of the parties were to be determined. So that the vital inquiry, on this part of the case, is
whether the road in question was embraced by the provisions
of.the Ordinance of 1868, and therefore one that could be aided
under that Ordinance by county subscriptions and bonds. If
so, Wilkes County was plainly in the same category as Forsyth
County, and its bonds (issued in payment of the subscription
made by it) must be sustained as valid upon the same grounds
as the Supreme Court of North Carolina approved in reference
to the bonds issued by Forsyth County.
Turning now to the Ordinance of 1868, we find that the NorthVOL. CXC-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

western North Carolina Railroad Company was incorporated
to construct a railroad of one or more tracks "from some point
on the North Carolina Railroad between the towns of Greensboro and Lexington, running by way of Salem and Winston in
Forsyth County to some point in the northwestern boundary
line of the State, to be hereafter determined." No question
arises in the present case as to the route adopted for the road
that was constructed from its beginning point or eastern terminus to Salem and Winston, two towns near each other. It
was mandatory under the ordinance that the road should run
by the way of Salem and Winston. The road that Wilkes
County desired to be built was from Salem and Winston to
Wilkesboro. That was the road in aid of the construction of
which its bonds were issued. If a road from Salem and Winston
to Wilkesboro was substantially in the direction of "the northwestern boundary line of the State," then it would be one authorized by the Ordinance of 1868. The Ordinance did not fix
the particular point in the northwestern boundary at which the
northwestern terminus of the road should be established. It
was some point, on that boundary, to be thereafter determined.
Unless the legislature interfered and itself fixed the northwestern
terminus of the road, the railroad company had the power to
establish it at its convenience or as the necessities of the situation required, taking care that whatever route was adopted the
road as constructed from time to time was to be, substantially,
in the direction of some point in what was reasonably to be
deemed the northwestern boundary line of the State. Undoubtedly those interested in the enterprise, as well as the Convention, contemplated that the road would be built mainly by
money derived from municipal subscriptions and bonds. The
railroad company was, therefore, left free to adopt a general
route that would take the road "near or through" such counties
as would aid the enterprise-no condition as to route being imposed except that the road should be in the direction of some
point on the northwestern boundary line of the State. The authority of counties, by subscription of stock and bonds, to aid
in the construction of a part of the road, did not depend upon
the northwestern terminus being first established. If a county

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had authority, under any circumstances, to subscribe stock and
issue bonds that authority could be exercised with reference to
that part of the road in which, by reason of its location, it was
immediately concerned. We are of opinion that the part of
the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad which is here in
question was, in a substantial sense, in the direction of some
point in the northwestern boundary line of the State-due regard being had to the physical nature of the country through
which it was to pass. The contention to the contrary cannot
be sustained.
Looking further into the Ordinance of 1868, we find that it
contemplated and authorized subscriptions by counties. It provided that all counties and towns subscribing stock to said company should do so in the same manner and under the same rules,
regulations and restrictions as were set forth and prescribed in
the charter of the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company for the government of such towns and cities as were then
allowed to subscribe to the capital stock of that company.
Reading those provisions of the charter of the Atlantic and
North Carolina Railroad Company into the Ordinance of 1868,
it is, we think, clear that any county near or through which
the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad might pass (in the
direction of some point in the northwestern boundary line of
the State) could subscribe stock to be paid for by its bonds, provided, always, that the subscription was first approved by a
majority of the qualified electors of the county voting upon the
question of subscription. All these conditions were met in the
case of Wilkes County. The qualified" voters sustained the proposition to subscribe, and there is no substantial ground upon
which to rest the contention that the county was without power,
under the Ordinance of 1868, to make the subscription in question and to issue its bonds in payment therefor.
Other questions relating to the Ordinance of 1868 were discussed by counsel; but in the view we take as to its scope and
meaning those questions need not be noticed in this opinion.
The appellees further insist that ample authority to issue the
bonds in suit is also found in sections 1996, 1997,1998, 1999 and
2000 of the Civil Code of North Carolina.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

We do not deem it necessary to determine the scope of those
sections; for, as we have seen, Wilkes County, independently
of those sections, had authority under the Ordinance of 1868 to
make the subscription and issue the bonds here in question.
And this conclusion rests upon the law of North Carolina as
declared by the Supreme Court of the State to have been at the
time Wilkes County made its subscription and issued its bonds.
This is sufficient to dispose of the case.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BOCKFINGER v. FOSTER.
APPEAL FROM1 THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOAIA.

I1o. 175.

Argued February 26, 1903. Decided June 1, 1903.

Until the title to lands within any townsite boundary has been finally disposed of as provided in the act of Oklahoma Townsite, May 14, 1890, no
suit can be maintained against the Townsite Trustees as such to divest
them of the title held by them in trust for occupants under that act; although a townsite occupant, after receiving title under the act, may be

sued by any one claiming that he had acquired under the homestead laws
a right as to the lands prior and superior to that held by the Townsite
Trustees for the use and benefit of the townsite occupants.

The Townsite Trustees do not hold an indefeasible title as of private right,
with power to dispose of at will, but only as trustees for such occupants

as may be ascertained, in the mode prescribed by the act of Congress, to
be entitled to particular lots within the towusite boundary.
The investiture of the Trustees with title is only a step towards the transmission, finally, to the occupants of the full interest of the United States
in the land.

THIs case involves the construction of the act of Congress
passed May 14, 1890, entitled "An act to provide for townsite
entries of lands in what is known as ' Oklahoma,' and for other
purposes." 26 Stat. 109, c. 207.
As the purpose and scope of the act can be ascertained only
by examining all of its provisions, it is here given in full:

