OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

Other suggestions to support the respondent's position
that § IX is invalid are made. It is said that it is vague,
indefinite and obscure. These have been answered by
what we have written. The issue of confiscation tendered
by the answer of the utility to the petition to enforce the
obligations of § IX need not be considered in this proceeding. If the utility has entered into a binding contract
as to rates, their confiscatory character is not a defense to
the claim of the city to service at the contract rates."0
Reversed.

and MR.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is right and that its judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
BRASHEAR FREIGHT LINES, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 605. Decided February

13,

1939.

Under Judicial Code § 266, 28 U. S. C. 380, appeal directly to this
Court from the District Court of three judges is limited to decrees
granting or denying interlocutory or permanent injunctions; this
Court has no jurisdiction of an appeal taken under this section
by a defendant against whom an injunction was denied, for the
purpose of reviewing the dismissal by the District Court of a
counterclaim for money pleaded in the answer. P. 206.
'Cf. St. Cloud Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352;
Henderson Water Co. v. Corporation Comm'n, 269 U. S. 278; see
Southern Iowa Elec. Co. v. Chariton,255 U. S. 539, 542; Paducah v.
Paducah Ry. Co., 261 U. S. 267, 272-43; Georgia Ry. & Power Co.
v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 438-39; cf. Columbus Ry., Power & L. Co.
v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399, 410.

PUB. SERV. COMM'N v. BRASHEAR LINES.
204

205

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. James H. Linton and Daniel C. Rogers were on
a brief for appellants.
No appearance for appellees.
PER CURAM.

Appellees, Brashear Freight Lines, Inc., and others,
common carriers of property for hire by motor vehicles
operated in interstate commerce over the highways of
Missouri and other States, brought this suit to restrain
the enforcement of the statute of Missouri known as the
Missouri Bus and Truck Act, effective September 15,
1931.
As an interlocutory injunction was sought, a temporary restraining order was issued and a court of three
judges was convened pursuant to § 266 of the Judicial
Code. 28 U. S. C. 380. It was later agreed "that the
temporary restraining order should remain in effect until
final decision on the merits of the relief asked in the
plaintiffs' bill of complaint and that hearing on plaintiffs'
application for a temporary and permanent injunction
should be consolidated."
Defendants, Public Service Commission of Missouri
and several state officers, in their answer included a counterclaim of the Public Service Commission seeking an accounting from plaintiffs for fees due to the State under
the above mentioned Act for the use of the public highways during the time that the temporary restraining order
was in effect. Upon stipulation, the restraining order was
modified so as to provide for deposit of license fees with
a trustee pending the termination of the litigation.
On hearing, the District Court entered its final decree
as follows:
"1. That the plaintiffs are not entitled to a permanent
injunction against the defendants;
"2. That the relief prayed for in plaintiffs' bill of complaint should be and is hereby in all respects denied, and

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

plaintiffs' bill of complaint is hereby dismissed on its
merits;
"3. That the temporary restraining order heretofore
granted to plaintiffs by this court against the defendants,
be and the same hereby is dissolved;
"4. That the issue raised by the defendants' counterclaim, not having been urged nor presented by the parties,
and the court being in doubt as to the right of the defendants to maintain such counterclaim, it is ordered
that the same be and it hereby is dismissed without prejudice to the right of the defendants, or either of them,
to maintain an independent action or suit thereon, if
they, or either of them, shall be so advised;
"5. That defendants recover their costs and disbursements herein, to be taxed as provided by law and inserted herein in the sum of ........ Dollars."
On motion for rehearing, paragraph 4 of the decree was
modified by striking out the following words relating to
the defendants' counterclaim, to wit, "not having been
urged nor presented by the parties," and rehearing was
denied.
The Public Service Commission brings this appeal
seeking to review paragraph 4 of the decree, as amended,
dismissing the counterclaim.
The appellate jurisdiction of this Court on direct
appeal from a final decree by a District Court composed
of three judges under § 266 of the Judicial Code is strictly
limited as follows:
"a direct appeal to the Supreme Court may be taken from
a final decree granting or denying a permanent injunction
in such suit."
The Public Service Commission as the successful party
below has no standing to appeal from the decree denying
the injunction. New York Telephone Co. v. Maltbie, 291
U. S. 645; Lindheimer v. Illinois Telephone Co., 292 U. S.

PUB. SERV. COMM'N v. BRASHEAR LINES.
204

207

Opinion of the Court.

151, 176. And as no appeal has been taken to review
the decree denying the injunction, this Court is without
jurisdiction.
Section 266 as originally enacted applied only to cases
in which an interlocutory injunction was granted or denied and the purpose was to make interference by such
an injunction with the enforcement of state legislation
a matter for the adequate hearing and full deliberation
which the presence of three judges was likely to secure.
CumberlandTelephone Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 260
U. S. 212, 216; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.,
282 U. S. 10, 14. The amendment that the requirement
of a court of three judges should also apply to the final
hearing on the application for a permanent injunction
was to end the anomalous situation in which a single
judge might reconsider and decide questions already
passed upon by three judges on the application for an
interlocutory injunction. Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S.
388, 390, 391; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.,
supra. And, as direct appeal to this Court was permitted
from an order granting or denying an interlocutory injunction, the amendment provided also for such a direct
appeal from a final decree granting or denying a permanent injunction.
It necessarily follows that, unless there is a proper appeal from a decree gi'anting or denying an interlocutory
or permanent injunction, the provision in § 266 for a
direct appeal to this Court has no application. The appeal is
Dismissed.

