ATLAS INS. CO. v. SOUTHERN, INC.

563

Syllabus.

ATLAS LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. W. I. SOUTHERN,
INC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 598.

Submitted March 29, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. In Oklahoma, an insurer may set up fraud in the procurement of
a policy as a defense to an action at law upon it, or may interpose
a cross-complaint in that action for cancellation of the policy.
P. 567.
2. An action in a state court of Oklahoma by a Delaware corporation against an Oklahoma insurance company upon a policy of
insurance is not removable to the federal court; since the defendant is not a nonresident of Oklahoma within Judicial Code,
§ 28. P. 567.
3. The "jurisdiction" of suits in equity, conferred on the federal
courts by Judicial Code, § 24 (1), is an authority to- administer in
equity suits the principles of the system of judicial remedies which
had been devised and was being administered by the English Court
of Chancery at the time of the separation of the two countries.
P. 568.
4. The. provision of Judicial Code, § 267, that suits in equity shall
not be maintained in the federal courts in any case where a "plain,
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law," which conliinues, in substance, § 16 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, is but a
declaration of the equity rule established long before the enactment
of the Judiciary Act, and it serves by emphasis of the rule to protect the States from the encroachments which would result from
the exercise of equity powers by federal courts failing to observe
it. P. 569.
5. The accepted test of legal adequacy which the section prescribes is
the legal remedy which the federal, rather than state, courts afford.
P. 569.
6. Though the federal court have jurisdiction, in the sense of power
to hear and decide the cause, and there is an absence of lega
remedy, the right to equitable relief nevertheless depends upon
allegation and proof of a cause of action in equity. P. 569.
7. The fact that an "incontestable" clause in a policy would soon
come into operation is not necessarily ground for resort to equity
in the federal court, when a suit at law is pending in a state court
wherein the ground for equitable relief can be set up as a (hfecnse.

OCTOBER TERM. 1938.
Argument for Atlas Co.

306 U. S.

The federal court should proceed only so far as is necessary to
protect the suitor from loss of his defense at law. P. 572.
8. Questions certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals to this Court
in a suit by an insurance company for cancellation of policies of
insurance on the ground of fraud in procurement, seeking instructions as to the right of the insurer to equitable relief in view of
the pendency in the state court of an action at law previously
brought on the policies by the beneficiary, held not appropriately
framed for proper answer, because the facts certified fail to show
whether the insurance company is entitled to the relief sought.
P. 571.
The questions suggested may be properly answered only by
reframing them or giving qualified answers to them. This the
Court is not required to do, and can not properly do without recourse to the record, which in this case is not here.
9. It is inappropriate on certificate to answer questions which may be
affected by unstated matter lurking in the record, or questions
which admit of one answer under one set of circumstances and a
different answer under another, neither of which is inconsistent with
the certificate. P. 573.
CERTIFICATE

from the Circuit Court of Appeals upon

an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity for
cancellation of policies of insurance.
Messrs. Logan Stephenson and Elmer J. Lundy sub-

mitted for the Atlas Life Insurance Co.
The first question certified should be answered in
the negative; the second in the affirmative. Arrowsmith
v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466;
Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Osborne, 265 U. S. 14; Risty
v. Chicago, etc., Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 378; Henrietta Mills
v. Rutherford County, 281 U. S. 121; Di Giovanni v.
Camden F. Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64; Petroleum Exploration,Inc. v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S. 209.
Even where an action by the insured is pending in the
federal court, to which the Insurance Company may file
an answer setting up the fraud as a defense, the federal
court may have equity jurisdiction of a suit to cancel
the policies because of the fraud. American Life Insur-

ATLAS INS. CO. v. SOUTHERN, INC.
563

Argument for Atlas Co.

ance Co. v. Stewart, 300 U. S. 203; Ruhlin' v. New York
Life Insurance Co., 93 F. 2d 416; Stewart v. American
Life Insurance Co., 89 F. 2d 743; Davis v. Wakelee, 156
U. S. 680, 688.
The third question should be answered in the affirmative.
The bill in equity was filed only five days before the
expiration of the two-year period within which the Insurance Company had to initiate its contest. In the case of
American Insurance Co. v. Stewart, supra, the suits were
filed "one year,.five months and twenty days" prior to the
expiration of the period, and this fact was emphasized by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Tenth Circuit in the
two opinions preceding the decision in this Court. See
Stewart v. American Life Insurance Co., 80 F. 2d 600,
601; 85 F. 2d 791, 792.
The section of the federal statutes which prohibits the
maintenance of a suit in equity where an adequate
remedy at law is available should not be held to mean
that one may not maintain a suit in equity if he has an
opportunity to interpose a defense at law. Phoenix
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 80 U. S. 616; and
Cable v. United States Insurance Co., 191 U. S. 287, distinguished. See Harnischfager Sales Corp. v. National
Life Insurance Co., 72 F. 2d 921.
The insured died just eighteen days before the period
of contestability expired. This right of the Insurance
Company to invoke the equitable jurisdiction of the federal court means nothing to it if the adversary, at his own
will, may determine whether that court will proceed to
hear the complaint. Cf. Southern Pacific Co. v. Corbett,
20 F. Supp. 940; Arrowsmith v. Gleason, supra; Payne v.
Hook, 74 U. S. 425. The federal court was bound to take
the case; it could not abdicate its authority or duty in
favor of the state jurisdiction. Kline v. Burke Construetion Co., 260 U. S. 226.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. Austin Flint Moss submitted for W. I. Southern,
Inc.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
has certified to us questions of law concerning which it
asks instructions for the proper decision of the cause
pending in that court. Judicial Code, § 239; 28 U. S. C.
§ 346.
The certificate states that on March 13, 1936, Atlas
Life Insurance Company, an Oklahoma corporation,
plaintiff below, issued, on a single application, three
policies of insurance on the life of one Southern, in
amounts of $10,000, $15,000 and $25,000 respectively,
each naming as beneficiary W. I. Southern, Inc., a Delaware corporation. All of the policies contained an incontestable clause reading:
"This policy will be incontestable after two years from
date of issue except for the nonpayment of premium and
except as to provisions and conditions relating to disability benefits and those granting additional insurance
specifically against death by accident, if any",
and a clause relating to statements of the insured in his
application as follows:
"All statements made by the Insured shall, in the absence of fraud, be deemed representations and not warranties, and no such statement shall void this policy unless it be contained in the written application and a copy
of the application is endorsed upon or attached to this
policy when issued."
The insured died February 23, 1938, and on March 7,
1938, the corporate beneficiary began suit against the
insurance company in the Oklahoma state district court.
On the following day the insurance company brought a
suit in equity against the beneficiary in the federal district court for northern Oklahoma for cancellation of the

ATLAS INS. CO. v. SOUTHERN, INC.
563

Opinion of the Court.

policies, on the ground that in his application the insured
had intentionally and fraudulently given false answers to
questions material to the risk. The trial court sustained
a motion to dismiss the equity suit, made on the ground
that the insurance company had an adequate remedy at
law by setting up the alleged fraud as a defense to the
23 F. Supp. 334.
action pending in the state court.
plead further, a
to
not
electing
company
The insurance
decree was entered dismissing the bill, from which the
insurance company appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Under the Oklahoma practice the insurance company
can set up the fraud as a defense to the action at law on
the policies, or can interpose a cross-complaint in that
action for cancellation of the policies. Farmers & Merchants Bank v. Hoyt, 29 Okla. 772; 120 P. 264. The
action on the policies in the state court is not removable
by the insurance company, since it is not a non-resident of
Oklahoma within the meaning of § 28 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 71.
The questions certified are as follows:
"1. Is the remedy at law available in the state court
by setting up the alleged fraud as a defense to the action
on the policies, such an adequate remedy at law as will
constitute a valid defense to the suit in equity for cancellation of the policies?
"2. In order to constitute a defense to a suit in equity
to cancel a policy of life insurance on the ground of fraud,
is it essential that the remedy at law be available to the
complainant in an action at law pending in the federal
court?
"3. Is the principle that the adequate remedy at law
which will preclude a federal court of equity from granting relief must be one available in the federal courts, applicable in the instant case where the relief sought is
affirmative in form but defensive in character? "

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Section 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 78, provided that the circuit courts should have "cognizance
of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity" in cases appropriately brought in those courts.
This provision is perpetuated in § 24 (1) of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), which declares that the district
courts shall have jurisdiction of such suits. The "jurisdiction" thus conferred on the federal courts to entertain
suits in equity is an authority to administer in equity
suits the principles of the system of judicial remedies
which had been devised and was being administered by
the English Court of Chancery at the time of the separation of the two countries. Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425,
430; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 209-210; Matthews v.
Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525; Gordon v. Washington, 295
U. S. 30, 36. This clause of the statute does not define
the jurisdiction of the district courts as federal courts, in
the sense of their power or authority to hear and decide,
but prescribes the body of doctrine which is to guide their
decisions and enable them to determine whether in any
given instance a suit of which a district court has jurisdiction as a federal court is an appropriate one for the
exercise of the extraordinary powers of a court of equity.
See MassachusettsState Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525,
528; Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 181, and
cases cited.'
' Unlike the objection that the court is without jurisdiction as a
federal court, see Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.
379, 382, the parties may waive their objections to the equity jurisdiction by consent, Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S.
371, 380; Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90; cf.
Matin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142, or by failure to take it seasonably.
Brown v. Lake Superior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530, 535-536; Southern
Pacific R. Co. v. United States (No. 1), 200 U. S. 341, 349. The
objection should be taken by the court sua sponte, when obvious,
Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, 470; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v.
Benedict. 229 U. S. 481, 484, or when the exercise of the equity

ATLAS INS. CO. v. SOUTHERN, INC.
563

569

Opinion of the Court.

Section 16 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 82, continued without material change as § 267 of the Judicial
Code; 28 U. S. C. § 384, declares that suits in equity shall
not be sustained in the courts of the United States in any
case where a "plain, adequate and complete remedy may
be had at law." The command of § 267 is but a declaration of the equity rule established long before the enactment of the Judiciary Act, and it serves by emphasis of
the rule to protect the states from the encroachments
which would result from the exercise of equity powers by
federal courts failing to observe it. Matthews v. Rodgers,
supra, 525; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.,
284 U. S. 530.
By long-settled construction, the accepted test of legal
adequacy which the section prescribes is the legal remedy
which the federal, rather than state, courts afford.2
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 378, 388; Di Giovanni v. Camden
Fire Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64; Petroleum Exploration, Inc. v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S. 209, 217.
But although the adequacy of the legal remedy precludes
resort to a federal court of equity, it does not follow that
the converse is true-that the want of a legal remedy in
the federal courts gives the suitor free entrance to a fedpowers of the federal court affects the relationship of the federal to
the state courts. See Kennedy v. Tyler, 269 U. S. 13; Matthews v.
Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525-526; Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S.
176, 185; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64,
73. Cf. Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission,
290 U. S. 264, 271-273.
2 "Otherwise the suitor in the federal courts might be entitled to a
remedy in equity which the federal courts of law are competent to
give, or, on the other hand, be obliged to forego his right to be heard
in the federal courts in order to secure an equitable remedy which
state courts of law do but the federal courts of law do not give. See
Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry., 284 U. S. 530, 533, 534; .
Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 69.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

eral court of equity. Absence of legal remedy does not
dispense with the necessity of alleging and proving a
cause of action in equity as a prerequisite to equitable
relief in a federal court. Enelow v. New York Life Ins.
Co., 293 U. S. 379; Di Giovanniv. Camden FireInsurance
Assn., supra; American Life Ins. Co. v. Stewart, 300 U. S.
203.
The insurance company in the circumstances disclosed
by the certificate is without remedy in a suit at law.
The federal courts can render no judgment at law directing cancellation of a contract for fraud in its inception
or preserving evidence of the fraud. These are forms of
relief which a court of equity alone can give. But the
basis of equitable relief is that the cancellation asked is
necessary to protect the suitor from irreparable injury
when there is manifest danger that his defense at law on
the policy will be lost or prejudiced. Enelow v. New York
Life Ins. Co., supra; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance, Assn., supra; American Life Ins. Co. v. Stewart,
supra.
Ordinarily when the defense of fraud may be interposed
to an action at law on the policy and such an action is
imminent or pending, there is no occasion for equitable
relief and the parties will be left to their rights as determined in the suit at law. In such a case the bill is dismissed without prejudice, not because there is 'Want of
jurisdiction in the federal court, but because the plaintiff
has made no case for equitable relief. Insurance Co. v.
Bailey, 13 Wall. 616; Cable v. United States Life Ins.
Co., 191 U. S. 288; Enelow v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
supra; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance Assn.,
supra. And since the issue is not one of jurisdiction but
of the need and propriety of equitable relief, the mere
fact that the suit at law which is imminent can be
brought only in the state court, or that it is pending there,
is immaterial. Cable v. United States Life Ins. Co.,

ATLAS INS. CO. v. SOUTHERN, INC.
563

571

Opinion of the Court.

supra; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance Assn.,
supra; cf. Insurance Co. v. Bailey, supra. It is no ground
for equitable relief that the suit at law is brought in a
state rather than a federal court, for the insurance company's defense may be protected there as well as in a
federal court, and in that case there is no threat of irreparable injury. See Cable v. United States Life Ins.
Co., supra. On comparable grounds a federal court may
withhold its aid when a plaintiff has failed to resort to a
state administrative remedy. Natural Gas Pipe Line Co.
v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 310-311. Only when special
circumstances are shown which subject the insurer to the
hazard that his defense to the suit at law, whether in the
state or federal court, will be lost or prejudiced is there
occasion for equity to give relief. American Life Ins. Co.
v. Stewart, supra.
In the light of what we have said it is evident that the
certified questions cannot be properly answered, both because they are apparently framed without reference to
the requirements for the maintenance of a suit in equity
in the federal courts independently of § 267 of the Judicial Code and on the mistaken assumption that that
section affords the only test of the insurance company's
right to proceed in a federal court of equity; and because
the certificate does not exclude the possibility that there
are facts, lurking in the record or within the range of
judicial notice, which may have a material bearing on
the insurance company's need for equitable relief.
Since the insurance company has no remedy at law in
the federal courts for the cancellation of the policies, § 267
interposes no obstacle to a suit in equity in a federal
court. But it is requisite under § 24 (1) of the Judicial
Code to the maintenance of suit there that facts should
be presented entitling the company to equitable relief.
In this aspect of the case the certified questions are incapable of categorical answer and the questions which

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

they suggest can be properly answered only by refraining
the questions certified or giving qualified answers to them.
This we are not required to do, see Jewell v. Knight, 123
U. S. 426, 432, 435; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Williams,
205 U. S. 444; United States v. John Barth Co., 276 U. S.
606; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, and cannot properly do without recourse to the record, which is not
before us.
The suit at law in the state court in this case was
brought shortly before the expiration of the two year period after which the incontestable clause, according to its
terms, would come into operation. The fact that that
period was about to expire was thought to be a sufficient
ground for resort to equity in American Life Ins. Co. v.
Stewart, supra, where no suit at law was pending or appeared to be imminent when the bill was filed. But we
cannot say, at least without qualification, that a complainant similarly sustains the burden of showing threatened
irreparable injury when a suit at law is pending in which
he is free to set up as a defense the fraud on which he
must rely in a cancellation suit in equity. Whether there
are other special circumstances in the present case entitling the insurance company to equitable relief; whether
there are peculiarities of local procedure which, in" some
circumstances, might impair the insurance company's defense; whether such circumstances exist; or whether,
under local law, a defense once interposed before the
policy has become incontestable is a "contest" sufficient
to preserve the insurer's rights for all purposes, see New
York Life Ins. Co. v. Hurt, 35 F. 2d 92, 95; Harnischfeger
Sales Corp. v. NationalLife Ins. Corp., 72 F. 2d 921, 922;
Killian v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 251 N. Y. 44, 48;
166 N. E. 798, are questions which the certificate does not
exclude from the case and which have not been briefed
or argued here. Yet they are questions which may require consideration before a court can determine whether

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
563

573

Syllabus.

the equity suit should be dismissed or whether the bill
should be retained without further proceedings pending
disposition of the suit at law, as may be done by the
equity court in its discretion. Landis v. North American
Co., 299 U. S. 248; American Life Ins. Co. v. Stewart,
supra, 215. The guiding principle is that the fdderal
court should proceed only so far as is necessary to protect
the suitor from loss of his defense at law, without needlessly interfering with the determination of the plaintiff's
rights in the state court, where his action was properly
begun. See Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire InsuranceAssn.,
supra, 73; and cases cited.
The certificate fails to disclose whether all the facts
and circumstances pertinent to this issue have been certified. This Court cannot be required by certificate to answer, and should not answer, questions which may be
affected by unstated matter lurking in the record, or
questions which admit of one answer under one set of
circumstances and a different answer under another,
neither of which is inconsistent with the certificate. See
Triplett v. Lowell, 297 U. S. 638, 648, 649.
The certificate is
Dismissed.
WILENTZ ET AL. v. SOVEREIGN CAMP, WOODMEN
OF THE WORLD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 448.

Argued March 2, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The requirement of Judicial Code, § 266 that the three judge
court procedure there prescribed with direct appeal to the Supreme
Court may be invoked only when Ihe suit is one to restrain the action
of state officers in the enforcement or execution of a state statute,
or in the enforcement or execution of an order made by an administrative board or commission, is a requirement of substance, not

