CLASON v. INDIANA.
Counsel for Parties.

CLASON v. INDIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 517.

Argued March 10, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.

An Indiana statute provides that the bodies of large dead animals
(not slaughtered for human food) shall be promptly burnt or
buried by the owners, on their premises, or be there by them
delivered to the representative of a disposal plant licensed to do
business within the State and be promptly carried to such plant
in a sanitary vehicle and speedily rendered innocuous. Held:
1. That it is a comprehensive, practical public health measure
within the power of the *State. P. 441.
2. Permission to the owners to sell the carcasses -to the licensed
operators for disposition under the Act, is not a recognition by the
State that such dead animals are legitimate articles of commerce.
P. 443.

3. Prohibition against hauling such bodies on state highways
except under license to a licensed disposal plant in the State,
thereby preventing their transportation out of the State to be
sold, which is not licensable under the Act, is not repugnant to
the commerce clause. P. 443.
4. The mere power of the Federal Government to regulate
interstate commerce does not disable the States from adopting
reasonable measures designed to secure the health and comfort
of their people. P. 444.
214 Ind. 630; 17 N. E. 2d 92, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a conviction of violation of the Indiana Animals Disposal Act of March 12,
1937, by transporting a dead horse over a highway of that
State and into Illinois without license.
Mr. William H. Thompson, with whom Mr. Albert L.
Rabb was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Edward H. Knight and Rexell A. Boyd, Deputy

Attorney General, of Indiana, with whom Messrs. Omer
Stokes Jackson, Attorney General, Urban C. Stover,
Deputy Attorney General, and Harry M. Stitle, Jr. were
on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

440

Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTICE

306 U. S.

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Supreme Court of Indiana affirmed a judgment
which convicted appellant of violating section eleven of
the Animals Disposal Act approved March 12, 19371 (c.
278, Acts 1937) by transporting a dead horse over a highway of that State and into Illinois without license. For'Indiana Acts 1937, c. 278"See. 4. (a) No person shall engage in this state in the business of
operating a disposal plant, as herein defined, without first obtaining
for each such disposal plant so operated by him, or in his behalf, a
license and any vehicle certificates required, as herein provided; and
no person, except one holding a license to operate such a disposal
plant in this state, or who is acting for such licensee, or who is
otherwise excepted by this act, shall either transport over any highways of this state, or dispose of to any person, the bodies of any
dead animals in any manner herein prescribed, or in any other manner not permitted by law.
"(b) The said state veterinarian shall keep a record of all applications for permits, licenses and vehicle certificates, showing all thereof issued, denied, or revoked by him, and such other facts as he may
prescribe.
"Sec. 11. (a) No person, except as herein provided, may haul *or
transport over the highways of the State of Indiana the bodies of
any dead animals, except those that have been slaughtered and are
intended for human food, without first obtaining and holding a
license issued under the provisions of this act and which bodies are
being transported to a disposal plant located in this state and operated by a person holding a license to engage in such business.
"(b) No license shall be issued to any person solely for the purpose
of transporting the bodies of dead animals, but such transportation
must be dofie solely by persons holding a license for disposal plants,
so that such dead bodies may be properly and promptly disposed
of under the requirements of this act; except that any public official
of this state, charged by law with such duties, may remove or supervise the removal of any such dead bodies and the disposal thereof
by any method provided for by this act where necessary to protect
the public health and welfare.
"(c) All vehicles used in the transportation of the bodies of dead
animals, under the provisions of this act, shall have a tank or metal

CLASON v. INDIANA.
439

441

Opinion of the Court.

bidden transportation is admitted; also that while license
can be obtained under prescribed conditions for such transportation within the State it is prohibited for points
outside.
Section eleven is a part of a comprehensive statute
which requires, and undertakes to regulate, the prompt
lining in the bed of such vehicle, or be otherwise so constructed that
the same shall be practically watertight, so that no drippings or
seeping from such dead bodies shall escape from such vehicles where
this can be obviated; and all vehicles must have an end-gate constructed or lined with the same materials, and hinged at the bottom
and fastened firmly at the top when closed and so designed, so far
as practical, that drippings and seepings shall not escape from such
part of said vehicle while engaged in such transportation; and every
such vehicle shall have a bed of such depth and type of constnction and equipment that any dead body or bodies therein shall be
completely hidden from view of persons using the highways and any
public nuisance obviated while being transported.
"(d) The state veterinarian may prescribe specific and also additional requirements, not inconsistent with the provisions and purposes of this act, governing and regulating such transportation and
the construction, equipment, maintenance and operation of such
.vehicles.
"(e) After the bodies of dead animals have been unloaded from any
vehicle used for the transportation thereof to the disposal plant, on
each trip, such vehicle and all parts thereof, and in the event
draught animals are used to draw such conveyances, the feet of
such animals, shall be thoroughly cleansed and disinfected in such
manner and with such a solution as the state veterinarian shall
prescribe by regulation, aind in addition thereto all such vehicles
shall be washed out thoroughly with steam or hot water after each
use thereof in transporting such dead bodies.
"(f) Vehicles, when loaded with the body of an animal which
has died of disease, shall be driven directly to the place of disposal,
except that the driver may stop on the highway for other like dead
bodies, but he shall not drive upon the premises of any person unless
he first obtains the permission of such person and he shall avoid
creating any nuisance, during such transportation and in the event
any drippings or seepage should escape from such vehicle, to his
knowledge, he shall clean up the same and remedy such escape, if
possible to do so."

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

disposition of large dead animals (not slaughtered for
human food) under the general supervision of the State
Veterinarian. The obvious purpose of the enactment is
to prevent the spread of disease and the development of
nuisances.
The prescribed plan exacts that within twenty-four
hours after death owners shall bury or burn such bodies
on their premises, or there deliver them to the representative of a disposal plant licensed to do business within
the State. It further directs that the body shall be
promptly carried to such plant in a sanitary vehicle and
speedily rendered innocuous. The conveyance must be
thoroughly and promptly disinfected at the plant.
The validity of the statute was unsuccessfully challenged on the ground that it unduly discriminates against
and burdens interstate commerce and thereby violates the
Federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of the State
reviewed the statute; pointed out its purpose to suppress
obvious danger to public health; referred to the means
adopted as reasonably appropriate to that end; quoted
from Bowman v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465,
489.2 It concluded that dead bodies of animals not
"Doubtless the States have power to provide by law suitable
measures to prevent the introduction into the States of articles of
trade, which, on account of their existing condition, would bring
in and spread disease, pestilence, and death, such as rags or other
substances infected with the germs of yellow fever or the virus of
small-pox, or cattle or meat or other provisions that are diseased or
decayed, or otherwise, from their condition and quality, unfit for
human use or consumption. Such articles are not merchantable; they
are not legitimate subjects of trade and commerce. They may be
rightly outlawed as intrinsically and directly the immediate sources
and causes of destruction to human health and life. The self-protecting power of each State, therefore, may be rightfully exerted
against their introduction, and such exercises of power cannot be considered regulations of commerce prohibited by the Constitution."

Bowman v. Chicago & N. IV.Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 489.

CLASON v. INDIANA.
439

Opinion of the Court.

slaughtered for food are not legitimate subjects of commerce; that the statute is an appropriate sanitary measure whose effect upon interstate commerce, if any, is
merely incidental.
As the precise point for our determination, counsel for
appellant submit the following"The Supreme Court of Indiana erred in holding that
the Indiana Dead Animal Disposal Act of 1937 was valid
as a reasonable regulation or quarantine and not invalid as
a discriminatory prohibition of interstate commerce in
commodities recognized as legitimate articles of intrastate
commerce, contrary to Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, of the
Constitution of the United States."
It seems plain enough that the challenged statute is a
sanitary and health measure not intended to cause discrimination against or to burden interstate commerce. Its
purpose is to promote the health of the people of the State
in feasible ways.
"The power of the State to prescribe regulations which
shall prevent the production within its borders of impure
foods, unfit for use, and such articles as would spread
disease and pestilence, is well established. Such articles,
it has been declared by this court, are not the legitimate
subject of trade or commerce, nor within the protection
of the commerce clause of the Constitution. . . . Nor
does it make any difference that such regulations incidentally affect interstate commerce, when the object of
the regulation is not to that end, but is a legitimate attempt to protect the people of the State." Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59-60.
Here, contrary to what seems to be the insistence of
counsel, the State has not recognized dead horses as legitimate articles of intrastate commerce. It permits them to
be sold only to licensed operators who must transport
them immediately under strict sanitary regulations for
prompt delivery to a licensed plant there to be rendered

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

innocuous without delay by prescribed methods. All this
is part of a workable scheme to secure prompt removal
of decaying carcasses and thus protect against obvious
evils.
We can find no substantial basis for the charge of discrimination against legitimate interstate commerce. That
any real burden upon commerce which the State is not
free to inhibit will result from the challenged statute
seems impossible.
There is no suggestion of conflict with a federal enactment. The mere power of the Federal Government to regulate interstate commerce does not disable the States from
adopting reasonable measures designed to secure the
health and comfort of their people. The statute under
consideration is an effort to discharge an obligation to
the public; the means adopted we think are clearly appropriate to this lawful end.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.

SMITH ET AL., CO-PARTNERS, TRADING AS H. J.
BAKER & BRO. v. THE FERNCLIFF ET AL..
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 548. Argued March 2, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
1. Provision in a marine bill of lading that carrier's liability for
damage to goods on delivery shall be adjusted and settled on
invoice cost plus disbursements, held valid. Ansaldo San Giorgio I
v. Rheinstrom Bros. Co., 294 U. S. 494, distinguished. P. 448.
2. The damages, as measured by this clause, are computed by deducting the value of the damaged goods in their damaged condition at the time and place of delivery from the invoice cost
valuation as fixed by such clause, not by applying to the invoice
value the percentage of loss of the damaged goods, based on

difference between sound value and damaged value. P. 450.

