LANZETTA v. NEW JERSEY.
444

Counsel for Parties.

cluded freight and other expenses) the damaged value
has been uniformly applied."
We think the District Court reached the correct conclusion in respect of the mooted clause upon adequate
authority and reasoning.
To the first certified question, we reply, Yes where
there has been no fraud or imposition; to the second the
answer is, Yes; to the third, No.
LANZETTA ET AL. v. NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW

JERSEY.

No. 308. Argued January 9, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
An Act of New Jersey declares: "Any person not engaged in any
lawful occupation, known to be a member of any gang consisting of two or more persons, who has been convicted at least
three times of being a disorderly person, or who has been convicted of any crime in this or any other State, is declared to be a
gangster . . ." Every violation is punishable by fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment not exceeding 20 years, or both.
Held repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, because of its vaguenes and uncertainty. P. 453.
120 N. J. L. 189; 198 A. 837, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a conviction and
sentence of three men as gangsters. See also 118 N. J. L.
212; 192 A. 89.
Mr. Samuel Kagle, with whom Messrs. George C.

Klauder and Harry A. Mackey were on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. Robert Peacock, Assistant Attorney General of
New Jersey, and French B. Loveland, for appellee.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE Bumu delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By this appeal we are called on to decide whether, by
reason of vagueness and uncertainty, a recent enactment
of New Jersey, ยง 4, c. 155, Laws 1934, is repugnant tO the
due_ rocess clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is
as follows: "Any person not engaged in any lawful occupation, known to be a member of any gang consisting
of two or more persons, who has been convicted at least
three times of being a disorderly person, or who has been
convicted .of any crime in this or in any other State, is
declared to be a gangster ..." Every violation is
punishable by fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment not exceeding 20 years, or both. ยง 5.
In the court of quarter sessions of Cape May County,
appellants were accused of violating the quoted clause.
The indictment charges that on four days, June 12, 16,
19, and 24, 1936 "they, and each of them, not being engaged in any lawful occupation; they, and all of them,
known to be members of a gang, consisting of two or more
persons, and they, and each of them, having been convicted of a crime in the State of Pennsylvania, are hereby
declared to be gangsters." There was a trial, verdict of
guilty, and judgment of conviction on which each was
sentenced to be imprisoned in the state prison for not
more than ten years and not less than five years, at hard
labor. On the authority of its recent decision in State
v. Bell, 188 A. 737; 15 N. J. Misc. 109, the supreme court
entered judgment affirming the conviction. 118 N. J. L.
212; 192 A. 89. The court of errors and appeals affirmed,
120 N. J. L. 189; 197 A. 360, on the authority of its deci'The section continues: "provided, however, that nothing in this
section contained shall in any wise be construed to include any participant or sympathiter in any labor dispute." The proviso is not
here involved.

LANZETTA v. NEW JERSEY.
451

Opinion of the Court.

sion, State v. Gaynor, 119 N. J. L. 582; 198 A. 837, affirm-.
ing State v. Bell.
If on its face the challenged provision is repugnant to
the due process clause, specification of details of the offense intended to be charged would not serve to validate
it. Cf. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 221; Czarra
v. Board of Medical Supervisors, 25 App. D. C. 443, 453.
It is the statute, not the accusation under it, that prescribes the rule to govern conduct and warns against
transgression. See Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359,
368; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U- S. 444. No one may be
required at peril of life, liberty or property to speculate as
to the meaning of penal statutes. All are entitled to be
informed as to what the State commands or forbids.' The
applicable rule is stated in Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391: "That the terms of a penal
statute creating a new offense must be sufficiently explicit
to inform those who are subject to it what conduct on
their part will render them liable to its penalties, is a
well-recognized requirement, consonant alike with ordinary notions of fair play and the settled rules of law. And
a statute which either forbids or requires the doing of an
act in terms so vague that men of common intelligence
must necessarily guess at its meaning and differ as to its
application, violates the first essential of due process of
law."
. The phrase "consisting of two or more persons" is all
that purports to define "gang." The meanings of that
Champlin Rfg. Co. v. Commission, 286 U. S. 210, 242, 243.
Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445, 458. Connally v. General
Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391-393. Small Co. v. American
Sugar Rfg. Co., 267 U. S. 233, 239. United States v. Cohen Grocery
Co., 255 U. S. 81, 89-92. Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634, 638.
International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221-223.
Cf. People v. Belcastro, 356 Ill. 144; 190 N. E. 301. People v.
Licavoli, 264 Mich. 643; 250 N. W. 520.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

word indicated in dictionaries and in historical and sociological writings are numerous and varied.' Nor is the
'American dictionaries define the word as follows:
Webster's New International Dictionary (2d ed.): "gang . . .Act,
manner, or means of going; passage, course, or journey . . . A set

or full complement of any articles; an outfit. A number going in
or forming a company; as, a gang of sailors; a gang of elk.
Specif.: ... A group of persons associated under the same direction; as a gang of pavers; a gang of slaves .. . A company of
persons acting together for some purpose; usually criminal, or at
least not good or respectable; as, a political gang; a gang of
roughs. ..."
Funk & Wagnalls New Standard Dictionary (1915): "gang .. .
A company or band of persons, or sometimes of animals, going or
acting together; a group or squad: sometimes implying co6peration
for evil or disreputable purposes; as, a gang of laborers; a gang of
burglars; he set the whole gang at work. ..."
Century Dictionary and Cyclopedia (1903): "gang . . . A number going or acting in company, whether of persons or of animals:
as, a gang of drovers; a gang of elks. Specifically-(a) A number of
persons associated for a particular purpose or on a particular occasion: used especially in a depreciatory or contemptuous sense or
of disreputable persons: as, a gang of thieves; a chain-gang .. . (b)
A number of workmen or laborers of any kind engaged on any piece
of work under supervision of one person; a squad; more particularly,
a shift of men; a set of laborers working together during the same
hours. .. ."

Part of the text of the definitions given by the Oxford English
Dictionary (1933) reads: "gang . . . A set of things or persons .. .
A company of workmen ... A company of slaves or prisoners ... Any band or company of persons who go about together
or act in concert (chiefly in a bad or depreciatory sense, and in
mod. usage mainly associated with criminal societies) . . . To be of
a gang: to belong to the same society, to have the same interests. ..."
Another English dictionary, Wyld's Universal Dictionary of the
English Language, defines the word as follows: "gang . . . 1. A
band, group, squad; (a) of labourers working together; (b) of slaves,
prisoners &c. 2. (in bad sense) (a) A group of persons organized
for evil or criminal purpose: a gang of burglars &c; (b) (colloq., in

LANZETTA v. NEW JERSEY.
451

Opinion of the Court.

meaning derivable from the common law, for neither in
that field nor anywhere in the language of the law is there
definition of the word. Our attention has not been called
to, and we are unable to find, any other statute attempting
to make it criminal to be a member of a "gang."
In State v. Gaynor, supra, the court of errors and appeals dealt with the word. It said: "Public policy ordains
that a combination designed to wage war upon society
shall be dispersed and its members rendered incapable of
harm. This is the objective of section 4 . . . and it is
therefore a valid exercise of the legislative power.
The evident aim of this provision was to render penal the
association of criminals for the pursuit of criminal enterprises; that is the gist of the legislative expression. It
cannot be gainsaid that such was within the competency
of the legislature; the mere statement of the purpose
carries justification of the act. . . . If society cannot
impose such taint of illegality upon the confederation of
convicted criminals, who have no lawful occupation, under circumstances denoting . . . the pursuit of criminal
objectives, it is helpless against one of the most menacing
The primary function of
forms of evil activity. . .
security to its subjects.
render
government . . . is to
disparagement) a body, party, group, of persons: "I am sick of the
whole gang of university wire-pullers. .. ."
See: Asbury, Herbert, The Gangs of New York, 1927, Alfred A.
Knopf.* Thrasher, Frederic M., "Gangs" in Encyclopaedia of the
Social Sciences, 1931, vol. 6, p. 564, and The Gang: A atudy of 1818
Gangs in Chicago, 1927, University of Chicago Press.
'See, e. g., Champlin Rfg. Co. v. Commission, 286 U. S. 210,
242-243. Connally v. General Const. Co., 269U. S. 385, 391. Nash
v. Uhited States, 229 U. S. 373.
5
Cf. Kans. Laws 1935, c. 161. Ill. Laws 1933, p. 489, held unconstitutional in People v. Belcastro, 356 Ill. 144; 190 N. E. 301. Mich.
Comp. Laws (Mason, Supp. 1935) ยง 17115-167, held unconstitutional
in People v. Licavoli, 264 Mich. 643; 250 N. W. 520.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

And any mischief menacing that security demands a
remedy commensurate with the evil."
Then undertaking to find the meaning of "gang" as
used in the challenged enactment, the opinion states: "In
the construction of the provision, the word is to be given
a meaning consistent with the general object of the statute. In its original sense it signifies action-'to go'; in its
modern usage, without qualification, it denotes--in common intent and understanding-criminal action. It is defined as 'a company of persons acting together for some
purpose, usually criminal,' while the term 'gangster' is defined as 'a nember of a gang of roughs, hireling criminals,
thieves, or the like.' Webster's New International Dictionary (2d ed.). And the Oxford English Dictionary
likewise defines the word 'gang' as 'any company of persons who-go about together or act in concert [in modern
use mainly for criminal purposes].' Such is plainly the
legislative sense of the term."
If worded in accordance with the court's explication,
the challenged provision would read as follows: "Any
person not engaged in any lawful occupation, known to be
a member of any gang consisting of two or more persons
(meaning a company of persons acting together for some
purpose, usually criminal, or a company of persons who
go about together or who act in concert, mainly for criminal purposes), who has been convicted at least three times.
of being a disorderly -person or who has been convicted of
any crime in this or in any other State, is declared to be
a gangster (meaning a member of a gang of roughs, hireling criminals, thieves, .or the like)."
Appellants were convicted before the opinion in State
v. Gaynor. It would be hard to hold that, in advance of
judicial utterance upon the subject, they were bound to
understand the challenged provision according to the languaga later used by the court. Indeed the state supreme

LANZETTA v. NEW JERSEY.
451

Opinion of the Court.

court (State v. Bell, supra) went on supposed analogy
between "gang" and offenses denounced by the Disorderly
Persons Act, Comp. Stat. Supp. 1930, ยง 59-1 upheld by
he court of errbrs and appeals in Levine v. State, 110
*J. L. 467, 470; 166 A. 330. But the court in that case
found the meaning of "common burglar" there involved
to be derivable from the common law.
The descriptions and illustrations used by the court to
indicate the meaning of "gang" are not sufficient to constitute definition, inclusive or exclusive. The court's
opinion was framed to apply the statute to the offenders
and accusation in the case then under consideration; it
does not purport to give any interpretation generally applicable. The state court did not find, and we cannot,
that "gang" has ever been limited in meaning to a group
having purpose to commit any particular offense or class
of crimes, or that it has not quite frequently been used
in reference to groups of. two or more persons not to be
suspected of criminality or of anything that is unlawful.
The dictionary definitions adopted by the state court extend to persons acting together for some purpose, "usu:
ally criminal," or "mainly for criminal purposes." So
defined, the purposes of those constituting some gangs
may be commendable, as, for example, groups of workers
engaged under leadership in any lawful undertaking. The
statute does not declare every member to be a "gangster"
or punishable as such. Under it, no member is a gangster
or offender unless convicted of being a disorderly person
or of crime as specified. It cannot be said that the court
intended to give "gangster" a meaning broad enough to
include anyone who had not been so convicted or to limit
its meaning to the field covered by the words that it found
in a dictionary, "roughs, hireling criminals, thieves, or the
like." The latter interpretation would include some
obviously not within the statute and would exclude some
plainly covered by it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The lack of certainty of the challenged provision is not
limited to the word "gang" or to its dependent "gangster."
Without resolving the serious doubts arising from the
generality of the language, we assume that the clause
''any person not engaged in any lawful occupation" is
sufficient to identify a class to which must belong all
capable of becoming gangsters within the terms of the
provision. The enactment employs the expression,
"known to be a member." It is ambiguous. There immediately arises the doubt whether actual or putative
association is meant. If actual membership is required,
that status must be established as a fact, and the word
"known" would be without significance. If reputed membership is enough, there is uncertainty whether that reputation must be general or extend only to some persons.
And the statute fails to indicate what constitutes membership or how one may join a "gang."
The challenged provision condemns no act or omission;
the terms it employs to indicate what it purports to denounce are so vague, indefinite and uncertain that it must
be condemned as repugnant to the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

