292

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

forceable by him in New York, the full benefit of the
constitutional command that the judgment shall receive
in the courts of Ohio such faith and credit as it is entitled
to receive in New York. A state which may not constitutionally refuse to open its courts to a suit on a judgment of another state because of the nature of the cause
of action merged in the judgment, Kenney v. Supreme
Lodge, supra, 415, obviously cannot, by the adoption of
a particular rule of liability or of procedure, exclude from
its courts a suit on the judgment.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. COLUMBIAN ENAMELING & STAMPING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 229. Argued January 11, 12, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring reinstatement' of employees based on a finding that the employer, on a
date specified, had refused to bargain with their Union, held
invalid, the finding not being sustained by evidence. P. 296.
2. The National Labor Relations Act does not compel the employer
to seek out his employees and request their participation in negotiations for purposes of collective bargaining, and he may ignore or
reject proposals for such bargaining which come from third persons
not purporting to act with authority of his employees. P. 297.
3. Secton 10 (e) of the Act in providing that the findings of the
Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive,
means evidence which is substantial, that is, affording a substantial
basis of fact from which the fact in issue can reasonably be
inferred. P. 299.
4. Substantial evidence is more than a scintilla, and must do more
than create a suspicion of the existence of the fact to be established.
It is such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as
adequate to support a conclusion, and it must be enough to justify,
if the trial were to a jury, a refusal to direct a verdict, when the

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion sought to be drawn from it is one of fact for the

jury. P. 300.
96 F. 2d 948, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 583, to review a judgment refusing an application of the National Labor Relations
Board for enforcement of one of its orders.

Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, and Messrs. Charles A. Horsky, Charles Fahy,
Laurence A. Knapp, and Mortimer B. Wolf were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Earl F. Reed, with whom Messrs. Otto A. Jaburek
and Charles M. Shorp, Jr. were on the brief, for Columbian Enameling & Stamping Co., and Mr. Paul R. Shafer
for Hiatt et al., respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This petition tests the validity of an order of the National Labor Relations Board of February 14, 1936, directing respondent to discharge from its service employees
who were not .employed by it on July 22, 1935; to reinstate, to the vacancies so created, those who were employed on that date and have not since received substantially equivalent employment elsewhere; and to desist
from refusing to bargain collectively with Enameling and
Stamping Mill Employees Union No. 19694 as the exclusive representative of respondent's production employees with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours, and
other conditions of employment. Unless the finding of
the Board that respondent had refused to bargain collectively with the Union on July 23, 1935, is sustained by
the evidence, the order is invalid.
Pursuant to a charge lodged with it by the Union, the
Board issued its complaint charging respondent with un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

fair labor practices affecting interstate commerce within
the meaning of § 8 (1) and (5) of the National Labor
Relations Act. 49 Stat. 449. After hearing, the Board
made findings which, so far as now relevant, may be summarized as follows: Respondent corporation is engaged
at Terre Haute, Indiana, in the manufacture and sale in
interstate commerce of metal utensils and other products.
On July 14, 1934, respondent and the Union entered into
a written contract for one year, terminable on thirty days'
notice, prescribing various conditions of employment. It
provided that no employee should be discriminated
against by-reason of membership or non-membership in,
or affiliation or non-affiliation with any union or labor
organization. It also provided for arbitration, before an
arbitration committee,, of disputes arising under the contract, and that "There shall be no stoppage of work by
either party to this contract, pending decision by the
Committee of Arbitration."
Between the date of the signing of the agreement,
July 14, 1934, and March 23, 1935, respondent's officers
held numerous meetings with representatives of the
Union, usually the Union Scale Committee, for the consideration and adjustment of various demands of the
Union. At a meeting on January 4, 1935, the committee
presented a number of requests, among them the demand
that respondent should discharge any employees who
might be suspended by the Union. This and the other
demands were rejected by respondent, and a later request
that the demands bf January 4th be arbitrated was likewise refused oin the ground that they were not arbitrable
under the agreement. The committee afterward presented new demands at other meetings and then at a
meeting on March 11th renewed the demands of January
4th, which respondent again rejected. On March 17th
the Union passed resolutions reciting grievances and demanding a closed shop, and on March 23rd ordered a

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

Opinion of the Court.

strike, when four hundred and fifty of respondent's five
hundred employees left work. On March 30th respondent announced that its factory was closed indefinitely.
The strike was in effect July 5, 1935, when the National
Labor Relations Act was approved, and continued until
about July 23rd, when respondent resumed operations
at its plant. By August 19th it had received three
thousand applications for employment and had reamployed one hundred and ninety of its production employees. By the end of the second week in September
respondent had employed a full force.- On July 23rd
two labor conciliators from the Department of Labor
appeared in Terre Haute and were requested by the
Union "to try and open up negotiations with the respondent." On that day the conciliators met and conferred
with respondent's president, who agreed to meet them
with the Scale Committee. Several days later he informed them that he would not meet with them or with
the Scale Committee. Later respondent received, but
did not answer, letters of the Union of September 20th
and October. 11th, asking for a meeting to settle the
controversy between them.
The Board concluded that on July 23rd the "union
represented a majority of the respondent's employees,
that it sought to bargain with the respondent, that the
respondent refused to so bargain, and that this constituted an unfair labor practice" within the meaning of
§ 8, subdivision (5) of the Act. It ordered respondent
to discharge all of its production employees who were not
employed by it on July 22, 1935, to reinstate its employees as of that date, and thereupon to desist from
refusing to bargain with the Union as the exclusive
representative of respondent's production employees.
Application by the Board for a decree enforcing its
order was denied by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, 96 F. 2d 948, on the ground that as

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

the employees had struck before the enactment of the
National Labor Relations Act, in violation of their contract not to strike and to submit differences to arbitration, they did not retain and were not entitled to protection of their status as employees under § 2 (3)
of the Act. We granted certiorari, 305 U. S. 583, the
questions presented with respect to the administration
of the National Labor Relations Act being of public
importance.
The Board's order is without support unless the date
of the refusal to bargain collectively be fixed as July
23, 1935. -The evidence and findings leave no doubt that
later, in September, respondent ignored the Union's request for collective bargaining, but as at that time
respondent's factory had been reopened and was operating with a full complement of production employees, the
refusal to bargain could afford no basis for an order by
the. Board directing, as of that date, the discharge of new
employees and their replacement by strikers. Restoration of the strikers to their employment, by order of the
Board, under § 10 (c) of the Act, could as a practical
matter be effected only if respondent had failed in its
statutory duty to bargain collectively at some time after
the approval of the National Labor Relations Act on
July 5th, and before respondent had resumed normal
operation of its factory. The date fixed by the Board
was July 23rd, when respondent reopened its factory,
and the occasion was the personal interview on that day
and a later telephone conversation of respondent's president with the conciliators from the Labor Department,
who were not members or official representatives of the
Union and who, so far as the testimony discloses, did
not then appear to the president to be authorized to speak
for the Union.
In appraising these transactions between the conciliators and respondent's president, it is important to bear

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

Opinion of the Court.

in mind the nature and extent of the legal duty imposed
upon the employer by the National Labor Relations Act.
Section 8 (5) declares that it is an "unfair labor practice" for an employer "To refuse to bargain collectively
with the representatives of his employees," and §§ 2 and
10 (c) give to the Board an extensive authority to order
the employer to cease an unfair labor practice and to
compel reinstatement of employees with back pay when
employment has ceased in consequence of a labor dispute or unfair labor practice. See National Labor Relations Board v. Mackay Radio & Telegraph Co., 304
U. S. 333. While the Act thus makes it the employer's
duty to bargain with his employees, and failure to perform that duty entails serious consequences to him, it imposes no like duty on his employees. Since there must
be at least two parties to a bargain and to any negotiations for a bargain, it follows that there can be no breach
of the statutory duty by the employer-when he has not
refused to receive communications from his employeeswithout some indication given to him by them or their
representatives of their desire or willingness to bargain. In
the normal course of transactions between them, willingness of the employees is evidenced by their request, invitation, or expressed desire to bargain, communicated to
their employer.
However desirable may be the exhibition by the employer of a tolerant and conciliatory spirit in the settlement of labor disputes, we think it plain that the statute
does not compel him to seek out his employees or request their participation in negotiations for purposes of
collective bargaining, and that he may ignore or reject
proposals for such bargaining which come from third persons not purporting to act with authority of his employees, without violation of law and without suffering the
drastic consequences which violation may entail. To
put the employer in default here the employees must at

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Courl.

:806 U. S.

least have signified to respondent their desire to negotiate. Measured by this test the Board's conclusion that
respondent refused to bargain with the Union is without
support, for the reason that there is no evidence that the
Union gave to the employer, through the conciliators or
otherwise, any indication of its willingness to bargain or
that respondent knew that they represented the Union.
The employer cannot, under the statute, be charged with
refusal of that which is not proffered.
During the eight months preceding the strike respondent had, upon request, entered into' negotiations with the
Union on some eleven different occasions. Such meetings, always with some known representatives of the
Union, were customarily with the Union Scale Committee and on its written request. All negotiations were
broken off by the Union by the strike which followed
almost immediately its resolutions of March 17th. On
July 23rd the strike had continued for about four months,
accompanied by picketing, violence and destruction of
property, and had culminated, on July 22nd, in a proclamation of martial law. A meeting on June 11th had
resulted in no change of attitude on either side. From
then until July 23rd no attempt appears to have been
made on either side to resume negotiations.
While there was before the Board testimony of the
secretary of the Union that on July 23rd he had asked
the conciliators to "try and open up negotiations," there
was no testimony that respondent or its officers had ever
been informed of that fact or that they were advised
in any way of the willingness of the Union to enter into
negotiations. This was pointedly brought to the attention of the Board and the trial examiner by a motion to
strike the testimony of the. secretary and that of respondent's president, giving his account of his interview with
the conciliators. But the conciliators were not called
as witnesses and no attempt was made to supply the
omission.

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent's president testified that on July 23rd the
conciliators asked him if he would meet with them and
the Scale Committee; that he replied that he would; that
no meeting was arranged and that several days later he
called one of the conciliators on the telephone and informed him that he, the witness, "would not have any
meeting with him or with the Scale Committee." All
else that took place between the conciliators and respondent is left a matter of conjecture.
This testimony, on which the Board relies to support
its finding, shows on its face that there was no indication
until sometime later, than July 23rd of any unwillingness
on the part of respondent's president to meet the Union.
Furthermore, it contains no hint that the Union at any
time after July 5th, and before S( tember communicated
to respondent its willingness to bargain, or that the conciliators, in asking a meeting and discussing the matter
with respondent's president, purported to speak for the
Union. The testimony is consistent throughout with the
inference, and indeed supports it, that the conciliators,
so far as known to respondent, appeared in their official
role as mediators to .compose the long-standing dispute
between respondent and its employees; that the employer
first consented in advance to attend a meeting, and later
withdrew its consent when:they had failed for some days
to arrange a meeting. . Whether in the meant'me the
Scale Committee or any other representative of the Union
was in fact willing to attend a meeting does not appear.
Section 10 (e) of the Act provides: ". . . The findings of the Board as to.the facts, if supported by evidence,
shall be conclusive." But as has often been pointed out,
this, as in the case of other findings by administrative
bodies, means evidence which is substantial, that is, affording a substantial basis of fact from which the fact in
issue can be reasonably inferred. Washington, V. & M.
Coach Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 301 U. S.
142; Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Rela-

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

tions Board, 305 U. S. 197; Appalachian Electric Power
Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 93 F. 2d 985, 989;
National Labor Relations Board v. Thompson Products
Inc., 97 F. 2d 13; Ballston-StillwaterKnitting Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 98 F. 2d 758, 764. Substantial evidence is more than a scintilla, and must do
more than create a suspicion of the existence of the fact
to be established. "It means such relevant evidence as a
reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a
conclusion," Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor
Relations Board, supra, p. 229, and it must be enough to
justify, if the trial were to a jury, a refusal to direct a
verdict when the conclusion sought to be drawn from it
is one of fact for the jury. See Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521, 524; Gunning v. Cooley, 281
U. S. 90, 94; Appalachian Electric Power Co. v. National
Labor Relations Board, supra, 989.
Judged by these tests or any of them we cannot say
that there was substantial evidence that respondent at
any time between July 5, 1935, and September, 1935, was
aware that the Union desired or sought to bargain collectively with respondent, or that there is support in the
evidence for the Board's conclusion that on or about July
23, 1935 respondent refused to bargain collectively with
the Union.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK,

dissenting.

The Labor Board was given jurisdiction by Congress
to hear and weigh evidence and to determine the inferences from it; to make findings of fact; and to issue
orders necessary to effectuate the purposes of the National Labor Relations Act. In apt language, Congress

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

limited the power of courts to review the Board's findings
by providing in the Act that "The findings of the Board
as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be
conclusive."
I believe that "The inferences to be drawn were for
the Board and not the courts," '1 and that the inferences
drawn by the Board were supported by the evidence.
Courts should not-as here-substitute their appraisal of
the evidence for that of the Board.
The Labor Board, the Federal Trade Commission, the
Interstate Commerce Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and many other administrative agencies were all created to deal with problems of regulation
of ever increasing complexity in the economic fields of
trade, finance and industrial conflicts. Congress thus
sought to'utilize procedures more expeditious and administered by more specialized and experienced experts than
courts had been able to afford. The decision here tends
to nullify this Congressional effort.
The Labor Board concluded that "On or about July 23,
1935, the company refused to bargain collectively with
the union as the representative of its employees, or at
all, . ." This conclusion is here set aside only because
the Court believes the evidence before the Boaid did not
support its particular underlying finding that "It seems
clear that . . . [the] president of the respondent, knew
that the union was seeking through the [federal] conciliators to bargain with the respondent with respect to the
settlement of the strike."
Undisputed evidence disclosed that on July 23, 1935,
the conciliators-at the express instance of the Unionconferred for three or four hours with the president of
respondent; that the only purpose of the conciliators
1National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S. 261, 271.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

was to arrange a meeting between the company and the
Union in order to bring about collective bargaining; that
the president agreed with the conciliators to meet the
Union and the conciliators at a date to be set; but that
several days thereafter (when the company had obtained
other employees and was operating under the protection
of the militia) the president-again acting for the company-called the conciliators and flatly refused to meet
further with them or the Union. The Court finds only
a single link missing in the chain of evidence showing
that the company refused to bargain with the Union, i. e.,
that there was no evidence to justify the Board's finding
that the president of the company was aware the conciliators had approached the company at the request of the
Union. But the "courts cannot pick and choose bits of
evidence to make findings of fact contrary to the findings of" an administrative body.' And the story in this
record discloses a broad basis for the inference that the
company did know it was actually refusing the Union's
request.
For thirty-three years prior to July, 1934, the company
ran a non-Union plant. About that date, a majority of
the employees were organized by an affiliate of the American Federation of Labor. The company first refused
to sign an agreement with the Union but did so, July 14,
1934, upon the intervention of the Regional Labor Board
functioning under the National Industrial Recovery Act.
This agreement was to continue a year, was subject to
modification by mutual consent, and provided for arbitration of disputes arising under it. Thereafter, pursuant to
the agreement, meetings were held between the Union
and respondent and the Union submitted repeated re'Federal Trade Comm'n v. Standard Education Society, 302 U. S.
112, 117; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Algoma Co., 291 U. S. 67, 73;
cf., Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 314.

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

quests and grievances, relating to the "check-off" system, wage increases, the possibility of a closed shop, etc.
These were refused and counter grievances of the company were submitted and discussed. In meetings and by
mail, the Union continued to submit grievances--that
back-pay accrued during shut-downs was owing, that the
company was dealing with individual employees and, in
March, 1935, that the company by refusing to arbitrate
had broken its agreement. March 22, the Union called
a strike, the testimony showing that it was called "on
account of the company's refusal to honor and abide by
the agreement signed before the Labor Board July 14,
1934 . . . [as to] minimum days, wages, and any employee being called out and not used" and because the
company had "refused arbitration on this agreement."
Thereafter, the company closed its plant, consistently
urged individual members of the Union to return to work
and desert the Union's efforts-by strike-to obtain collective bargaining, and publicly announced that it would
not meet with the members of the Union and that it was
willing to take its individual employees back, but "without Union recognition or agreement." June 11, the company did meet with the Union's representatives but insured the impossibility of any successful collective bargaining by reiterating at the outset that the company
would not recognize the Union. July 23, the Union
asked the conciliators to see the president of the company.
To conclude that the company-through its presidentwas unaware the conciliators were acting at the instance
of the Union, and, therefore, is not to be held responsible
for its flat refusal to meet with its employees, is both
to ignore the record and to shut our eyes to the realities
of the conditions of modern industry and industrial strife.
The atmosphere of a strike between an employer and
employees with whom the employer is familiar does not

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

evoke, and should not require, punctilious observance of
legalistic formalities and social exactness in discussions
relative to the settlement of the strike. It is difficult to
imagine .that--during several hours of conversation between the conciliators and the company's president concerning a future meeting of Union and company-the
conciliators refrained from reference to the Union's request that the conciliators arrange such a future meeting.
In a realistic view, the company's statement of July 23
to the conciliators, that it would meet with them and the
Union, clearly indicated the company's acceptance of the
fact that the conciliators were appearing for the Union.
The company's declaration to the conciliators, several
days later, that it would not meet with the Union or the
conciliators, equally represents the company's recognition
and acceptance of the fact that the conciliators were a
means of dealing with the Union.
Not only did the Labor Board find the evidence sufficient to show that the company refused to bargain with
the Union on or about July 23, but the court below
reached the same conclusion. The rule is well settled
ihat findings of fact concurred in by two lower courts will
not "be disturbed unless plainly without support."
This rule equally applies when an administrative body4
and a lower court-as here--concur on findings of fact,
and the rule is even more persuasive where, as in the Act
creating the Labor Board, it is provided that "The findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence,
shall be conclusive." The majority opinion 5 of the
Court of Appeals in this case said:
3 General Pictures Co. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S. 175, 178;
United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 14; Virginian
Ry. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515, 542.
'Illinois CentralR. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206 U. S.
441,466.
' Three judges sat in the oourt below. One wrote the opinion for the
majority; the second judge concurred in the conclusion of that opin-

LABOR BOARD v. COLUMBIAN CO.
292

BLACK, J., dissenting.

"This conclusion [refusal to enforce the Board's action]
does not mean that we approve or uphold the refusal of
the respondent to meet the request of the conciliators
and enter into negotiations looking toward the settlement
of disputes after the employees had quit their employment. Respondent's employees were largely unionized.
Under the Act, respondent, when requested to negotiate,
was in duty bound to do so. National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1. Instead it lent a friendly ear to unwise counsel wholly out
of sympathy with the legisla;tion designed to avoid and
settle capital-labor disputes. It erred in its refusal to
respect the law and . . . [ignored] the request of those
charged with the burdensome task of working out a peaceful solution of what had become a bitter controversy.
There is little or no explanation which we can find for
their refusal, save an open, defiant, flouting of the law of
the land."
Respondent's striking employees remained employeeswhile on strike-within the meaning of the National
Labor Relations Act (§ 2 (3)) because their work had
ceased 'as a consequence of .. . [and] in connection
with . . . [a] current labor dispute. . .

."

The statu-

tory rights of these striking employees could not be destroyed, and respondent could not commit unfair labor
practices and then escape liability by reopening the plant
with a full complement of non-Union men.
Second. The court below was of opinion that the
strike of March 22, 1935, violated the particular provision
of the July 14, 1934, contract' with the company that
ion; the third judge dissented but expressly found that there was
evidence to support the findings that the company refused to bargain
collectively with its employees.
"In any case in which a satisfactory settlement of a dispute arising under this contract cannot be reached, such dispute shall be referred to a Committee of Arbitration composed of two persons
133096-39--20

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

"There shall be no stoppage of work by either party to
this contract, pending decision by the Committee of Arbitration." Solely because it believed the Union had violated its contract, the court below declined to enforce the
Board's order, and held that the company could not be
made responsible for'its own violation of the Act.
In this, I believe the court below was in error. A disagreement over the terms of a contract governing employer-employee relations is a labor dispute within the
term4 of the Act. Such a disagreement can-as it did.
here-produce industrial strife which the Act was expressly designed to prevent. Had Congress provided that
violation of a private contract would deprive employees
and the public of the benefits of the law, a different question would be presented. But Congress did not so provide and, in addition, the Union did not violate its contract. It contracted not to strike "pending decision by
the Committee of Aibitration" but there was no decision
"pending." There was no arbitration pendingbecause
the company would not arbitrate. If the contract was
broken, it was the company-not the Union-that
broke it.
I believe the judgment of the court below should be
reversed and that the Board's order should be enforced.
MR. JUSTICE REED

joins in this dissent.

selected by the Management, two persons selected by the Union, and
fifth person to be selected by these four, who shall reach a decision
which shall be final and binding upon both parties to this contract.
There shall be no stoppage of work by either party to this contract,
pending decision by the Committee of Arbitration."

