OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

72

Syllabus.

:306 U. S.

DIXIE OHIO EXPRESS CO. v. STATE REVENUE
COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 260.

Argued December 16, 1938.-Decided January :30, 1939.

The Georgia Maintenance Tax Act, as applied to appellant, an
Ohio corporation engaged exclusively in interstate commerce as
a common carrier of property by motor vehicle for hire, imposes
a tax of $50 on each ton-and-a-half motor vehicle, $75 on each
two-ton motor vehicle, and $50 on eah trailer of 4000 pounds
factory weight. The tax would be the same if the carrier were
engaged exclusively in intrastate commerce, or were engaged in
interstate and intrastate commerce, but would be less if the
vehicles were not used for hire. Held:
1. While a State may not' impose a tax on the privilege of
engaging in interstate commerce, it may validly impose a fair
and reasonable tax upon vehicles as compensation for the use
of its highways, even though the vehicles be used exclusively in
interstate transportation. P. 76.
2. To sustain an exaction by the State for the use or privilege
of using its highways for interstate transportation, it must affirmatively appear that the charge is for compensation or to pay the
cost of policing the highways. P. 77.
3. The scope and language of the Act clearly disclose that its
purpose is to require compensation for the privilege of operating
over the roads of the State. P. 77.
4. The fact that the State, in the conduct of its fiscal affairs,
chooses to use part or all of the proceeds of the tax for the
improvement of roads other than those over which appellant
operates, does not render it violative of the commerce clause.
P. 77.
5. The amounts paid by the appellant for license tags, public service tags, and gasoline taxes are without significance in this
case. P. 78.
6. The fact that, in license and fuel taxes, motor vehicles bore
over 62 per cent. of the total taxes collected by the State, does
not aid in ascertaining the value of appellant's use of, or privilege
to use, the State's highways. P. 78.
7. Figures showing the extent of appellant's use of the State's
roads may not be taken as an indication of the value of the

DIXIE OHIO CO. v. COMM'N.
()pinion oI tie Court.

72

privilege where it does not appear whether the privilege was
fully availed of. P. 78.
8. Failure of the appellant to furnish evidentiary details on
the issue tends to support the State's claim that the exaction was
reasonable compensation for the privilege of use of its roads.
P. 78.
9. The imposition of higher taxes on vehicles used for hire
than on those not so used is not an arbitrary classification and
does not violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 78.
1S6 Ga. 228; 19.7 S. E. 887, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgnent affirming a judgment which

sustained a demurrer and dismissed an affidavit challenging the legality of a levy of execution by the state revenue connmission.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Allan, Watkins
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. 0. H. Dukes, with whom Messrs. M. J. Yeomans,
Attorney General of Georgia, and B. B. Zellars, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question is whether, as applied in this case by the
highest court of the State, the Georgia Maintenance Tax
Act ' violates the commerce clause or the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States.
Appellant is an Ohio corporation engaged exclusively
in interstate transportation as a common carrier of property for hire by motor vehicles, including hauling between
points in Georgia and points in other States. A certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing appellant's in' Laws 1937, p. 155.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

terstate transportation in Georgia,2 does not extend to
transportation over rural post roads, which are roads not
included in the state highway system over which United
States mail is carried.8
Appellant owns for use in its business about 100 pieces
of equipment consisting of trucks and tractors with manufacturer's rated capacity of a ton and a half and two tons
and trailers having factory weight of 4,000 pounds. If
used to haul not for hire, the tax on each ton-and-a-half
motor vehicle is $15; on each two-ton vehicle, $30; and
on each trailer, $30. But when used to haul either as
a common or contract carrier for hire, the taxes are
respectively, $50, $75, and $50. § 3.
For the collection of tax on one of appellant's two-ton
trucks, the state revenue commission obtained from the
superior court of Fulton County an execution on which
it caused the sheriff to levy upon that vehicle. Appellant gave a bond to the sheriff with an affidavit of illegality. 4 In order to avoid seizure of all of appellant's
equipment, the state commission allowed it to deposit in
escrow the amount claimed under the Act on account of
other equipment and agreed that levy should be made
only on the one truck. The commission demurred; the
superior court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the
affidavit. The supreme court affirmed. 186 Ga. 228;
197 S. E. 887.
In addition to the description of appellant's equipment,
operations, and use of Georgia highways given above,
the statements of the affidavit of illegality, so far as concerns the issues here to be decided, may be summarized
as follows:
The Act directs that upon payment of the maintenance
tax the director of the motor vehicles division of the state
206, Motor Carrier Act, 1935, c. 498, 49 Stat. 551, 49 U. S. C.
§ 306.
3 Laws 1937, p. 9 14 .
4 Code 1933, § 92-7301.
2§

DIXIE OHIO CO. v. COMM'N.
72

Opinion of the Court.

commission shall issue a tag (§ 9), and that the money
derived from the sale of these tags shall be allocated to
the United States rural postal roads division of the
Georgia highway department. § 11. Thus, no part of
it is applicable to highways over which appellant operates. The maintenance taxes on its equipment for each
year will be about $6,000. In addition, the Georgia laws
require it to pay $3 for a license tag ' and $25 for a public
service tag" for each vehicle and six cents per gallon of
gasoline purchased in Georgia; ' it annually buys in that
State about 90,000 gallons. Two-thirds of the gasoline
tax is for maintenance of state aid highways.' Appellant
hauls in seven States; annually its trucks travel an average of 6,870,000 miles of which 725,000, less than 11 per
cent of the total, are in Georgia. The 1936 total taxes
collected by Georgia amounted to $30,058,092.68, of
which motor vehicles bore $19,207,909.59 in license and
fuel taxes.
In conclusion, the affidavit asserts that the tax in question is an unreasonable fee for appellant's use of the roads
and is therefore repugnant to the commerce clause, and
that it discriminates against carriers for hire in favor of
carriers not for hire and for that reason violates the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
1. Is the Act repugnant to the commerce clause?
With exceptions not material here, it requires that all
who own or have exclusive right to use for more than 30
days a motor bus, truck,' or trailer "shall pay a maintenance tax for operation . . .upon rnd over the public
ILaws 1935, p. 157.
6 Code
7Laws

1933, § 68-623.
1937, p. 174.
" Laws 1937, p. 180.
9The Act defines "truck" to "include any self-propelled vehicle
designed ...

for drawing other vehicles, but having no provision

for carrying loads independently, except what are commonly knovnas farm tractors." § 2B.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

roads of the State" (§ 1) according to a schedule (§ 3)
which specifies the amount of the tax 6n each vehicle.
The Act makes no distinction between vehicles used in
intrastate commerce and those used in interstate commerce. It discriminates in favor of equipment used not
for hire. It lays upon trucks and tractors taxes graduated according to manufacturer's rated capacities and
upon trailers amounts graduated according to factory
weights. The tax imposed on appellant is the same as if
it operated exclusively in intrastate commerce or carried
on both intrastate and interstate transportation.
It is elementary that a State may not impose a tax on
the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce. Sprout
v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 171. Interstate Transit,
Inc., v. Lindsey, 283 U. S. 183, 185. Gwin, White &
Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, and cases there
cited; also those cited in the concurring opinion. But,
consistently with the commerce clause, a State may impose upon vehicles used exclusively for interstate transportation a fair and reasonable tax as compensation for
the privilege of using its highways for that purpose. The
applicable principle is stated in Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610. We there said (pp. 623-624): "In view of
the many decisions of this court there can be no serious
doubt that where a State at its own expense furnishes
special facilities for the use of those engaged in commerce, interstate as well as domestic, it may exact compensation therefor. The amount of the charges and the
method of collection are primarily for determination by
the State itself; and so long as they are reasonable and
are fixed according to some uniform, fair and practical
standard they constitute no burden on interstate commerce." That rule has been applied in many cases. See
e. g. Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 168-169. Clark
v. Poor, 274 U, S.554, 557. Sprout v. South Bend, supra,
170. Aero Transit Co. v. Georgia Comm'n, 295 U. S. 285,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

amounts paid for license tags, public service tags, and
taxes on gasoline ,are without significance in this case.
Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 251252. The allegation to the effect that in 1936 motor vehicles in Georgia bore, in license and fuel taxes, over 62
per cent of the total taxes collected by the State is too
vague for use in any estimate of or study for the ascertainment of the value of appellant's use, or of its privilege to use, the State's roads.
Appellant's failure to disclose whether it fully availed
itself of the privilege to use the roads leaves the figures
reflecting actual use without foundation and worthless as
a measure or indication of the value of that privilege.
And, in view of the seemingly low charge for the operation of its vehicles per day or mile, its failure to furnish
evidentiary details material to the issue of reasonableness
makes against its contention that the challenged exactions
so exceed the worth of the granted use of the roads that
they are to be deemed taxes on the privilege of carrying
on its business of interstate transportation and tends to
confirm appellee's claim that they constitute pay for the
specified operations over the State's roads.
We find that the challenged enactment does not violate
the commerce clause.
2. Is the Act repugnant to the equal protection clause?
Appellant- insists that it is because of the higher taxes
imposed on those who haul for hire. But it fails to show
lack of facts sufficient to justify the discrimination. In
the absence of proof to the contrary, it is to be assumed
that the use of the roads by one hauling not for hire is
generally limited to transportation of his own property
as an incident to his occupation or business and that it
is substantially less than that of one who is engaged in
the business of common carrier thereon for hire. As
hauling not for hire is likely to be occasional and accessory and as hauling for hire is a business the success

DIXIE OHIO CO. v. COMM'N.
72

Opinion of the Court.

289. Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S. 407, 412. While ordinarily state action is deemed valid unless the contrary
appears, we have held that to sustain a charge by the
State for the use or privilege of using its roads for interstate transportation, it must affirmatively appear that
the charge is exacted as compensation or to pay the cost
of policing its highways. Sprout v. South Bend, supra.
Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, supra, 186. Ingels v.
Morf, 300 U. S. 290, 294.
The scope and language of the challenged enactment
unmistakably disclose intention of the State to require
payment of compensation for the privilege of operating
over its roads the specified vehicles for the transportation
of property. It contains no hint of hostility to interstate
commerce or of purpose to impose a charge on the privilege or business of interstate transportation. The exaction is not to be deemed offensive to the commerce
clause merely because the State, in the conduct of its
fiscal affairs, chooses to use part or all of the proceeds
for purposes other than the construction, improvement,
or maintenance of its highways. Clark v. Poor, supra,
557. Mor! v. Bingaman, supra, 412.
The affidavit of illegality fails to allege any facts tending to show that a reasonable charge for the privilege is
less than the amount exacted for it. Appellant does not
claim that the privilege to operate for a year 100 pieces
of its equipment over any or all the State's roads is not
worth $6,000, the amount of the taxes in controversy.
It does not disclose what the taxes in question amount
to per truck, tractor-, or trailer mile, per ton hauled, or
per ton mile, nor does it compare the amount of tMe
taxes with total operating expenses or with operating
revenues. The figures furnished indicate that the tax imposed on account of the use of each vehicle amounts to
about 20 cents a day and that, on appellant's business in
1936, it was- about eight mills per vehicle mile. The

WELCH CO. v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Syllabus.

72

of which depends on the loading of the vehicles used
and mileage made by them, the classification complained
of may not be held arbitrary or without reasonable foundation. Morf v. Bingaman, supra, 413. Aero Transit
Co. v. Georgia Comm'n, supra, 290, 291. Hictklin v.
Coney, 290 U. S. 169, 176, 177. Continental Baking Co. v.
Woodring, 286 U. S. 352, 370, 371, et seq. Bradley v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 289 U. S. 92, 97. Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 509, 513-514. Bekins Van Lines v. Riley,
280 U. S. 80, 82. Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 144.
Appellant's contention that the Act violates the equal
protection clause is without merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
H. P. WELCH CO. v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
No. 295.

Argued January 3, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

A statute of New Hampshire forbids the owner of any motor vehicle used on the highways of the State in the transportation of
property for hire, to require or permit to operate such vehicle
a driver who has been continuously on duty for more than 12
hours. Registration certificates, without which no common or
contract carrier may lawfully operate over the highways of the
State, may be suspended or revoked for violations. The statute

exempts: those transporting products of their own manufacture
or labor; motor vehicles not principally engaged in the transportation of property for hire; and carriers operating exclusively,
in a city or town or within 10 miles thereof, or beyond the 10
mile limit on not more than two trips in 30 days. Held:
1. As applied to a carrier which-was not exempt, the statute
was not by reason of its exemptions repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 82.

