OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The decree of the lower court dismissing the appellant's
bill is
A ffirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.

CITY OF TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS LOUISIANA
GAS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAJS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 294. Argued January 4, 5, 1939.-Decided February 6, 1939.
1. A franchise granted to a utility company by the City of Texarkana, Texas, contained a section (§ IX) providing that if the
company should "be finally compelled to, or should voluntarily,
place in any rates" for the adjacent City of Texarkana, Arkansas,
less than those fixed by the franchise, then such lower rates should
apply also in the Texas city and the company "shall not be
authorized or permitted to charge and collect any higher rate."
Held:
(1) The section was not invalid as a delegation or abdication
of the power of the Texas city under its charter to regulate the
business and fix the rates of public utilities. P. 196.
(2) By the law of Texas, the section was binding on the utility
company, although, because of the reserved power to raise or
lower the rates, not binding on the municipality. P. 197.
Grant of the franchise is consideration for the undertaking of
the utility to maintain the prescribed rates until they are altered
by the exercise of the reserved power of the municipality to
regulate the rates. P. 200.
(3) Earlier decisions of this Court to the effect that under the
law of Texas a municipality could not validly make a rate contract
with a public utility because inconsistent with its reserved power
to regulate rates are inapplicable because (a) the state supreme

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

189

Syllabus.

court in a subsequent decision has indicated that the contract and
regulatory powers may be exercised concurrently, and (b) the
charter of the municipality here involved specifically empowers it
to enter into franchise agreements with rate regulation reserved.
P. 201.
(4) When the utility voluntarily put into effect in the Arkansas
city rate* lower than those granted by the franchise, then the
consumers in the Texas city were immediately entitled to the
lower rate. P. 202.
(5) Where a rate order applicable in the Arkansas city was challenged by the utility, the latter is not "finally compelled" to "place
in" the rate until entry of the final order of a court making the rate
effective; but when such final order is entered, the Texas consumers are entitled to have the lowered rate applied to their
consumption for the same period of time that it is enjoyed by
the Arkansas consumers. P. 202.
(6) A supplemental petition seeking to give the Texas consumers the benefit of a lower rate which had been decreed for
the Arkansas city, but from which decree an appeal by the company was pending, was premature. P. 203.
(7) Upon remand of this case to the District Court for further
proceedings, leave should be granted-the Arkansas rate case
having finally been determined-to file a supplemental petition to
bring to date the controversy over the refund of charges by the
company. P. 203.
(8) Section IX is not invalid as vague, indefinite and obscure.
P. 204.
(9) Section VIII-A of the franchise, relative to notice of application for increase or decrease in rates, is by its terms inapplicable
to the power of the city to increase rates. P. 197.
2. Questions of the validity and construction of a franchise granted
under state law to a utility company are to be determined by the
federal court in accordance with the law of the State. P. 198.
3. This Court relies upon the trial court for aid in the examination
and interpretation of the local law. P. 198.
4. A respondent in certiorari here may urge affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals on a ground assigned by him
on his appeal to that court as requiring judgment in his favor but
which it did not pass upon. P. 198.
5. Where there is a good cause of action stated in the original bill, a
supplemental bill setting up facts subsequently occurring which
justify other or further relief is proper. P. 203.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

6. That the rates stipulated in a binding contract between a utility
and a municipality are inadequate is not a defense to their
enforcement. P. 204.
97 F. 2d 5, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 584, to review a decree which,

upon appeal from the District Court in a suit brought by
the city against the utility company reversed and remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Mr. Benjamin E. Carter,with whom Mr. Ed B. Levee,
Jr. was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. William C. Fitzhugh and Henry C. Walker, Jr.,
with whom Mr. William H. Arnold, Jr. was on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
A writ of certiorari brings to this Court for review a
judgment I of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit denying the validity or applicability of the following section in a franchise granted to respondent by
petitioner in 1930. Section IX of that franchise reads as
follows:
"If Grantee shall be finally compelled to, or should voluntarily, place [sic] in any rates in the City of Texarkana, Arkansas, less than the rates granted by this Ordinance then and thereupon the lessened rate shall apply in
the City of Texarkana, Texas, and Grantee shall not be
authorized or permitted to charge and collect any higher
rate."
Texarkana, Texas, and Texarkana, Arkansas, are adjacent
cities divided by the Arkansas-Texas state line. Respondent serves as a public utility for the distribution of gas in
1 Arkansas

Louisiana Gas Co. v. Texarkana, 97 F. 2d 5.

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

both cities. Because of the section just quoted, the Texas
city undertook judicial action to secure gas for itself and
its citizens at rates lower than those stated in other sec-

tions of the franchise. We granted certiorari 2 on account
of asserted conflict with the decisions of the state courts
on an important question of local law.
The charter of the Texas city gives authority to grant
franchises for the use of its public ways upon terms to
be embodied in ordinances, which must expressly provide
that the city shall retain the regulation of the business of
the utility, the fixing of its rates and the right to inspect
its operations. Should these reservations be omitted, they
are nevertheless to be considered part and parcel of the
franchise.' The charter also provides that the city shall
have the power to regulate rates charged by gas com305 U. S. 584.
3 Sec. 160. "The rights of the City of Texarkana in the use of the
public streets, alleys, squares, parks, bridges and all public places
are hereby declared to be inalienable to any person, firm or corporation, except by license permit and franchise passed by the city
council on the affirmative vote of three-fifths of all the members of
said council elected."
Sec. 163. "Said proposed franchise shall contain all the terms and
agreements between the parties thereto, and it must expressly set
forth that the council shall have the right and privilege of regulating and controlling the operation of all business done thereunder,
fixing fares, rates, tolls and charges and inspecting the business and
work from time to time as it progresses, and rate regulations shall
conform to Section 197 of this charter."
Sec. 163a. "In the event that any franchise or permit is so given
by said council, which shall not contain such stipulations therein as
provided for in Section 162 of this charter, then it shall, nevertheless,
be considered that all of the said stipulations contained in said Sections 162, 163 and 197 are part and parcel of the said contract and
franchise, just as though written therein, and the said applicant so
accepting such franchise, as well as their heirs, assigns and successors,
shall be held and firmly bound thereto, notwithstanding such
omissions."
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

panies.

306 U. S.

The gas company and its predecessors had long

held a franchise for furnishing gas to the Texas city. The
earliest ordinances of the city were amended in 1923, by
which amendment certain rates for gas were fixed. Article E in that ordinance provided that the gas company
should "not at any time charge for furnishing gas" to the
Texas city "a greater sum . . . than it at the same time
charges and collects" from the Arkansas city. On June
17, 1930. the gas company accepted a compromise agreement, in ordinance form, which increased the rates to gas
consumers from those set out in the 1923 franchise. This
is the ordinance containing the § IX heretofore quoted
and it is the ordinance regulating rates now in effect in
the Texas city.
On May 30, 1930, the gas company secured a similar
arrangement adjusting rates from the Arkansas city.
There had previously been in effect a franchise of 1923
with rates substantially identical with the Texas 1923
rates. The Arkansas franchise of 1930 was subjected to
a referendum and to prolonged litigation. Eventually,
on December 1, 1983, a final order set aside the 1930 ordinance of the Arkansas city and established the rates of
the 1923 ordinance as effective for the consumers of the
Arkansas city from 1930 to the date of the decree. This
4Sec. 196. "That the city council shall have the power to regulate
by ordinance the rates and compensation to be charged by all water,
gas, light and telephone companies, corporations or persons using
the streets and public grounds of said city and engaged in furnishing
water, gas, light and telephone service to the public, and to prescribe
reasonable rules and regulations under which such commodities shall
be furnished and services rendered, and to fix penalties to enforce
such charges, rules and regulations; provided, that the city council
shall not prescribe any rate or compensation which will yield less
than ten per cent per annum net on the actual costs of the physical
properties, equipments and betterments. Said city council may also
fix the charges which may be collected for transporting passengers
and baggage in vehicles engaged in public service."

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

188

decree also required refunds to the Arkansas consumers
for overpayment during that period.' By further litigation, a resolution of the council of the Arkansas city of
December 22, 1933, promulgating rates for the future was
upheld.' These last rates were the 1923 rates, modified
in minor particulars. In the order of December 4, 1936,
confirming the rates established by its resolution, the gas
company was directed to refund to the consumers any
overpayment by reason of the collection of higher rates
during this last judicial proceeding. It thus appears that
the legal rates to the consumers of the Arkansas city at
all times have been substantially those of the 1923 ordinance.
In Texarkana, Texas, the consumers have paid. since
1930 the rates fixed in that ordinance, which are substantially higher than those finally determined as applicable
to the Arkansas consumers. The gas company in October, 1933, sought from the Texas city council rates still
higher than those granted by the 1930 ordinance. The
company gave notice that on November 23, 1933, a new
and higher schedule of rates than those provided in the
1930 agreement would be established in the Texas city.
The Texas city sought and obtained in the state court
an injunction against this increase. This is still effective. This suit was removed to the federal district court
for Texas. The bill was amended on January 15, 1934,
to set up an additional cause of action against the gas
company by reason of the entry of the decree on December 1, 1933, in the Arkansas litigation. As this decree
was a final order determining that the Arkansas consum'Arkansas Louisiana Gas Co. v. Texarkana, 97 F. 2d 5, 6, col. 2;
cf. Southern Cities Distributing Co. v. Carter, 184 Ark. 4; 41 S. W.
2d 1085, appeal dismissed 285 U. S. 525, 526; Texarkana v. Southern
Cities Distributing Co., 64 F. 2d 944, cert. denied 290 U. S. 650.
"Arkansas Louisiana Gas Co. v. Texarkana, 17 F. Supp. 447; affirmed 96 F. 2d 179; cert. denied, 305 U. S. 606.
133096°-39-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

ers should pay only the 1923 rates, the Texas city conceived its citizens should have the benefit of the same
lower rates by virtue of § IX. It was further sought by
this amendment to recover for the affected time a refund
for the Texas consumers equal to the difference between
the Arkansas rates, as determined by the decree of December 1, 1933, and the Texas 1930 rates. Later, on
December 30, 1936, a supplemental bill was filed to set
out the further claim of the Texas city consumers, for the
period between that covered by the first amendment and
the filing of the supplemental bill, together with a prayer
that the gas company be compelled to pay into the registry of the court the excess amount which it was alleged
it had and was continuously collecting from the Texas
consumers. Immediate distribution was asked for the
funds applicable to those periods concerning which no
further Arkansas litigation was pending.
The situation from the standpoint of the Texas city
might be summarized by saying that it seeks for its consumers the lower 1923 Arkansas rates instead of the Texas
1930 rates, from the effective date of the Arkansas, resolution of May 30, 1930, to February 16, 1934. This refund is claimed because the Arkansas consumers obtained
these lower rates by the Arkansas decree of December 1,
1933, and the voluntary act of the gas company in collecting the lower rates from the date of the decree to February 16, 1934. On final affirmance of the Arkansas litigation, it seeks refunds for its consumers from February 16,
1934, to December 4, 1936, of the difference between the
Texas 1930 rates and the Arkansas December 22, 1933,
rates. This refund is claimed because of the decree of
December 4, 1936,' validating for the Arkansas consumers
the rates of the 1933 resolution. These rates were sub'United States District Court, Arkansas: Arkansas Louisiana Gas
Co. v. Texarkana, Cause No. 219.

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

stantially the same as those fixed in the 1923 ordinance.
As an injunction, pending appeal, was refused, these
lower rates have been in effect in Arkansas since the
date of the decree. As pointed out above, the decree
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and certiorari refused here. It is further sought to have put into
effect in Texas the rates collected in Arkansas after December 4, 1936. The right to the lower rates and to the
refund depends upon the interpretation of § IX.
Another bill was filed by the Texas city in May, 1934,
setking substantially the same relief as that sought in
the proceeding heretofore detailed. The reasons for the
filing of this second suit and its purpose are not material
to the present proceeding. The two actions were consolidated. Later motions, pleadings and the decree in the
two cases are the same.
The gas company filed answers to the bills set out above
and a counterclaim seeking higher rates. Section IX was
challenged as invalid because of conflict with the provisions of the city charter, the laws and constitution of
Texas. It was asserted that the section was not a binding contract on either party to the franchise and further
asserted that if § IX was valid, it was inapplicable to any
of the three periods for which the Texas city sought relief
and refund. The district court granted the city's motion
to strike the answers and counterclaim and, the gas company declining to amend, decreed that § IX was a binding
contract between the parties; that it was inapplicable
to the period prior to December 1, 1933; that refund
should be made from December 1, 1933, to February 16,
1934; and that the suit was premature as to the period
after February 16, 1934, because an appeal was pending
in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
at the time the second amendment was filed by the Texas
city on December 30, 1936. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and remanded with directions to dismiss

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U.S.

the bill.' It thought that § IX was an invalid abdication
or delegation of the Texas city's rate-making power since
the section purported to bind both parties to lower rates
which might be fixed by the gas company and the Arkansas city. The lower court stated also, without discussion,
that the clause was inapplicable even if valid. The petition for certiorari relies upon the alleged error of the
lower court in deciding that the section was invalid and
inapplicable.
Abdication or delegation of regulatory power. By the
act to incorporate the city of Texarkana, Texas, the legislature granted a special charter which contained delegations of power to the municipality to contract for utilities and to regulate gas rates, and prohibitions against
the granting of a franchise 'without specific reservation of
this power of future regulation
The respondent takes
the position that since § IX not only requires the application of lower Arkansas rates to Texas consumers but
provides that the gas company "shall not be authorized
or permitted to charge and collect any higher rate," the
Texas city has abdicated power to raise the Texas rates
above the Arkansas rates. As the Texas city is forbidden to give up the power to regulate rates, the section,
says the company, is invalid.
The city agrees that any delegation or abdication of
complete power to regulate rates would be unlawful and
any provision of a franchise leading to that result invalid
under the decisions of Texas."° It is the petitioner's po'Arkansas Louisiana Gas Co. v. Texarkana, 97 F. 2d 5.
1 The provisions are set out in notes 3 and 4, supra.
°Uvalde v. Uvalde Electric & Ice Co., 250 S. W. 140; Texas Gas
Utilities Co. v. Uvalde, 77 S. W. 2d 750; Naim v. Bean (Corn. 1932),
48 S. W. 2d 584, 586; cf. Railroad Comm'n v. Weld & Neville, 96
Texas 394, 405; 73 S. W. 529; Missouri-Kansas & T. R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 3 S. W. 2d 489, 493; Green v. San Antonio Water
Supply Co. (Civ. App.), 193 S. W. 453.

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

sition, however, that a proper interpretation of the section
leaves with the city the unimpaired power to regulate the
gas rates, within the limits of the applicable constitutional provisions. We agree with this analysis of the
section. The words just quoted prohibiting the charge
or collection of higher rates more reasonably imply a limitation on the right of the gas company to look to other
provisions of the franchise for authority to exact other
rates. But if this view is not accepted, it is quite clear
tnat the charter provision 163a retaining the right to
regulate must be read into the franchise. This would
result in leaving in the council of the Texas city the power
to raise or lower the gas rates.
Nor, in this view, can it be said there is delegation as
distinct from abdication of the power to regulate. It is
true, extra-state action determines that the rate shall
lessen, but the council has power over the rates at all
times. The Arkansas rate is a mere measuring rod, as
though the rate fluctuated with temperature or consumption. Even if § VIII-A " is valid, in the face of §§ 163,
163a and 196 of the charter, it is inapplicable, by its terms,
to the power of the city to increase rates.
The obligation of the utility under section IX. As the
lower court determined § IX is wholly invalid as a delegation and abdication by the city of its rate making powers, there was no occasion for it to consider whether the
1'Section VIII-A. "In consideration of the granting of this franchise, it is mutually agreed and understood by and between the
parties hereto that before the City Council of said City shall apply
for a reduction in rates, or before the Southern Cities Distributing
Company, its successors or assigns, shall make application for an
increase in rates, either party shall give to the other party one year's
notice in writing of its intention to so apply for an increase or decrease in rates, and no application for increase or decrease in rates
shall be acted upon or considered unless said one year's notice is first
given before making such application."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

section was binding upon the utility alone. With the
conclusion that the city is free to raise or lower the rate,
in the public interest, we must inquire whether the gas
company is bound to furnish Texas consumers their gas
at the lessened Arkansas rates. The determination follows the state law. 2 This court looks to the trial court
for the original examination of local questions" and relies for aid upon the explanation of its conclusion. While
no opinion was written in the trial court, its decree found
§ IX a "binding contract" and awarded recovery for a
portion of the time involved. Assuming the district court
agreed with this Court that the city could not and did not
delegate or abdicate its rate making function, this necessarily required a holding that the company alone was
bound by this section of the contract. An appeal, with
specific assignment of this ruling as error, brought the
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals and the point is
argued here by respondent as justification for the judgment reversing the District Court. 4 Under these circumstances, we feel constrained to pass upon the
question. 5
It cannot be said that any opinion of the Supreme
Court of Texas settles the problem of whether a utility
is bound to a contract for a schedule of rates when the
municipality is not. That court, in 1925, in Dallas Railway Co. v. Geller, did state that an ordinance on rates
is a contract." There had been a franchise with a fixed
12§

34, Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 92, 28 U. S. C.

725; Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64; Southern Iowa Electric
Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 543; Railroad Comm'n v. Los Angeles
Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145, 151.
" Railroad Comm'n v. Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145, p. 164

dissent, n. 1.

" Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 538.
" Cf. Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 202, 206.
" 114 Texas 484; 271 S. W. 1106.

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

maximum rate. The municipality granted an increase.
A citizen objected on the ground that the franchise, as
a contract, bound the municipality and the utility to the
agreed rate. The Court of Civil Appeals'" held the rate
section of the franchise was not a "fixed contract" but a
rate schedule, subject to the city's power of regulation by
reason of § 17 of Article 1 of the Texas Constitution forbidding uncontrollable grants of special privileges. On
review, the Supreme Court stated that a question had
been raised by city attorneys, appearing as amici curiae,
as to the meaning of the language of the lower court
which was construed by some to hold that "a municipality cannot make contracts that are binding upon public
service corporations." 11 While the court could have

avoided comment on the point upon the theory that
whether or not there was a contract, the city's regulatory
power was unaffected, it chose to interpret the franchise
in the light of the contract in these words: "The right
or power to further control or regulate the grant in regard
to the rate schedule is a reservation to the municipality
and not an inhibition to contract; and where a franchise
is accepted by a grantee, this reservation . . . becomes

a part of the contract." Later the Supreme Court, in
discussing the power of the legislature to authorize specifically binding rate contracts for definite periods, citing
the Uvalde case, said, "It is well established in this state
that the Legislature . . . may authorize municipal cor-

porations to enter into contracts" for rates for limited
periods."9 We reason from these opinions that in Texas a
"Geller v. Dallas Ry. Co., 245 S. W. 254, 256.
It was stated in petitioner's brief and not denied that after the
decision in Uvalde v. Uvalde Elec. & Ice Co., 250 S. W. 140, discussed
in the next paragraph, briefs were filed in the Supreme Court in the
Geller case arguing the effect of the Uvalde decision.
" Lower Colorado River Authority v. McGraw, 83 S. W. 2d 629,
638; 125 Texas 268.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

utility franchise is a contract, with an express or implied
provision that the rate schedules are subject to regulation
by the city. In such a contract an agreement by the utility to lower rates under specified conditions is binding,
although the rule as to the reserved power of regulation
prevents the city from agreeing not to raise or lower rates.
Grant of the franchise is consideration for the undertaking of the utility to maintain the prescribed rates until
they are altered by the exercise of the reserved power of
the municipality to regulate rates.
The case of Uvalde v. Uvalde Electric & Ice Co.,
1923,0 is uggested as an authority against interpreting a
rate contract, invalid as to the city, as binding upon the
utility. Uvalde, without power to contract for rates, did
so contract. The utility raised the rates without permission. The court was of the view that "the power to regulate rates and the power to stipulate by contract for a
term of 10 years for rates cannot coexist." Looking at
the contract in this way and without discussion of the
effect of the attempted agreement on the utility, an injunction against the new rates was refused. That case
appears rather a precedent for the rule that where a city
is not authorized to contract as to rates but only to regulate them, any effort to contract is nugatory. As indicated above, it has been cited by the Supreme Court
of Texas as authority for the right of a municipality
to contract when so empowered.
This Court has had other occasions to consider the
rights of Texas utilities under the provisions of the Texas
statutes and constitution. In San Antonio Traction Co.
v. Altgelt 21 we assumed a rate contract between the city
and the street railway, and ruled that it was subject to
250 S. W. 140. Compare Texas Gas Utilities Co. v. Uvalde, 77
S. W. 2d 750, 752.
200 U. S. 304, 308.

TEXAIIJKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

201

Opinion of the Court.

§ 17 of the Texas bill of rights,2 2 which declared that all
privileges granted by the legislature- remained under its
control. Consequently, an enactment changing the rate
agreement was valid. Later, 1920, in San Antonio v. San
Antonio Public Service Co." in passing upon a rate increase by a utility in the face of a franchise limitation we
ruled that § 17 of the constitution, with its provision
against irrevocable special privileges, made impossible a
contract in Texas on rates because of the conflict between
the right to contract and the superior and inconsistent
power to regulate. To the argument that the company
might be bound, though the city was not, the court replied: If the city is not bound "it would follow that that
power [uncontrolled regulatory] would be required to be
exerted and hence the supposed condition operating upon
the private owner would be nugatory." 24
These conclusions of this Court are inapplicable here
for two reasons: first, the subsequent opinion of the Supreme Court of Texas in the Geller case indicates that
regulatory and contract power may be exercised concurrefitly in that state; second, the charter of Texarkana,
Texas, gives it specific power to enter into franchise agreements with rate regulation reserved to the city. 25 The
Constitution of State of Texas, Bill of Rights, Vernon's Texas
Statutes 1936, Art. I, p. XXV, § 17. "No person's property shall be
taken, damaged or destroyed for or applied to public use without
adequate compensation being made, unless by the consent of such
person; and, when taken, except for the use of the State, such compensation shall be first made, or secured by a deposit of money; and
no irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of special privileges or immunities, shall be made; but all privileges and franchises granted by
the Legislature, or created under its authority shall be subject to the
control thereof."
- 255 U. S. 547, 555, 556.
2, Cf. Railroad Comm'n v. Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145,
151. But cf. Southern Utilities Co. v. Palatka,268 U. S. 232, 233.
"5§§ 163, 163a, 196, notes 3 and 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

utility was chargeable with notice in 1930 of the rule in
Texas, restated in the Texarkana charter, that rate regulatory power remains in the municipality, and the
charter provision to that effect was reserved in the franchise by force of law. It contracted, nevertheless, to furnish the Texas city gas at the same rates as Arkansas consumers enjoy. There appears no reason why such an
agreement should not be enforceable and, in our view of
the Texas law, it is.
Applicability. The trial court determined that § IX
was not to be applied to the period prior to December 1,
1933; that it should be applied to the period December
1, 1933, to February 16, 1934, and that the effort to recover refunds for the period after February 16, 1934, was
premature. The Circuit Court of Appeals thought the
section, if valid, generally inapplicable. We are of the
opinion that the language of the section was intended to
and does make applicable to each Texas consumer the
same rates that Arkansas consumers are charged for
similar uses and quantity, when the Arkansas rates are
lower than the rates granted Texas consumers by the
ordinance of the City of Texarkana, Texas, of June 13,
1930. This flows from the words in § IX "place in any
rates" less than the Texas ordinance rates.
The lower rates for Texas are to be effective only when
the utility is "finally compelled to, or should voluntarily,
place in" effect the lower rates for Arkansas. When a
rate is voluntarily placed in effect in Arkansas, the Texas
consumers are immediately entitled to the same rate.
We construe "finally compelled" as meaning the entry
by a court of the final order which makes effective a
challenged rate order. No right to demand the lower
rate and no cause of action to enforce the right arises
until that time. When such order is entered, however,
the Texas consumers are entitled to have the lowered rate
applied to their consumption for the same period of time

TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS GAS CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

it is enjoyed by the Arkansas consumers. The purpose
of the clause was to give Texas consumers the advantage
of lower Arkansas rates for similar periods of time. Litigation, regardless of its merit, may not stay the beginning of the lower Texas rate. In our view, so much of
the relief sought as was based upon the challenged rate
order of December 22, 1933, was premature. 2 As there
was an appeal from the decree of December 4, 1936, it
was ineffective to create a cause of action when the supplemental petition of December 30, 1936, was filed.
Leave to file a supplemental petition to bring to date
the controversy over the refund of rates, collected subsequent to February 16, 1934, should be granted, upon the
return of the case to the District Court, on motion of the
City of Texarkana, Texas. The present action is an appropriate proceeding for the settlement of the entire rate
controversy and the refund of such sums as may be determined, ultimately, to be due the Texas consumers.-7
Where there is a good cause of action stated in the original bill, a supplemental bill setting up facts subsequently
occurring which justify other or further relief is proper.
If the original decree in the trial court had not been entered, this supplemental petition would simplify the controversy."9 We think this procedure is equally applicable
29
after remand for further proceedings.
" Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412, 429.
'Rule 15d, District Court Rules, September 1, 1938. Cf. Rule 34,
Federal Equity Rules, .1912.
'New York Security & Trust Co. v. Lincoln St. Ry. Co., 74 F.
67, 68; Banks Law Pub. Co. v. Lawyers' Co-operative Pub. Co., 139
F. 701; Kryptok Co. v. Haussmawnn & Co., 216 F. 267; Milo Manor,
Inc. v. Woodard, 67 App. D. C. 296; 92 F. 2d 220, 223. Cf. Clarke v.
Boysen, 264 F. 492, 496, a closed account cannot be reopened.
'Cf. 2 Daniell's Chancery Pleading and Practice, 6th Am. Ed., pp.
1536, n. 6, and 1537. For further action after decree, see Mitchell
Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 266; Morrisdale Coal
Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S. 304, 314; Rio Grande Dam Co.
v. United States, 215 U. S. 266, 274.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

Other suggestions to support the respondent's position
that § IX is invalid are made. It is said that it is vague,
indefinite and obscure. These have been answered by
what we have written. The issue of confiscation tendered
by the answer of the utility to the petition to enforce the
obligations of § IX need not be considered in this proceeding. If the utility has entered into a binding contract
as to rates, their confiscatory character is not a defense to
the claim of the city to service at the contract rates."0
Reversed.

and MR.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is right and that its judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
BRASHEAR FREIGHT LINES, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 605. Decided February

13,

1939.

Under Judicial Code § 266, 28 U. S. C. 380, appeal directly to this
Court from the District Court of three judges is limited to decrees
granting or denying interlocutory or permanent injunctions; this
Court has no jurisdiction of an appeal taken under this section
by a defendant against whom an injunction was denied, for the
purpose of reviewing the dismissal by the District Court of a
counterclaim for money pleaded in the answer. P. 206.
'Cf. St. Cloud Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352;
Henderson Water Co. v. Corporation Comm'n, 269 U. S. 278; see
Southern Iowa Elec. Co. v. Chariton,255 U. S. 539, 542; Paducah v.
Paducah Ry. Co., 261 U. S. 267, 272-43; Georgia Ry. & Power Co.
v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 438-39; cf. Columbus Ry., Power & L. Co.
v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399, 410.

