TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.

307

Syllabus.
TAYLOR ET AL., INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE, v.
STANDARD GAS & ELECTRIC CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 312.

Argued January 5, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. Appraisal of the property of a corporation undergoing reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act-accepted by this Court
in view of concurrent findings of two courts below and substantial
evidence sustaining their findings. P. 314.
2. The so-called instrumentality rule is but a convenient way of
des.gnating the application, in particular circumstances, of the
broader equ.table principle that the doctrine of corporate entity,
recognized generally and for most purposes, will not be regarded
when so to do would work fraud or injustice. This principle has
been applied in appropriate c.rcumstances to give minority stockholders redress against wrongful injury to their interests by a
majority stockholder. P. 322.
3. A provision new in bankruptcy legislation, with respect to the
standing of stockholders in corporate reorganization, is found in
§ 77B (b) of the Bankruptcy Act, which enacts that a plan of
reorganization "may include provisions modifying or altering the
rights of stockholders generally, or any class of them, either through
the issuance of new securities of any character or otherwise."
P. 322.
4. Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act authorizes the court, as a
court of equity, to recognize the rights and status of the preferred
stockholders of a bankrupt corporation arising out of the wrongful and injurious conduct of a controlling corporation in the mismanagement of the bankrupt's affairs. P. 322.
5. A parent corporation with complete control of a subsidiary grossly
mismanaged its affairs through many years and, according to the
accounts between them; became its creditor in an enormous sum.
Meanwhile, the preferred stockholders of the subsidiary had no
voice in its management because the charter denied them voting
power so long as dividends were paid them, and because the
dominant corporation caused the subsidiary, notwithstanding its
precarious condition, to pay such dividends when due. In a
reorganization proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act,
the District Court approved a compromise of the parent company's

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

claim, and on that basis approved a plan of reorganization involving
formation of a new successor corporation, discharge of other obligations, and satisfaction of the compromised claim by awarding to the
parent company a large majority of the new company's common
stock, thus continuing its complete control, but allowing only a
minority of such stock to the old preferred stockholders. Held:
(1) That the District Court abused its discretion in not rejecting
the compromise and the plan of reorganization. Pp. 309, 323.
(2) If a reorganization is effected, the amount at which the
parent company's claim is allowed is not important if it is to be
represented by stock in the new company, provided the stock to
be awarded it is subordinate to that awarded preferred stockholders
of the bankrupt. P. 324.
(3) No plan ought to be approved which does not accord such
preferred stockholders a right of participation in the equity in the
assets prior to that of the parent company, and at least equal
voice with that company in the management. Id.
96 F. 2d 693, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 584, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court approving a plan of reor-

ganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Jason L. Honigman for petitioners.
Mr. Nathan A. Gibson, with whom Messrs. Wilbur J.
Holleman, A. Louis Flynn, and Jacob K. Javits were on
the brief, for tandard Gas & Electric Co.; Mr. James F.
Oates, Jr., wits whom Mr. William P. Sidley was on the

brief, for the Reorganization Committee; and Mr. George
S. Ramsey, with whom Mr. Villard Martin was on the

brief, for Greis, Trustee, respondents. Mr. W. F. Semple
submitted for Deep Rock Oil Corp., respondent.
MR. JuSTICE ROBERTS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented is whether the District Court
abused its discretion in approving the compromise of a

claim by a parent against a sub idiary corporation and a

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

plan of reorganization based upon the compromise, in
proceedings under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.' The
Circuit Court of Appeals, by a divided court, approved
the District Court's order.2
The petitioners are a committee for the protection of
preferred stockholders. The respondents are the trustee
of the debtor, Deep Rock Oil Corporation (a Delaware
corporation whose business was that of producing, refining, and selling gasoline, oil, and other petroleum products, from lands located in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, and
Arkansas), a reorganization committee, representing noteholders and certain holders of preferred stock, and Standard Gas and Electric Company, which owns practically all
of the common stock of the debtor, claiming as a creditor.
The debtor was organized in 1919 to take over the properties then being operated by one C. B. Shaffer.3 Standard Gas & Electric Company, hereinafter called Standard, then had investments in various utility properties
but had never been interested in oil. Byllesby & Company, hereinafter called Byllesby, an investment banking corporation which controlled Standard, entered into
a contract with Shaffer whereby he was to organize the
debtor corporation and to be paid by that corporation for
his properties $15,580,000 made up of cash, a note, and
preferred and common stock of the company. Byllesby
agreed to purchase $11,000,000 par value of first mortgage
bonds of an authorized issue of $15,000,000, $5,000,000
par value of preferred stock, and 120,000 shares of common stock, par $1, for $15,200,000 in cash, to be applied
by the company to the cash payments to be made to
Shaffer and for working capital.
'U. S. C., Tit. 11, § 207.
Taylor v. Standard Gas & Electric Co., 96 F. 2d 693.
'The corporate name was Shaffer Oil & Refining Company. This
was changed in 1931 to Deep Rock Oil Corporation. The company
will be referred to by the latter name.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Shaffer received for the properties turned over by him
80,000 shares of common stock, 50,000 shares of $100 par
preferred stock, $9,500,000 in cash and a note of Byllesby
and Standard for $1,000,000. In fact $12,000,000 of the
first mortgage bonds were underwritten by a syndicate
formed by Byllesby and sold to the public. The result of
the above transactions was to leave Deep Rock with approximately $6,700,000 of cash. Shortly thereafter the remaining $3,000,000 of bonds were pledged to secure Deep
Rock's notes for $2,000,000. From its organization Deep
Rock was, most of the time, "two jumps ahead of the
wolf," as one of Standard's officers testified. The common
stock went into a voting trust which gave Standard and
Shaffer equal control. Shaffer undertook the management of the properties and business. After two years
Standard became dissatisfied with Shaffer's management
and he severed his connection with the company selling
his common stock to Standard and surrendering to Deep
Rock 50,000 shares of preferred stock which was cancelled.
Thenceforward the debtor was under the complete control and domination of Standard through ownership of the
common stock. Standard's officers, directors, and agents
always constituted a majority of the Board. The remaining directors were operating officers or employes of Deep
Rock who had been employed on behalf of Deep Rock by
Standard or the Byllesby Management Corporation,
hereafter called Management Corporation, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Standard, or were under the complete control of Standard. A majority of Deep Rock's
officers were officers or directors of Standard or of the
Management Corporation, or of both. The officers of
the debtor, who were chosen for their technical or business experience in the oil industry, although allowed some
discretion in the matter of development and operation of
the oil properties, reported to and were always subject
to the direction of officers and directors of Standard. All

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

of the fiscal affairs of the debtor were wholly controlled by
Standard, which was its banker and its only source of
financial aid.
Deep Rock was placed in the hands of a receiver in
March 1933 and the present proceeding under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act was instituted in June 1934. Standard filed a claim as a creditor in the receivership and in
the bankruptcy proceedings, which the receivers and the
trustee resisted. The claim was referred to a master,
before whom trial lasted many months. All the witnesses were officers, directors or agents of Standard, or its
affiliates, and officers of the debtor. All the documentary
evidence came from the books and records of Standard
and Deep Rock. The basis of claim was an open account which embraced transactions between Standard
and Deep Rock from the latter's organization in 1919 to
the receivership in 1933. The account consists of thousands of items of debit and credit. The book entries
were made under the direction of Standard's auditing department, which supervised the auditing department of
Deep Rock, and it is not surprising, therefore, that the
books of the two companies agree with respect to all
items.
.The account contains debits to Deep Rock in excess of
$52,000,000 and credits of approximately $43,000,000
leaving a balance shown to be due Standard of $9,342,642.37, which was the amount of the claim presented.
Cash payments by Standard to Deep Rock, or to others
for its account, as shown by the books, total $31,804,145.04. Management and supervision fees paid or credited to Management Corporation amount to $1,219,034.83. Interest charges by Standard to Deep Rock on
open account balances total $4,819,222.07. Rental
charges upoina lease to Deep Rock of oil properties owned
by a Standard subsidiary but claimed by petitioners to
belong, in equity, to Deep Rock, amount to $4,525.000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Debits by Standard to Deep Rock of the amounts of
dividends declared by Deep Rock to Standard, but not
paid, reached the sum of $3,502,653. In addition there
are hundreds of debits and credits representing other
intercompany items.
Two preferred stockholders were permitted to intervene
in the proceedings and they joined in the trustee's objections to the claim. Many transactions entered in the
account were attacked as fraudulent and it was asserted
that as Standard had made Deep Rock its mere agent
or instrumentality it could not transmute itself from the
status of the proprietor of Deep Rock's business to that
of creditor. The hearings before the master were cl6sed,
but before he made any report, and as a result of negotiations initiated by the reorganization committee organized at the instance of Byllesby, representing approximately eighty-two per cent. of the noteholders and sixty
per cent. of the preferred stockholders of Deep Rock,
Standard proposed a compromise of its claim.
The court referred the proposal to the master who reported favorably. The trustee and his counsel also recommended the approval of the compromise, which involved the allowance of Standard's claim at $5,000,000.
In contemplation of the approval of this compromise a
reorganization of Deep Rock was proposed by the reorganization committee. The plan was based upon the
trustee's appraisal of the debtor's assets at $16,800,000,
of which $7,300,000 represented net current assets, mainly
cash, and the remainder comprised fixed assets valued
at $9,500,000. It provided that upon approval of the
compromise of Standard's claim, the reorganization would
be effected by the formation of a new company which
would take over the debtor's assets and would issue $10,000,000 par value of fifteen year six per cent. income
debentures which were to go to the holders of the debtor's
unpaid notes of like amount; 25,000 shares of $7 cumu-

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

lative preferred stock and 520,000 shares of no par common stock, of which the entire preferred stock aid 390,000 shares of common should go to Standard on account
of its claim, 80,000 shares of common to the noteholders,
and 50,000 shares of common to the preferred stockholders of the old company. Standard's claim to the extent
of $3,500,000 was to stand on a parity with the debtor's
notes.
In the District Court the petitioners insisted that as
the testimony before the master had been closed he
should be required to pass upon the provability of Standard's claim and no reorganization plan should be considered until the validity of the claim had been adjudicated.
The court, without passing on this demand, refused -to
approve the compromise or the plan of reorganization.
Referring to the 50,000 shares of preferred stock outstanding, the judge stated that somebody had received
the money represented by this stock from the public;
that the plan in effect wiped out preferred stockholders
and that he could not approve any plan which had this
effect. In the course of the hearing he stated: "The evidence is overwhelming that Standard ran this company;
they officered it; they capitalized it; it is just a child in
their hands, and if there ever was a case the law is clear
on, it is nothing but an instrumentality, according to the
admissions." He indicated, however, that he would approve a plan according Standard a parity with the noteholders for a smaller proportion of its claim allowing the
balance on a parity with the preferred stockholders, and
suggested that the parties negotiate further in an effort
to reach a fair result.
Months later the reorganization committee presented
an amended plan which, as modified by the Court, contemplated the compromise of Standard's claim at
85,000,000, as before, and the organization of a new company which should issue $10,000,000 par value of deben-

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tures and 520,000 shares of common stock. These securities were to be distributed as follows: The new issue
of debentures was to go to the holders of the old notes.
In lieu of interest on the old notes accumulated to January 1, 1937, totaling $2,300,000, the noteholders were
to receive $1,200,000 in cash and 40,000 shares of common
stock; interest accruing subsequent to January 1, 1937,
was to be paid in cash. The old preferred stockholders
were to receive 100,000 shares of common stock and
Standard was to receive for its claim 380,000 shares of
common stock. Thus there was allocated to Standard
approximately seventy-three per cent., to the old preferred stockholders nineteen per cent., and to the noteholders eight per cent. of the common stock. The District Court permitted the petitioners to intervene and,
over their objections, approved the compromise and the
plan. A majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals examined the record only to the extent of determining that
it was possible that Standard might establish its claim
in whole or in part, and concluded that the District Court
had not exceeded the bounds of reasonable discretion in
granting its approval. One judge thought that the instrumentality rule was applicable; that, under the rule,
Standard had no provable claim; and that it was an abuse
of discretion to approve the compromise and the reorganization plan. We agree with the conclusion of the dissenting judge, but for different reasons.
The petitioners insist that the appraisal upon which
the plan was based was inordinately low and that, for this
reason alone, the plan should not have been approved.
The appraisal was supported by substantial evidence and
the values shown by it were approved and adopted by
the District Court and by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
We accept the concurrent findings of the two courts that
the value of the debtor's assets does not exceed
$17,000,000.

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

As the debentures to be issued to the noteholders, plus
the cash they are to get, total $1i,200,000, the equity
remaining in the property is not over $5,800,000. Stand-

ard's share of this equity will be seventy-three per cent.,
or $4,234,000, and will give it ccmplete control of the
new company. The preferred stockholders will receive
nineteen per cent. or $1,020,000,-a minority interest
without representation on the board of directors. The
question is whether, within the bounds of reason and
fairness, such a plan can be justified. We think the history of Standard's dealings with Deep Rock requires a
negative answer.
Without going into the minuti of the transactions
between the two companies, enough may be stated to expose the reasons for our decision. As has been stated,
Standard came into complete control of Deep Rock in
1921. From the outset Deep Rock was insufficiently capitalized, was topheavy with debt and was in parlous financial condition. Standard so managed its affairs as always
to have a stranglehold upon it.
At organization Deep Rock had cash working capital
of only about $6,600,000 and a mortgage indebtedness of
$12,000,000, the interest and sinking fund requirements
of which were nearly $2,000,000 a year. Its assets at that
time were appraised at about $16,000,000. Shortly thereafter it created a further note issue of $2,000,000. Uponthe
acquirement of Shaffer's interest, in 1921, Standard caused
Deep Rock to issue short term notes of a part of $3,500,000. Deep Rock also, between 1921 and 1924, borrowed
substantial sums on promissory notes some of which were
discounted or subsequently taken up by Standard. So
inadequate was Deep Rock's capitalization that, in the
period from organization to 1926, the balance due on
open account to Standard grew to more than $14,800,000.
Standard determined to place some of this indebtedness of
Deep Rock with the public. In order to do so it had to

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

improve Deep Rock's balance sheet. This it did by purchasing 80,000 shares of preferred stock for which it credited Deep Rock $7,223,333.33. It then bought $7,500,000
face value two year six per cent. notes for $7,273,750,
which were sold to the public through a syndicate organized by Byllesby. Deep Rock's requirements of additional capital persisted and, by the spring of 1928, the
open account and a note which Deep Rock had given
Standard for advances totaled over $11,000,000. As the
two-year notes held by the public were maturing, Standard found it necessary to make a new offering. There
still remained nearly $2,000,000 of first mortgage bonds
outstanding which had to be retired to make an unsecured
note issue salable. Standard, therefore, determined that
Deep Rock's balance sheet must again be put in such shape
that notes could be sold. It accordingly purchased common stock from Deep Rock to the amount of the then
open balance and commuted 90,000 shares of the preferred
stock, which it held, into common. It caused Deep Rock
to issue $10,000,000 of six per cent. notes which were
sold by a syndicate organized by Byllesby and applied
the proceeds to the redemption of the two-year notes and
the outstanding mortgage bonds. This financing, however, merely changed the character of Deep Rock's funded
indebtedness and gave it no new working capital. This
$10,000,000 note issue is the one now outstanding. As
before, Deep Rock's resources were wholly insufficient for
its business and the open account began again to build
up so that between February 1928 and February 1933,
the date of receivership, the account had grown to
$9,342,642.37.
No dividends were paid on preferred stock until 1926.
In that and the following year existing arrearages were
paid by Standard, for Deep Rock's account, in the amount
of $1,435,813. Between 1928 and 1931 Standard advanced Deep Rock, for payment of preferred dividends,
$1,106,706.

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

During the period between 1926 and 1929 Deep Rock
declared dividends on its common stock in a total of
$3,064,685.50. Of these dividends $1,946,672 was charged
by Standard, as owner of common stock, against Deep
Rock in the open account. Standard took new common
stock for dividends to the amount of $1,015,437.50 and
advanced Deep Rock cash to pay dividends to outside
holders of common stock in the sum of $102,576. Against
the total of $2,645,095 advanced by Standard to pay Deep
Rock's dividends, Standard credited payments received
from Deep Rock in the open account in the sum of
$927,500.
These dividends were declared in the face of the fact
that Deep Rock had not the cash available to pay, them
and was, at the time, borrowing in large amounts from
or through Standard.
About 1922 Standard decided that, in view of the unsatisfactory progress of Deep, Rock, earnings must be
increased by the acquisition of additional oil properties
and by the erection of a modern gasoline cracking plant.
Upon recommendation of the operating officials, Standard decided that Deep Rock should purchase the so-called
Bradstreet properties, the price of which was $650,000.
Of this amount $500,000 was advanced by Standard for
account of Deep Rock and $150,000 paid by notes of
Deep Rock. Title to the property was taken in the name
of J. C. Kennedy, an employee of Deep Rock, as trustee.
Kennedy never executed any declaration of trust. Deep
Rock charged against him not only the original purchase
price of the Bradstreet properties but the moneys thereafter expended in their development and in the acquisition of additional leases, amounting, to October 1, 1925,
to $1,033,294.32, much of which represented advances by
Standard.
In 1922 Deep Rock conveyed a small portion of its
land to R. J. Graf, a Standard official, as trustee. Upon
this land Deep Rock erected a new cracking plant at a

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

total cost of $861,297.79. This expenditure was charged
to R. J. Graf, trustee. Again part or all of the sums so
expended were advanced by Standard to Deep Rock and
charged against the latter.
In 1922 Standard had caused a company to be formed
in Delaware known as Deep Rock Oil and Refining Company, intending that it should take title to the Bradstreet properties and the cracking plant. The purpose,
as Standard's officers now state, was to keep these assets
from going into direct ownership of Deep Rock and thus
coming under the lien of its mortgage, so that they could
be used as the basis of additional financing. The records
of the Refining Company show that its capital stock was
issued against the transfer by Kennedy and Graf as
trustees of the Bradstreet and cracking properties but
there are no corporate records of Deep Rock or of Standard concerning any actual transfer and no book entries
of Deep Rock or Standard were made concerning the
supposed transfer until December 1925, as of October 1,
1925. At that time, by direction of one Brahaney, the
chief accounting officer of Standard, entries were made
in Standard's books and those of Deep Rock to evidence
the following transaction: Standard assumed the advances
made by Deep Rock for improvement of the Bradstreet
properties and the cracking plant totaling $1,894,592.11
by crediting Deep Rock with that sum and Refining
Company gave its note to Standard in that amount.
Deep Rock also credited Kennedy, Trustee, with the
$650,000 paid for the Bradstreet properties and Standard
assumed this charge. The entire capital stock of Refining
Company, evidencing equity ownership in the Bradstreet
properties and the cracking plant, was transferred to
Standard. Thus, on the face of things, Standard, through
ownership of the capital stock of Refining Company, owned
and controlled the Bradstreet properties and the cracking
plant and put itself in such a position that, without its
continued co6peration, Deep Rock could not function.

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

As at October 1, 1925, but in fact somewhat later, at
the dictation of Standard's officials, a lease was executed
by the Refining Company to Deep Rock covering the
properties in question whereby Deep Rock should, for
the first three months, pay $75,000 per month and, for
the ensuing four and three-quarters years, pay $50,000 a
month to Refining Company as rental. Such rental as
was paid by Deep Rock was at once declared by Refining
Company as a dividend to Standard and such as was not
paid was debited to Deep Rock by Standard in the open
account. Under this lease, which expired October 1,
1930, Deep Rock paid, or became obligated to Standard
in the total of $3,075,000. During the term of the lease
the operations of the leased properties showed a ne"t loss
of $30,401.40. The lease further provided that Deep
Rock, at its own cost, should make all improvements
and additions to the leased property, should make good
all depreciation and return the property in the same condition as when leased. Additions to the cracking plant
cost Deep Rock, during the term $264,680.51; and there
were charged against Deep Rock in alleged fulfilment of
its obligations under the lease, taxes of Refining Company and other items amounting to $192,415.91. Meantime, in two letters written bankers in connection with
the sale of notes of Deep Rock, the president of Deep
Rock, who was also president of Standard, made statements, and warranted their truth, to the effect that Deep
Rock owned these leased properties.
In spite of the losses entailed upon Deep Rock by the
lease arrangement, Standard dictated its renewal for another term of five years commencing October 1, 1930, and
from that date to the receivership Deep Rock paid, or
was debited by Standard with, $1,450,000, as rental and
suffered, in the operation of the properties leased, a total
loss of $1,584,458.05. During the combined terms of the
two leases Deep Rock was charged in the open account

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

for Standard's subsidiary management corporation in payment of managerial, engineering, and financial advice,
$1,020,000.
Immediately after the last and presently outstanding
note issue was sold to the public Standard's annual report,
for the first time, disclosed its claim to the ownership of
the Refining Company properties. At the date of the
receivership Standard claimed it owned the Refining
Company's properties through stock ownership, and held
its note in. the amount of $1,894,592.11. The trustee in
bankruptcy attacked this transaction as fraudulent and
asserted Deep Rock's ownership of all the property represented by the Refining Company's stock free of any indebtedness to Standard in respect of it.
During the whole period from 1919 to the receivership,
Standard charged Deep Rock interest at the rate of seven
per cent. per annum compounded monthly on the balance
shown by the open account. During the entire period
the Mahagement Corporation charged Deep Rock with
round annual sums for management and supervision of
Deep Rock's affairs which totaled $1,219,034.83, all of
which Standard assumed and charged into the open
account.
It is impossible within the compass of this opinion to
detail the numerous other transactions evidenced by the
books of the two companies many of which were to the
benefit of Standard and to the detriment of Deep Rock.
All of them were accomplished through the complete control and domination of Standard and without the participation of the preferred stockholders who had no voice
or vote in the management of Deep Rock's affairs.
'At no time did the charter confer voting power on preferred
stockholders, except in case and so long only as the company should
be in default in payment of dividends on the preferred for a period of
more than six months. At no time did Standard have less than a
majority of the voting stock outstanding.

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

The suggested basis of compromise of Standard's claim
needs comment. As has been said, when, in 1928, it
became necessary to refinance Deep Rock's note obligations, Standard had to wipe out the enormous and
threatening credit balance in its favor on Deep Rock's
books. It, therefore, took common stock in payment of
the balance. It is said that the compromise figure is
reached by disregarding all transactions prior to February 24, 1928, when Standard commuted its then claim,
starting fresh from that date, .and considering only the
items in the account thenceforward to the date of receivership. It is asserted that, during the period in question, Standard paid out, for account of Deep Rock, in cash,
$6,850,971.50 and credited Deep Rock against these expenditures $4,475,803.59, leaving a balance of cash advanced of $2,375,167.91, as to which there can be no
question; the Bradstreet properties and the cracking
plant are to be returned to Deep Rock's ownership by
transfer of the stock of the Refining Company and its
note now held by Standard. It is asserted that in consideration of this transfer Deep Rock ought to assume
the original cost of the Bradstreet properties advanced
by Standard ($650,000), plus the amount of the disbursements by Deep Rock upon those properties which
Standard had credited to Deep Rock when it took over
the Refining Company stock ($1,894,592.11), less rentals
charged by the Refining Company to Deep Rock prior to
February 24, 1928, which rentals had been absorbed in the
settlement by Standard of February 24, 1928 ($1,475,000).
This leaves Deep Rock owing on the Bradstreet and
cracking plant accounts $1,585,485.18. Simple interest at
five per cent. is to be allowed on each of the two sums so
ascertained. This brings the claim to approximately
$5,000,000. It is said that this computation of the claim
eliminates debits to Deep Rock made since 1928 for the
fees of Management Corporation, for dividends on pre13096e°-:-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

ferred and common stock held by Standard, and for every
other questionable item; and that there can be no just
criticism of the recognition of Standard's claim in the
amount represented by the compromise offer.
Petitioners invoke the so-called instrumentality rule,under which, they say, Deep Rock is to be regarded as a
department or agent of Standard,-to preclude the allowance of Standard's claim in any amount. The rule was
much discussed in the opinion below. It is not, properly
speaking, a rule, but a convenient way of designating the
application in particular circumstances of the broader
equitable principle that the doctrine of corporate entity,
recognized generally and for most purposes, will not be
regarded when so to do would work fraud or injustice.
This principle has been applied in appropriate circumstances to give minority stockholders redress against
wrongful injury to their interests by a majority stockholder.' It must be apparent that the preferred stockholders of Deep Rock assert such injury by Standard as
the basis of their attack on the decree below. We need
not stop to discuss the remedy which would be available
to them if § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act had not been
adopted for we think that, by that section, the court, in
approving a plan, was authorized and required, as a court
of equity, to recognize the rights and the status of the
preferred stockholders arising out of Standard's wrongful
and injurious conduct in the mismanagement of Deep
Rock's affairs.
The section contains a provision new in bankruptcy
legislation with respect to the standing of stockholders in
corporate reorganization. Subsection (b) provides: "A
plan of reorganization . . . (2) may include provisions
modifying or altering the rights of stockholders generally,
or of any class of them, either through the issuance of new
'Compare Southern Pacific Co. v, Bogert, 250 U. S. 483.

-

TAYLOR v. STANDARD GAS CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

securities of any character or otherwise; . . ." In the
present case there remains an equity after satisfaction of
the creditors in which only the preferred stockholders and
Standard can have an interest. Equity requires the
award to preferred stockholders of a superior position in
the reorganized company. The District Judge, we think,
properly exercised his discretion in refusing to approve
the first offer of compromise and concomitant plan because it partly subordinated preferred stockholders to
Standard. The same considerations which moved him to
reject that plan required the rejection of the new offer
and the amended .plan.
Deep Rock finds itself bankrupt not only because of the
enormous sums it owes Standard but because of the
abuses in management due to the paramount interest of
interlocking officers and directors in the preservation of
Standard's position, as at once proprietor and creditor of
Deep Rock. It is impossible to recast Deep Rock's history and experience so as even to approximate what would
be its financial condition at this day had it been adequately capitalized and independently managed and had
its fiscal affairs been conducted with an eye single to its
own interests. In order to remain in undisturbed possession and to prevent the preferred stockholders having
a vote and a voice in the management, Standard has
caused Deep Rock to pay preferred dividends in large
amounts. Whatever may be the fact as to the legality of
such dividends judged by the balance sheets and earnings
statements of Deep Rock, it is evident that they would
not have been paid over a long course of years by a company on the precipice of bankruptcy and in dire need of
cash working capital. This is only one of the aspects in
which Standard's management and control has operated
to the detriment of Deep Rock's financial condition and
ability to function. Others are apparent from what has
been said and from a study of the record. '

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

If a reorganization is effected the amount at which
Standard's claim is allowed is not important if it is to be
represented by stock in the new company, provided the
stock to be awarded it is subordinated to that awarded
preferred stockholders. No plan ought to be approved
which does not accord the preferred stockholders a right
of participation in the equity in the Company's assets
prior to that of Standard, and at least equal voice with
Standard in the management. Anything less would be to
remand them to precisely the status which has inflicted
serious detriment on them in the past.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 360. Argued January 31, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Benefits payable to the insured under a war risk term insurance
contract on account of total and permanent disability do not cease
after 240 monthly installments, but are continued for life if the
disability lasts so long. P. 328.
2. Section 19 of the World War Veterans' Act of 1924, as amended
by Act of July 3, 1930, bars suits on yearly renewable term insurance unless brought "within six years after the right accrued for
which the claim is made," or within one year after the date of the
amendatory Act, whichever is the later date; and provides that
for the purposes of the section "it shall be deemed that the right
accrued on the happening of the contingency on which the claim is
founded." Held, there is but one "right" contemplated by the
section, namely, the right to benefit payments; and but one critical
"contingency" which conditions that right, namely, the occurrence
of permanent total disability or death while the policy remains
in force. Pp. 329, 331.

