OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

306 U. S.

any property purchased in part or wholly out of such
payments.' This more detailed provision was substituted
for that of the earlier Act and was expressly made applicable to payments theretofore made. We think it clear
that the provision of the later Act was intended to clarify
the former rather than to change its import and it was
with that purpose that it was made retroactive. . . . The
provision of the Act of 1935 that the exemption should
not apply to property purchased out of the moneys received from the Government shows the intent to deny
exemption to investments, as was ruled in the Trotter

case."
The questioned judgment must be
Affirmed.

HONOLULU OIL CORP. ET AL. v. HALLIBURTON
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 466.

Argued March 3, 6, 1939.-Decidd April 17, 1939.

Claims 8 to 19 of Simmons' Patent No. 1,930,987 (claims 8 and 18
being method claims, and the others apparatus claims), for a
method and -apparatus for testing productivity of formations encountered in drilling oil and other deep vells by the rotary method,
held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 559, 562.
98 F. 2d 436, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

of certiorari issued on cross-petitions, 305 U. S.
591, to review a decree which, reversing in part a decree
of the District Court, 18 F. Supp. 58, held certain apparatus claims of a patent invalid and certain method claims
valid and infringed.
WRITS

Together with No. 479, Halliburton et al. v. Honolulu Oil Corp.
et al., also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit.

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.
550

551

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. W. Boyken, with whom Mr. A. J. Hill was on
the brief, for Honolulu Oil Corp. et al.
Messrs. Leonard S. Lyon and William H. Davis, with
whom Messrs. Frederick S. Lyon, Henry S. Richmond,
and Ben F. Saye, for Halliburton et al.
MR. JusTIcE. BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit presents questions of validity and infringement of Patent No. 1,930,987 applied for February 10,
1926 by Simmons and, after assignment, issued October
17, 1933, to Halliburton. It is for a method and appara-.
tus for testing productivity of formations encountered in
oil and other deep wells drilled by the rotary method.
The writs were granted, on petition of defendants
Honolulu Oil Corporation, Ltd. et al. and cross-petition of
plaintiffs Halliburton, et al., to review a decree 1 of the
circuit court of appeals for the ninth circuit holding that
the method claims are valid and infringed and to that
extent reversing a decree 2 of the district court of southern California holding that the method and apparatus
claims are invalid.
There was an earlier suit for infringement of the same
patent brought by these plaintiffs in the federal court
for the eastern district of Texas against other defendants.
That court sustained the patent and found it infringed.
The circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit reversed.8
It held the method claims invalid for lack of invention
and that, while the apparatus claims may define a simplifying improvement upon which a combination patent
might rest, the apparatus was not of such character as
to be infringed by the accused tool of defendants.
'98 F. 2d 436.
'18 F. Supp. 58.

'88 F. 2d 270.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

In recent years rotary drilling has been widely used in
sinking deep oil wells. Boring is done by rotation of a
bit attached to a steel pipe which when so used is called
a "drill stem." A smaller bore, called "rat-hole," sometimes precedes, and is reamed out to obtain, the full size
hole. To aid operation, drilling fluid (mud-laden water)
is pumped into the upper end of the drill stem and escapes into the well at high velocity through holes in the
bit. It rises through the space between the pipe and the
earth walls of the well and carries to the surface cuttings
made by the bit. It holds back and seals the penetrated
formations. Hydrostatic pressure of the drilling fluid is
very great and the fluid in a penetrated formation will not
flow into the well unless it is under greater pressure. It
is often desirable to secure a sample of the fluid within
a stratum in the bottom of the well without removing
the drilling fluid. The patent in suit is for a method and
apparatus intended to accomplish that purpose.
The method claims are 8 and 18. Claim 8 is as follows:
"A method of testing the productivity of a formation encountered in a well containing drilling fluid, which includes lowering an empty string of pipe into the well
through the drilling fluid to adjacent the formation, the
pipe carrying a packer ' and having a valved inlet at its
lower end which is closed while the pipe is being lowered,
setting the packer above the formation to seal off the
drilling fluid from the formation, openinF the valved inlet
after the packer is set to permit cognate fluid ' from the
formation to enter the pipe, closing the valved inlet
against the entrance of fluid from the well by movement
of the pipe, raising the pipe so closed to remove an en'Webster's New International Dictionary, 2nd ed., 1935: "packer
A device to pack the space between the wall of a well and the
pipe or between two strings of pipe in a well."
That is, oil, gas, water, or other fluid encountered in formations
penetrated by the bit.

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.
550

553

Opinion of the Court.

trapped sample and the packer from the well." Claim i8
is printed in the margin.6
The apparatus claims in suit are 9 to 17 inclusive and
19. Claim 15 is typical: "Apparatus for testing the pro-,
ductivity of a formation encountered in a well containing
drilling fluid, comprising a single empty string of pipe to
be lowered into the well through the drilling fluid to adjacent the formation to be tested, a packer lowered into
the well by said string of pipe for sealing off the drilling
fluid from the formation to be tested, said packer adapted
to be positively pressed against the walls of the formation
to seal off the same, means at the lower end of said string
of pipe to receive fluid from said formation including an
inlet opening into said pipe below said packer and a valve
structure for controlling the inlet, said valve structure
having a relatively stationary part connected to the
packer and a relatively movable part connected to the
pipe."
Sustaining the claims in suit, the district court for
eastern Texas found: Plaintiffs have a large business under the patent in suit. Prior to the discovery there was
no apparatus or method in use for testing, productivity
of formations in wells containing drilling fluid except by
putting in a casing and removing the fluid. This patent
a"18.

A method of testing the productivity of a formation encoun-

tered in a well containing drilling fluid involving the insertion of only
a single string of pipe into the well to make a test, which includes
lowering a test string into the well through the drilling fluid with a
packer carried by the string and a valve inlet at the lower end of the
string closed against the entrance of fluid from the well, setting the
packer above the formation and opening the valve to permit cognate
fluid from the formation to enter the inlet, closing the valve to prevent the subsequent entrance of fluid from the well through the inlet
and releasing the packer, and raising the test string with the inlet
closed against entrance of fluid from the well to remove an entrapped
sample."

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

first disclosed testing apparatus and method requiring
only a single string of pipe.
In this suit the trial court found: The Franklin Patent
No. 263,330, dated August 29, 1882, anticipates both the
method and apparatus covered by the patent in suit. The
use of a packer is necessarily implied from the language
of the Franklin patent. Without one, that device could
not perform the functions attributed to it. Plainly, it
may be used as a tester; for by its use the contents of
the producing stratum, sealed off from the rest of the well
and unimpeded in its entry into the rat-hole by pressure
of the rotary mud, can be brought undiluted to the surface
by a meclanism almost duplicating that shown by the
patent in suit. A packer to separate one stratum of the
oil well from another is old in the art.
And it also found: The Cox Patent No. 1,347,534,
dated July 27, 1920, and the Edwards Patent No. 1,514,585, dated November 4, 1924, substantially disclose the
method and device claimed in the patent in suit. The
object of these patents, like that of the one in suit, was
to ascertain productivity 'of the stratum being drilled.
There was no actual commercial use of the device disclosed and claimed in the patent in suit. It was impractical, due to difficulty in operating at increased length.
The inventor himself was employed to devise improvements in the valve structure. If alid at all, the patent
must be restricted to its precise form. The method claims
are invalid for want of invention. In important respects,
defendants' devices differ in operation from the device
disclosed and claimed by the patent in suit; they are not
infringements of it.
And that court decreed that as to all claims in suit, the
patent is invalid.
The opinion of the circuit court of appeals for the fifth
circuit considers the questions of invention here involved.
In substance, it says:

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.
550

555

Opinion of the Court.

Method claim 18, taken as typical, assumes familiar
apparatus and claims a monopoly on a new use of the old
apparatus to achieve a result in a better way. That apparatus includes a single string of pipe lowered into the
well, a packer on the string, and a valve at the lower end.
These simple and well-known elements are to be used by
lowering the pipe into the well with the valve closed
against the drilling fluid until the packer is set, then by
opening the valve to admit cognate fluid below the packer,
then by closing the valve so as to prevent the drilling
fluid from entering when the packer is released and the
pipe drawn up with its contents. No novelty and certainly no invention can be claimed for the method.
Packers and pipes with valves in them have long been
in use to get what is below the packer free from what is
above and without removing what is above. Whether a
large quantity from a finished well or a simple sample
from an unfinished well does not materially alter the
method. Water has always been encountered in oil
wells; the drilling fluid is only very muddy water volun-.
tarily put and kept in the well for special reasons. Expansible and removable packers with pipes through them
to reach the oil, gas, or other desired fluid beneath and
rat-hole packers set by the weight of the pipe pressing
them down and removable by simply lifting them are
shown in earlier patents.!
The simplicity of the method in suit along with all its
operations, was reasonably disclosed in the old patent to
Franklin. There is the single pipe with a packer mentioned, but function esteemed so familiar as to need no
emphasis, capable of being lowered into and withdrawn
from a well, with the entrance into or escape from the pipe
'The opinion refers to Stewart, No. 171,589, December 28, 1875;
Stewart, No. 230,080, July 13, 1880; Koch, No. 208,610, October 1,
1878; Bloom, No. 785,933, March 28, 1905; McCready, No. 1,522,197,
January 6, 1925; .and Cooper, No. 1,000,583, August 15, 1911.

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

to be controlled by a valve operated from above while
the pipe is lowered or withdrawn. The importance of
Franklin to this method claim is that he describes the
use of a packer on a single string of pipe with a valve in
the pipe in the very operation of putting them in and
taking them out of the well. Franklin discloses a packer.
Evidently one must be used for without it oil would not
flow through the pipe as desired and there would be no
use of the valve to control the flow. The packer is necessary to prevent escape of gas and to build up pressure
to make the oil flow.
Franklin did not intend to get a sample by raising the
pipe, but intended to keep from getting a sample by
making the valve a leaky one that would let the contents
escape as the pipe is raised. He expected to get what
was below by natural flow just as Simmons, applicant for
the patent in suit, says that is to be preferred. It would
be no invention to substitute a valve that would not leak
for one that was intended to and does leak on withdrawal. It would be no invention to use the Franklin
device to sample a well instead of using it to flow the
well. Especially after the disclosure of Cox and Edwards
in the art of testing by sample taken through the drill
stem with their somewhat complicated devices, recurrence for this new use to what is in substance the simple
apparatus of Franklin ought not to be the foundation
for the broad method claims here put forth. While perhaps not anticipated, they involve no such invention as
entitles to monopoly.
The apparatus claims have a different status. They
propose a new machine to better accomplish the useful
result. They were rewritten to state for the first time
that only a single string of pipe is to be used. In view
of the oil well art, the omission of the Edwards second
pipe to maintain circulation involves no such invention
as to give a monopoly -of all single string testers as is here

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.
550

557

Opinion of the Court.

claimed. It may 'be a simplifying improvement on which
to rest a combination patent but it is not a basic and
pioneer invention. Positive pressure of the packer
against the well walls, also written into the claims, appears to refer to the weight of the pipe on the rat-hole
packer, but that is the way a rat-hole packer has always
worked. The claims in suit can not be sustained in all
their breadth but must be limited to the form of the
apparatus disclosed.
The circuit court of appeals for the ninth circuit, upon
considerations in substance the same as those suggested in
the opinion of the circuit court of appeals for the fifth
circuit, held that the apparatus claims of the patent in
suit were anticipated, by the patent to Franklin. But,
holding that invalidity of apparatus claims does not negative discovery of method or process, that court in
substance said:
The Franklin patent directs the pipe to be lowered into
the well and the valve to be operated by movement of
the pipe so as to control the flow of oil. It teaches that
the tube can be kept empty by closing the valve while it
is being lowered and. that it should be closed prior to its
removal. The device is to be used in a flowing well which,
of course, contains no drilling fluid. At the time of that
patent the rotary method of drilling was unknown. Its
purposes were to provide a method of keeping the tubing
closed while being lowered into or removed from the well
and means of temporarily closing the tubing to allow the
gas in the well to obtain sufficient head so that the well
would flow. There is disclosed no use for taking entrapped samples from unfinished wells containing drilling
fluid. There is no suggestion of this last step of the patented process; the device was evidently intended to be
permanently attached to the tubing of the well.
Simmons, applicant for the patent in suit, faced the
problem of providing a method of testing an oil well with-

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

out removing hydrostatic pressure necessary for support
of the formation in question. He met it by a method operating so quickly that the suspension of the circulation
of drilling fluid was not substantially greater than that
frequently necessary in drilling operations. Franklin
neither considered nor solved this problem.
The Simmons discovery constituted invention. It disclosed what had not been thought possible in the art, that
is, that such a device could be set in a well containing
drilling fluid not in circulation long enough to make the
test; 'it substituted a much better process than had been
in use. The discovery was that a well could be safely
tested by lowering a single string of pipe equipped With a
valve packer and strainer and that it was not necessary
to set the casing permanently and bail out the drilling
fluid; or, if a test were attempted without permanently
setting the casing, it was not necessary to provide an
extra string of pipe for circulation of the drilling fluid.
1. Plaintiffs, insisting that the apparatus claims are not
invalid for lack of invention, emphasize the fact that the
Franklin apparatus was intended to be used to govern
flow of a finished well and not for testing productivity
of formations encountered in drilling; they maintain that
it is not adapted to the last mentioned use without significant changes and they suggest that even a very slight
change is enough to give patentability to the changed apparatus if the change is foreign to the purposes of the
Franklin apparatus and dictated by those of the apparatus in suit. They say that the essential features of the
latter, not found in the Frailklin patent, are a packer so
related to the inlet that it may seal off the formation to
be tested from the hydrostatic pressure of the mud-laden
fluid standing in the well during the testing operation, a
valve so positioned with respect to the packer inlet that
when closed it will entrap the entire flow of the cognate
fluid to result from natural pressure in the formation

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.
550

559

Opinion of the Court.

when relieved from pressure of the drilling fluid, and so
constructed that it will hold and bring to the surface the
entrapped sample uncontaminated and undiminished.
The specification of Franklin's patent states that his
invention consists in providing a device which can be
connected with the tubing of the well above a "packer."
On ample evidence, the trial and appellate courts found
that packers to separate the producing strata from the
otaers were old in the art, and that the use of a packer,
substantially as the same exists today, is necessarily implied from the language of the Franklin patent. Detailed description by, Franklin was unnecessary. Loom
Co. v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, 586.
Franklin's specification states that the device containing the valve should be "preferably . . . above the
packer" and that "it may be placed deep in the well and
thereby obtain considerable advantage." This indicates
a valve just above the packer as is true with respect to the
patent in suit. But even assuming the contrary, in view
of prior art as disclosed by the Cox and Edwards patents,
the location of the valve as indicated by the patent in
suit is mere mechanical contrivance and not invention.
Hollister v. Benedict & Burnham MJg. Co., 113 U. S.
59, 73.
It is assumed, as claimed by plaintiffs, that the valve
of the Franklin device was made so that it would let the
contents of the pipe escape while it was being taken out
of the well. But by mere substitution of a tight valve for
a leaky one the device would be made to hold and bring
up samples from the formation below the packer. The
difference between the Franklin valve, leaking while being drawn from the well, and that of the patent in suit,
purposely made to close tightly, is not an essential or
patentable element.
In wells where there exists natural pressure in the formation below the packer sufficient to force the fluid to

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of tre Court.

306 U. S.

the surface, either device, the Franklin or the one in suit,
may be used to control flow of the well and so disclose the
productivity of that stratum. It is equally plain that, in
the absence of adequate pressure to carry to the surface,
the Franklin device with a valve effectively closed would,
if operated in accordance with the method claimed in the
patent in suit, similarly receive, hold, and bring to the
surface samples from the formation.
The apparatus claims are invalid.
2. As used in the statute,' "useful art" includes method
which in this case is used interchangeably with process;
"machine" includes apparatus.9 Having held the apparatus not new, we come to the question whether claims 8
and 18 cover any new method or process.10 These claims
relate to "a method of testing." The claims relating to
the device call it an "apparatus for testing." In the
method claims 1 and in some relating to apparatus, 2 the
phrases just quoted are followed by identical words:
"the productivity of a formation encountered in a well
containing drilling fluid." 1 The elements to be employed in taking the steps constituting the method are
essentially the same as those constituting the apparatus.
The process consists of "lowering an empty string of
pipe," "setting the packer," "opening the valved inlet,"
"closing the valved inlet," "raising the pipe so closed to
remove an entrapped sample and the packer from the
well." The result to be achieved by the method claimed
to be new is precisely the same as that for the attainment
of which the apparatus found to be old was contrived.
835 U. S. C. ยง 31.

'Coming v. Burden, 15 How. 252, 267.
"See Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68, 77, 79.
Expanded Metal Co. v. Bradford, 214 U. S. 366, 383. Tilghman v.
Proctor, 102 U. S. 707.
'Claims 8 'and 18.
11Claims

13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19.

UFootnote

on opposite page.

HONOLULU OIL CORP. v. HALLIBURTON.

561

Opinion of the Court.

13 To show identical subject matter in the two sets of claims, defendants present an analysis of method claim 18 and apparatus claim
19 in parallel arrangement as follows:

A method of testing the productivity of a formation encountered in a well containing
drilling fluid involving

An apparatus for testing the
productivity of a formation in a
well containing drilling fluid,
comprising

the insertion of only a single
string of pipe into the well to
make a test,

a string of pipe

which includes lowering'a test
string into the well through the
drilling fluid

[a string of pipe] to be lowered
into the well through the drilling
fluid to adjacent the formation
. . . and to be raised out of the
well to remove the entrapped
sample, . . .
a packer carried by the pipe as
the pipe is lowered into the well
. . . an inlet to the pipe communicating with the well below
the point at which the packer
seals off the well,
[the packer is] adapted to be
seated by manipulation of the
pipe to seal off the well above the
formation, said packer adapted
to be positively pressed against
the walls of the formation to seal
off the same,
and means for controlling the inlet to permit fluid from the formation to enter the pipe while
the packer is set and to prevent
fluid from entering the pipe after
the packer is released and the
pipe is being raised out of the
well [to remove the entrapped
sample].

with a packer carried by the
string and a valve inlet at the
lower end of the string closed
against the entrance of fluid from
the well,
setting the packer above
formation.. . .

the

closing the valve to prevent the
subsequent entrance of fluid from
the well through the inlet and
releasing the packer, and raising
the test string with the inlet
closed against entrance of fluid
from the well to remove an entrapped sample.
133096'-39-

36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

As already shown the Franklin apparatus served to
bring out uncontaminated the oil yielded by the stratum
below the packer. The method practiced by its use includes in the same order all the steps, except the last one,
that constitute the process in question. That step is the
raising of the pipe containing the entrapped sample. As
the Franklin device was to control flow and not to test
productivity of strata reached before completion of wells,
the final movement to be taken in the process under consideration was not involved or described. But that movement is substantially disclosed by the Cox and Edwards
patents. No discussion, in addition .to the convincing
exposition by the circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit, is required to show that the method claimed in suit
was clearly indicated in the prior art. It cannot reasonably be held that anything more than mechanical skill
of men familiar with known methods of obtaining oil from
formations below packers would be required to suggest the
raising of the pipe containing fluid, entrapped and held
by effective closing of the valve.
The method claims are invalid.
The part of the decree of the circuit court of appeals
brought up by defendants' petition is reversed. The part
brought up by plaintiffs' petition is affirmed. The decree
of the district court is affirmed.
No. 466, reversed.
No. 479, affirmed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

