PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
466

Syllabus.

similarly free have been the States to tax salaries of

officers and employees of the United States. The compensation for past as well as for future service to be taxed
and the rates prescribed in the exertion of the newly
disclosed power depend on legislative discretion not subject to judicial revision. Futile indeed are the vague intimations that this Court may protect against excessive or
destructive taxation. Where the power to tax exists, legislatures may exert it to destroy, to discourage, to protect
or exclusively for the purpose of raising revenue See
e. g. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 53 et seq.; Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, 292 U. S. "40, 44 et seq.; Cincinnati Soap Co.
v. United States, 301 U. S. 308.
Appraisal of lurking or apparent implications of the
Court's opinion can serve no useful end for, should occasion arise, they may be ignored or given direction differing
from that at first seemingly intended. But safely it may
be said that presently marked for destruction is the doctrine of reciprocal immunity that by recent decisions here
has been so much impaired.
PACIFIC EMPLOYERS INSURANCE CO. v. INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMM'N

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 158. Argued December 12, 1938.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. A State is not bound, apart from the compulsion of the full
faith and credit clause, to enforce the laws of another State; nor
by its own statute may it determine the choice of law to be
applied in the other. P. 500.
2. An employee of a Massachusetts corporation, resident in Massachusetts and regularly employed in that State under a contract of
employment entered into there, was injured in the course of his
employment while temporarily in California. The Massachusetts
workmen's compensation statute purported to give an exclusive

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

remedy, even though the injury was suffered outside of the State.
Held, the courts of California were not bound by the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution to apply, contrary
to the policy of their State, the Massachusetts statute, or to recognize it as a defense to a claim of the employee under the workmen's
compensation statute of California, which, because the injury was
suffered in the course of employment there, also purported to be
applicable and to give an exclusive remedy. Bradford Electric
Light Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, distinguished. P. 501.
That the application of the Massachusetts statute in this case
would be obnoxious to the policy of California sufficiently appears:
Not only does the California statute conflict with the Massachusetts
statute in respect of its application to employees injured in California, but it also expressly provides that "No contract, rule or
regulation shall exempt the employer from liability for the compensation fixed by this Act"; and further, the supreme court of
California in its opinion in this case has declared it to be the
policy of the State, as expressed in its constitution and compensation Act, to apply its own provisions for compensation, to the
exclusion of all others, and holds that "It would be obnoxious to
that policy to deny persons who have been injured in this State
the right to apply for compensation when to do so might require
physicians and hospitals to go to another State to collect charges
for medical care and treatment given to such persons."
3. The nature of the federal union of States, to which are reserved
some of the attributes of sovereignty, precludes resort to the full
faith and credit clause as a means for compelling a State to substitute the statutes of other States for its own statutes dealing
with a subject matter concerning which it is competent to legislate.
P. 501.
4. The full faith and credit clause does not require a State to substitute for its own statute, applicable to persons and events within
it, the conflicting statute of another State, even though that
statute is of controlling force in the courts of the State of its
enactment with respect to the same persons and events,-at least
in the absence of action by Congress prescribing the extra-state
effect to be given state statutes. P. 502.
5. This Court must determine for itself how far the full faith and
credit clause compels the qualification or denial of rights asserted
under the laws of one State, that of the forum, by the statute of
another State. P. 502.
10 Cal. 2d 567; 75 P, 2d 1058, affirmed.

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
493
CERTIORARI,

Argument for Petitioner.

305 U. S. 563, to review the affirmance of

a judgment denying a petition of the insurer of an employer to set aside an award of compensation made to
an employee by the state commission.
Mr. W. N. Mullen, with whom Mr. George C. Faulkner
was on the brief, for petitioner.
The award under the California Workmen's Compensation Act and the refusal to recognize the Massachusetts
statute as a defense in the California proceedings, is contrary to the full faith and credit clause.
The courts of one State must give full faith and credit
to a statute of a second State which is set up as a defense
to an action brought in the first State. Bradford Electric
Light Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145; Modern Woodmen
v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken,
266 U. S. 389; Supreme Council v. Green, 237 U. S. 531;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542;
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55. The
Bradford Light case controls the present case.
Where the statute of a foreign state constitutes a substantive defense to an action, a conflict between such
statute and the statute of the forum can not be resolved
by weighing the governmental interests of each jurisdiction. Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident
Comm'n, 294 U. S. 532.
There is no adequate basis for the conclusion of the
California court that to deny recovery would be obnoxious
to the public policy of that State.
The California court erred in stating that because of
public policy it had a greater governmental interest than
Massachusetts.
The imposition of a lien for medical services presupposes the right and existence of jurisdiction to make an
award to the employee. It is illogical to say that the
jurisdiction of a tribunal, in any case, can be determined

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Respondents.

306 U. S.

by a fact which can have no existence until after the
determination or creation of the jurisdiction of said
tribunal.
The California court also has ignored the fact that
the physicians and hospitals who rendered services to
the employee in that State would not be without remedy
in California if the Commission were held to have no
jurisdiction to make an award herein. They would have
a cause of action based in contract which could be prosecuted in California courts. It would be unnecessary for
them to go to a foreign jurisdiction for recovery.
Moreover, had the compensation claim been brought
in Massachusetts, it would have been very little inconvenience for the hospitals and physicians to present their
claims in that jurisdiction.
The decision of the California court is not sound economically. It is economically important that an employer be able to look to the law of the State of his
residence, where his business is principally conducted,
where the contract of employment is made, and where
it is 'to be principally performed, and do so with the
assurance that such law will be given full faith and
credit by other States. Otherwise, he must carry workmen's compensation insurance in every State in which,
or through which, any employee may travel. This would
materially increase the amount of insurance premiums
such an employer would have to pay. An inevitable increase in producers' and consumers' costs would result.
These considerations give great weight to the interest of
Massachusetts in the present case. 23 Cal. Law Rev.
381, 389; 46 Harv. L. Rev. 291, 297.
Mr. Frank J. Creede for Kenneth Tator, respondent.
Mr. Everett A. Corten for the Industrial Accident Commission of California, respondent.

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
493

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether the full faith and credit which
the Constitution requires to be given to a Massachusetts
workmen's compensation statute precludes California
from applying its own workmen's compensation act in the
case of an injury suffered by a Massachusetts employee of
a Massachusetts employer while in California in the
course of his employment.
Petitioner, an insurance carrier, under the California
Workmen's Compensation, Insurance and Safety Act, for
the Pacific Coast braAch of the employer, Dewey & Almy
Chemical Company, a Massachusetts corporation, filed
its petition in the California District Court of Appeal
to set aside an award of compensation to an employee by
the California Industrial Accident Commission. The
grounds of the petition were, among others, that the employee, because he was regularly employed at the head
office of the corporation in Massachusetts and was temporarily in California on the business of the employer
when injured there, was subject to the workmen's compensation law of Massachusetts, and that the California
Commission, in applying the California Act and in refusing to recognize the Massachusetts statute as a defense, had denied to the latter the full faith and credit
to which it was entitled under Article IV, § 1 of the
Constitution. The order of the District Court of Appeal
denying the petition was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of California. 10 Cal. 2d 567; 75 P. 2d 1058. We granted
certiorari, 305 U. S. 563, the question presented being of
public importance.
The injured employee, a resident of Massachusetts,
was regularly employed there under written contract in
the laboratories of the Dewey & Almy Chemical Company as a chemical engineer and research chemist. In
133096'

-

--32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

September, 1935, in the usual course of his employment
he was sent by his employer to its branch factory in
California, to act temporarily as technical adviser in the
effort to improve the quality of one of the employer's
products manufactured there. Upon completion of the
-assignment he expected to return to the employer's
Massachusetts place of business, and while in California
he remained subject to the general direction and control
of the employer's Massachusetts office, from which his
compensation was paid.
He instituted the present proceeding before the California Commission for the award of compensation under
the California Act for injuries received in the course of
his employment in that state, naming petitioner as insurance carrier under that Act; the Hartford Accident &
Indemnity Company, as insurer under the Massachusetts
Act, was made a party. The California Commission directed petitioner to pay the compensation prescribed by
the California Act, including the amounts of lien claims
filed in the proceeding for medical, hospital and nursing
services and certain further amounts necessary for such
services in the future.
By the applicable Massachusetts statute, §§ 24, 26, c.
152, Mass. Gen. Laws (Ter. Ed. 1932), an employee of
a person insured under the Act, as was the employer in
this case, is deemed to waive his "right of action at common law or under the law of any other jurisdiction" to
recover for personal injuries unless he shall have given
appropriate notice to the employer in writing that he
elects to retain such rights. Section 26 directs that without the notice his right to recover be restricted to the
compensation provided by the Act for injuries received
in the course of his employment, "whether within or
without the commonwealth." See McLaughlin's Case,
274 Mass. 217; 174 N. E. 338; Migues' Case, 281 Mass.
373: 183 N. E 847.

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
493

Opinion of the Court.

Article XX, § 21 of the California Constitution vests
the legislature with plenary power "to create and enforce
a complete system of workmen's compensation," including
"adequate provisions for the comfort, health and safety
and general welfare" of employees injured in the course
of their employment, and their dependents, and to make
"full provision for such medical, surgical, hospital and
other remedial treatment as is requisite to cure and relieve
from the effects of such injury." Sections 6, 9 and 29 of
the California Workmen's Compensation, Insurance and
Safety Act, Cal. Gen. Laws (Deering 1931) Act 4749,
provide for compensation from insurance procured by
the employer, in prescribed amounts, for injuries received
by his employees in the course of their employment without regard to negligence and for the costs of medical
attendance occasioned by the injuries. Section 27 (a)
provides that "No contract, rule, or regulation shall exempt the employer from liability for the compensation
fixed by this act." And § 58 provides that the commission shall have jurisdiction over claims for compensation
for injuries suffered outside the state when the employee's
contract of hire was entered into within the state. See
Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 184
Cal. 26; 192 P. 1021. Both statutes are compensation
acts, substituted for the common law remedy for negligence. The California Act is compulsory. § 6 (a). The
Massachusetts Act is similarly effective unless the employee gives notice not to be bound by it, which in this
case he did not do. § 24.
Petitioner, which as insurance carrier has assumed the
liability of the employer under the California Act, relies
on the provisions of the Massachusetts Act that the compensation shall be that prescribed for injuries suffered
in the course of the employment, whether within or
without the state. It insists that since the contract of
employment was entered into in Massachusetts and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

employee consented to be bound by the Massachusetts
Act, that, and not the California statute, fixes the employee's right to compensation whether the injuries were
received within or without the state, and that the Massachusetts statute is constitutionally entitled to full faith
and credit in the courts of Califory.a.
We may assume that these provisions are controlling
upon the parties in Massachusetts, and that since they
are applicable to a Massachusetts contract of employment between a Massachusetts employer and employee,
they do not infringe due process. Bradford Electric Light
Co. v. Clapper, 286 U. S. 145, 156, et seq. Similarly the
constitutionality of the provisions of the California statute awarding compensation for injuries to an employee
occurring within its borders, and for injuries as well
occurring elsewhere, when the contract of employment
was entered into within the state, is not open to question.
Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294
U. S. 532; New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219.
While in the circumstances now presented, either state,
if its system for administering workmen's compensation
permitted, would be free to adopt and enforce the remedy
provided by the statute of the other, here each has provided for itself an exclusive remedy for a liability which
it was constitutionally authorized to impose. But neither
is bound, apart from the compulsion of the full faith and
credit clause, to enforce the laws of the other, Milwaukee
County v. White Co., 296 U. S. 268, 272; and the law of
neither can by its own force determine the choice of
law to be applied in the other. Cf. Ohio v. Chattanooga
Boiler & Tank Co., 289 U. S. 439. Petitioner, pointing
to the conflict between the provisions of the two statutes,
insists that the full faith and credit clause requires recognition of the Massachusetts statute as providing the ex-

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
493

Opinion of the Court.

elusive remedy and as a defense to any proceeding for the
award of compensation under the California Act. The
Supreme Court of California has recognized the conflict
and resolved it by holding that the full faith and credit
clause does not deny to the courts of California the right
to apply its own statute awarding compensation for an
injury suffered by an employee within the state.
To the extent that California is required to give full
faith and credit to the conflicting Massachusetts statute
it must be denied the right to apply in its own courts its
own statute, constitutionally enacted in pursuance of its
policy to provide compensation for employees injured in
their employment within the state. It must withhold the
remedy given by its own statute to its residents by way
of compensation for medical, hospital and nursing services
rendered to the injured employee, and it must remit him
to Massachusetts to secure the administrative remedy.
which that state has provided. We cannot say that the
full faith and credit clause goes so far.
While the purpose of that provision was to preserve
rights acquired or confirmed under the public acts and
judicial proceedings of one state by requiring recognition
of their validity in other states, the very nature of the
federal union of states, to which are reserved some of the
attributes of sovereignty, precludes resort to the full faith
and credit clause as the means for compelling a state to
substitute the statutes of other states for its own statutes
dealing with a subject matter concerning which it is competent to legislate. As was pointed out in Alaska Packers
Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comrn'n, supra, 547: "A
rigid and literal enforcement of the full faith and credit
clause, without regard to the statute of the forum, would
lead to the absurd result that, wherever the conflict
arises, the statute of each state must be enforced in the
courts of the other, but cannot be in its own." And in
cases like the present. it would create an impasse which

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

would often leave the employee remediless. Full faith
and credit would deny to California the right to apply its
own remedy, and its administrative machinery may well
not be adapted to giving the remedy afforded by Massachusetts. Similarly, the full faith and credit demanded
for the California Act would deny to Massachusetts the
right to apply its own remedy, and its Department of
Industrial Accidents may well be without statutory authority to afford the remedy provided by the California
statute.
It has often been recognized by this Court that there
are some limitations upon the extent to which a state
may be required by the full faith and credit clause to enforce even the judgment of another state in contravention
of its own statutes or policy. See Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; Milwaukee
County v. White Co., supra, 273 et seq.; see also Clarke
v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 186; Olmsted v. Olmsted, 216 U. S.
386; Hood v. McGehee, 237 U. S. 611; cf. Gasquet v. Fenner, 247 U. S. 16. And in the case of statutes, the extrastate effect of which Congress has not prescribed, as it may
under the constitutional provision, we think the conclusion is unavoidable that the full faith and credit clause
does not require one state to substitute for its own statute, applicable to persons and events within it, the conflicting statute of another state, even though that statute
is of controlling force in the courts of the state of its enactment with respect to the same persons and events.
This Court must determine for itself how far the full
faith and credit clause compels the qualification or denial
of rights asserted under the laws of one state, that of
the forum, by the statute of another state. See Alaska
Packers Assn. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra, 547.
But there would seem to be little room for the exercise
of that function when the statute of the forum is the

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
493

Opinion of the Court.

expression of domestic policy, in terms declared to be
exclusive in its application to persons and events within
the state. Although Massachusetts has an interest in
safeguarding the compensation of Massachusetts employees while temporarily abroad in the course of their
employment, and may adopt that policy for itself, that
could hardly be thought to support an application of the
full faith and credit clause which would override the constitutional authority of another state to legislate for the
bodily safety and economic protection of employees injured within it. Few matters could be deemed more appropriately the concern of the state in which the injury
occurs or more completely within its power. Considerations of less weight led to the conclusion, in Alaska
Packers Assn. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra, that
the full faith and credit clause did not require California
to give effect to the Alaska Compensation Act in preference to its own. There this Court sustained the award
by California of the compensation provided by its own
statute for employees where the contract of employment
was made within the state, although the injury occurred
in Alaska, whose statute also provided compensation for
the injury. Decision was rested explicitly upon the
grounds that the full faith and credit exacted for the
statute of one state does not necessarily preclude another
state from enforcing in its own courts its own conflicting
statute having no extra-territorial operation forbidden by
the Fourteenth Amendment, and that no persuasive reason was shown for denying that right.
Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, supra, on which
petitioner relics, fully recognized this limitation on the
full faith and credit clause. It was there held that a
federal court in New Hampshire, in a suit brought against
a Vermont employer by his Vermont employee to recover
for an injury suffered in the course of his employment
while temporarily in New Hampshire, was bound to apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

the Vermont Compensation Act rather than the provision of the New Hampshire Compensation Act which
permitted the employee, at his election, to enforce his
common law remedy. But the Court was careful to point
out that there was nothing in the New Hampshire statute,
the decisions of its courts, or in the circumstances of the
case, to suggest that reliance on the provisions of the
Vermont statute, as a defense to the New Hampshire suit,
was obnoxious to the policy of New Hampshire. The
Clapper case cannot be said to have decided more than
that a state statute applicable to employer and employee
within the state, which by its terms provides compensation for the employee if he is injured in the course of his
employment while temporarily in another state, will be
given full faith and credit in the latter when not obnoxious to its policy. See Bradford Electric Light Co. v.
Clapper, supra, 161.
Here, California legislation not only conflicts with that
of Massachusetts providing compensation for the Massachusetts employee if injured within the state of California, but it expressly provides, for the guidance of its
own commission and courts, that "No contract, rule or
regulation shall exempt the employer from liability for
the compensation fixed by this Act." The Supreme
Court of California has declared in its opinion in this case
that it is the policy of the state, as expressed in its Constitution and Compensation Act, to apply its own provisions for compensation, to the exclusion of all others,
and that "It would be obnoxious to that policy to deny
persons who have been injured in this state the right to
apply for compensation when to do so might require
physicians and hospitals to go to another state to collect
charges for medical care and treatment given to such
persons."
Full faith and credit does not here enable one state to
legislate for the other or to project its laws across state

BONET v. YABUCOA SUGAR CO.
Counsel for Parties.

493

lines so as to preclude the other from prescribing for itself
the legal consequences of acts within it.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration of decision of this case.

BONET, TREASURER OF PUERTO RICO, v.
YABUCOA SUGAR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 498.

Argued March 7, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. A suit against the Treasurer of Puerto Rico to enforce a tax
refund can not be maintained unless authorized by Puerto Rican
law. Puerto Rico can not be sued without its consent. P. 506.
2. The legislature of Puerto Rico is not obliged to provide a judicial
remedy for tax refunds. Id.
3. Under the laws of Puerto Rico, as construed by the Island courts,
suit can not be maintained against the territorial Treasurer to
collect from him an amount voluntarily paid as an income tax
which the Treasurer has declined to refund P. 507.
4. This Court follows the construction of the local tax laws adopted
by the courts of Puerto Rico unless clearly erroneous. P. 509.
98 F. 2d 398, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 622, to review a judgment which
reversed a decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico
denying the jurisdiction of the local courts over an action
against the territorial Treasurer to recover money voluntarily paid as a tax. See 50 D. P. R. 962; 51 id. 135.
Mr. William Cattron Rigby, with whom Messrs. B.

Fernandez Garcia, Attorney General of Puerto Rico, and
Nathan R. Margold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Earle T. Fiddler, with whom Mr. Andrew Kirkpat-

rick was on the brief, for respondent.

