444

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

innocuous without delay by prescribed methods. All this
is part of a workable scheme to secure prompt removal
of decaying carcasses and thus protect against obvious
evils.
We can find no substantial basis for the charge of discrimination against legitimate interstate commerce. That
any real burden upon commerce which the State is not
free to inhibit will result from the challenged statute
seems impossible.
There is no suggestion of conflict with a federal enactment. The mere power of the Federal Government to regulate interstate commerce does not disable the States from
adopting reasonable measures designed to secure the
health and comfort of their people. The statute under
consideration is an effort to discharge an obligation to
the public; the means adopted we think are clearly appropriate to this lawful end.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.

SMITH ET AL., CO-PARTNERS, TRADING AS H. J.
BAKER & BRO. v. THE FERNCLIFF ET AL..
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 548. Argued March 2, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
1. Provision in a marine bill of lading that carrier's liability for
damage to goods on delivery shall be adjusted and settled on
invoice cost plus disbursements, held valid. Ansaldo San Giorgio I
v. Rheinstrom Bros. Co., 294 U. S. 494, distinguished. P. 448.
2. The damages, as measured by this clause, are computed by deducting the value of the damaged goods in their damaged condition at the time and place of delivery from the invoice cost
valuation as fixed by such clause, not by applying to the invoice
value the percentage of loss of the damaged goods, based on

difference between sound value and damaged value. P. 450.

SMITH v. THE FERNCLIFF.
444

Opinion of the Court.

RESPONSE to questions propounded by certificate of
the court below in an admiralty case, on appeal to that
court from the District Court. 22 F. Supp. 728, 741742.

Mr. Charles R. Hickox, with whom Mr. George W.
Whip was on the brief, for Smith et al.
Messrs. George Whitefield Betts, Jr. and George Forbes,
with whom Mr. Hen'ry L. Wortche was on the brief, for
The Ferncliff et al.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, has
certified to us the following Statement of Facts and Questions (U. S. C. Title 28, § 346)"STATEMENT OF

FAcTS.

"This was a suit in admiralty to recover damages to
shipments of fish meal made in March 1936 [on Motorship Ferncliff] from points in Japan to consignees in
Norfolk, Va. and Baltimore, Md. under bills of lading
containing the following provision:
"' All claims for which the ship and or carrier may be
liable shall be adjusted and settled on the value declared
by the shipper or on the net invoice cost plus disbursements, whichever shall be the least. The carrier shall
not be liable for any profit or consequential or special
damages, and shall have the option of replacing any lost
or damaged goods.'
"No lower rate was offered the shipper for the service
rendered because of this provision; and no choice of rates
with and without the valuation clause was afforded him.
[The record shows that no value was declared by the shipper on the shipment in question.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

"The invoice cost of the fish meal was $32.50 per ton.
The value of the damaged portion of the shipment upon
arrival at the ports of destination was $25.00 per ton.
The market value of undamaged fish meal at the ports
of destination at the time of the arrival of the shipment
was $36.00 per ton.
"The court below held the valuation clause valid and
computed the damages on the basis of the difference between the invoice cost ($32.50 per ton) and the value of
the damaged fish meal at the time and place of delivery
($25.00 per ton).
"Appellants, while not contending before us that the
clause quoted is absolutely invalid, contend that in view
of the decision in Ansaldo San Giorgio v. Rheinstrom
Bros. Co., 294 U. S. 494, its validity can be sustained only
if it be construed as requiring that, in estimating damages,
the percentage of loss on the damaged shipment be ascertained and applied to the invoice cost. Under this contention, the loss here would be determined, not by deducting the value upon arrival ($25.00 per ton) from the
invoice cost ($32.50 per ton), but by ascertaining the proportion of the invoice cost ($32.50) corresponding to the
proportion which the actual loss ($36.00-$25.00 =
$11.00) bears to sound value ($36.00), i. e. by faking
"/6 of $32.50. It is pointed out that this is the method
used in calculating the amount of loss under a valued
marine insurance policy on cargo and also the method
prescribed by rule 16 of the York-Antwerp rules for a
general average adjustment. And it was stated at the
bar of the court by counsel for appellant that the same
method has been generally employed in estimating cargo
damage since the decision in Ansaldo San Giorgio v.
Rheinstrom Bros. Co., supra. [At the time this statement of counsel was made it was challenged by opposing
counsel and nothing appears in the record with regard
thereto.]

SMITH v. THE FERNCLIFF.
444

Opinion of the Court.

"In the absence of the decision in the Ansaldo San
Giorgio case, we should affirm the decision below on the
authority of Gulf, C. & S. F. Rj. Co. v. Texas Packing Co.,
244 U. S. 31, 37; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Olivit Bros., 243
U. S. 574, 586; Hart v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 112 U. S. 33 1;
The Californian,2 Cir., 82 F. 2d 283; Duplan Silk Co. v.
Lehigh Vdlley R. Co., 2 Cir., 223 F. 600; and The Oneida,
2 Cir., 128 F. 687. In view of that decision, however, we
are divided and in doubt as to the validity of such a clause
as is here involved and as to the method which should be
employed in computing damages under it. Notwithstanding the passage of the Carriage of Goods by Sea
Act of April 16, 1936, c. 229, §4, 49 Stat. 1210, 46 U. S. C.
1304 (5), the question as to the correct method of. computing damages under a valuation clause is deemed an
important one, as to which an authoritative decision
would seem desirable. We, therefore, respectfully certify
to the Supreme Court of the United States the following
questions of law as indispensable to a proper decision of
this case:
"QUESTIONS.

"1' Igan invoice cost valuation clause, such as that here
involved, inserted in a marine bill of lading without offering a choice of rates to a shipper, valid and binding upon
the parties?
"2. If so, should damages to a shipment be ascertained,
under such a valuation clause, by deducting the valueof
the damaged goods in their damaged condition at the
time and place of delivery from the invoice cost valuation as fixed by such clause?
"3. Or, should the percentage of loss of the damaged
goods, based on difference between sound value and damaged value, be ascertained and the percentage applied to
the invoice value for the purpose of ascertaining the
damage?"

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Ansaldo San Giorgio I v. Rheinstrom Bros. Co., 294
U. S. 494, considered and held invalid, because against
sound public policy, the following limitation agreement
in a maritime bill of lading: "In the event of claims for
loss, damage or short delivery the same shall be adjusted
on the basis of the invoice value of the entire shipment
adding expenses necessarily incurred." The oiinion did
not adjudicate the validity or effect of a clause, such as
the one now before us, where the parties adopted "an
agreed value as a measure of recovery for loss or damage
to goods not delivered by the carrier or damaged in transit," and it does not control the questions here
involved.
The clause in question prescribes a measure of recovery
rather than limits the amount which may be recovered
when loss or damage occurs. For a long time, in the absence of a controlling statute, fraud or imposition, such
provisions in bills of lading have been recognized as valid
by this and other federal courts. Also by many-perhaps a majority-of the state courts. Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 112 U. S. 331, 337-340; Phoenix
Insurance Co. v. Erie & W. TransportationCo., 117 U. S.
312, 322; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Olivit Bros., 243 U. S.
574, 586; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas Packing Co.,
244 U. S. 31, 37; The Ellerdale, 10 F. 2d 53; The Asuarca,
13 F. 2d 222, 223; The Merauke, 31 F. 2d 974; Kilthau v.
InternationalMercantile Marine Co., 245 N. Y. 361, 365;
157 N. E. 267; Coleman v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.,
215 Mass. 45, 49; 102 N. E. 92; Shaffer & Co. v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 21 I. C. C. 8; In the Matter of Bills of
Lading, 52 I. C. C. 671, 710; Note, Lawyers' Reports
Anno. 1918B, 720, where the pertinent cases are collected.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co.,
253 U. S. 97, 98, 99-100, involved the following clause in
a bill issued by the railway-"The amount of any loss or
damage for which any carrier is liable shall be computed

SMITH v. THE FERNCLIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

444

on the basis of the value of the property at the place and
time of shipment under this bill of lading, including
freight charges, if paid." We said"Before the passage of this amendment [The Cummins Amendment, Act March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38 Stat.
1196] the Interstate Commerce Commission had upheld
the clause in the bill of lading as in no way limiting the
carriers' liability to less than the value of the goods but
merely offering the most convenient way of finding the
value. . . . We appreciate the convenience of the stipulation in the bill of lading and the arguments urged in
its favor. We understand that it does not necessarily
prevent a recovery of the full actual loss, and that if
the price of wheat had gone down the carrier might
have had to pay more under this contract than by the
common law rule. But the question is how the contract
operates upon this case."
The clause was declared inoperative because forbidden
by the Cummins Amendment, which did not extend to
ocean carriers. Union Pacific R. Co. v. Burke, 255 U. S.
317, 322.
The District Court upheld and applied the agreement,
and supported its views by a careful opinion-(22 F.
Supp. 728, 742-744). It said"The clause we are here dealing with does not appear
to operate in that way [i. e., 'to relieve the carrier from
the consequences of its negligence']. . . . The clause is
gratified by determining the amount of the whole tonnage damaged, and multiplying by the damage per
ton. . . . In operation the clause only eliminates prospective profit, and limits the damage to the owner's actual
loss in the transaction. It may even operate to his advantage if the market value at destination is less than
the invoice value. In my opinion the clause is therefore
different in its operation and effect from that condemned
in the Ansaldo case. [294 U. S. 494.]
138096°-39

29

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

"In the Ansaldo Case two general types of valuation
clauses were considered, one described as a 'true limitation agreement' and the other as a 'true valuation clause.'
The one involved in this case would seem to fall in the
latter category. .... I take the view-after reading the,
cases specially cited in the opinion and other consideration of the subject, that the clause as here worded is not
against public policy and should be given effect ...
The general rule of our law is freedom of contract, subject only to statute and considerations of the public interest. Where a contract stipulation is not clearly opposed to public policy it should be upheld, as it is the
agreement of the parties. The particular question is not
likely to again arise as the subject is now regulated by
the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, § 4 (5), 46 U. S. C. A.
§ 1304 (5).
"Assuming the validity of the bill of lading clause that
claims against the carrier shall be adjusted and settled
on the net invoice cost plus disbursements . . . it is now
contended that the proper method of calculation is to
first determine what was the percentage of damage or
loss, and then apply this percentage to the invoice
value.
"Counsel for the libelants point out that this is the
method of calculating the amount of loss under a valved
marine insurancepolicy on cargo. ... It is frankly admitted by counsel that this method of calculating damages has never heretofore been applied by any court in
a case dealing with a clause submitting [sic] invoice value
for market value. On the contrary it is my understanding that the calculation as made in the opinion, which was
to deduct from the invoice value (which in this case in-

LANZETTA v. NEW JERSEY.
444

Counsel for Parties.

cluded freight and other expenses) the damaged value
has been uniformly applied."
We think the District Court reached the correct conclusion in respect of the mooted clause upon adequate
authority and reasoning.
To the first certified question, we reply, Yes where
there has been no fraud or imposition; to the second the
answer is, Yes; to the third, No.
LANZETTA ET AL. v. NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW

JERSEY.

No. 308. Argued January 9, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
An Act of New Jersey declares: "Any person not engaged in any
lawful occupation, known to be a member of any gang consisting of two or more persons, who has been convicted at least
three times of being a disorderly person, or who has been convicted of any crime in this or any other State, is declared to be a
gangster . . ." Every violation is punishable by fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment not exceeding 20 years, or both.
Held repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, because of its vaguenes and uncertainty. P. 453.
120 N. J. L. 189; 198 A. 837, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a conviction and
sentence of three men as gangsters. See also 118 N. J. L.
212; 192 A. 89.
Mr. Samuel Kagle, with whom Messrs. George C.

Klauder and Harry A. Mackey were on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. Robert Peacock, Assistant Attorney General of
New Jersey, and French B. Loveland, for appellee.

