OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

term, the decision of the state court upon a non-federal
question, but only to deal appropriately with a matter
arising since its judgment and having a bearing upon the
right disposition of the case." '
Applying this principle, we vacate the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Utah and remand the cause to that
Jtdment vacated.
court for further proceedings.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

LOWDEN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. SIMONDS-

SHIELDS-LONSDALE GRAIN CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342.

Argued January 30, 31, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. Upon the facts of this case, held that, within the meaning of a
tariff provision, there were "prior arrangements" covering "a specified period of time," between a shipper and the railroad for the
installation of grain doors in cars furnished to the shipper, and that
the shipper was liable for the tariff charge for such service.
P. 520.
2. A shipper can not escape liability to pay lawful tariff charges for
carrier service by disclaiming liability when ordering it; nor can the
carrier lawfully yield to such disclaimer. Id.
Involuntary rebates from tariff rates should be viewed with the
same disapproval as voluntary rebates.
3. Where, after the commencement of a suit by a railroad to recover
from a shipper a tariff charge of $1.00 per car for a service rendered,
the Interstate Commerce Commission determined that a charge
higher than 600 per car for such service was unreasonable and
authorized reparations accordingly, the railroad was entitled to
recover upon its claim reduced pro tanto. P. 521.
97 F. 2d 816, reversed.
8

Patterson v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607.

LOWDEN v. SIMONDS ETC. GRAIN CO.
516

517

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

305 U. S. 587, to review the affirmance of a

judgment in favor of the shipper, 19 F. Supp. 438, in a
suit brought by the trustees of a railroad company to
recover for carrier services.
Messrs. Hale Houts and Dean Wood, with whom Messrs.
Charles M. Miller, Cyrus Crane, and William S. Hogsett
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Melvin W. Borders, Jr., with whom Mr. Dupuy G.
W:rrick was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUsTICE

REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on certiorari to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
affirming a judgment of the district court for the respondent. Certiorari was granted for consideration of a
federal question of substance, to wit, whether a carrier's
charges for services, actually utilized by a shipper and
authorized by a tariff requiring prior arrangements for
the services, are uncollectible when the services are rendered on orders, preceded or accompanied by denials of
legal liability. Substantial conflict was alleged.'
The facts were stipulated. The petitioners, as trustees
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, brought suit, hnder ยง 24 (8) of the Judicial Code,2
in the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri, for the value of services rendered in the
installation of grain doors on box cars used by the respondent to ship grain in bulk in interstate commerce.
'Cf. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Horn, 40 F. 2d 905, 906 (C.C. A. 7).
'28 U. S. C. ยง 41. "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows: .. . Eighth. Of all suits and proceedings arising under any law regulating commerce." See Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201, 203.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Grain doors are required to prevent leakage of grain from
the car while in transit. They are wooden barriers which
must be placed inside the box car doors before loading
and removed upon unloading. Before July 1, 1935, they
were furnished and installed by carriers without separate
charge. Effective that day, a tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission continued the carriers' practice of furnishing the materials for grain doors but shifted
the cost of installation to the shippers. It provided as follows: "The railroad will act as shipper's agent and
install grain doors . . at a charge of one dollar
($1.00) per car; prior arrangements for the service to
be made with the carriers and to cover a specified period
of time . . ."
On July 2, 1935, the day ifter the tariff went into effect,
the respondent, together with other shippers, addressed
a letter to the local freight agents of several carriers, including the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific, in which
they announced that despite the tariff they expected the
railroads, from and after July 1, 1935, to furnish cars
with equipment to carry bulk grain safely, and would decline to pay for the service of installing grain doors in
the cars. They wrote in part: "Said undersigned parties
further notify you that if ordinary box cars are furnished
and supplied upon such orders [for cars for the shipment
of bulk grain] they will.expect them to be fully coopered
or prepared with necessary aide-door, barricades completely installed and ready for loading."
The carriers protested that neither they nor the shippers could be parties to practices not in conformity with
the tariff. They declared that unless the shippers made
unqualified arrangements pursuant to the terms of the
tariff, cars would be furnished without the grain doors
installed. This letter, dated July 15, 1935, evoked no
reply. Between July 1, 1935, and February 29, 1936, the
petitioners upon the orders of respondent supplied the

LOWDEN v. SIMONDS ETC. GRAIN CO.
516

519

Opinion of the Court.

Grain Company with 624 box cars for the shipment of
grain in bulk. Before the cars were loaded, the petitioners
installed the necessary grain doors. Bills, rendered
monthly, charged the respondent $1.00 for each car. On
November 22, 1935, the latter returned the bills, declining
to pay on the ground that it had made no arrangement for
the petitioners to install grain doors as its agents, as contemplated by the'tariff. It concluded with a request that
petitioners reveal the justification for the charges in the
absence of any arrangement. The petitioners' agent replied on January 9, 1936, that the letter of July 2, 1935,
had been construed to effect an arrangement and "accepting such prior arrangement, the cars were coopered for
your account and as your agent, and were accepted and
used by you as such." By letter of January 15, 1936, the
respondent disagreed with petitioners' construction of
the letter of July 2, 1935, and reiterated its intention not
to pay.
On April 4, 1936, the petitioners began this suit, asking
judgment for $624. Before trial in the district court, the
Interstate Commerce Commission passed upon the validity and reasonableness of the charge for this particular
service. On April 12, 1937, the Commission ruled that it
was proper to require the shipper to bear the expense
of installing grain doors furnished by the carrier; that the
clause relative to prior arrangements was not ambiguous;
that it was for the carrier's benefit and could be waived;
that the charge of $1.00 per car was unreasonable and
should be limited to $.60 per car. It ruled further that
shippers who had paid the $1.00 charge were entitled to
reparation and that carriers might waive collection above
the sixty-cent charge from shippers who had not yet paid.
220 I. C. C. 753.3 The petitioners reduced their demand
Three commissioners dissented. The decision of the Commission
is part of the record. A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk W. Ry. Co.,
236 U. S. 662, 664; cf. Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222
U. S. 506, 511-12.

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

in the district court to $.60 per car and asked judgment
for $374.40.
The district court gave judgment for the respondent.
19 F. Supp. 438. The circuit court of appeals affirmed,
one judge dissenting. 97 F. 2d 816.
The ruling of the Interstate Commerce Commission determines that the installation is a duty of the shipper and
that the carrier can only receive sixty cents when it acts
for the shipper in performing that duty. These are the
essential provisions of the tariff. To facilitate the rendition of the service prior arrangements are required. The
dominant -elements are the responsibility for and the
amount of the charge. These are fixed by the tariff. The
letter of July 2, 1935, from the shippers required the installation of the grain doors and the respective orders for
the separate cars, given thereafter, were given in the light
of this demand for cars so equipped. We think this was
an arrangement under the tariff. On July 2, 1935, the
respondent clearly signified its desire for cars fully
coopered and ready for loading. Its letter of that date
was an unconditional request for the petitioners' services
for a sufficiently specified period of time-"from and
after July 1, 1935." The announcement that respondent
would decline to pay for them in no way qualified the request for tariff services, and cannot now stave off liability.
The petitioners could disregard this advance disclaimer of
liability and rely upon the courts to enforce observance of
the tariff. Until changed, tariffs bind both carriers and
shippers with the force of law." Under ยง 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act the carrier cannot deviate from the
rate specified in the tariff for any service in connection
with the transportation of property.' That section for4 Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506, 509; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 197.

5Act

of Feb. 4, 1887, 24 Stat. 379, 381, as amended, 49 U. S. C.
ยง 6 (7).

LOWDEN v. SIMONDS ETC. GRAIN CO.
516

521

Opinion of the Court.

bids the carrier from giving a voluntary rebate in any
shape or form. This Court has had occasion recently to

sustain action of the Commission aimed at carriers' practices resulting in collection of less than the tariff rate."
It is equally important to aid the efforts of a carrier in
collecting published charges in full.7 Involuntary rebates

from tariff rates should be viewed with the same disapproval as voluntary rebates.
The respondent suggests that the suit must fail because based upon a tariff held by the Interstate Commerce Commission "unreasonable and unlawful." The
Commission did not hold the tariff unlawful or wholly
unreasonable. It. clearly recognized the validity of a
tariff charge for installation services rendered by carriers
at the request of shippers, but found $1.00 per car unreasonable to the extent that it exceeded $.60. It
awarded reparation to those who had paid $1.00 per car
and authorized the carriers to waive collection of the
amount over $.60 per car from shippers who had not
paid.' The only relief afforded respondent by the Commission's decision is a right to reparation for all payments
over $.60 per car.9 The voluntary reduction of their claim
by the petitioners is a sensible adjustment of their right
to recover the tariff charge and of their obligation to make
reparation to the extent that it is unreasonable.
It is unnecessary to consider various other contentions
made by both the petitioners and the respondent.
Judgment reversed.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507.
'Cf. Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577;
New York Central & Harlem River R. Co. v.- York & Whitney Co.,
256 U. S. 406.
Chicago Board of Trade v. Abilene & S. Ry. Co., 220 I. C. C.
753, 769.
Cf. A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk W. Ry., 236 U. S. 662, 665;
Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 284 U. S. 370,
384.

