OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

306 U. S.

purpose. This is a common and entirely lawful arrangement. . . . The statute obviously was not intended to
reach transactions in interstate commerce, but to tax the
use of motor fuel after it had come to rest in Iowa, and
the requirement that the appellant as the shipper into
Iowa shall, as agent of the state, report and pay the tax
on the gasoline thus coming into the state for use by
others on whom the tax falls imposes no unconstitutional
burden either upon interstate commerce or upon the
appellant."
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES v. DURKEE FAMOUS FOODS,
INC.*
APPEAL FROM TIE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 309.

Argued January 10, 11, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

The Act of May 10, 1934, provides that when an indictment is
found insufficient after the period of the statute of limitations has
expired, a new indictment may be returned during the next succeeding term following such finding, during which a grand jury
shall be in session. Held that this does not authorize reindictment
at the same term during which the first indictment was found
defective. P. 69.
Affirmed.
APPEAL, under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment sustaining a plea in bar to an indictment.
*

Together with No. 310, United States v. Manhattan Lighterage

Corp., and No. 311, Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co. v. United States,
also on appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.

U. S. r. DURKEE FAMOUS FOODS.
68

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Elmer B. Collins, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Atiorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
N. A. Townsend and W. Marvin Smith were on the briefs,
for the United States.
Messrs. Frank M. Swacker and Roger Hinds, with
whom Messrs. Albert C. Wall, Thomas G. Haight, John
A. Hartpence,and Mason Trowbridge were on the briefs,
for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
The identical questions involved in these three cases
require consideration of the Act December 27, 1927, (ch.
6, 45 Stat. 51, U. S. C. Title 18 ยง 582) which prescribes
a three year limitation for offenses not capital; also the
Act May 10, 1934 (ch. 278, 48 Stat. 772, U. S. C. Title 18
ยง 587) which specifies the time during which a new indictment may be returned after the first is found to be
defective or insufficient for any cause.'
1Chapter 278 :--AN ACT To limit the operation of statutes of limitations in certain cases.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That whenever an
indictment is found defective or insufficient for any cause, after the
period prescribed by the applicable statute of limitations has expired, a new indictment may be returned at any time during the next
succeeding term of court following such finding, during which a grand

jury thereof shall be in session.
Sec. 2. Whenever an indictment is found defective or insufficient
for any cause, before the period prescribed by the applicable statute
of limitations has expired, and such period will expire before the end
of the next. regular term of the court to which such indictment was
returned, a new indictment may be returned not later than the end
of the next succeeding term of such court, regular or special, following the term at which such indictment was found defective or insufficient, during which a grand jury thereof shall be in session.
Sec. 3. In the event of reindictment under the provisions of this
Act the defense of the statute of limitations shall not prevail against

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Reference to the facts disclosed by the Record in No.
309 will suffice.
During the April term 1934 the Grand Jury for the
District of New Jersey returned an indictment charging
appellee with violation of the Elkins Act (February 19,
1903, ch. 708, 32 Stat. 847, U. S. C. Title 49 ยง 41) on
August 17, 1932. A motion to quash this was sustained,
February 2, 1937, during the January, 1937 term. Later
in the same term-April 9, 1937-the Grand Jury returned a second indictment against appellee based on the
same facts and containing the same charges as those
specified in the 1934 indictment.
To the second indictment appellee interposed what it
designated a plea in bar. This alleged (1) that as the
offense charged was committed more than three years
preceding the return of the pending indictment prosecution was barred by the statute of limitations; (2) that
the new indictment was not returned in conformity with
the Act May 10, 1934 (note 1, supra), since it was reported at the term during which the first indictment was
found defective-not at the succeeding one. This plea
was sustained and the cause is here by direct appeal.
Counsel for appellants submitThe Act May 10, 1934 prevented the bar of the statute
of limitations from becoming effective until the end of
the term next succeeding that during which the first indictment was quashed. The ruling of the trial court (1)
is contrary to the purpose of the Act and not required by
its language; (2) is contrary to the policy and frustrates
the general object of the statute of limitations "to encourage promptitude in the prosecution of remedies";
the new indictment, any provision of law to the contrury notwithstanding.
Sec. 4. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any indictment against which the statute of limitations has run at the date of
approval hereof.
Approved May 10, 1934.

U. S. v. DURKEE FAMOUS FOODS.
68

Opinion of the Court.

(3) creates unnecessary inconsistency between the two
sections of the Act, and results in an illogical and unreasonable break within the period of limitation.
The Act of 1934 was passed upon recommendation of
the Senate Judiciary Committee whose report stated that
the purpose of the bill was set out in a letter from the
Attorney General which it quoted.2
Inspection of this letter shows quite plainly that the
bill as finally enacted undertook to do exactly what the
Attorney General asked. The language is apt to express
that purpose and we are without authority, by interpretation, to give the statute another meaning.
The challenged judgments must be
Affirmed.
JANUARY

17, 1934.

Hon. HSNRY F. ASuURST,
Chairman Committee on the Judiciary,

United States Senate, Washington, D. C.
My DEAR SENATOR: In some criminal cases the offense is not discovered until the statute of limitations has nearly run. In other
cases defendants are not apprehended for some time or removal proceedings are instituted and appeals taken from habeas corpus orders
refusing to release the defendant on removal order, and in still other
cases dilatory motions are made with the hope that, if ultimately
sustained, the statute of limitations will meanwhile have run against
another prosecution. To safeguard the interests of the Government
in such cases, legislation is recommended providing that in any case
in which an indictment is found defective or insufficient for any
cause, after the period prescribed by the statute of limitations has
run, or where said period of limitations has not run but will expire
before the end of the next regular session of court, a new indictment
may be returned at any time during the first succeeding term of
court at which a grand jury is in session. The judicial conference
favors legislation of this tenor.
A draft of bill to effectuate this recommendation is enclosed herewith and I shall appreciate it if you will introduce it and lend it
your support.
Respectfully,
HOMER CUMMINGS,
Attorney General.

