OCTOBER TERM., 1938.
Syllabus.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT, INC.,

306 U. S.
ET AL.

v. UNITED

STATES.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 269.

Argued January 11, 1939.-Decided February 13, 1939.

1. Where distributors of motion picture films, owning or controlling
the copyrights and engaged, interstate, in the business of supplying
the films to theaters for exhibition under license contracts, join in
making and carrying out an agreement with the owners of the
theaters in certain cities to whom their licenses for first run
exhibitions of "feature" pictures in those cities are confined, whereby
the distributors, in granting licenses to other theaters in the same
places for subsequent runs of such films require of them that they
observe a minimum price of admission and abstain from presenting a picture so licensed with any other feature picture at the
same show,-the purpose and effect of these restrictions being to
maintain the higher prices of the first run theaters and protect
them from the competition of the others,-such agreement is an
unreasonable restraint of interstate commerce and, contrary to
the Federal Anti-Trust Act. Pp. 221, 232.
2. The evidence in this case supported the inference that the distributors of the films acted in concert, in making their several
agreements with the first run exhibitors, and in imposing the
restrictions so stipulated on the subsequent-run exhibitors. P. 221.
3. Upon the production of such proof, the burden rested upon those
implicated to explain away or contradict it. P. 225.
4. The production of weak evidence when strong is available leads
to the conclusion that the strong would have been adverse. Silence
then becomes evidence of the most convincing character. P. 226.
5. Acceptance by competitors, knowing that concerted action is
contemplated, of an invitation to participate in a plan, the necessary consequence of which, if carried out, is restraint of interstate
commerce, is sufficient to establish an unlawful conspiracy under
the Sherman Act. P. 227.
*Together with No. 270, ParamountPictures DistributingCo. et al.
v. United States, also on appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Texas,

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Argument for Appellants.

6. A contract between the copyright owner of motion picture films
and the owner of motion picture theaters, restraining the competitive distribution of the films in the open market in order to protect
the theater owner from competition of other theaters is not protected by the Copyright Act. P. 227.
7. The owner of those motion picture theaters in several cities in
which the first runs of copyrighted "feature" pictures were exhibted,
taking advantage of its monopoly, secured from each of several
copyright owners who distributed such films in interstate commerce, an agreement binding the distributor when licensing subsequent runs of his films at other theaters in those cities to require
the licensee to observe a certain minimum admission price and to
abstain from exhibiting the picture in a double bill with any other
"feature" film. The purpose of the arrangement was to protect the
owner of the first-run theaters from competition of subsequent-run
theaters, and its effect was to impose undue restraints upon competing theater businesses habitually exhibiting the competitive
pictures of different copyright owners, and to enable the favored
theater owner to dominate the business of his competitors. Held:
That the contracts were not protected by the Copyright Act, and
that, aside from any agreement between the distributors themselves, they were contrary to the Anti-Trust Act. P. 230.
20 F. Supp. 868, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court awarding

APPEALS

an injunction in a suit brought by the Government under
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Messrs. George S. Wright and Thomas D. Thacher, with
whom Mr. Richard H. Demuth was on the brief, for

appellants.
A licensee of the first run exhibition of a copyrightcd

motion picture photoplay has the legal right to obtain
from the licensor a covenant that the right shall not be
impaired by a subsequent exhibition of the photoplay at
an admission price of less than 250 or as part of a double
feature program.
A distributor, the owner of a copyrighted motion picture photoplay, acting independently of any other distributor, has the legal right to agree with a first rim
133096

°-

-39---14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellants.

306 U. S

exhibitor to include either or both of the restrictions here
in question in subsequent run license agreements.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer D. Corp. v. Bijou Theatre Co.,
59 F. 2d 70; Manners v. Morosco, 252 U. S. 317; Bement
v. National Harrow Co., 180 U. S. 70; United States v.
General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476; Carbice Corporation
v. American Patents Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163; General Talking Pictures Corp. v. Western Electric Co., 305
U. S. 124.
The right of the owner of a patent or a copyright is to
exclude all from exercising his exclusive rights, and he
may select. his licensees at will, preferring the large or
the small business units and granting his monopoly to
one or more as he wishes, and for his own reasons, which
no doubt under ordinary circumstances will be dictated
by his desire for profit in the form of royalties. American Equipment Co. v. Tuthill, 69 F. 2d 406. He may
impose any conditions reasonably adapted to the realization of the value of his monopoly, as, for instance, by
fixing the price at which the licensee may sell unpatented
articles manufactured under license by patented machinery (Straight Side Basket Corp. v. Webster Basket
Co., 82 F. 2d 245'; Murphy v. ChristianPress Assn. Pub.
Co., 38 App. Div. 426), and by dictating the customers
to whom articles may be sold by the licensee. Becton,
Dickinion & go. v. Eisele & Co., 86 F. 2d 267. He may
also license the public performance of copyrighted works
to some licensees on more favorable terms than to others.
Buck v. Hillsgrove Country Club, 17 F. Supp. 643. He is
not required to give reasons or deal fairly with those
seeking to share in his monopoly. Victor Talking Mach.
Co. v. The Fair, 123 Fed. 424; Dr. Miles Medical Co. v.
Platt, 142 Fed. 606.
Of course, the protection of the Copyright Act does not
extend to unreasonable restraints of trade imposed pur-

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Argument for Appellants.

suant to a combination, agreement or conspiracy between
two or more copyright owners who have combined for
the purpose of monopoly or restraint of trade. Straus
v. American Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222; Paramount
Famous Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30. But in the
absence of such prior agreement, combination or conspiracy, the owner of the copyright has an absolute
monopoly within the field of his copyright.
The specific contracts involved in the case at bar were
considered and( upheld by the appellate court of Texas in
Glass v. Hoblitzelle, 83 S. W. 2d 796. The principles applied are'settled law in Texas with regard to purely intrastate transactions. Coca-Cola Cc v. State, 225 S. W.
791. See Shubert Theatre Players Co. v. MIetro-Goldwyn-.laycr Distributing Corp., unreported. Jan. 30, 1936
(D. Minn.).
Even if there had been no copyright, the agreements
with individual distributors would still be valid. A contract containing a covenant in restraint of trade is nonetheless valid if the restraint is reasonably necessary for
the protection of the right granted by the contract. Cincinnati Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179; Oregon Steam
Navigation Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 67; United States v.
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 F. 271; Allison. v. Seigle,
79 F. 2d 170; A. Booth & Co. v. Davis, 127 F. 875.
See Fowl v. Park, 131 U. S. 88; Oregon Steam Navigation Co. v. Winsor, supra; Moore v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 270 U. S. 593; United States v. General Elec-

tric Co., 272 U. S. 476; Board of Trade v. Christie Grain
& Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 250, 252.
The protection given by the law to the copyright owner
is still greater. Apart from agreements to impose restraints unrelated to the reward of the statutory monopoly, or to monopolize trade in articles not covered by the
statutory monopoly, a copyright proprietor in granting an
exhibition right may bind and restrain himself by any

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellants.

306 U. S.

covenant which has reasonable relation to the reward of
the copyright or the protection of the granted right even
though such covenants directly restrain interstate commerce. The Sherman Anti-Trust Act has no application
to such restraints, which under all the authorities are
within the statutory monopoly of the copyright.
The decree must be reversed in so far as it enjoins
separate agreements between each of the exhibitor defendants and each of the distributor defendants, not acting in concert with any other distributors, to impose restrictions necessary for the protection of their mutual
interests in the copyright reward.
The court's inference that the distributor defendants
agreed and conspired among themselves to take uniform
action on the proposals made by Interstate Circuit, and
to impose the restrictions requested by Interstate, is unsupported by the preceding findings upon which it is
expressly predicated, and is contrary to the stipulated
facts and the undisputed evidence.
In order to make out unlawful conspiracy something
more than mere uniformity of action must be shown.
Frey & Son v. Cudahy Packing Co., 256 U. S. 208. To
warrant the injunction invalidating such transactions,
there must be a "definite factual showing of illegality,"
i. e., a clear purpose to monopolize or restrain trade.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 179.
From the plurality and similarity of such lawful acts unlawful combination may not be inferred. Terminal
Warehouse v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. S. 500, 516.
If one would infer conspiracy from similarity of lawful
acts there must be accuracy in statement of the facts
upon which the infei nce is predicated, and if the inference is inconsistent with any of the facts established
by agreement of the parties it must be rejected. Hackfeld & Co. v. United States, 197 U. S. 442; Kings County

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

Lighting Co. v. Nixon, 268 Fed. 143, 149, affirmed, 258
U. S. 180.
The burden upon a plaintiff to prove his case by substantive evidence can not be met by failure of the defendant to call witnesses. As this Court stated in the
case of Northern Ry. Co. v. Page, 274 U. S. 65, 74, the
failure of the defendant to call a witness can not be
"taken as substantive evidence of any fact." See also
Mammoth Oil Co. v. United States, 275 U. S. 13, 52.
The restrictions in question do not unreasonably restrain trade or commerce. Appalachian Coals, Inc. v.
United States, 288 U. S. 344, 359; Nash v. United States,
229 U. S. 373, 376; Chicago Board of Trade v. United
States, 246 U. S. 231, 238.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assstant Attorney General Arnold and Mr. Charles H. Weston were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal under 2 of the Act of February 11, 1903, 32 Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C. § 29, and § 238
of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February
13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, 938, 28 U. S. C. 345, from a final
decree of the District Court for northern Texas restraining appellants from continuing in a co-mbination and conspiracy condemned by the court as a violation of . 1 of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 1,
and from enforcing or renewing certain contracts found
by the court to have been entered into in pursuance of
the conspiracy. 20 F. Supp. 868. Upon a previous appeal
this Court set aside the decree and remanded the cause to
the District Court for further proceedings because of its
failure to state findings of fact and conclusions of law as
required by Equity Rule 701/. 304 U. S. 55. The case is

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

now before us on findings of the District Court specifically stating that appellants did in fact agree with each
other to enter into and carry out the contracts, which the
court found to result in unreasonable and therefore unlawful restraints of interstate commerce.
Appellants comprise the two groups of defendants in
the District Court. The members of one group of eight
corporations which are distributors of motion picture
films, and the Texas agents of two of them, are appellafits in No. 270. The other group, corporations and individuals engaged in exhibiting motion pictures in Texas,
and some of them in New Mexico, appeals in No. 269.
The distributor appellants are engaged in the business of
distributing in interstate commerce motion picture films,
copyrights on which they own or control, for exhibition
in theatres throughout the United States. They distribute about 75 per cent. of all first-class feature films exhibited in the United States. They solicit from motion
picture theatre owners and managers in Texas and other
states applications for licenses to exhibit films, and forward the applications, when received from such. exhibitors, to their respective New York offices, where they are
accepted or rejected. If the applications are accepted,
the distributors ship the films from points outside the
states of exhibition to their exchanges within those states,
from which, pursuant to the license agreements, the films
are delivered to the local theatres for exhibition. After
exhibition the films are reshipped to the distributors at
points outside the state.
The exhibitor group of appellants consists of Interstate
Circuit, Inc., and Texas Consolidated Theatres, Inc., and
Hoblitzelle and O'Donnell, who are respectively president
and general manager of both and in active charge of their
business operations. The two corporations are affiliated
with each other and with Paramount Pictures Distributing Co., Inc., one of the distributor appellants.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

Interstate operates forty-three first-run and second-run
motion picture theatres, located in six Texas cities.' It
has a complete monopoly of first-run theatres in these
cities, except for one in Houston operated by one distributor's Texas agent. In most of these theatres the admission price for adults for the better seats at night is 40
cents or more. Interstate also operates several subsequent-run theatres in each of these cities, twenty-two in
all, but in all but Galveston there are other subsequentrun theatres which compete with both its first- and subsequent-run theatres in those cities.
Texas Consolidated operates sixty-six theatres, some
first- and some subsequent-run houses, in various cities
and towns in the Rio Grande Valley and elsewhere in
Texas and in New Mexico. In some of these cities there
are no competing theatres, and in six leading cities there
are no competing first-run theatres. It has no theatres in
the six Texas cities in which Interstate operates. That
Interstate and Texas Consolidated dominate the motion
picture business in the cities where their theatres are located is indicated by the fact that at the time of the contracts in question Interstate and Consolidated each contributed more than 74 per cent. of all the license fees paid
by the motion picture theatres in their respective territories to the distributor appellants.2
On July 11, 1934, following a previous communication
on the subject to the eight branch managers of the dis,A first-run theatre is one in which a picture is first exhibited in
any given locality. A subsequent-run theatre is one in which there is
a subsequent exhibition of the same picture in the same locality.
2 Payments of license fees by Interstate to distributor appellants in
the 1934-35 season aggregated $1,077,819.58. Payments by all other
exhbitors operating theatres in the same cities aggregated $369,594.72.
Texas Consolidated payments for the same period aggregated 8594,S63.6S. All other exhibitors operating in the same cities paid
$47,92S.22.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tributor appellants, O'Donnell, the manager of Interstate and Consolidated, sent to each of them a letter s
on the letterhead of Interstate, each letter naming all of
them as addressees, in which he asked compliance with
two demands as a condition of Interstate's continued exhibition of the distributors' films in its 'A' or first-run the'The letter follows:
"INTERSTATE CIRcuIT, INC.,
MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING,

Dallas, Texas, July 11, 1934.
Messrs.: J. B. Dugger, Herbert Maclntyre, Sol Sachs, C. E. Hilgers,
Leroy Bickel, J. B. Underwood, E. S. Olsmyth, Doak Roberts.
GENTLEMEN: On April 25th, the writer notified you that in purchasing product for the coming season 34-35, it would be necessary
for all distributors to take into consideration in the sale of subsequent
runs that Interstate Circuit, Inc., will not agree to purchase produce
to be exhibited in its 'A' theatres at a price of 400 or more for night
admission, unless distributors agree that in selling their product to
subsequent runs, that this 'A' product will never be exhibited at any
time or in any theatre at a smaller admission price than 250 for
adults in the evening.
In addition to this price restriction, we also request that on 'A'
pictures which are exhibited at a night admission price of 40¢ or
more-they shall never be exhibited in conjunction with another
feature picture under the so-called policy of double-features.
At this time the writer desires to again remind you of these restrictions due to the fact that there may be some delay in consummating all our feature film deals for the coming season, and it is
imperative that in your negotiations that you afford us this clearance.
In the event that a distributor sees fit to sell his product to subsequent runs in violation of this request, it definitely means that we
cannot negotiate for his product to be exhibited in our 'A' theatres
at top admission prices.
We naturally, in purchasing subsequent runs from the distributors
in certain of our cities, must necessarily eliminate double featuring
and maintain the maximum 250 admission price, which we are willing
to do.
Right at this time the writer wishes to cal your attention to the
Rio Grande Valley situation. We must insist that all pictures exhibited in our 'A' theatres at a maximum night admission price of

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court

atres at a night admission of 40 cents or more.4 One demand was that the distributors "agree that in selling their
product to subsequent runs, that this 'A' product will
never be exhibited at any time or in any theatre at a
smaller admission price than 25¢ for adults in the evening." The other was that "on 'A' pictures which are
exhibited at a night admission of 40 or more-they shall
never be exhibited in conjunction with another feature
picture under the so-called policy of double features."
The letter added that with respect to the "Rio Grande
Valley situation," with which Consolidated alone was
concerned, "We must insist that all pictures exhibited in
our 'A' theatres at a maximum night admission price of
350 must also be restricted to subsequent runs in the
Valley at 25."
The admission price customarily charged for preferred
seats at night in independently operated subsequent-run
theatres in Texas at the time of these letters was less
than 25 cents. In seventeen of the eighteen independent
theatres of this kind whose operations were described by
witnesses the admission price was less than 25 cents.
In one only was it 25 cents. In most of them the admission was 15 cents or less. It was also the general prac35i' must also be restricted to subsequent runs in the Valley at 25c.
Regardless of the number of days which may intervene, we feel that
in exploiting and selling the distributors' product, that subsequent
rins should be restricted to at least a 25' admission scale.
The writer will appreciate your acknowledging your complete understanding of this letter.
Sincerely,
(Signed) R. J. O'DONNELL."
'A Class 'A' picture is a "feature picture" having five reels or
more of film each approximately 1,000 feet in length, shown in theatres of the specified Texas cities charging 40 cents or more for adult
admission at night. Approximately fifty per cent. of the pictures
released by the distributor defendants in Texas cities in 1934-1935
were Class 'A' pictures.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tice in those theatres to provide double bills either on
certain days of the week or with any feature picture
which was weak in drawing power. The distributor appellants had generally provided in their license contracts
for a minimum admission price of 10 or 15 cents, and
three of them had included provisions restricting doublebilling. But none was at any time previously subject to
contractual compulsion to continue the restrictions. The
trial court found that the proposed restrictions constituted an important departure from prior practice.
The local representatives of the distributors, having
no authority to enter into the proposed agreements, communicated the proposal to their home offices. Conferences followed between Hoblitzelle and O'Donnell, acting
for Interstate and Consolidated, and the representatives
of the various distributors. In these conferences each distributor was represented by its local branch manager and
by one or more superior officials from outside the state of
Texas. In the course of them each distributor agreed with
Interstate for the 1934-35 season to impose both the
demanded restrictions upon their subsequent-run licensees
in the six Texas cities served by Interstate, except Austin
and Galveston. While only two of the distributors incorporated the agreement to impose the restrictions in their
license contracts with Interstate, the evidence establishes,
and it is not denied, that all joined in the agreement,
four of them after some delay in negotiating terms other
than the restrictions and not now material. These agreements for the restrictions-with the immaterial exceptions
noted '-were carried into effect by each of the distribu'The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Distributing Corporation agreement
with Interstate did not include Houston, where it operated through
a subsidiary a first-run theatre, and where it did not until the 19361937 season license any subsequent-run pictures. It agreed with
Interstate to impose the restrictions in Houston for the 1936-1937
season.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

tors' imposing them on their subsequent-run licensees in
the four Texas cities during the 1934-35 season. One
agreement, that of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Distributing
Corporation, was for three years. The others were renewed in the two following seasons and all were in force
when the present suit was begun.
None of the distributors yielded to the demand that
subsequent runs in towns in the Rio Grande Valley served
by Consolidated should be restricted. One distributor,
Paramount, which was affiliated with Consolidated, agreed
to impose the restrictions in certain other Texas and New
Mexico cities.
The trial court found that the distributor appellants
agreed and conspired" among themselves to take uniform
action upon the proposals made by Interstate, and that
they agreed and conspired with each other and with Interstate to impose the demanded restrictions upon all
subsequent-run exhibitors in Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston and San Antonio; that they carried out the agreement
by imposing the restrictions upon their subsquent-run
licensees in those cities, causing some of them to increase
their admission price to 25 cents, either generally or when
restricted pictures were shown, and to abandon doublebilling of all such pictures, and causing the other subsequent-run exhibitors, who were either unable or unwilling
to accept the restrictions, to -be deprived of any opportunity to exhibit the rAricted pictures, which were the
best and most popular of. all new feature pictures; that
the effect of the restrictions upon "low-income members
of the community" patronizing the theatres of these exhibitors was to withhold from them altogether the "best
entertainment furnished by the motion picture industry";
and that the restrictions operated to increase the income
of the distributors and of Interstate and to deflect, attendance from later-run exhibitors who yielded to the restrictions to the first-run theatres of Interstate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The court concluded as matters of law that the agreement of the distributors with each other and those with
Interstate to impose the restrictions upon subsequentrun exhibitors and the carrying of the agreements into
effect, with the aid and participation of Hoblitzelle and
O'Donnell, constituted a combination and conspiracy in
restraint of interstate commerce in violation of the Sherman Act. It also concluded that each separate agreement
between Interstate and a distributor that Interstate
should subject itself to the restrictions in its subsequentrun theatres and that the distributors should impose the
restrictions on all subsequent-run theatres in the Texas
cities as a condition of supplying them with its feature
pictures, was likewise a violation of the Act.
It accordingly enjoined the conspiracy and restrained
the distributors from enforcing the restrictions in their
license agreements with suosequent-run exhibitors ' and
from enforcing the contracts or any of them. This included both the contracts of Interstate with the distributors and the contract between Consolidated and
Paramount, whereby the latter agreed to impose the
restrictions upon subsequent-run theatres in Texas and
New Mexico served by it.
Appellants assail the decree of the District Courf upon
three principal grounds: (a) that the finding of agreement and conspiracy among the distributor appellants
to impose the restrictions upon later-run exhibitors is
not supported by the court's subsidiary findings or by
the evidence; (b) that the several separate contracts
entered into by Interstate with the distributors are within
the protection of the Copyright Act and consequently
The injunction against the double feature restriction excepted from
its operation two distributors, and the agent of one of them, which
had previously made a practice of including such a restriction in their
license agreements.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

are not violations of the Sherman Act; and (c) that the
restrictions do not unreasonably restrain interstate commerce within the provisions of the Sherman Act.
The Agreement Among the Distributors.
Although the films were copyrighted, appellants do not
deny that the conspiracy charge is established if the
distributors agreed among themselves to impose the restrictions upon subsequent-run exhibitors. Straus v.
American Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222; Paramount
Famous Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30.
As is usual in cases of alleged unlawful agreements to restrain commerce, the Government is without the aid of
direct testimony that the distributors entered into any
agreement with each other to impose the restrictions upon
subsequent-run exhibitors. In order to establish agreement it is compelled to rely on inferences drawn from
the course of conduct of the alleged conspirators.
The trial court drew the inference of agreement from
the nature of the proposals made on behalf of Interstate
and Consolidated; from the manner in which they were
made; from the substantial unanimity of action taken
upon them by the distributors; and from the fact that
appellants did not call as witnesses any of the superior
officials who negotiated the contracts with Interstate or
any official who, in the normal course of business,
would have had knowledge of the existence or non-existence of such an agreement among the distributors. This
conclusion is challenged by appellants because not supported by subsidiary findings or by the evidence. We
think this inference of the trial court was rightly drawn
from the evidence. In the view we take of the legal
effect of the coperative action of the distributor appellants in carrying into effect the restrictions imposed upon
subsequent-run theatres in the four Texas cities and of
the legal effect of the separate agreements for the imposi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tion of those restrictions entered into between Interstate
and each of the distributors, it is unnecessary to discuss
in great detail the evidence concerning this aspect of the
case.
The O'Donnell letter named on its face as addressees
the eight local representatives of the distributors, and so
from the beginning each of the distributors knew that
the proposals were under consideration by the others.
Each was aware that all were in active competition and
that without substantially unanimous action with respect
to the restrictions for any given territory there was risk
of a substantial loss of the business and good will of the
subsequent-run and independent exhibitors, but that with
it there was the prospect of increased profits. There was,
therefore, strong motive for concerted action, full advantage of which was taken by Interstate and Consolidated in presenting their demands to all in a single
document.
There was risk, too, that without agreement diversity
of action would follow. Compliance with the proposals
involved a radical departure from the previous business
practices of the industry and a drastic increase in admission prices of most of the subsequent-run theatres. Acceptance of the proposals was discouraged by af least
three of the distributors' local managers. Independent
exhibitors met and organized a futile protest which they
presented to the representatives of Interstate and Consolidated. While as a result of independent negotiations
either of the two restrictions without the other could have
been put into effect. by any one or more of the distributors and in any one or more of the Texas cities served
by Interstate, the negotiations which ensued and which
in fact did result in modifications of the proposals resulted in substantially unanimous action of the distributors, both as to the terms of the restrictions and in the
selection of the four cities where they were to operate.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

One distributor, it is true, did not agree to impose the
restrictions in Houston, but this was evidently because it
did not grant licenses to any subsequent-run exhibitor in
that city, where its own affiliate operated a first-run
theatre.' The proposal was unanimously rejected as to
Galveston and Austin, as was the request that the restrictions should be extended to the cities of the Rio
Grande Valley served by Consolidated. We may infer
that Galveston was omitted because in that city there
were no subsequent-run theatres in competition with
Interstate. But we are unable to find in the record any
persuasive explanation, other than agreed concert of action, of the singular unanimity of action on the part of
the distributors by which the proposals were carried into
effect as written in four Texas cities but not in a fifth
or in the Rio Grande Valley. Numerous variations in the
form of the provisions in the distributors' license agreements and the fact that in later years two of them extended the restrictions into all six cities, do not weaken
the significance or force of the nature of the response to
the proposals made by all the distributor appellants.
It taxes credulity to believe that the several distributors
would, in the circumstances, have accepted and put into
operation with substantial unanimity such far-reaching
changes in their business methods without some understanding that all were to join, and we reject as beyond
the range of probability that it was the result of mere
chance.
Appellants present an elaborate argument, based on
the minutiae of the evidence, that other inferences are
to be drawn which explain, at least in some respects, the
unanimity of action both in accepting the restrictions
for some territories and rejecting them for others. It is
said that the rejection of Consolidated's proposal for the
'See footnote 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Rio Grande Valley may have been due to the fact that
the demand with respect to that territory differed materially from that directed to the six Texas cities. It is
urged that the proposal for the Valley was that all pictures once shown in a first-run theatre with a 35 cents
admission should not thereafter be exhibited in any city
in the Valley for less than 25 cents admission, while the
demand in behalf of Interstate with respect to the six
Texas cities was that 'A' pictures, after a first-run in
theatres charging 40 cents admission or more, should not
thereafter be exhibited in the same city for less than 25
cents admission. But reference to the O'Donnell letter
shows that both demands related to pictures shown in a
first-run or 'A' theatre and were not in terms limited to
subsequent-run exhibitions in the same city in which the
first run had occurred. The record discloses no reason
for the distinction taken between first-run theatres in the
six cities charging an admission of 40 cents or more and
those in the Valley served by Consolidated charging 35
cents, other than the fact that the cities there were
smaller.
The trial court, interpreting the letter in the light of the
whole evidence, which showed unmistakably that one
purpose of both demands was to protect first-run houses
from competition of subsequent-run houses, concluded
that the substance of the proposals in one case as in the
other was that the restrictions upon the subsequent-run
theatres were to be imposed only in the same city in
which the first run had occurred. We agree with its
conclusion, but in any event since the demand made by
Interstate was phrased as broadly as that made by Texas
Consolidated, both as to the kind of pictures affected
and the scope of the restriction, we can find no basis for
saying that one was more limited in its essentials than
the other, or that any explanation is thus afforded of the
unanimous acceptance of the demands of Interstate in

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

four of the six cities affected by the proposal, and the
unanimous rejection of the demand of Consolidated. In
the face of this action and similar unanimity with respect to other features of the proposals, and the strong
motive for such unanimity of action, we decline to speculate whether there may have been other and more legitimate reasons for such action not disclosed by the record,
but which, if they existed, were known to appellants.
The failure of the distributors to make any substantial
changes in their business practices in dealing with exhibitors in Austin for the season 1934-35; their failure
to unite in imposing the restriction as to admission prices
in subsequent-run theatres in that city; and their failure
to enter into the proposed restrictive agreement. with
Interstate for Austin, are likewise unexplained by any
inferences to be drawn from the record. The facts that
three of the distributors continued their established practice there, as elsewhere, of placing restrictions against
double-billing in their license contracts; that the 25 cents
admission restriction appeared in the Austin license agreements of one distributor for that year; and that certain
of the distributors included the restrictions in their Austin
license agreements in later years, do not militate against
this conclusion. Taken together, the circumstances of
the case which we have mentioned, when uncontradicted
and with no more explanation than the record affords,
justify the inference that the distributors acted in concert
and in common agreement in imposing the restrictions
upon their licensees in the four Texas cities.
This inference was supported and strengthened when
the distributors, with like unanimity, failed to tender
the testimony, at their command, of any officer or agent
of a distributor who knew, or was in a position to know,
whether in fact an agreement had been reached among
them for concerted action. When the proof supported,
as we think it did, the inference of such concert, the
133096*-39-15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

burden rosted on appellants of going forward with the
evidence to explain away or contradict it. They undertook to carry that burden by calling upon local managers
of the distributors to testify that they had acted independently of the other distributors, and that they did
not have conferences with or reach agreements with the
other distributors or their representatives. The failure
under the circumstances to call as witnesses those officers
who did have authority to act for the distributors and
who were in a position to know whether they had acted
in pursuance of agreement is itself persuasive that their
testimony, if given, would have been unfavorable to appellants. The production of weak evidence when strong
is available can lead only to the conclusion that the strong
would have been adverse. Clifton v. United States, 4
How. 242, 247. Silence then becomes evidence of the
most convincing character. Runkle v. Burnham, 153
U. S. 216, 225; Kirby v. Tailmadge, 160 U. S. 379, 383;
Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 153, 154; Vajtauer v.
Commissioner of Immigration, 273 U. S. 103, 111, 112;
Mammoth Oil Co. v. United States, 275 IT. S. 13, 52;
Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 298.
While the District Court's finding of an agreement of
the distributors among themselves is supported bjy the
evidence, we think that in i he circumstances of this case
such agreement for the imposition of the restrictions upon
subsequent-run exhibitors was not a prerequisite to an
unlawful conspiracy. It was enough that, knowing that
concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it. Each distributor was advised that the
others were asked to participate; each knew that co6peration was essential to successful operation of the plan.
They knew that the plan, if carried out, would result in
a restraint of commerce, which, we will presently point
out, was unreasonable within the meaning of the Sher-

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

man Act, and knowing it, all participated in the plan.
The evidence is persuasive that each distributor early became aware that the others had joined. With that
knowledge they renewed the arrangement and carried it
into effect for the two successive years.
It is elementary that an unlawful conspiracy may be
and often is formed without simultaneous action or agreement on the part of the conspirators. Schenck v. United
States, 253 F. 212, 213, aff'd, 249 U. S. 47; Levey v. United
States, 92 F. 2d 688, 691. Acceptance by competitors,
without previous agreement, of an invitation to participate in a plan, the necessary consequence of which, if
carried out, is restraint of interstate commerce, is sufficient to establish an unlawful conspiracy under the Sherman Act. Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States,
234 U. S. 600; Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S. 522, 534;
American Column Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377;
United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371.
The Protection Afforded by the Copyright Act to the
Contracts between Interstate and the Distributors.
The decree below enjoined enforcement and renewal of
the separate agreements between each distributor and Interstate and of the contract between Paramount and Consolidated imposing the restrictions upon later-run theatres in certain cities in Texas and New Mexico, although
the court found no conspiracy among the distributors to
effect this latter restriction. Appellants assail this part
of the decree on the ground that such separate agreements, if entered into without agreement or concert
among the distributors, are a legitimate exercise of the
monopoly secured to the distributors by their copyrights.
Under § 1 of the Copyright Act, 35 Stat. 1075,17 U. S. C.
§ 1, the owners of the copyright of a motion picture film
acquire the right to exhibit the picture and to grant an
exclusive or restrictive license to others to exhibit it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

See Mannersv. Morosco, 252 U. S. 317. Appellants argue
that the distributors were free to license the films for
exhibition subject to the restrictions, just as a patentee
in a license to manufacture and sell the patented article
may fix the price at which the licensee may sell it. Bement v. National HarrowCo., 186 U. S. 70; United States
v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476. That the parallel
is not complete is obvious. Because a patentee has
power to control the price at which his licensee may sell
the patented article, it does not follow that the owner
of a copyright can dictate that other pictures may not
be shown -with the licensed film or the admission price
which shall be paid for an entertainment which includes
features other than the particular picture licensed. Cf.
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.,
243 U. S. 502; Carbice Corporationv. American Patents
Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch Manufacturing
Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458.
We have no occasion now to pass upon these or related
questions. Granted that each distributor, in the protection of his own copyright monopoly, was free to impose
the present restrictions upon his licensees, we are nevertheless of the opinion that they were not free to use their
copyrights as implements for restraining commerce in order to protect Interstate's motion picture theatre monopoly by suppressing competition with it. The restrictions
imposed upon Interstate's competitors did not have their
origin in the voluntary act of the distributors or any of
them. They gave effect to the will and were subject to
the control of Interstate, not by virtue of any copyright
of Interstate, for it had none, but through its contract
with each distributor. Interstate was able to acquire the
control and impose its will by force of its monopoly of
first-run theatres in the principal cities of Texas and the
threat to use its monopoly position against copyright
owners who did not yield to its demands. The purpose

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

and ultimate effect of each of its contracts with the distributors was to restrain its competitors in the theatre
business by forcing an increase in their admission price
and compelling them through the double feature restriction to make their entertainment less attractive, and to
preclude the distributors for the specified time from relaxing the pressure of the restrictions upon them.
The case is not one of the mere restriction of competition between the first showing of a copyrighted film by
Interstate and a subsequent showing of the same film by
a licensee of the copyright owner. The contract, when
applied to the situation existing in the four Texas cities,
had a more extensive effect. Both Interstate's first-run
and second-run theatres in each of the cities regularly
compete with the independent second-run theatres in
those cities. Since all are in practically continuous operation during the season, competition between them exteids to the exhibition of films furnished by different distributors including those of copyright owners shown by
independents, which compete with those of other copyright owners shown at the same time by Interstate.
Moreover, the provision in Interstate's contracts for the
restriction against double billing stipulated for restraint
upon competition with Interstate in the exhibition of
films in the double bill in which neither Interstate nor
the licensor had any interest by way of copyright or otherwise. The patent effect of the contract was to impose an
undue restraint both as to admission price and the character of the exhibition upon competing theatre businesses
habitually exhibiting the competitive pictures of different copyright owners. Through acceptance of its terms
by the principal distributors the contract became the
ready instrument by which Interstate succeeded in dominating the business of its competitors in the Texas cities.
The fact that the restrictions may have been of a kind
which a distributor could voluntarily have imposed, but

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

did not, does not alter the character of the contract as a
calculated restraint upon the distribution and use of copyrighted films moving in interstate commerce. Even if it
be assumed that the benefit to the distributor from the
restrictions is one which it might have secured through
its monopoly control of the copyright alone, that would
not extend the protection of the copyright to the contract
with Interstate and to the resulting restraint upon the
competition of its business rivals.
A contract between a copyright owner and one who has
no copyright, restraining the competitive distribution of
the copyrighted articles in the open market in order to
protect the latter from the competition, can no more be
valid than a like agreement between two copyright owners or patentees. Straus v. American Publishers' Assn.,
supra; ParamountFamous Lasky Corp. v. United States,
supra; see Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
163, 174. In either case if the contract is effective, as it
was here, competition is suppressed and the possibility
of its resumption precluded by force of the contract. An
agreement illegal because it suppresses competition is not
any less so because the competitive article is copyrighted.
The fact that the restraint is made easier or more effective by making the copyright subservient to the contract
does not relieve it of illegality. Standard Sanitary Mfg.
Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20.
Unreasonableness of the Restraint.
The restrictions imposed on the subsequent-run exhibitors were harsh and arbitrary. As we have seen, they
were forced upon the distributors and upon their customers as a result of the agreements entered into by Interstate with the distributors. Compliance with the restrictions were a uniform condition of exhibition of the
films by subsequent-run theatres. There were wide differences in the location and character of the subsequent-

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

Opinion of the Court.

run houses in the four Texas cities, which afforded basis
for the corresponding differences in admission prices
charged before the restrictions were adopted. Due to the
practice of the distributors of establishing clearance periods between the first and each successive run, later runs
are progressively less attractive. The poorer class of
theatres, exhibiting the later runs, sometimes offered a
double bill as an offsetting inducement for patronage.
Despite these differences which normally affect the admission price that could be charged by subsequent-run theatres, the 25 cents admission price was to be required of
all alike, forcing increases in admission price ranging from
25 per cent. to 150 per cent.
The trial court found that practically all of the laterrun exhibitors who bowed to the restrictions would not
have done so but for the compulsion of their need of
showing the restricted pictures, and that the result was
to increase the income of the distributors and Interstate
and diminish that of the exhibitors who accepted the restrictions, by deflecting attendance from subsequent-run
theatres to Interstate's first-run theatres. There was no
testimony that such loss was offset by the higher admission price of the second-run theatres, and there was
evidence that some of the poorer class of second-run
theatres suffered loss of income by yielding to the restrictions. Some who did not yield were compelled to
forego exhibition of the distributors' feature pictures. The
effect was a drastic suppression of competition and an
oppressive price maintenance, of benefit to Interstate and
the distributors but injurious alike to Interstate's subsequent-run competitors and to the public.
The benefit, at such a cost, does not justify the restraint.
Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States, supra,
613; Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 468; Anderson
v. Shipowners Association, 272 U. S. 359, 363; Bedford
Cut Stone Co. v. Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S. 37, 47.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

It does not appear that the competition at which they
were aimed was unfair or abnormal. Cf. Appalachian
Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 363, 372. The
consequence of the price restriction, though more oppressive, is comparable with the effect of resale price maintenance agreements, which have been held to be unreasonable restraints in violation of the Sherman Act. Dr. Miles
Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; United
States v. Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85. Cf. United
States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., 273 U. S. 392, 397, et seq.
We think the conclusion is unavoidable that the conspiracy and each contract between Interstate and the distributors by which those consequences were effected are
violations of the Sherman Act and that the District Court
rightly enjoined enforcement and renewal of these
agreements, as well as of the conspiracy among the distributors.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

I think the decree should be reversed. The bill charges
that the two exhibitor defendants which were under the
same management, knowing that subsequent run houses
in Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, Fort Worth, Austin, and
Galveston, the largest cities in Texas, and in Waco,
Wichita Falls, Tyler, Amarillo, Texas, and Albuquerque,
New Mexico, could not operate without the showing of
feature films, in order to strengthen these two defendants'
monopoly in first run exhibition of such feature films, and
to monopolize the business of exhibiting feature films in
second or subsequent run houses operated by them in
those cities, conspired to notify the distributor defendants
that, during the 1934-1935 season, and subsequent seasons, the latter must advise second and subsequent run

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

exhibitors that such feature films could not be operated
in second or subsequent run houses for less than twentyfive cents adult lower floor admission or as part of a
double feature program and that, unless the distributor
defendants would do so, the exhibitors would not maintain a night adult admission price of forty cents or more
for the first run exhibitions of feature films licensed by
the distributor defendants to them. The bill charged that,
upon receipt of advices to this effect from the exhibitor
defendants, the distributor defendants joined in the unlawful combination and conspired with the exhibitor defendants to place such restrictions in licenses to second
or subsequent run exhibitors.
The parties entered into a stipulation of facts, in lieu
of evidence, binding upon them for the purposes of suit,
and further agreed that any party might introduce additional relevant and material evidence bearing upon the
issues "but not inconsistent with any fact contained in"
the stipulation. Plaintiff and defendants introduced additional evidence. Thet testimony of second or subsequent
exhibitors called as witnesses by plaintiff and defendants
may be said to have been, in some respects, conflicting.
The evidence offered by the plaintiff and the defendants
with respect to the negotiations between the exhibitor
defendants and the distributor defendants, and the conduct of the latter, was uncontradicted upon all points
material to a resolution of the fact issues in the cause.
The District Court made ten findings (numbered from
12 to 21, inclusive) of subsidiary or evidentiary facts and
based upon these specific findings one conclusion of ultimate fact,-that the distributor defendants conspired
amongst themselves to take uniform action upon the
proposals of Interstate and conspired with each' other
and with Interstate to impose the restrictions requested
by Interstate upon all subsequent run exhibitors in Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, and San Antonio.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

The appellants contend, and I think their contention
is sound, that the subsidiary findings are insufficient to
support the fact conclusion and that these subsidiary
findings are, in a number of vital instances, contrary to,
or unsupported by, the agreed statement of facts and, in
other instances, are in the teeth of uncontradicted and
unimpeached testimony.
Since this is a direct appeal from the District Court in
an equity suit, and the findings are challenged, this court
is bound to review them and to determine whether they
have a proper basis in the evidence. I think such a review demonstrates the lack of support of the critical basic
findings. No good purpose would be served by a detailed
analysis of what I consider erroneous and unsupported
findings. But I am of opinion that the findings ought
not to stand and that the conclusion that there was a
conspiracy, either between the distributor defendants or
between them and the Interstate corporation, is unjustified. The opinion of this Court accepts and closely follows these findings of fact but, while approving the conclusion of the District Court, finds it unnecessary to give
detailed consideration to the appellants' challenge of the
accuracy and sufficiency of the subsidiary findings, for the
reason that it holds, as matter of law, on uncontradicted
facts, that there were eight separate conspiracies unreasonably to restrain trade in interstate commerce in
virtue of the agreement of each of the distributor defendants with Interstate to impose restrictions on subsequent run exhibitors in certain cities.
Separately considered, I think these agreements are
not conspiracies contemplated by the Sherman Act and
the holding that they are goes far beyond anything this
Court has ever decided. The distributor defendants are
owners of copyrights on moving picture films. The copyright law gives them the exclusive privilege of licensing
performances of the photoplays recorded. On the other

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

hand, there are competing concerns whose copyrighted
feature films are licensed for the purpose of production.
In addition, there are copyrighted films of lower classes
well known to the trade. These lower class films are
usually licensed to houses that charge lower prices for
first run exhibition than those charged by theatres showing feature films, and both the feature films, second and
subsequent run, and other films of less attraction and
less expensively produced, are exhibited by so-called second run houses. The latter pay a much reduced rate
to obtain the feature films for exhibition in the same city
after their original showing as feature films in first run
houses. Many of the subsequent run houses charge low
admission prices, and sometimes put on double bills.
Interstate is the largest licensee of first run feature
films in Texas. It has many more first run houses than
any other Texas exhibitor. Its first run houses are in the
largest cities where the highest admission prices can be
obtained. The distributors are, of course, interested in
the conservation and protection of the necessarily high
license fees which they must obtain for first runs of
feature pictures. These are far higher than those received
for the second showings of the same pictures in the same
city. They naturally have to protect themselves and
their licensees from the destruction of the good will and
drawing power of these feature films in their first runs.
In an effort to accomplish this, by requiring minimum
admission charges and prohibiting double billing in subsequent runs of feature pictures, they may, of course,
narrow the opportunity of second run houses to obtain
feature pictures.
I agree that while the Copyright Act gives a distributor
a so-called monopoly, that monopoly cannot be made
the cover for a conspiracy to restrain trade or commerce.,
IStraus v.

American Publisherg' Assn., 231 UJ. S. 222; Paramount

Famous Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ltOBERTS,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

But I think it obscures the issue to use the phrase "monopoly." What the copyright gives is much the same as
what is conferred by the patent law.- The exhibition of
a photoplay, were it not for the copyright law, would
amount to a public disclosure and the use of the material
would thereafter be open to the public. All the Copy-right Act does is to create a form of property in the
literary or artistic production of the author or artist. The
Act attaches to the product of his brain certain attributes
of property. One of these is the right of exclusive use
similar to that attaching to physical property; another
is the right to sell the production with consequent exclusive enjoyment in the vendee; another is the right to
license others to use the product as one might lease or
bail real or personal property. The monopoly, so called,
amounts to no more than the attachment to the work
of an author or composer or producer of motion pictures
of the same rights as inhere in other property under the
common law. Therefore, the standing of the distributor
defendants toward their customers, as respects the productions proposed to be licensed, differs in no Way from
that of the owner of any other property toward those to
whom he leases or licenses its use or sale.
The decision of the court necessarily means that the
owner of a product may not agree with an important
customer that the former will not sell the product at a
cut rate to the latter's competitors in the same city in
which he conducts his business. The decision leads to
the necessary conclusion that a manufacturer whose
skill results in the production of apparatus of superior
quality may not, in consideration of a price to be paid
him for the bailment of that apparatus to certain users
in a city, contract, as an inducement to the users, that
he will not bail the same apparatus at lower and destruc2 See

United States v. Dubilier Condenser Corp., 289 U. S. 178, 186.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

tive prices to his bailees' competitors in the same city.
I think it has never been suggested that an agreement
of the sort mentioned, restricted in time and place,
amounts to a conspiracy in unreasonable restraint of trade
or commerce. The right to make such agreements is
essential to the realization of the full value of the property. It is conceded that the distributor defendants
might grant exclusive licenses to Interstate, and that an
exclusive license to Interstate would not constitute a
conspiracy under the Sherman Act, or confer any cause
of action on others who desired licenses in the same city;
and this remains true however much such action by the
licensor might injure the business of others seeking
licenses.
I am of opinion that the restrictions in the licenses of
second run exhibitors were not unreasonable restraints of
commerce under the Sherman Act. There is no contention that the action of the distributor defendants discouraged competition between them either for the business of Interstate or for that of subsequent run licensees.
The restrictions upon the latter were not intended to
increase license fees paid by them or those paid by Interstate; they were imposed to prevent destruction of the
good will which made possible the continued exhibition of
first run feature pictures and to avoid decrease of the revenue from those pictures then and theretofore enjoyed
under licenses to Interstate and other first run feature
exhibitors. The reasonableness of the restrictions must
be judged by the situation of the industry and the propriety of its protection from practices which would seriously injure it.' The question always is whether an
agreement unduly restrains competition and, in applying
'Appalachian Coals, Ynt. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 358, 359,
360, 362. Compare Chicago Bvard of Trade v. United States, 246
U. S. 231, 238.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

this test, consideration must be given both to the intent
and effect of the agreement in the light of realities.
It is settled that the proprietor of a copyright may
grant an exclusive license; that is, may covenant with
his licensee that he will not license anyone else, as the
owner of a patent may grant a similar exclusive license
to make or sell the patented article.' It is settled that
the distributor defendants could lawfully stipulate with
their licensees, whether first run or subsequent run, as to
the admission price to be paid by patrons and that, so to
do, would not be a violation of the Sherman Act." But
it is said that if, in order to protect its earnings from first
run licenses by enabling its licensees to pay the demanded
consideration, the distributor agrees to restrict in anywise the exhibition of the same feature by a subsequent
run exhibitor he has violated the Anti-Trust Law. In
the nature of things this cannot be true. The record discloses that the distributors have always provided a socalled "clearance" between the first run and subsequent
runs of feature pictures. By this is meant that the distributors refuse to license a subsequent run theatre to
show such a feature until the expiration of a given number of days or months after the picture has been shown
in a first run house. This is a perfectly natural procedure
and one obviously required to protect the value of the
first run license. Under the decision here, however, if
a distributor should agree with a first run house that if
it will contract for a given feature picture at a given price
the distributor will impose a clearance on second run
houses this would be a conspiracy in restraint of trade.
Other restrictions tending to preserve the value of the
'Manners v. Morosco, 252 U. S. 317; Bement v. National Harrow
Co., 186 U. S. 70.
5 United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 488-490;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 179.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
208

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

first exhibition of a feature picture such as those challenged in this case are just as necessary and, I suppose, in
the absence of agreement would be held just as lawful
as the restriction known as a clearance.
The opinion of the Court recognizes that a distributor
may lawfully agree that its exhibitor licensee shall have
the exclusive right to exhibit a copyrighted play but condemns the agreements here in controversy although a
much less drastic restraint respecting licenses to subsequent run exhibitors results from the provision for licenses with a restriction as to price and as to double
billing.
Once the property rights conferred by the Copyright
Law are recognized it must follow that the principles governing the right to use, sell, or turn to account other forms
of property are equally applicable here. We have often
held that a contract containing a covenant in restraint of
trade is valid if the restraint is reasonably necessary for
the protection of the right granted by the owner of the
property. Examples of such lawful contracts are those by
which the vendor of a business sold as a going concern
agrees that for the protection of its value he will for a
period of years refrain from engaging in the same business in a prescribed territory; 6 and those by the vendor
with the vendee of an article to be used in business or
trade that it shall not be used so as to interfere with the
vendor's business; ' which are held not to offend the Sherman Act if the prohibition has a reasonable relation to
the value of the business of the vendor.
Cincinnati Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179; Oregon Steam Navigation Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 67.
"Fowle v. Park, 131 U. S. 88; Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 250, 252; Moore v. New York Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593; United States v. General Electric Co., 272

U. S. 476; United States v. Addyston Steel Co., 85 F. 271.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

The Government stresses the fact that each of the distributors must have acted with knowledge that some or
all of the others would grant or had granted Interstate's
demand. But such knowledge was merely notice to each
of them that if it was successfully to compete for the first
run business in important Texas cities it must meet the
terms of competing distributors or lose the business of
Interstate. It could compete successfully only by granting exclusive licenses to Interstate and injuring subsequent run houses by refusing them licenses,-a course
clearly lawful,-or by doing the less drastic thing of agreeing to protect the good will of its pictures by putting
necessary and, not severely burdensome restrictions
upon subsequent run exhibitors, which I think equally
lawful.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

join in this opinion.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FANSTEEL METALLURGICAL CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 436. Argued January 12, 13, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Seizure and forcible retention of an employer's factory buildings
by employees, in a "sit-down" strike, is good cause for their discharge. P. 252.
2. The National Labor Relations Act does not undertake to abrogate
the right of an employer to refuse to retain in his employ those
who illegally take and.hold possession of his property. P. 255.
3. The National Labor Relations Act is not to be construed as compelling employers to retain persons in their employ regardless of
their unlawful conduct. In recognizing the right to strike it
contemplates a lawful strike; and where a strike, even though
actuated by unfair labor practices of the employer, is initiated

