BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
1

Syllabus.

erty. The growers, to be sure, may take their tobacco
where they please. But even if it were assumed that the
contention that the markets subject to the inspection
provision would lose patronage could afford ground for
resisting this sort of regulation, otherwise valid, the claim
in this instance rests more on conjecture than on proof.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that as to the
asserted difference of prices obtainable on inspected markets, as compared with those not inspected, the evidence
has little probative value and that the loss of business
from growers who do not desire the inspection would seem
by the record to be more than counterbalanced by the
gain of business from those who desire it. 95 F. 2d p.
861.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 359.

Argued January 11, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. The United States has constitutional power to acquire land within
the exterior limits of a State for a national park. P. 23.
2. As a general rule review of a determination of the District Court
affirming its jurisdiction involving imprisonment for crime is by
appellate procedure and not by habeas corpus. P. 23.
This rule is not one defining power to grant the writ but one
which relates to the appropriate exercise of power. P. 26.
3. Habeas corpus may be appropriately granted where jurisdiction
in the criminal case depended upon a question of law, there being
no dispute of facts, and where the need for the inquiry is made
apparent by exceptional circumstances. P. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

306 U. S.

Such exceptional circumstances existed in this case, which involved a sentence by the District Court for murder committed in
the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park, in Georgia.
There appeared to be uncertainty and confusion as to whether offenses within the Park were triable by the state or the federal
courts. It was represented that murder cases had been tried in
each. It did not appear of record that the District Court had
considered the question of jurisdiction. There had been no appeal, and it was contended that a reading of the Georgia statute
of consent and cession would show that the United States had not
acquired jurisdiction so as to bring the offense charged in the
indictment within the class of offenses cognizable in the District
Court.
4. In habeas corpus by one imprisoned for a murder committed in
the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park, in Georgia, the
sole question was whether the United States had exclusive jurisdiction over land in the Park, in virtue of having acquired it by
consent of or cession from the Georgia legislature. Held:
(1) The federal courts take judicial notice of the Georgia statutes. P. 23.
(2) If these statutes did not give to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the Park, the indictment did not charge a
crime cognizable under the authority of the United States. Id.
(3) Although in earlier Acts consenting to acquisitions and ceding jurisdiction of land for the Park, criminal jurisdiction was
specifically reserved by the State, exclusive jurisdiction was ceded
by the general Act of 1927, purporting to cede exclusive jurisdiction to the United States over any land "which has been or may
hereafter be acquired for custom-houses, post-offices, arsenals, other
public buildings whatever, or for any other purposes of government,"
and which reserved the right to serve civil and criminal processes
but not criminal jurisdiction over offenses within the ceded territory. P. 28.
(4) This conclusion has support in administrative construction.
P. 29.
Referring to an opinion of the Judge Advocate General, July
14, 1930, when the Park was in charge of the War Department.
97 F. 2d 860, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 579, to review affirmance below
of an order of the District Court denying a petition for a
writ of habeas corpus.

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

19

Mr. Seth W. Richardson argued the cause, and Mr.
Hugh Allen Bowen was on a brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Bates Booth, with whom Solicitor GeneralJackson,
Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. William W. Barron, Edward J. Ennis, and George F. Kneip
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner was convicted, in 1933, in the District Court
of the Northern District of Georgia, of murder committed
in 1930 on the Government Reservation known as the
Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park within the
exterior limits of the State of Georgia. He was sentenced
to imprisonment for life and is confined in the prison at
Alcatraz, California.

In 1937, he presented a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus to the District Judge of the Northern District
of California alleging that the indictment was void, and
no legal judgment could be based thereon, as it failed to
show jurisdiction over the person and subject matter; that
the United States did not have exclusive jurisdiction over
the Park.' He also alleged that on his trial the court (lid
not have the evidence taken down and preserved so that
he might appeal, and that, upon this ground and others.
he had been deprived of his liberty without due process
of law. A copy of the indictment was annexed to the
petition.

Pursuant to an order to show cause, the

Warden made return showing the judgment and the reeord of commitment. On the return day there was Oo
appearance of petitioner's attorneys, and no evidence.
apart from the return and the attached exhibits. was
offered. The petition was submitted and later was d(-

'CriminalI

Code, § 272, Third: IS U. S. C. 431.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

nied without opinion. On appeal, the order was affirmed.
97 F. 2d 860.
The principal contention before the Circuit Court of
Appeals was that the United States did not have exclusive jurisdiction over the Park and hence that the
District Court in Georgia did not have juris'diction to try
the petitioner. The court, taking the view that the
United States could constitutionally acquire jurisdiction
over the Park (Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S.
518), held that the question whether the United States
did acquire such jurisdiction could not be raised on habeas
corpus. In view of the importance of the question thus
presented, we granted certiorari. 305 U. S. 579.
First.Jurisdiction is conferred upon the District Courts
"of all crimes and offenses cognizable under the authority
of the United States." Jud. Code, § 24; 28 U. S. C. 41
(2).
Crimes are thus cognizable' When committed within or on any lands reserved or
acquired for the exclusive use of the United States, and
under the exclusive jurisdiction thereof, or any place
purchased or otherwise acquired by the United States
by consent of the legislature of the State in whichi the
same shall be, for the erection of a fort, magazine, arsenal,
dockyard, or other needful building." Crim. Code, § 272;
18 U. S. C. 451, Third.
The last clause covers cases where exclusive jurisdiction is acquired by the United States pursuant to Article
I, § 8, paragraph 17, of the Constitution.
In the instant case, no question of fact was presented
with respect to the place where the crime was committed.
The indictment specified the place, that is,"a certain place and on certain lands reserved and acquired for the exclusive use of the United States and under exclusive jurisdiction thereof, and acquired by the
United States by consent of the Legislature of the State

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
19

Opinion of the Court.

of Georgia, to wit: Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park, sometimes known as Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, in said State of
Georgia."
The sole question was whether this Park was within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. There is no
question that the United States had the constitutional
power to acquire the territory for the purpose of a national
park and that it did acquire it. Whether or not the
National Government acquired exclusive jurisdiction over
the lands within the Park or the State reserved, as it
could, jurisdiction over the crimes there committed, depended upon the terms of the consent or cession given
by the legislature of Georgia. Collins v. Yosemite Park
Co., supra, pp. 529, 530. See, also, James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.134, 146-148. The federal courts
take judicial notice of the Georgia statutes. Owings v.
Hull, 9 Pet. 607; Lamar v. Micou, 114 U. S.218, 223. If
these statutes did not give to the United States exclusive
jurisdiction over the Park, the indictment did not charge
a crime cognizable under the authority of the United
States.
Second. Where the District Court has jurisdiction of
the person and the subject matter in a criminal prosecution, the writ of habeas corpus cannot be used as a
writ of error. The judgment of conviction is not subject to collateral attack. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193,
203; Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S.18, 23; Harlanv. McGourin,
218 U. S.442, 448; McMicking v. Schields, 238 U. S.99,
107; Riddle v. Dyche, 262 U. S.333, 335; Craig v. Hecht,
263 U. S.255, 277. The scope of review on habeas corpus
is limited to the examination of the jurisdiction of the
court whose judgment of conviction is challenged. Ex
parte Siebold, 100 U. S.371, 375; Ex parte Bigelow, 113
U. S.328, 331; Matter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 210, 213;
Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, 429; Knewel v. Egan,

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

268 U. S. 442, 445. But if it be found that the court
had no jurisdiction to try the petitioner, or that in its
proceedings his constitutional rights have been denied,
the remedy of habeas corpus is available. Ex parte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 178; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S.
556, 572; In re Snow, 120 U. S. 274, 285; In re Coy, 127
U. S. 731, 758; Hans Nielsen, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 176,
182; In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242, 257; Moore v. Dempsey,
261 U. S. 86, 91; Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 467.
In applying this principle, we have said that the court
"has jurisdiction to render a particular judgment only
when the offence charged is within the class of offences
placed by the law under its jurisdiction." In re Bonner,
supra. As it is the duty of the District Court, when the
prosecution is brought before it, to examine the charge
and ascertain whether the offense is of that class, the District Court is thus empowered to pass upon its own
jurisdiction. This, under the applicable statute, may require consideration of the place where the offense is alleged to have been committed. The answer to that question may require the examination and determination of
questions of fact and law and that determination may
be the appropriate subject of appellate review. Thus if,
construing a statute, a question of law is determined
against the Government on demurrer to the indictment,
the case may fall within the provisions of the Criminal
Appeals Act. United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291;
United States v. Soldana, 246 U. S. 530. Or, if decided
against the accused, the question may be reviewed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals on appeal from the judgment of
conviction. In considering the distribution of appellate
jurisdiction under the former statute 2 permitting a direct
writ of error from this Court to the District Court, when
the question of the jurisdiction of the latter was the only
2 26

Stat. 827; 36 Stat. 1157, ,ud. Code, § 238.

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
19

Opinion of the Court.

question involved, we drew the distinction between the
question of the jurisdiction of the District Court in that
aspect and that of the jurisdiction of the United States.
Louie v. United States, 254 U. S. 548, 549, 550. There,
on a charge of murder committed within the limits of an
Indian reservation, the defendant contended that before
the time of the alleged crime he had been declared competent and that the land on which the crime was alleged
to have been committed "had been allotted and deeded
to him in fee simple." "That the District Court . . .
had jurisdiction to determine whether the locus in quo
was a part of the reservation was not questioned" and
the judgment was held to be reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals and not directly by this Court. See,
also, Pronovost v. United States, 232 U. S. 487; Pothier v.
Rodman, 261 U. S. 307, 311.
Where on the face of the record the District Court has
jurisdiction of the offense and of the defendant and the
defendant contends that on the facts shown the crime was
not committed at a place within the jurisdiction of the
United States, we have held that the judgment is one
for review by the Circuit Court of Appeals in error proceedings and that the writ of habeas corpus is properly
refused. Toy Toy v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542, 549. And,
on removal proceedings, we have observed that in a case
where the question "whether the locus of the alleged crime
was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
demands consideration of many facts and seriously controverted questions of law," these matters "must be determined by the court where the indictment was found"
and that "the regular course may not be anticipated by
alleging want of jurisdiction and demanding a ruling
thereon in a habeas corpus proceeding." Rodman v.
Pothier, 264 U. S. 399, 402. See, also, Henry v. Henkel,
235 U. S. 219, 229. On the same principle, in JWalsh v.
Archer, 73 F. 2d 197, where the indictment charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

murder committed on board a vessel on the high seas, the
court affirmed an order dismissing a petition for habeas
corpus, it being contended that the vessel at the time of
the commission of the crime was within the State of California and under its jurisdiction, saying-"Whether the
location of the alleged crime was upon the high seas and
exclusively within the jurisdiction of the United States
required consideration of many facts and seriously controverted questions of law, including the alleged error
involving the jurisdiction of the court." Id., p. 199.
But the rule, often broadly stated, is not to be taken
to mean that the mere fact that the court which tried the
petitioner had assumed jurisdiction, necessarily deprives
another court of authority to grant a writ of habeas
corpus. As the Court said in the case of Coy, supra, pp.
757, 758, the broad statement of the rule was certainly
not intended to go so far as to mean, for example, "that
because a federal court tries a prisoner for an ordinary
common law offence, as burglary, assault and battery, or
larceny, with no averment or proof of any offence against
the United States, or any connection with a statute of
the United States, and punishes him by imprisonment,
he cannot be released by habeas corpus because the
court which tried him had assumed jurisdiction." Despite the action of the trial court, the absence of jurisdiction may appear on the face of the record (see In re
Snow, supra; Hans Nielsen, Petitioner, supra, p. 183)
and the remedy of habeas corpus may be needed to release the prisoner from a punishment imposed by a court
manifestly without jurisdiction to pass judgment.
It must never be forgotten that the writ of habeas
corpus is the precious safeguard of personal liberty and
there is no higher duty than to maintain it unimpaired.
Ex parte Lange, supra. The rule requiring resort to appellate procedure when the trial court has determined its
own jurisdiction of an offense is not a rule denying the

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
19

Opinion of the Court.

power to issue a writ of habeas corpus when it appears
that nevertheless the trial court was without jurisdiction.
The rule is not one defining power but one which relates
to the appropriate exercise of power. It has special application where there are essential questions of fact determinable by the trial court. Rodman v. Pothier, supra.
It is applicable also to the determination in ordinary
cases of disputed matters of law whether they relate to the
sufficiency of the indictment or to the validity of the
statute on which the charge is based. Id.; Glasgow v.
Moyer, supra;Henry v. Henkel, supra. But it is equally
true that the rule is not so inflexible that it may not yield
to exceptional circumstances where the need for the remedy afforded by the writ of habeas corpus is apparent.
Among these exceptional circumstances are those indicating a conflict between state and federal authorities on a
question of law involving concerns of large importance
affecting their respective jurisdictions. In re Lincoln,
202 U. S. 178, 182, 183; Henry v. Henkel, supra, pp. 228,
229.
We think that there are such exceptional circumstances
in this instance. There appear to be uncertainty and confusion with respect to the question whether offenses
within the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park
are triable in the state or federal courts. It is represented
that murder cases have been tried in the state court as
well as in the federal court. If the District Court which
tried petitioner gave consideration to the question, it
made no comment on the subject, as it rendered no opinion and apparently made no record of its proceedings aside
from the indictment and judgment. The matter stood
without any judicial explication and without appeal. If,
as contended, there being no disputed questions of fact,
a reading of the Georgia statute of consent and cession
would show that the United States had not acquired
jurisdiction so as to bring the offense charged in the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

dictment within the class of offenses cognizable in the District Court, we think that it was within the province of
the court to which the application for habeas corpus was
made to examine the question and to issue the writ in
case the claim of want of jurisdiction in the trial court
was found to be a valid one.
Third. Our examination of the Georgia statutes leads
to the conclusion that it is unnecessary to remand the
case for the determination of the District Court but that
it may be, and should be, disposed of at once by our
decision.
The lands which are embraced within the Chickamauga
and Chattanooga National Park, and lie within the exterior limits of the State of Georgia, were acquired under
the provisions of the Act of Congress approved August 19,
1890, and supplementary legislation. 26 Stat. 333. The
Act provided for the establishment of the Park "upon
the ceding of jurisdiction by the legislature of the State
of Georgia." The lands were acquired in 1891 and subsequent years. Some were acquired by purchase and
some by condemnation. Consent was given and jurisdiction was ceded to the United States by an Act of the
Legislature of Georgia approved November 19, 1890.
Georgia Laws, 1890-91, vol. 1, p. 199. The Act specifically reserved to the State of Georgia criminal jurisdiction in the ceded territory by the following proviso:
"provided, that this cession is upon the express condition
that the State of Georgia shall so far retain a concurrent
jurisdiction with the United States over said lands and
roads as that all civil and criminal process issued under
the authority of this State may be executed thereon in
like manner as if this Act had not been passed; and upon
the further express conditions, that the State shall retain
its civil and criminal jurisdiction over persons and citizens
in said ceded territory as over other persons and citizens
in the State, and the property of said citizens and resi-

BOWEN v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

19

dents thereon, except land and such other property as the
general government may desire for its use, and that the
property belonging to persons residing within said ceded
territory shall be liable to State and county taxes, the
same as if they resided elsewhere, and that citizens of this
State in said ceded territory shall retain all rights of State
suffrage and citizenship ... ;"
Later Acts of cession contained a similar reservation as
to criminal jurisdiction.'
If the matter rested with these statutes, there would be
no room for doubt that jurisdiction to punish for crimes
committed on the lands within the Park remained with
the State. See James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra.
But in 1927, another cession act of a general character
was passed by the state legislature, purporting to cede
exclusive jurisdiction to the United States over any land
"which has been or may hereafter be acquired for custom-houses, post-offices, arsenals, other public buildings
whatever, or for any other purposes of government."
Georgia Laws, 1927, p. 352. This Act reserved the right
to serve civil and criminal processes but not criminal
jurisdiction over offenses within the ceded territory.
The argument is strongly pressed that as this is a general act and there is no express repeal of, or specific reference to, the earlier special acts relating to the lands
within the Park, it should not be regarded as yielding
the jurisdiction which the earlier acts reserved to the
State. But we find that the administrative construction
is to the contrary. The administration of the Park was
placed with the War Department' and it appears from its
files that on July 14, 1930, upon a review of the pertinent
legislation, the Judge Advocate General gave an opinion
that the Act of 1927 "vests exclusive jurisdiction in the
Georgia Laws, 1893, p. 110; lo95, p. 77; 1901, p. 85; 1902, p. 110.
Transferred to the National Parks Service, Department of the
Interior by Executive Order No. 6166, June 10, 1933.
3

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

United States over that part of the Chickamauga and
Chattanooga National Military Park located within the
State of Georgia" and that violations of law occurring on
the ceded lands are enforceable only by the proper authorities of the United States. As this administrative
construction is a permissible one we find it persuasive
and we think that the debated question of jurisdiction
should be settled by construing the Act of 1927 in the
same way.
On this ground, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, affirming the order of the District Court denying the petition for habeas corpus, is
Affirmed.
WASHINGTONIAN PUBLISHING CO. v. PEARSON
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 222.

Argued December 6, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. Section 12 of the Copyright Act of 1909 provides that, after
copyright has been secured by publication with the prescribed
notice of copyright, two copies of the copyrighted work shall be
"promptly" deposited in the copyright office; and that no suit
for infringement shall be maintained "until" the provisions of
the Act with respect to the deposit of copies and registration
of such work shall have been complied with. Held that the
right to sue under the Act for infringement is not lost by mere
delay in depositing copies of the copyrighted work. P. 39.
2. Fourteen months after the date of its publication and six months
after it bad been infringed, copies of a publication which bore
notice of copyright were deposited in the copyright office and a
certificate of registration secured. Held, a suit to enjoin the infringement and to recover damages (from the (late of publication
of the infringing work) was maintainable under the Copyright
Act of 1909. Pp. 33, 39.
3. The Copyright Act of 1909 was intended definitely to grant
valuable, enforceable rights to authors, publishers, etc., without

