466

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

that they should allo be used in connection with other
facilities for the purposes of the flood control district.
The challenged section was not enacted to create a new
assessment district but specially to authorize the one
already established to accept, maintain, and use the designated improvements for some of the purposes enumerated
in the flood control act. The essential features of the
challenged statute newssarily imply special benefits to the
lands in question. We think the state court's ruling that
impliedly the legislature made the requisite findings is
not without adequate foundation. Mere lack of formal
or express statement of them is not sufficient to require
reversal.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAVES

ET AL.,

COMMISSIONERS CONSTITUTING

THE STATE TAX COMMISSION OF NEW YORK,
v. NEW YORK EX REL. O'KEEFE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 478. Argued March 6, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
1. The receipt of salary by a resident of New York as an examining
attorney for the Federal Home Owners' Loan Corporation, is
constitutionally subject to non-discriminatory taxation by a State.
P. 475. '
2. For the purposes of this case it is assumed that the creation of
the Home Owners' Loan Corporation was a constitutional exercise of the powers of the FRderal Government, and that all activities of the Government constitutionally authorized by Congress
are governmental and stand on a parity with i,'spect to immunity
from state-taxation. P. 477.
3. Whether Congress, as an incident to the exercise of specifically
granted powers, has power to grant tax exemptions extending
beyond the constitutional immunity of federal agencies which
courts may imply, is a question not determined in this case.
P. 478.

GRAVES v. N. Y. EX REL. O'KEEFE.
466

467

Argument for Petitioners.

4. No purpose of Congress either to grant or to withhold immunity
from state taxation of salaries of employees of the Home Owners'
Loan Corporation is expressed or implied in the Home Owners'
Loan Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 128, or is to be inferred from the silence
of Congress.. P. 479.
5. A tax on income is not legally or economically a tax on its source,
and there isno basis for the assumption that' the economic burden
of a non-discriminatory state income tax on the salary of an
employee of the National Oovernment or of a governmental agefcy
is passed on so as to impose a burden on the National Government
tantamount to an unconstitutional interference by the one government with the other in the performance of its functions. P. 480.
6. Assuming that the Homd Owners' Loan Corporation is clothed
with the same constitutional immunity from state taxation as the
Government itself, it can not be said that the present tax on the
income of its employees lays any unconstitutional burden upon it.'
P. 486.
7. Collector v. Day; 11 Wall. 113, and New York ex rel. Rogers v.
Graves, 299 U. S. 401, are overruled in so far as they recognize an
implied constitutional immunity from non-discriminating income
taxation of the salaries of officers or employees of the national or
state governments or their instrumentalities. Id.
278 N. Y. 691; 16 N. E. 2d 404, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 592, to review the affirmance of
an order, 253 App. Div. 91; 1 N. Y. S. 2d 195, setting
aside a decision of the Tax Commission of the State of
New York rejecting a claim-for refund of a tax.
Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General of New York,

with whom Messrs. Johnf J. Benett, Jr., Attorney General, Joseph M. Mesnig, and Austin J. Tobin were on

the brief, for petitioners.
Employees and officers of the Home Owners' Loan

Corporation enjoy no constitutional or statutory immunity from non-discriminatory state taxation of their

salaries.
Interference with the operation of government furnishes an appropriate test for immunity from taxation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

306 U. S.

By such test no immunity should be accorded the taxpayer here.
The taxpayer is not an employee of the United
States.
The salary is paid by the Corporation pursuant to
§ 4 (j) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, which
clearly delineates the distinction between officers or employees like respondent and officers or employees of the
United States.
The Home Owners' Loan Corporation has all the earmarks of a regular private business corporation.
We note the extended and wholly impertinent argument of the Department of Justice addressed to the
proposition that this Court should now, in this case, reconsider and overrule Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113,
and subsequent cases in line therewith. Since the instant
case involves no such issue or question; since we respect
the repeated admonition of this Court to confine discussion to the facts and issues of law concerned in the
case at bar, and none other; since the issue thus extraneously raised by the Government's brief will inevitably
come before the Court in a case where the issue may be
squarely presented and the vital constitutional questions
therein involved fully argued and considered-for these
reasons the petitioners must decline to be drawn into a
discussion of the proposition thus irrelevantly sought to
be injected into the instant appeal. For the same reasons
we most earnestly trust and pray that this Court will
adhere to its traditional philosophy of the judicial process
and decline the Government's invitation to make the
"digression from the particular case before the Court."
Mr. Daniel McNamara, Jr. for respondent.
The functions of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation
are essential to the preservation of the general welfare
and the promotion of economic security.

GRAVES v. N. Y. EX REL. O'KEEFE.
466

Argument for Respondent.

A wholly-owned instrumentality of the United States,
lawfully created and used to carry into effect constitutional powers, the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is immune from state taxation. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316; Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435; Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Clallam County v.
United States, 263 U. S. 341; New Brunswick v. United
States, 276 U. S. 547.
The immunity rests upon an entire absence of the
power to tax. Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 151;
Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401.
The State can not by any form of taxation impose any
burden upon a national power or function: Weston v.
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Home Savings Bank v. Des
Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 513.
Congress may enlarge the federal immunity if necessary
to protect the performance of the functions of the National Government. James v. Dravo Contracting Co.,
302 U. S. 134, 160-161.
Although the Court in Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3
Wall. 573, suggested that Congress might curtail a federal
immunity that might otherwise be implied, the Court,
upon full consideration, in the case of Home Savings Bank
v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, said: "It may be doubted
whether Congress has the power to confer upon the state
the right to tax obligations of the United States." See
Farmers Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516.
The immunity is not a private boon but a limitation
imposed in the public interest. Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S.
245.
Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, recognizes that
there are many state employees remaining immune despite the fact that the tax affects the State only as the
burden is passed on to it. The effect of this decision is
to.deny immunity when the burden of such taxation on

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

306 U. S.

the State is speculative and uncertain to the degree mentioned in that opinion.
If it were necessary to show the burden of state income tax on the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, that
can readily be demonstrated.
The diverse provisions in the several States requiring
information reports to be filed by the employer, and provisions for withholding tax, constitute a real burden and
expense if the Corporation be required to conform
thereto, and the physical labor involved in preparation of
information returns will impair, impede and prejudice
this governmental function. National Bank v. Kentucky, 9 Wall. 353, 362.
The state income tax compels consideration in determining salaries and would increase the operating expense
of the Corporation.
In attempting to reflect the divers income taxes, an
administrative agency is confronted with an impossible
task in the matter of classification and equalization of
salaries throughout an organization functioning in all the
States of the Union, and this would constitute such a
handicap as to compel the Federal Government to abandon the corporate form of agency or instrumentality and
function directly in all fields.
To tax the salary is to tax the right of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to employ the person, and is to levy
upon the right of the person to work for the Corporation
and receive the salary.
Income is to be distinguished from property. The income tax is not a tax of money in hand but is a tax on
the right to receive the money.
The question here is one of power-not economics.
Congress has not consented'to a state income tax, and
such consent will not be implied.
The immunity exists unless Congress expressly consents to a tax.

GRAVES v. N. Y. EX REL. O'KEEFE.
466

Argument for Respondent.

The immunity need never be carried into express stipulation for this could add nothing to its force. Evans v.
Gore, supra.
The immunity from taxation rests upon an entire absence of the power to tax. It is analogous to immunity
from suit, Helvering v. Gerhardt,supra, footnote 1; Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U. S. 229, 234, 235.
A statute under which waiver of sovereign immunity is
claimed must be strictly construed. Suit may not be
maintained against the United States in any case not
clearly within the terms of the statute by which it consents to be sued.
The immunity of federal instrumentalities from suit
is less readily implied than immunity from taxation.
The rule as to taxation is absolute in form and stricter
in substance.
Although it became the practice after the Civil War
for Congress to insert in appropriate acts the express
exemption, the immunity, without that, is clear.
The immunity of federal instrumentalities rests on a
different basis from that of state instrumentalities. It
is more extensive. Helvering v. Gerhardt, supra.
In James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra, the Court
pointed out that Congress might enlarge the immunity to
include independent contractors if deemed necessary in
order to protect the performance of the functions of the
National Government.
A State is without power to tax persons, instrumentalities, or agencies engaged in exercising a power granted
by the Constitution to the Federal Government, but the
Federal Government can exercise its delegated powers of
taxation equally against all men so long as it does not
actually interfere with traditional governmental functions of the State. Cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, supra;
Hetvering v. Therrell, 303 U. S. 218; United States v.
California,297 U. S. 180.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for the United States.

306 U. S.

The claim to immunity of the employees of a federal
instrumentality rests on a different basis from that of an
independent contracter engaged on the work of such an
instrumentality. James v. Dravo ContractingCo., supra;
Rogers v. Graves, supra; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269
U. S. 514.
The State of New York has exempted respondent's
salary from taxation by the state tax law.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs. Sewall Key and Warner
W. Gardner were on the brief, for the United States, as
amicus curiae, by leave of Court.
The New York statute exempts "compensation received
from the United States of officials or employees thereof."
The relator is exempted under this provision; the question
is one of state law.
The Federal Government can exercise only its delegated powers, and if the activity is constitutional it must
by definition be governmental. McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 432, 435-436; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S. 151, 158-159; South Carolinav. United States,
199 U. S. 437, 451-452; Helvering v. Therrell, 303 U. S.
218, 223; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 412-413,
416.
Stock of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is wholly
owned by the United States and its functions are those of
the Government alone. Since there is and can be no
challenge to its constitutionality in these proceedings, its
activities must be taken to be purely governmental and in
all respects those of the United States.
There is no constitutional immunity from a tax such as
this.
The Court has four times held an officer of a State or
the Federal Government exempt from taxation by the
other; it has never held an employee to be exempt.

GRAVES v. N. Y. EX REL. O'KEEFE.
466

Argument for the United States.

Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, was erroneous at the
time it was decided. It ignored that, with knowledge of
tax-immunity problems, the Constitution provided no
relevant limitation upon the federal taxing powers. It
reversed the reasoning of the prior decision of this Court
holding state taxes invalid solely because of the supremacy
clause. It ignored Chief Justice Marshall's insistence that
the representation of the States in Congress made unnecessary a constitutional protection. And it opened wide
fields for unnecessary and unfair tax exemptions, which
the Court has since been required steadily to narrow.
Collector v. Day can not be reconciled with the subsequent decisions of the Court. Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304
U. S. 405; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514;
James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134; United
States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Peck & Co.
v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165.
There is no practical justification for the immunity.
The government officer or employee receives all the benefits of organized government and should pay his share of
its costs. The tax contains no threat to the operations of
Government. It is not certain that the government salary
will be taxed at all if included in gross income. The
exemption privilege operates in a variable and discriminatory manner. Few, if any, persons considering government work would have their decisions shaped by immunity or liability to income tax. Even if the exemption
were to be reflected in the public treasury, there is doubt
that such a bounty should be offered by one government
to another. The requirement that the tax be non-discriminatory eliminates any danger of interference with
government operations.
Each of the three reasons advanced or suggested by the
Court for the decision in Collector v. Day has subsequently been rejected: (1) The power to tax can no
longer be thought to involve the power to destroy. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for the United States.

306 U. S.

half a hundred cases the Court has sustained taxes which
would be capable of destruction if pressed to discriminatory or oppressive limits, and the Court has expressly
decided that the States could tax federal activities which
they could not regulate or forbid. Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; New Brunswick v.
United States, 276 U. S. 547. (2) A non-discriminatory
net income tax can no longer be considered to be an
interference with the governmental funtions in which
the officer or employee is engaged. (3) Finally, after
the decision in New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300
U. S. 308 and Hale v. State Board, 302 U. S. 95, the tax
upon net income can no longer be thought to be a tax
on the source of the income.
The fear that the eponomic burden of the tax might
be passed on to the Government no longer can be accepted as a ground for extending immunity from such
a tax. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134,
160; Helvering,v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S.
376; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 418-419,
420-421.
The reasons announced by the Court for denying a
claim of immunity in the cases just cited are fully applicable to the case of a Government officer.
Foreign federations with similar problems have first
adopted and then have rejected the rule of Collector v.
Day.
An intention on the part of Congress to exempt the
salary from such taxation is not to be implied from its
silence.
In forty-odd cases the States have been permitted to
tax private persons who dealt with the Government. In
no case has the silence of Congress been thought to imply
a desire that there be exemption; the decisions of immunity have been pitched on the Constitution alone.
In many opinions the Court has expressly relied upon

GRAVES v. N. Y.
466

EX REL.

O'KEEFE.

Opinion of the Court.

the failure of Congress to provide exemption as a reason
why the tax should be sustained. And certainly if the
gross receipts tax on the government contractor, sustained
in James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, was
not to be thought condemned by the silence of Congress,
a tax so remote from the operations of government as an
income tax upon the salaries paid officers and employees
is not to be thought forbidden by an implication derived
from the silence of Congress.
The possible argument that Congress by its silence has
accepted the rule of immunity announced in Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, as applied to federal officers and employees, can not be allowed.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Roy McKittrick, Attorney
General of Missouri, and Edward H. Miller, Assistant
Attorney General, filed a brief on behalf of that State, as
amicus curiae, in support of petitioners.
MR. JusTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are asked to decide whether the imposition by the
State of New York of an income tax on the salary of an
employee of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation places
an unconstitutional burden upon the federal government.
Respondent, a resident of New York, was employed
during 1934 as an examining attorney for the Home
Owners' Loan Corporation at an annual salary of $2,400.
In his income tax return for that year he included his
salary as subject to the New York state income tax imposed by Art. 16 of the Tax Law-of New*York (Consol.
Laws, c. 60). Subdivision 2f of § 359, -since repealed,
exempted from the tax "Salaries, wages and other compensation received from the United States of officials
or employees thereof, including persons in the military or
Petitioners,
naval forces of the United States. . .'..

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

New York State Tax Commissioners, rejected respondent's claim for a refund of the tax based on the ground
that his salary was constitutionally exempt from state
taxation because the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is
an instrumentality of the United States Government and
that he, during the taxable year, was an employee of
the federal government engaged in the performance of a
governmental function.
On review by certiorari the Board's action was set
aside by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
New York, 253 App. Div. 91; 1 N. Y. S. 2d 195, whose
order was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 278 N. Y.
691; 16 N. E. 2d 404. Both courts held respondent's
salary was free from tax on the authority of New York
ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401, which sustained
the claim that New York could not constitutionally tax
the salary of an employee of the Panama Rail Road Company, a wholly-owned corporate instrumentality of the
United States. We granted certiorari, 305 U. S. 592, the
constitutional question presented by the record being of
public importance.
The Home Owners' Loan Corporation was created pursuant to § 4 (a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933,
48 Stat. 128, 12 U. S. C. § 1461 et seq., which was enacted
to provide emergency relief to home owners, particularly
to assist them with respect to home mortgage indebtedness. The corporation, which is authorized to lend money
to home owners on mortgages and to refinance home
mortgage loans within the purview of the Act, is declared by § 4 (a) to be an instrumentality of the United
States. Its shares of stock are wholly government-owned.
§ 4 (b). Its funds are deposited in the Treasury of the
United States, and the compensation of its employees is
paid by drafts upon the Treasury.

GRAVES v. N. Y. Ex REL. O'KEEFE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

For the purposes of this case we may assume that the
creation of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation was ,a
constitutional exercise of the powers of the federal government. Cf. Kay v. United States, 303 U. S. 1. As
that government derives its authority wholly from powers
delegated to it by the Constitution, its every action within its constitutional power is governmental action, and
since Congress is made the sole judge of what powers
within the constitutional grant are to be exercised, all
activities of government constitutionally authorized by
Congress must stand on a parity with respect to their
constitutional immunity from taxation. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 432; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S. 151, 158-159; South Carolinav. United States,
199 U. S. 437, 451-452; Helvering v. Gerhardt,304 U. S.
405, 412-415. And when the national government lawfully acts through a corporation which it owns and controls, those activities are governmental functions entitled
to whatever tax immunity attaches to those functions
when carried on by the government itself through its
departments. See McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, 421422; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255 U. S. 180, 208;
Federal Land Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374; New
York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra.
The single question with which we are now concerned
is whether the tax laid by the state upon the salary of
respondent, employed by a corporate instrumentality of
the federal government, imposes an unconstitutional
burden upon that government. The theory of the tax
immunity of either government, state or national, and
its instrumentalities, from taxation by the other, has
been rested upon an implied limitation on the taxing
power of each, such as to forestall undue interference,
through the exercise of that power, with the govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

mental activities of the other. That the two types of
immunity may not, in all respects, stand on a parity has
been recognized from the beginning, McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, 435-436, and possible differences in application, deriving from differences in the source, nature and
extent of the immunity of the governments and their
agencies, were pointed out and discussed by this Court
in detail during the last term. Helvering v. Gerhardt,
supra, 412-413, 416.
So far as now relevant, those differences have been
thought to be traceable to the fact that the federal government is one of delegated powers in the exercise of
which Congress is supreme; so that every agency which
Congress can constitutionally create is a governmental
agency. And since the power to create the agency includes the implied power to do whatever is needful or
appropriate, if not expressly prohibited, to protect the
agency, there has been attributed to Congress some scope,
the limits of which it is not now necessary to define, for
granting or withholding immunity of federal agencies
from state taxation. See Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3
Wall. 573, 583, 585; Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, 30,
31; Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579, 588 590;
People v. IVeaver, 100 U. S. 539, 543; Mercantile Bank
v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, 154; Owensboro National
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, 668; Shaw v. GibsonZahniser Oil Corp., 276 U. S. 575, 581; Oklahoma v.
Barnsdall Refineries, Inc., 296 U. S.521, 525-526; Baltimore National Bank v. State Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S.
209, 211-212; British-American Oil Co. v. Board, 299
U. S. 159; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.
134, 161; Helvering v. Gerhardt, supra, 411, 412, 417;
cf. United States v. Bekins, 304 U. S.27, 52. Whether its
power to grant tax exemptions as an incident to the exercise of powers specifically granted by the Constitution
can ever, in any circumstances, extend beyond the con-

GRAVES v. N. Y.
466

EX REL.

O'KEEFE.

Opinion of the Court.

stitutional immunity of federal agencies which courts
have implied, is a question which need not now be
determined.
Congress has declared in § 4 of the Act that the Home
Owners' Loan Corporation is an instrumentality of the
United States and that its bonds are exempt, as to principal and interest, from federal and state taxation, except
surtaxes, estate, inheritance and gift taxes. The corporation itself, "including its franchise, its capital, reserves
and surplus, and its loans and income," is likewise exempted from taxation; its real property is subject to tax
to the same extent as other real property. But Congress
has given no intimation of any purpose either to grant
or withhold immunity from state taxation of the salary
of the corporation's employees, and the Congressional intention is not to be gathered from the statute by implication. Cf. Baltimore National Bank v. State Tax
Comm'n, supra.
It is true that the silence of Congress, when it has authority to speak, ma'y sometimes give rise to an implication as to the Congressional purpose. The nature and extent of that implication depend upon the nature of the
Congressional power and the effect of its exercise.' But
' The failure of Congress to regulate interstate commerce has
generally been taken to signify a Congressional purpose to leave
undisturbed the authority of the states to make regulations affecting
the commerce in matters of peculiarly local concern, but to withhold
from them authority to make regulations affecting those phases of
it which, because of the need of a national uniformity, demand that
their regulation, if any, be prescribed by a single authority. Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 399-400; Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 14; South
Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Brothers, 303 U. S. 177, 184185; Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, ante, p. 346.
As to the implications from Congressional silence in the field of state

taxation of interstate commerce and its instrumentalities, see Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250; Gwin, White &
Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

there is little scope for the application of that doctrine to
the tax immunity of governmental instrumentalities.
The constitutional immunity of either government from
taxation by the other, where Congress is silent, has its
source in an implied restriction upon the powers of the
taxing government. So far as the implication rests upon
the purpose to avoid interference with the functions of
the taxed government or the imposition upon it of the
economic burden of the tax, it is plain that there is no
basis for implying a purpose of Congress to exempt the
federal government or its agencies from tax burdens which
are unsubstantial or which courts are unable to discern.
Silence of Congress implies immunity no more than does
the silence of the Constitution. It follows that when exemption from state taxation is claimed on the ground
that the federal government is burdened by the tax, and
Congress has disclosed no intention with respect to the
claimed immunity, it is in order to consider the nature
and effect of the alleged burden, and if it appears that
there is no ground for implying a constitutional immunity, there is equally a want df any ground for assuming
any purpose on the part of Congress to create an immunity.
The present tax is a non-discriminatory tax on income
applied to salaries at a specified rate. It is not in form
or substance a tax upon the Home Owners' Loan Corporation or its property or income, nor is it paid by the corporation or the government from their funds. It is measured by income which becomes the property of the taxpayer when received as compensation for his services;
and the tax laid upon the privilege of receiving it is paid
from his private funds and not from the funds of the
government, either directly or indirectly. The theory,
which once won a qualified approval, that a tax on income
is legally or economically a tax on its source, is no longer
tenable, New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308,
313, 314; Hale v. State Board, 302 U. S. 95, 108; Helver-

GRAVES v. N. Y. Ex REL. O'KEEFE.
Opinion of the Court.

466

ing v. Gerhardt, supra; cf. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 123;
James v. Dravo ContractingCo., supra, 149; Helvering v.

Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376, and the only
possible basis for implying a constitutional immunity
from state income tax of the salary of an employee of the
national government or of a governmental agency is that
the economic burden of the tax is in some way passed on
so as to impose a burden on the national government
tantamount to an interference by one government with
the other in the performance of its functions.
In the four cases in which this Court has held that the
salary of an officer or employee of one government or its
instrumentality was immune from taxation by the other,
it was assumed, without discussion, that the immunity
of a government or its instrumentality extends to the
salaries of its officers and employees.! This assumption
made with respect to the salary of a governmental officer
'In Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435, a
Pennsylvania tax, nominally laid upon the office of the captain of
a federal revenue cutter, but roughly measured by the salary paid
to the officer, was held invalid. The Court seems to have rested
its decision in part on the ground that a tax on the emoluments of
his office was the equivalent of a tax upon an activity of the national
government, and in part on the ground that it was an infringement
of the implied superior power of Congress to fix the compensation
of government employees without diminution by state taxation.
In Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, this Court held that the salary
of a state probate judge was constitutionally immune from federal
income tax on the grounds that the salary of an officer of a state
is exempt from federal taxation if the function he performs as an
officer is exempt, citing Dobbins v. Commissioners, supra, and that
there was an implied constitutional restriction upon the power of
the national government to tax a state in the exercise of those
functions which were essential to the maintenance of state governments as they were organized at the time when the Constitution
was adopted. The possibility that a non-discriminatory tax upon the
income of a state officer did not involve any substantial interference
133096-39----31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

in Dobbins v. Commissionersof Erie County, 16 Pet. 435,
and in Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, was later extended
to confer immunity on income derived by a lessee from
lands leased to him by a government in the performance
of a governmental function, Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257
U. S. 501; Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S.
393, and cases cited, although the claim of a like exemption from tax on the income of a contractor engaged in
carrying out a governmental project was rejected both in
the case of a contractor with a state, Metcalf & Eddy v.
with the functioning of the state government was not discussed
either in this or the Dobbins case.
In New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401, the question
was whether the salary of the general counsel of the Panama Rail
Road Company was exempt from state income tax because the
railroad company was an instrumentality of the federal government.
The sole question raised by the taxing state was whether the railroad company was a government instrumentality. The Court, having found that the railroad company was such an instrumentality,
disposed of the matter of tax exemption of the salary of its employees
by declaring: "The railroad company being immune from state taxation, it necessarily results that fixed salaries and compensation paid
to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise
immune." New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, 408.
In Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 352, the applicable treasury
regulation upon which the government relied exempted from federal
income tax the compensation of "state officers and employees" for
"services rendered in connection with the exercise of an essential
governmental function of the State." The Court held that the
maintenance of the public water system of New York City was
an essential governmental function, and in determining whether the
salary of the engineer in charge of that project was subject to federal
income tax the Court declared, citing New York ex rel. Rogers v.
Graves, supra, 408; "The answer depends upon whether the water
system of the city was created and is conducted in the exercise of
the city's governmental functions.

If so, its operations are immune

from federal taxation and, as a necessary corollary, 'fixed salaries
and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their
capacity as such are likewise immune." Brush v. Commissioner,
supra, 360.

GRAVES v. N. Y.
466

EX REL.

O'KEEFE.

Opinion of the Court.

Mitchell, supra, and of a contractor with the national
government, James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra.
The ultimate repudiation in Helvering v. Mountain
ProducersCorp., supra, of the doctrine that a tax on the
income of a lessee derived from a lease of government
owned or controlled lands is a forbidden interference with
the activities of the government concerned led to the reexamination by this Court, in the Gerhardt:case, of the
theory underlying the asserted immunity from taxation
by one government of salaries of employees of the other.
It was there pointed out that the implied immunity of
onc government and its agencies from taxation by the
other should, as a principle of constitutional construction,
be narrowly restricted. For the expansion of the immunity of the one government correspondingly curtails
the sovereign power of the other to tax, and where that
immunity is invoked by the private citizen it tends to
operate for his benefit at the expense of the taxing government and without corresponding benefit to the government in whose name the immunity is claimed. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, 523-524; James v. Dravo
Contracting Co., supra, 156-158. It was further pointed
out that, as applied to the taxation of salaries of the employees of one government, the purpose of the immunity
was not to confer benefits on the employees by relieving
them from contributing their share of the financial support of the"other government, whose benefits they enjoy,
or to give an advantage to a government by enabling it to
engage employees at salaries lower than those paid for like
services by other employers, public or private,' but to
'The fact that the expenses of the one government might be lessened if all those who deal with it were exempt from taxation by the
other was thought not to be an adequate basis for tax immunity in
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v.
Bass, 283 U. S. 279; Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508; James v.
Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

prevent undue interference with the one government by
imposing on it the tax burdens of the other.
In applying these controlling principles in the Gerhardt
case the Court held that the salaries of employees of the
New York Port Authority, a state instrumentality created
by New York and New Jersey, were not immune from
federal income tax, even though the Authority be regarded as not subject to federal taxation. It was said that
the taxpayers enjoyed the benefit and protection of the
laws of the United States and were under a duty, common
to all citizens, to contribute financial support to the government; that the tax laid on their salaries and paid by
them could be said to affect or burden their employer, the
Port Authority, or the states creating it, only so far as
the burden of the tax was 'economically passed on to the
employer; that a non'-discriminatory tax laid on the income of all members of the community could not be assumed to obstruct the function which New York and New
Jersey had undertaken to perform, or to cast an economic
burden upon them, more than does the general taxation
of property and income which, to some extent, incapable
of measurement by economists, may tend to raise the
price level of labor and materials.' The Court concluded
'That the economic burden of a tax on salaries is passed on to the
employer or that employees will accept a lower government salary
because of its tax immunity, are formulas which have not won acceptance by 'economists and cannot be judicially assumed. As to
the "passing on" of the economic burden of the tax, see Seligman,
Income Tax, VII Encyclopedia of Social Sciences, 626-638; Plehn,
Public Finance (5th ed.), p. 320; Buehler, Public Finance, p. 240;
Lutz, Public Finance (2d ed.), p. 336, and see Indian Motocycle Co.
v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 581, footnote 1. As to preference for
government employment because the salary is tax exempt, see Dickinson, Compensating Industrial Effort (1937), pp. 7-8; Douglas, The
Reality of Non-Commercial Incentives in Industrial Life, c. V of The
Trend of Economics (1924); Vol. I, Fetter, Economic Principles
(1915), p. 203.

GRAVES v. N. Y. Ex REL. O'KEEFE.
466

485

Opinion of the Court.

that the claimed immunity would do no more than relieve
the taxpayers from the duty of financial support to the
national government in order to secure to the state a
theoretical advantage, speculative in character and measurement and too unsubstantial to form the basis of an
implied constitutional immunity from taxation.
The conclusion reached in the Gerhardt case that in
terms of constitutional tax immunity a federal income
tax on the salary of an employee is not a prohibited burden on the employer makes it imperative that we should
consider anew the immunity here claimed for the salary
of an employee of a federal instrumentality. As already
indicated, such differences as there may be between the
implied tax immunity of a state and the corresponding
immunity of the national government and its instrumentalities may be traced to the fact that the national
government is one of delegated powers, in the exercise of
which it is supreme. Whatever scope this may give to
the national government to claim immunity from state
taxation of all instrumentalities which it may constitutionally create, and whatever authority Congress may
possess as incidental to the exercise of its delegated powers
to grant or withhold immunity from state taxation, Congress has not sought in this case to exercise such power.
Hence these distinctions between the two types of immunity cannot affect the question with which we are now
concerned. The burden on government of a non-discriminatory income tax applied to the salary of the employee of a government or its instrumentality is the same,
whether a state or national government is concerned.
The determination in the Gerhardtcase that the federal
income tax imposed on the employees of the Port Authority was not a burden on the Port Authority made it
unnecessary to consider whether the Authority itself
was immune from federal taxation; the claimed immunity failed because even if the Port Authority were

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

itself immune from federal income tax, the tax upon the
income of its employees cast upon it'no unconstitutional
burden.
Assuming, as we do, that the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is clothed with the same immunity from state
taxation as the government itself, we cannot say that the
present tax on the income of its employees lays any
unconstitutional burden upon it. All the reasons for
refusing to imply a constitutional prohibition of federal
income taxation of salaries of state employees, stated at
length in the Gerhardt case, are of equal force when immunity is claimed from state income tax on salaries paid
by the national government or its agencies. In this respect we perceive no basis for a difference in result
whether the taxed income 'be salary or some other form
of compensation, or whether the taxpayer be an employee
or an officer of either a state or the national government,
or of its instrumentalities. In no case is there basis for
the assumption that any such tangible or certain economic
burden is imposed on the government concerned as would
justify a court's declaring that the taxpayer is clothed
with the implied constitutional tax immunity of the government by which he is employed. That assumption,
made in Collector v. Day, supra,and in New York ex rel.
Rogers v. Graves, supra, is contrary to the reasoning and
to the conclusions reached in the Gerhardt case and in
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 'supra; Group No. 1 Oil
Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279; James v. Dravo Contracting
Co., supra; Helverig v. Mountain Producers Corp.,
supra; McLoughlin v. Commissioner, 303 U. S. 218. In
their light the assumption can no longer be made. Collector v. Day, supra, and New York ex rel. Rogers v.
Graves, supra, are overruled so far as they recognize an
implied constitutional immunity from income taxation of
the salaries of officers or employees of the national or a
state government or their instrumentalities.

GRAVES v. N. Y.
4066

FRANKFURTER,

EX REL.

O'KEEFE.

J., concurring.

So much of te burden of a non-discriminatory general
tax upon the incomes of employees of a government, state
or national, as may be passed on economically to that government, through the effect of the tax on the price level
of labor or materials, is but the normal incident of the
organization within the same. territory of two governments, each possessing the taxing power. The burden,
so far as it can be said to exist or to affect the-government
in any indirect or incidental way, is one which the Constitution presupposes, and hence it cannot rightly be
deemed to be within an implied restriction upon the taxing power of the national and state governments which
the Constitution has expressly granted to one and has confirmed to the other. The immunity is not one to be implied from the Constitution, because if allowed it would
impose to an inadmissible extent a restriction on the taxing power which the Constitution has reserved to the state
governments.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

concurs in the result.
concurring:

I join in the Court's opinion but deem it appropriate
to add a few remarks. The volume of the Court's business has long since made impossible the early healthy
practice whereby the Justices gave expression to individual opinions.1 But the old tradition still has relevance
when an important shift in constitutional doctrine is announced after a reconstruction in the membership of the
Court. Such shifts of opinion should not derive from
mere private judgment. They must be duly mindful of
the necessary demands of continuity in civilized society.
' The state of the docket of the High Court of Australia and that
of the Supreme Court of Canada still permits them to continue the
classic practice of seriatim opinions.

EA--TOBER TERM, 1938.
FRANKFRTER, J.,

concurring.

300 U. S.

A reversal of a long current of decisions can be justified
only if rooted in the Constitution itself as an historic
document designed for a developing nation.
For one hundred and twenty years this Court has been
concerned with claims of immunity from taxes imposed
by one authority in our dual system of government because of the taxpayer's relation to the other. The basis
for the Court's intervention in this field has not been any
explicit provision of the Constitution. The States, after
they formed the Union, continued to have the san.e range
of taxing power which they had befcire, barring only duties
affecting exports, imports, and on tonnage.2 Congress,
on the other hand, to lay taxes in order "to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defense and general Welfare of the United States," Art. I, § 8, can reach every
person and every dollar in the land with due regard to
Constitutional limitations as to the method of laying
taxes. But, as is true of other great activities of the
state and national governments, the fact that we are a
"federalism raiqes problems regarding these vital powers of
taxation. Since twp governments have authority within
the same territory, neither through its power to tax can be
allowed to cripple the operations of the other. Therefore
state and federal governments must avoid exactions which
discriminate against each other or obviously interfere
with one another's operations. These were the determining considerations that led the great Chief Justice to
strike down the Maryland statute as an unambiguous
measure of discrimination against the use by the United
States of the Bank of the United States as one of its
instruments of government.
The arguments upon which McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, rested had their roots in actuality. But
they have been distorted by sterile refinements unrelated
'Article 1, § 10, U. S. Constitution.

GRAVES v. N. Y. Ex
466

FRANKFURTER,

REL.

O'KEEFE.

J., concurring.

to affairs. These refinements derived authority from an
unfortunate remark in the opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland. Partly as a flourish of rhetoric and partly because
the intellectual fashion of the times indulged a free use
of absolutes,. Chief Justice Marshall gave currency to the
phrase that "the power to tax involves the power to
destroy." Id., at p. 431. "This dictum was treated as
though it were a constitutional mandate. But not without protest. One of the most trenchant minds on the
Marshall court, Justice William Johnson, early analyzed
the dangerous inroads upon the political freedom of the
States and. the Union within their respective orbits resulting from a doctrinaire application of the generalities
uttered in the course of the opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland.' The seductive clichg that the power to tax involves
the power to destroy wasifused with another assumption,
likewise not to be found in the Constitution itself, namely
the doctrine that the immunities are correlative-because
the existence of the national government implies immunities from state taxation, the existence. of state governments implies equivalent immunities from federal taxation. When this doctrine was first applied Mr. Justice
Bradley registered a powerful dissent," the force of which
gatherd rather than lost strength with time. Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, 128.
Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 472-73.
"I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, because, it
seems to me that the general government has the same power of
taxing the income of officers of the State governments as it has of
taxing that of its own officers. . . . In my judgment, the limitation
of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present
decision establishes, will be found very difficult of control. Where7 are
we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State gbovernments
which will be interfered with by Federal taxation? . . . How can
we now tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but
regard it as founded on a fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous
consequences." (11 Wall. 113, 128-29.)

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

306 U. S.

All these doctrines of intergovernmental immunity have
until recently been moving in the realm of what Lincoln
called "pernicious abstractions."' The web of unreality
spun from Marshall's famous dictum was brushed away
by one stroke of Mr. Justice Holmes's pen: "The power to
tax is not the power to destroy while this Court sits."
PanhandleOil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, 223 (dissent). Failure to exempt public functionaries from the
universal duties of citizenship to pay for the costs of
government was hypothetically transmuted into hostile
action of one government against the other. A succession
of decisions thereby withdrew from the taxing power of
the States and Nation a very considerable range of wealth
without regard to the actual workings of our federalism,5
and this, too, when the financial needs of all governments
began steadily to mount. These decisions have encountered increasing dissent.' In view of the powerful pull of
our decisions upon the courts charged with maintaining
the constitutional equilibrium of the two other great
English federalisms, the Canadian and the Australian
courts were at first inclined to follow the earlier doctrines
of this Court regarding intergovernmental immunity.'
5

E. g., Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Panhandle Oil Co.
v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218; Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279
U. S. 620; Indian .Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570;
Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393; N. Y. ex rel.
Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401; Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.

352.
'E. g., Mr. Justice Brandeis, dissenting, in Jaybird Mining Co. v.
Weir, 271 U. S. 609, 615; Mr. Justice Holmes, dissenting, in Panhandle
Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, 222; Mr. Justice Stone, dissenting, in Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 580;
Mr. Justice Roberts, dissenting, in Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.
352, 374. See, also, Mr. Justice Black, concurring, in Helvering v.
Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 424.
"Bank of Toronto v. Lambe, 12 App. Cas. 575; D'Emden v.
Pedder, 1 C. L. R. 91.

GRAVES v. N. Y. EX REL. O'KEEFE.
466

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

Both the Supreme Court of Canada and the High Court
of Australia on fuller consideration-and for present purposes the British North America Act, 30 & 31 Vict., c. 3,
and the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, 63
& 64 Vict., c. 12, raise the same legal issues as does our
Constitution "-have completely rejected the doctrine of
intergovernmental immunity.' In this Court dissents
have gradually become majority opinions, and even before
the present decision the rationale of the doctrine had been
undermined."0
The judicial history of this doctrine of immunity is a
striking illustration of an occasional tendency to encrust
unwarranted interpretations upon the Constitution and
thereafter to consider merely what has been judicially
said about the Constitution, rather than to be primarily
controlled by a fair conception of the Constitution. Judicial exegesis is unavoidable with reference to an organic act like our Constitution, drawn in many particulars with purposed vagueness so as to leave room for
the unfolding future. But the ultimate touchstone of
constitutionality is the Constitution itself and not what we
Especially is this true of the Australian Constitution.

One of

its framers, who afterwards became one of the most distinguished
of Australian judges, Mr. Justice Higgins, characterized it as having followed our Constitution with "pedantic imitation." Australasian
Temperance & G. M. Life Assurance Society v. Howe, 31 C. L. R.
290, 330.
'Abbott v. City of St. John, 40 Can. Sup. Ct. 597; Caron v. The
King, (1924) A. C. 999; Amalgamated Society of Engineers v. Adelaide Steamship Co., 28 C. L. R. 129; West v. Commissioner of Taxation, 56 C. L. R. 657.
"E. g., James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134; Helvering
v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376; Helvering v. Gerhardt,
304 U. S. 405.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BumLEr,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

have said about it." Neither Dobbins v. Commissioners,
16 Pet. 435, and its offspring, nor Collector v. Day, supra,
and its, can stand appeal to the Constitution and its historic purposes. Since both are the starting points of an
interdependent doctrine, both should be, as I assume
them to be, overruled this day. Whether Congress may,
by express legislation, relieve its functionaries from their
civic obligations to pay for the benefits of the State governments under which they live is matter for another
day.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting:

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and I are of opinion that

the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, being an instrumentality of the United States heretofore deemed immune from state taxation, "it necessarily results," as
held in New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves (1937) 299
U. S. 401, "that fixed salaries and compensation paid to
its officers and employees in their capacity as such are
likewise immune"; and that the judgment of the state
court, unquestionably required by that decision, should
be affirmed.
From the decision just announced, it is clear that the
Court has overruled Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie
County (1842) 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day (1871) 11
Wall. 113; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, and
Brush v. Commissioner (1937) 300 U. S. 352. Thus now
it appears that the United States has always had power
to tax salaries of state officers and employees and that
1"Compare

"I .

.

Taney, C. J., in Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 470:

. am quite willing that it be regarded as the law of this courtr

that its opinion upon the construction of the Constitution is always
open to discussion when it is supposed to have been founded in
error, and that its judicial authority should hereafter depend altogether on -the force of the reasoning by which it is supported."

PACIFIC INS. CO. v. COMM'N.
466

Syllabus.

similarly free have been the States to tax salaries of

officers and employees of the United States. The compensation for past as well as for future service to be taxed
and the rates prescribed in the exertion of the newly
disclosed power depend on legislative discretion not subject to judicial revision. Futile indeed are the vague intimations that this Court may protect against excessive or
destructive taxation. Where the power to tax exists, legislatures may exert it to destroy, to discourage, to protect
or exclusively for the purpose of raising revenue See
e. g. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 53 et seq.; Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, 292 U. S. "40, 44 et seq.; Cincinnati Soap Co.
v. United States, 301 U. S. 308.
Appraisal of lurking or apparent implications of the
Court's opinion can serve no useful end for, should occasion arise, they may be ignored or given direction differing
from that at first seemingly intended. But safely it may
be said that presently marked for destruction is the doctrine of reciprocal immunity that by recent decisions here
has been so much impaired.
PACIFIC EMPLOYERS INSURANCE CO. v. INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMM'N

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 158. Argued December 12, 1938.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. A State is not bound, apart from the compulsion of the full
faith and credit clause, to enforce the laws of another State; nor
by its own statute may it determine the choice of law to be
applied in the other. P. 500.
2. An employee of a Massachusetts corporation, resident in Massachusetts and regularly employed in that State under a contract of
employment entered into there, was injured in the course of his
employment while temporarily in California. The Massachusetts
workmen's compensation statute purported to give an exclusive

