OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
306 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
properly concluded that under former opinions of this
Court the questioned regulations constituted a burden
upon interstate commerce prohibited by the Federal
Constitution.
PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 142.

Argued February 3, 6, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. When the jury commissioners of a state court intentionally and
systematically exclude negroes from among the persons summoned
and listed for jury service, an indictment for murder, returned
against a negro by a grand jury drawn or selected from such lists,
is void under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 357.
2. In determining whether, as matter of fact, such discrimination existed in this case, the findings and conclusions of the State Supreme
Court, though entitled to great respect, are not binding on this
Court. P. 358.
189 La. 764; 180 So. 630, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

ing

305 U. S. 586, to review a judgment affirm-

a sentence of death.

Mr. Maurice R. Woulfe for petitioner.
Mr. John E. Fleury, with whom Messrs. Gaston L.
Porterie, Attorney General of Louisiana, James O'Connor,
Assistant Attorney General, and Ernest M. Conzelmann
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Indicted for murder, petitioner, a member of the negro
race, was convicted and sentenced to death in a state
court of the Parish of St. John the Baptist, Louisiana.

PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
354

Opinion of the Court.

The Louisiana Supreme Court affirmed." His petition
for certiorari to review the Louisiana Supreme Court's
judgment rested upon the grave claim-earnestly, but
unsuccessfully urged in both state courts-that because
of his race he had not been accorded the equal protection
of the laws guaranteed to all races in all the States by
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
For this reason, we granted certiorari.'
The indictment against petitioner was returned January 18, 1937. He made timely motion to quash the
indictment and the general venire from which had been
drawn both the Grand Jury that returned the indictment
and the Petit Jury for the week of his trial. His motion
also prayed that the Grand Jury Panel and the Petit Jury
Panel be quashed. This sworn motion alleged that petitioner was a negro and had been indicted for murder of
a white man; that at least one-third of the population of
the Parish from which the Grand and Petit Juries were
drawn were members of the negro race, but the general
venire had contained no names of negroes when the Grand
Jury that indicted petitioner was drawn; that the state
officers charged by law with the duty of providing names
for the general venire had "deliberately excluded therefrom the names of any negroes qualified to serve as Grand
or Petit Jurors, . . ." and had "systematically, unlawfully
and unconstitutionally excluded negroes from the Grand
or Petit Jury in said Parish" for at least twenty years
"solely and only because of their race and color"; and
that petitioner had thus been denied the equal protection
of the laws guaranteed him by the Constitution of Louisiana and the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
No pleadings denying these allegations appear in the
record, and the State offered no witnesses on the mo'189 La. 764; 180 So. 630.
"305 U. S. 586.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tion. Petitioner offered twelve witnesses who were questioned by his counsel, the State's Assistant District Attorney, and the court. On the basis of this evidence,
the trial judge sustained the motion to quash the Petit
Jury Panel and venire and subsequently ordered the box
containing the general venire (from which both Grand
and Petit Juries had been drawn) emptied, purged and
refilled. This was done; a new Petit Jury Panel composed of both whites and negroes was subsequently
drawn from the refilled Jury box and from this Panel
a Petit Jury was selected which tried and convicted petitioner. Although the Grand Jury that indicted petitioner and the quashed Petit Jury Panel had been selected
from the same original general venire I the trial judge
overruled that part of petitioner's motion seeking to
quash the Grand Jury Panel and the indictment.
First. The reason assigned by the trial judge for refusing to quash the Grand Jury Panel and indictment was
that "the Constitutional rights of the defendant [are] ...

not affected by reason of the fact that persons of the
Colored or African race are not placed on the Grand
Jury, because.., the mere presentment of an indictment
is not evidence of guilt ...

it simply informs the Court

'Under Louisiana practice the District Judge orders the Jury Commission to select three hundred qualified jurors in a given Parish, who
compose the general venire list, to be kept complete and supplemented
from time to time. These names are placed in the "General Venire
Box." From the general venire list, the Commission selects twenty
persons qualified as grand jurors, to serve six months, who compose
the "List of Grand Jurors." The Judge selects a foreman from the
"List of Grand Jurors" and the sheriff draws eleven more who, with
the foreman, constitute the Grand Jury Panel. After selection of the
"List of Grand Jurors" the Commission draws thirty names from the
"General Venire Box" to serve as Petit Jurors, who are designated a
"List of Jurors" and this "List of Jurors" is kept in the "Jury Box."
Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure (Dart, 1932) Title XVIII,
c. 2.

PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
354

Opinion of the Court.

of a commission of a crime and brings the accused before the court for prosecution." But the bill of rights of
the Louisiana Constitution (Dart, 1932, Art. 1, ยง 9) provides that "no person shall be held to answer for capital
crime unless. on a presentment or indictment by a grand
jury, ...
" And the State concedes here, as the Supreme
Court of Louisiana pointed out in its opinion in this
case, that .... . it is specially provided in the [Louisiana]
law prescribing the method of drawing grand and petit
jurors to serve in both civil and criminal cases that 'there
sh.ll be no distinction made on account of race, color
or previous condition,'" and "If ...[qualified] members
of the negro ... race .. have been systematically excluded from . .. service in the parish of St. John, . . .
solely because of their race or color, the indictment should
have been quashed.. ." Exclusion from Grand or Petit
Jury service on account of race is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.4 In addition to the safeguards of
the Fourteenth Amendment, Congress has provided that
"No citizen possessing all other qualifications . . . shall
be disqualified for service as grand or petit juror in any
court of the United States, or of any State on account
of race, color or previous condition of servitude; . .
Petitioner does not here contend that Louisiana laws required an unconstitutional exclusion of negroes from the
Grand Jury which indicted him. His evidence was offered to show that Louisiana-acting through its administrative officers-had deliberately and systematically excluded negroes from jury service because of race, in violation of the laws and Constitutions of Louisiana and
the United States. 6
'Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 308, 309; Carter v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447; Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316, 319.
' U. S. C. Title 8, ยง 44.
"Cf., Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589; Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370, 397; Carter v. Texas, supra, at 447; Hale v. Kentucky,
303 U. S. 613, 616.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

If petitioner's evidence of such systematic exclusion
of negroes from the general venire was sufficient to support the trial court's action in quashing the Petit Jury
drawn from that general venire, it necessarily follows that
the indictment returned by a Grand Jury, selected from
the same general venire, should also have been quashed.

Second. But the State insists, and the Louisiana Supreme Court held (the Chief Justice dissenting), that
this evidence failed to establish that members of the negro
race were excluded from the Grand Jury venire on account
of race, and that the trial court's finding of discrimination
was erroneous. Our decision and judgment must therefore turn upon these disputed questions of fact. In our
consideration of the facts the conclusions reached by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana are entitled to great respect.
Yet, when a claim is properly asserted-as in this casethat a citizen whose life is at stake has been denied the
equal protection of his country's laws on account of his
race, it becomes our solemn duty to make independent
inquiry and determination of the disputed facts 7-for
equal protection to all is the basic principle upon which
justice under law rests. Indictment by Grand Jury and
trial by jury cease to harmonize with our traditional
concepts of justice at the very moment particular groups,
classes or races--otherwise qualified to serve as jurors
in a community-are excluded as such from jury service. 8
The Fourteenth Amendment intrusts those who because
of race are denied equal protection of the laws in a
State first "to the revisory power of the higher courts of
the State, and ultimately to the review of this court." 9
Petitioner's witnesses on the motion were the Clerk of
the court---ex-officio a member of the Jury Commission;
'Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590.
'Cf. Strauder v. West Virginia, supra, 308, 309.
'Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 319.

PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
354

Opinion of the Court.

the Sheriff of the Parish; the Superintendent of Schools
who had served the Parish for eleven years; and other
residents of the Parish; both white and colored. The
testimony of petitioner's witnesses (the State offered no
witnesses) showed that from 1896 to 1936 no negro had
served on the Grand or Petit Juries in the Parish; that
a venire of three hundred in December, 1936, contained
the names of three negroes, one of whom was then dead,
one of whom (D. N. Dinbaut) was listed on the venire
as F. N. Dinfant; the third-called for Petit Jury service
in January, 1937-was the only negro who had ever
been called for jury service within the memory of the
Clerk of the court, the Sheriff, or any other witnesses
who testified; and that there were many negro citizens
of the Parish qualified under the laws of Louisiana to
serve as Grand or Petit Jurors. According to the testimony, negroes constituted 25 to 50 per cent of a total
Parish population of twelve to fifteen thousand. The
report of the United States Department of Commerce,
Bureau of the Census, for 1930, shows that the total
Parish population was fourteen thousand and seventyeight, 49.7 per cent native white, and 49.3 per cent negro.
In a total negro population (ten years old and over)
of five thousand two hundred and ninety, 29.9 per cent
were classified by the census as illiterate.
The Louisiana Supreme Court found-contrary to the
trial judge-that negroes had not been excluded from
jury service on account of race, but that their exclusion
was the result of a bona fide compliance by the Jury
Commission with state laws prescribing jury qualifications. With this conclusion we cannot agree. Louisiana
law requires the Commissioners to select names for the
general venire from persons qualified to serve without
distinction as to race or color. In order to be qualified a
person must be:

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U.S.

(a) A citizen of the State, over twenty-one years of
age with two years' residence in the Parish,
(b) Able to read and write the English language,
(c) Not charged with any offense or convicted of a
felony,
(d) Of well known good character and standing in the
community."0
The fact that approximately one-half of the Parish's
population were negroes demonstrates that there could
have been no lack of colored residents over twenty-one
years of age.
It appears from the 1930 census that 70 per cent of the
negro population of the Parish was literate, and the
County Superintendent of Schools testified that fully
two thousand five hundred (83 per cent), of the Parish's
negro population estimated by him at only three thousand, were able to read and write. Petitioner's evidence
established beyond question that the majority of the
negro population could read and write, and, in this respect, were eligible under the statute for selection as

jurymen.
There is no evidence on which even an inference can
be based that any appreciable number of the otherwise
qualified negroes in the Parish were disqualified for selection because of bad character or criminal records.
We conclude that the exclusion of negroes from jury
service was not due to their failure to possess the statutory qualifications.
The general venire box for the Parish in which petitioner was tried was required 1 1-under Louisiana lawto contain a list of three hundred names selected by Jury
Commissioners appointed by the District Judge, and this
list had to be supplemented from time to time so as to
"Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure, supra, Title XVIII, c. 1.
'See note 3, 8upra.

PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
354

Opinion of the Court.

maintain the required three hundred names. Although
Petit Jurors are drawn from the general venire box after
the names have been well mixed, 2 the law provides '
that "the commission shall select . . . [from the general

venire list] the names of twenty citizens, possessing the
qualifications of grand jurors, . . ."

[Italics supplied.]

The twenty names out of which the challenged Grand
Jury of twelve was drawn, actually were the first twenty
names on a new list of fifty names supplied---on the day
the Grand Jury List was selected-by the Jury Commission as a "supplement" to the general venire of three
hundred. Thus, if colored citizens had been named on the
general venire, they apparently were not considered, because the Commission went no further than the first
twenty names on the supplemental list which itself contained no names of negroes. Furthermore, the uncontradicted evidence on the motion to quash showed that no
negro had ever been selected for Grand Jury service in the
Parish within the memory of any of the witnesses who
testified on that point.
The testimony introduced by petitioner on his motion
to quash created a strong primafacie showing that negroes
had been systematically excluded-because of race-from
the Grand Jury and the venire from which it was selected.
Such an exclusion is a denial of equal protection of the
laws, contrary to the Federal Constitution-the supreme
law of the land.'4 "The fact that the testimony...
wa.s not qhallenged by evidence appropriately direct, cannot be brushed aside." ", Had there been evidence ob-

tainable to contradict and disprove the testimony offered
" Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure, supra, Title XVIII, c. 2,
Art. 181.
uId., Art. 180.
"Neal v. Delaware, supra, 397; Norris v. Alabama, supra, 591;
Hale v. Kentucky, supra, 616.
"Norris v. Alabama, supra, 594, 595.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

by petitioner, it cannot be assumed that the State would
have refrained from introducing it. The Jury Commissioners, appointed by the District Judge, were not produced as witnesses by the State. The trial judge, who had
appointed the Commission, listening to the evidence and
aided by a familiarity with conditions in the Parish of
many years' standing, as judge, prosecutor and practicing
attorney, concluded that negroes had been excluded from
Jury service because of their race, and ordered the venire
quashed and the box purged and refilled. Our examination of the evidence convinces us that the bill of exceptions which he signed correctly stated that petitioner "did
prove at the trial of said motion to Quash that negroes
as persons of color had been purposely excluded from the
Grand Jury Venire and Panel which returned said indictment against . . . [petitioner] on account of their color
and race, . . ."
Principles which forbid discrimination in the selection
of Petit Juries also govern the selection of Grand Juries.
"It is a right to which every colored man is entitled, that,
in the selection of jurors to pass upon his life, liberty, or
property, there shall be no exclusion of his race, and no
discrimination against them because of their color." "
This record requires the holding that the court below was
in error both in affirming the conviction of petitioner and
in failing to hold that the indictment against him should
have been quashed. The cause is reversed and remanded
to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
Reversed.
Virginia v. Rives, supra, 322-3.

