CARRIER v. BRYANT.
539

Opinion of the Court.

with that in equity." And that did "not impair the obligation of the contract."
We reach a similar result here upon the same groundthat under the finding of the state court the mortgagee
has obtained satisfaction of his debt and that the denial
by the statute of a further recovery does not violate the
constitutional provision.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

CARRIER ET
CERTIORARI

No. 541.

AL.

v. BRYANT.

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

Argued March 27, 28, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

Negotiable notes and United States bonds purchased, and held as
investments, for an incompetent World War veteran by his guardian out of "payments of benefits" made to him by the United
States under laws relating to such veterans, held not exempt under
§ 3 of the Act of August 12, 1935 from execution upon a judgment
against the incompetent. P. 547.
214 N. C. 174; 198 S. E. 651, affirmed.

p. 622, to review the affirmance of a
decree dissolving an order which restrained respondent
from executing upon a judgment.
CERTIORARI, post,

Mr. John W. Wood for petitioners.
Mr. Frederick D. Hamrick, Jr., with whom Mr. Frdd-

erick D. Hamrick was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Supreme Court, North Carolina, ruled that negotiable notes and United States bonds purchased, and held
as investments, for an incompetent World Wax veteran
133096'-39-----35

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

by his guardian out of "payments of benefits" authorized
under laws relating to such veterans, were subject to
execution upon a judgment against the incompetent. Petitioners challenge that view and claim immunity under
§ 3 Act August 12, 1935 (c. 510, 49 Stat. 607, 609; 38
U. S. C. § 454a).
"Sec. 3. Payments of benefits due or to become due
shall not be assignable, and such payments made to, or
on account of, a beneficiary under any of the laws relating to veterans shall be exempt from taxation, shall be
exempt from the claims of creditors, and shall not be
liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by or under any
legal or equitable process whatever, either before or after
receipt by the beneficiary. Such provisions shall not attach to claims of the United States arising under such
laws nor shall the exemption herein contained as to taxation extend to any property purchased in part or wholly
out of such payments. Section 4747 of the Revised
Statutes and section 22 of the World War Veterans' Act,
1924, are hereby repealed, and all other Acts inconsistent
herewith are hereby modified accordingly. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
assignment by any person, to whom converted insurance
shall be payable under title III of the World Wai Veterans' Act, 1924, of his interest in such insurance to any
other member of the permitted class of beneficiaries.
"Sec. 5. That this Act shall take effect and be in force
from and after its passage, but the provisions hereof shall
apply to payments made heretofore under any of the Acts
mentioned herein."
The conclusion below is supported by McCurry v. Peek,
(1936) 54 Ga. App. 341; 187 S. E. 854, the only other
opinion squarely upon the point here involved which
has been called to our attention.
The language of § 3, although not entirely felicitous,
conflicts with the petitioners' insistence.

CARRIER v. BRYANT.
545

Opinion of the Court.

The first sentence grants exemption from taxation,
claims of creditors, attachment, levy or seizure under any
legal process whatever. The things exempted are "payments of benefits" due or to become due either before or
after receipt by the beneficiary.
Investments purchased with money received in settlement of benefits are not such payments due or to become due. Accordingly, giving the words employed their
ordinary meaning, the notes and bonds in question are
not exempted by the first sentence in § 3. It left them,
like other property, subject to taxation, claims of
creditors, and legal process.
The second sentence in the section clearly recognizes
the distinction between benefit payments and property
purchased with money therefrom. It declares the exemption provisions in the first sentence shall not attach
to claims of the United States; also that exemption from
taxation shall not extend to property purchased out of
benefit payments. Nothing is said concerning claims of
creditors. Nevertheless, petitioners seem to maintain,
immunity from these must be inferred. But a mere
declaration that investments always subject to taxation
shall not enjoy exemption therefrom affords no basis for
holding them free from claims of creditors. Although the
first sentence extended no immunity to investments, apparently out of abundant caution, the second declared
them subject to taxation.
We find nothing in the history or supposed purpose of
the enactment adequate to support a construction not in
accord with the ordinary import of the words employed.
Under Spicer v. Smith, (1933) 288 U. S. 430,-434, payment of benefits to the guardian vested title in the ward.
The exemptions of the statute would not be different if
the ward had personally received the payments.
Section 4747 Revised Statutes, Act March 3, 1873 (38
U. S. C. § 54) remained in force until repealed by Act
August 12, 1935. It provided-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

"No sum of money due, or to become due, to any pensioner, shall be liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by
or under any legal or equitable process whatever, whether
the same remains with the Pension-Office, or any officer
or agent thereof, or is in course of transmission to the
pensioner entitled thereto, but shall inure wholly to the
benefit of such pensioner."
This section was considered in McIntosh v. Aubrey,
(1902) 185 U. S. 122, 124, where it was unsuccessfully
claimed that property purchased with pension money
could not be seized under an execution. It was there
said"The language of the section of itself seems to present
no difficulty, and if doubt arises at all it is only on account
of the decisions of courts whose opinions are always entitled to respect. . . But notwithstanding, we think
the purpose of Congress is clearly expressed. It is not
that pension money shall be exempt from attachment in
all of its situations and transmutations. It is only to be
exempt in one situation, to wit, when 'due or to become
due.' From that situation the pension money of plaintiff
in error had departed."
Section 22 World War Veterans' Act, 1924, c. 320, 43
Stat. 607, 613 (38 U. S. C., § 454), repealed by Act
August 4, 1935, provided"That the compensation, insurance, and maintenance
and support allowance payable under Titles II, III, and
IV, respectively, shall not be assignable; shall not be subject to the claims of creditors of any person to whom an
award is made under Titles II, III, or IV; and shall be
exempt from all taxation: Provided, That such compensation, insurance, and maintenance and support allowance shall be subject to any claims which the United
States may have, under Titles II, III, IV, and V, against
the person on whose account the compensation, insurance, or maintenance and support allowance is payable. .. ."

CARRIER v. BRYANT.
545

Opinion of the Court.

Trotter v. Tennessee, (1933) 290 U. S. 354, 356-357,
construed this section. A veteran had purchased land in
Tennessee with money received as compensation, and
claimed exemption from taxation. We said"The moneys payable to this soldier were unquestionably exempt till they came into his hands or the hands of
his guardian. McIntosh v. ,Aubrey, 185 U. S. 122. We
leave the question open whether the exemption remained
in force while they continued in those hands or on deposit in a bank. . . . Be that as it may, we think it very
clear that there was an end to the exemption when they
lost the quality of moneys and were converted into land
and buildings. The statute speaks of 'compensation, insurance, and maintenance and support allowance payable'
to the veteran, and declares that these shall be exempt.
We see no token of a purpose to extend a like immunity
to permanent investments or the fruits of business
enterprises."
In 1935 Congress gave much consideration to the exemption which should be accorded to veterans. The outcome is shown by §§ 3 and 5, Act August 12, 1935, ante,
p. 546.
Section 3 of that Act came under review in Lawrence
v. Shaw, (1937) 300 U. S. 245, 249-250. Exemption was
successfully claimed for bank deposits standing in the
name of a veteran's guardian upon the view that such
deposits, made in the ordinary course and subject to demand for the veteran's use, should be treated as if money
in his hands.
"The World War Veterans' Act, 1924, provided that
the compensation and insurance allowances should be
'exempt from all taxation.' The Act of 1935 is more specific, providing that the payments shall be exempt from
taxation and shall not be liable to process 'either before
or after receipt by the beneficiary.' There was added the
qualification that the exemption should not extend 'to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

306 U. S.

any property purchased in part or wholly out of such
payments.' This more detailed provision was substituted
for that of the earlier Act and was expressly made applicable to payments theretofore made. We think it clear
that the provision of the later Act was intended to clarify
the former rather than to change its import and it was
with that purpose that it was made retroactive. . . . The
provision of the Act of 1935 that the exemption should
not apply to property purchased out of the moneys received from the Government shows the intent to deny
exemption to investments, as was ruled in the Trotter

case."
The questioned judgment must be
Affirmed.

HONOLULU OIL CORP. ET AL. v. HALLIBURTON
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 466.

Argued March 3, 6, 1939.-Decidd April 17, 1939.

Claims 8 to 19 of Simmons' Patent No. 1,930,987 (claims 8 and 18
being method claims, and the others apparatus claims), for a
method and -apparatus for testing productivity of formations encountered in drilling oil and other deep vells by the rotary method,
held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 559, 562.
98 F. 2d 436, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

of certiorari issued on cross-petitions, 305 U. S.
591, to review a decree which, reversing in part a decree
of the District Court, 18 F. Supp. 58, held certain apparatus claims of a patent invalid and certain method claims
valid and infringed.
WRITS

Together with No. 479, Halliburton et al. v. Honolulu Oil Corp.
et al., also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit.

