OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

United States over that part of the Chickamauga and
Chattanooga National Military Park located within the
State of Georgia" and that violations of law occurring on
the ceded lands are enforceable only by the proper authorities of the United States. As this administrative
construction is a permissible one we find it persuasive
and we think that the debated question of jurisdiction
should be settled by construing the Act of 1927 in the
same way.
On this ground, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, affirming the order of the District Court denying the petition for habeas corpus, is
Affirmed.
WASHINGTONIAN PUBLISHING CO. v. PEARSON
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 222.

Argued December 6, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. Section 12 of the Copyright Act of 1909 provides that, after
copyright has been secured by publication with the prescribed
notice of copyright, two copies of the copyrighted work shall be
"promptly" deposited in the copyright office; and that no suit
for infringement shall be maintained "until" the provisions of
the Act with respect to the deposit of copies and registration
of such work shall have been complied with. Held that the
right to sue under the Act for infringement is not lost by mere
delay in depositing copies of the copyrighted work. P. 39.
2. Fourteen months after the date of its publication and six months
after it bad been infringed, copies of a publication which bore
notice of copyright were deposited in the copyright office and a
certificate of registration secured. Held, a suit to enjoin the infringement and to recover damages (from the (late of publication
of the infringing work) was maintainable under the Copyright
Act of 1909. Pp. 33, 39.
3. The Copyright Act of 1909 was intended definitely to grant
valuable, enforceable rights to authors, publishers, etc., without

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

31

Opinion of the Court.

burdensome requirements. Forfeitures of such rights are not to be
inferred from doubtful language. Pp. 36, 42.
68 App. D. C. 373; 98 F. 2d 245, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S.583, to review the reversal of a
decree for the plaintiff in a suit for infringement of a
copyright.

Mr. Horace S. Whitman, with whom Mr. Gibbs L.
Baker was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Eliot C. Lovett, with whom Mr. Elisha Hanson
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
By this suit, instituted in the District of Columbia,

March 8, 1933, petitioner seeks an injunction, damages,
etc., because of alleged unauthorized use of a magazine
article copyrighted under Act March 4, 1909 (Ch. 320, 35

Stat. 1075; U. S. C., Title 17).
statute are in the margin.1

Pertinent portions of the

Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus,

1

Act March 4, 1909"See. 1. That any person entitled thereto, upon complying with the
provisions of this Act, shall have the exclusive right:
"(a) To print, reprint, publish, copy, and vend the copyrighted
work; ...

"See. 3. That the copyright provided by this Act shall protect all
the copyrightable component parts of the work copyrighted, and all
matter 7herein in which copyright is already subsisting, but without
extending the duration or scope of such copyright. The copyright
upon composite works or periodicals shall give to the proprietor
thereof all the rights in respect thereto which he would have if each
part were individually copyrighted under this Act.
"See. 4. That the works for which copyright may be secured under
this Act shall include all the writings of an author.
"See. 9. That any person entitled thereto by this Act may secure
copyright for his work by publication thereof with the notice of
copyright required by this Act; and such notice shall be affixed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

210 U. S. 339, 346; Caliga v. Inter Ocean Newspaper Co.,
215 U. S. 182, 188.
The trial court sustained petitioner's claim arid directed
ascertainment of profits, damages, etc. The Court of
Appeals ruled that, as copies of the magazine had not been
promptly deposited in the Copyright Office as directed by
each copy thereof published or offered for sale in the United States
by authority of the copyright proprietor, . . .
"See. 10. That such person may obtain registration of his claim to
copyright by' complying with the provisions of this Act, including
the deposit of copies, and upon such compliance the register of copyrights shall issue to him the certificate provided for in section fiftyfive of this Act.
"See. 12. That after copyright has been secured by publication of
the work with the notice of copyright as provided in section nine of
this Act, there shall be promptly deposited in the copyright office or
in the mail addressed to the register of copyrights, Washington, District of Columbia, two complete copies of the best edition thereof
then published, . . . No action or proceeding siall be maintained for
infringement of copyright in any work until the provisions of this
Act with respect to the deposit of copies and registration of such
work shall have been complied with.
"See. 13. That should the copies called for by section twelve of this
Act not be promptly deposited as herein provided, the register of
copyrights may at any time after the publication of the work, upon
actual notice, require the proprietor of the copyright to deposit them,
and after the said demand shall have been made, in default of the
deposit of copies of the work within three months from any part of
the United States, except an outlying territorial possession of the
United States, or within six months from any outlying territorial
possession of the United States, or from any foreign country, the proprietor of the copyright shall be liable to a fine of one hundred dollars
and to pay to the Library of Congress twice the amount of the retail price of the best edition of the work, and the copyright shall
become void.
"Sec. 18. That the notice of copyright required by section nine of
this Act shall consist either of the word "Copyright" or the abbreviation "Copr.", accompanied by the name of the copyright proprietor,
and if the work be a printed literary, musical, or dramatic work, the

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

33

Opinion of the Court.

§ 12, the action could not be maintained. It accordingly reversed the decree of the trial court and remanded the cause.
The record disclosesDecember 10, 1931, petitioner published an issue of
"The Washingtonian," a monthly magazine, and claimed
notice shall include also the year in which the copyright was secured
by publication....
"See. 20. That where the copyright proprietor has sought to comply with the provisions of this Act with respect to notice, the omission by accident or mistake of the prescribed notice from a particular
copy or copies shall not invalidate the copyright or prevent recovery
for infringement against any person who, after actual notice of the
copyright, begins an undertaking to infringe it,...
"Sec. 23. That the copyright secured by this Act shall endure for
twenty-eight years from the date of first publication, whether the
copyrighted work bears the author's true name or is published anonymously or under an assumed name: Provided, That in the case
of any posthumous work or of any periodical, cyclopedic, or other
composite work upon which the copyright was originally secured by
the proprietor thereof, or of any work copyrighted by a corporate
body (otherwise than as assignee or licensee of the individual author)
or by an employer for whom such work is made for hire, the proprietor of such copyright shall be entitled to a renewal and extension
of the copyright in such work for the further term of twenty-eight
years when application for such renewal and extension shall have
been made to the copyright office and duly registered therein within
one year prior to the expiration of the original term of copyright:
And provided further, That in the case of any other copyrighted
work, including a contribution by an individual author to a periodical
or to a cyclopedic or other composite work when such contribution has
been separately registered, the author of such work, if still living, or
the widow, widower, or children of the author, if the author be not
living, or if such author, widow, widower, or children be not living,
then the author's executors, or in the absence of a will, his next of kin
shall be entitled to a renewal and extension of the c6pyright in such
work for a further term of twenty-eight years when application for
such renewal and extension shall have been made to the copyright
office and duly registered therein within one year prior to the expiration of the original term, of copyright: And provided further, That
in default of the registration of such application for renewal and ex133096-39-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

copyright by printing thereon the required statutory notice. Fourteen months later, February 21, 1933, copies
were first deposited in the Copyright Office and a certificate of registration secured. This suit followed, March
8, 1933.
tension, the copyright in any work shall determine at the expiration
of twenty-eight years from first publication.
"See. 24. That the copyright subsisting in any work at the time
when this Act goes into effect may, at the expiration of the term
provided for under existing law, be renewed and extended by the
author of such work if still living, or the widow, widower, or children
of the author, if the author be not living, or if such author, widow,
widower, or children be not living, then by the author's executors,
or in the absence of a will, his next of kin, for a further period such
that the entire term shall be equal to that secured by this Act, including the renewal period: Provided, however, That if the work be a
composite work upon which copyright was originally secured by the
proprietor thereof, then such proprietor shall be entitled to the privilege of renewal and extension granted under this section: Provided,
That application for such renewal and extension shall be made to the
copyright office and duly registered therein within one year prior
to the expiration of the existing term.
"See. 25. That if any person shall infringe the copyright in any
work protected under the copyright laws of the United States such
person shall be liable:
"(a) To an injunction restraining such infringement;
"(b) To pay to the copyright proprietor such damages as the
copyright proprietor may have suffered due to the infringement, as
well as all the profits which the infringer shall have made from such
infringement,...
"See. 27. That the proceedings for an injunction, damages, and
profits, and those for the seizure of infringing copies, plates, molds,
matrices, and so forth, aforementioned, may be united in one action.
"See. 54. That the register of copyrights shall provide and keep
such record books in the copyright office as are required to carry out
the provisions of this Act, and whenever deposit has been made in the
copyright office of a copy of any work under the provisions of this
Act he shall make entry thereof.
"Sec. 55. That in the case of each entry the person recorded as the
claimant of the copyright shall be entitled to a certificate of registration
under seal of the copyright office, to contain his name and address,

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

In August, 1932, Liveright, Inc., published and offered
for general sale a book written by two of the respondents
and printed by another, which contained material substantially identical with an article contained in The Washingtonian of December, 1931. The usual notice claimed
copyright of this book. August 26, 1932, copies were deposited in the Copyright Office and certificate of registration issued.
Respondents concede that petitioner secured upon publication a valid copyright of The Washingtonian. But
they insist that although prompt deposit of copies is not
prerequisite to copyright, no action can be maintained
.. . Said certificate shall be admitted in any court as prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein. In addition to such certificate
the register of copyrights shall furnish, upon request, without additional fee, a receipt for the copies of the work deposited to complete
the registration.
"Sec. 59. That of the articles deposited in the copyright office under
the provisions of the copyright laws of the United States or of this
Act, the Librarian of Congress shall determine what books and other
articles shall be transferred to the permanent collections of the Library
of Congress, including the law library, and what other books or
articles shall be placed in the reserve collections of the Library of
Congress for sale or exchange, or be transferred to other governmental
libraries in the District of Columbia for use therein.
"Sec. 60. That of any articles undisposed of as above provided, together with all titles and correspondence relating thereto, the Librarian of Congress and the register of copyrights jointly shall, at
suitable intervals, determine what of these received during any period
of years it is desirable or useful to preserve in the permanent files
of the copyright office, and, after due notice as hereinafter provided,
may within their discretion cause the remaining articles and other
things to be destroyed: ...
"Sec. 62. That in the interpretation and construction of this Act
'the date of publication' shall in the case of a work of which copies
are reproduced for sale or distribution be held to be the earliest date
when copies of the first authorized edition were placed on sale, sold,
or publicly distributed by the proprietor of the copyright or under
his authority, and the word 'author' shall include an employer in the
case of works made. for hire."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

because of infringement prior in date to a tardy deposit.
Counsel assert-"The very foundation of the right to
maintain an action for infringement is deposit of copies
and registration of the work. Neither of these has the
slightest bearing upon the creation of the copyright itself
under Section 9. That is obtained merely by publication
with notice as required by the Act." Also, "If copies
were not deposited promptly after publication the opportunity to comply with the requirement of promptness
was gone forever as to that particular work."
Petitioner submits that under the statute prompt deposit of copies is not prerequisite to an action for infringement; and that under the facts here disclosed deposit
before suit was enough.
The Act of 1909 is a complete revision of the copyright
laws, different from the earlier Act both in scheme and
language. It introduced many changes and was intended
definitely to grant valuable, enforceable rights to authors,
publishers, etc., without burdensome requirements; "to
afford greater encouragement to the production of literary
works of lasting benefit to the world." 2
See Act of March 3, 1891, Ch. 565, 26 Stat. 1106; Goubaud v.
Wallace (1877), 36 Law Times (N. S.) 704, 705; 25 W. R. 604;
Cate v. Devon & Exeter ConstitutionalNewspaper Co. (1889), L. R.
40 Ch. D. 500, 37 W. R.487, 58 L. J. Ch. 288, 60 L. T. 672, 5 T. L. R.
229; Lumiere v. Path Exchange (1921), 275 F. 428; Mittenthal v.
Berlin (1923), 291 F. 714.
Also Report of House Committee on Patents, February 22, 1909
(No. 2222). Among other things this says"Sections 12 and 13 deal with the deposit of copies, and should be
considered together. They materially alter the existing law, which
provides that in order to make the copyright valid there must be
deposited two complete copies of the book or other article not
later than the date of first publication. The failure of a shipping
clerk to see that the copies go promptly forward to Washington
may destroy a copyright of great value, and many copyrights have
been lost because by some accident or mistake this requirement was
not complied with. The committee felt that some modification of
2

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

Under the old Act deposit of the work was essential to
the existence of copyright. This requirement caused
serious difficulties and unfortunate losses. (See H. R.
Report, note 2, supra.) The present statute (§ 9) declares-"Any person entitled thereto by this Act may secure copyright for his work by publication thereof with
the notice of copyright required by this Act [§ 18];
*.."
And respondents rightly say "It is no longer necessary to deposit anything to secure a copyright of a published work, but only to publish with the notice of
copyright."
Section 10 declares"That such person may obtain registration of his claim
to copyright by complying with the provisions of this
this drastic provision, under which the delay of a single day might
destroy a coypright, might well be made. The bill reported by the
committee provides that there shall be 'promptly' deposited in the
copyright office, or in the mail addressed to the register of copyrights,
two complete copies of the best edition then published, and that no
action or proceeding shall be maintained for the infringement of
copyright in any work until the provisions with respect to the deposit
of copies and the registration of such work shall have been complied
with.
"If the works are not promptly deposited, we provide that the
register of copyrights may at any time after publication of the work,
upon actual notice, require the proprietor of the copyright to deposit,
and then in default of deposit of copies of the work within three
months from any part of the United States, except an outlying territorial possession of the United States, or within six months from any
outlying territorial possession of the United States, or from any foreign country, the proprietor of the copyright shall be liable to a fine of
$100 and to pay to the Library of Congress twice the amount of the
retail price of the best edition of the work, and the copyright shall
become void. It was suggested that the forfeiture of the copyright
for failure to deposit copies was too drastic a remedy, but your committee feel that in many cases it will be the only effective remedy:
certainly the provision for compelling the deposit of copies by the
imposition of a fine would be absolutely unavailing should the copyright proprietor be the citizen or subject of a foreign state."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Act, including the deposit of copies, and upon such compliance the register of copyrights shall issue to him the
certificate provided for in section fifty-five of this Act."
Section 12"That after copyright has been secured by publication
of the work with the notice of copyright as provided in
section nine of this Act, there shall be promptly deposited
in the copyright office or in the mail addressed to the
register of copyrights, Washington, District of Columbia,
two complete copies of the best edition thereof then published, ... No action or proceeding shall be maintained
for infringnment of copyright in any work until the provisions of this Act with respect to the deposit of copies
and registration of such work shall have been complied
with."
Section 13"That should the copies called for by section twelve
of this Act not be promptly deposited as herein provided,
the register of copyrights may at any time after the publication of the work, upon actual notice, require the proprietor of the copyright to deposit them, and after the
said demand shall have been made, in default of the
deposit of copies of the work within three months from
any part of the United States, . . . the proprietor of
the copyright shall be liable to a fine of one hundred
dollars and to pay to the Library of Congress twice the
amount of the retail price of the best edition of the work,
and the copyright shall become void."
Sections 59 and 60 were new legislation. They show
clearly enough that deposit of copies is not required
primarily in order to insure a complete, permanent collection of all copyrighted works open to the public. Deposited copies may be distributed or destroyed under the
direction of the Librarian 8 and this is incompatible with
8See Report Register Copyrights for 1938. During the year there
were 166,248 registrations; 194,433 current articles deposited were

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

the notion that copies are now required in order that
the subject matter of protected works may always be
available for information and to prevent unconscious
infringement.
Although immediately upon publication of The Washingtonian for December, 1931, petitioner secured copyright of the articles therein, respondents maintain that
through failure promptly to deposit copies in the Copyright Office the right to sue for infringement was lost.
In effect, that the provision in § 12 relative to suits
should be treated as though it contained the words
"promptly," also "unless" instead of "until," and readNo action or proceeding shall be maintained for infringement of copyright in any work unless the provisions of
this Act with respect to the deposit of copies promptly
and registration of such work shall have been complied
with.
Plausible arguments in support of this view were advanced by the Court of Appeals. We think, however,
its adoption would not square with the words actually
used in the statute, would cause conflict with its general
purpose, and in practice produce unfortunate consequences. We cannot accept it.
Petitioner's claim of copyright came to fruition immediately upon publication. Without further notice it
was good against all the world. Its value depended
upon the possibility of enforcement.
The use of the word "until" in § 12 rather than 'unless" indicates that mere delay in making deposit of copies
was not enough to cause forfeiture of the right theretofore
distinctly granted.
Section 12 provides "That after copyright has been
secured by publication of the work with the notice of
transferred to the Library of Congress. Also 3,612 motion picture
films, and 43,302 deposits from other classes were returned to the
authors or proprietors.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

copyright as provided in section nine of this Act, there
shall be promptly deposited in the copyright office" two
copies, etc. The Act nowhere defines "promptly," and
to make the continued existence of copyright depend
upon promptness would lead to unfortunate uncertainty
and confusion. The great number of copyrights annually obtained is indicated by note 3, supra. The difficulties consequent upon the former requirement of deposit before publication are pointed out in the Committee
Report. These would be enlarged if whenever effort
is made to vindicate a copyright it would become
necesary to show deposits were made promptly after
publication especially since there is no definition of
"promptly."
Section 13 authorizes the register of copyrights to give
notice if he finds undue delay and to require deposit of
copies. Upon failure to comply within three months the
proprietor shall be subject to a fine and the copyright
shall become void. Evidently mere delay does not necessarily invalidate the copyright; its existence for three
months after actual notice is recognized. Without'right
of vindication a copyright is valueless. It would be going too far to infer that tardiness alone destroys something valuable both to proprietor and the public.
Section 20 saves the copyright notwithstanding omission of notice; § 23 declares "That the copyright secured
by this Act shall endure for twenty-eight years from the
date of first publication, whether the copyrighted work
bears the author's true name or is published anonymously
or under an assumed name: . . ." Furthermore, proper
publication gives notice to all the world that immediate
copyright exists. One charged with such notice is not
injured by mere failure to deposit copies. The duty
not to infringe is unaffected thereby. A certificate of
registration provided for by § 55 apparently may be ob-

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

tained at any time and becomes evidence of. the facts
stated therein.
Sections 23 and 24, which permit renewal of a copyright by application and registration within its last year
although the deposited copyrighted publication may have
been disposed of under §§ 59-60, give clear indication
that the requirement for deposit is not for the purpose of
a permanent record of copyrighted publications and that
such record is not indispensable to the existence of the
copyright.'
The penalty for delay clearly specified in § 13 is adequate for punishment of delinquents and to enforce contributions of desirable books to the Library. To give
§ 12 a more drastic effect would tend to defeat the broad
purpose of the enactment. The Report of the Congressional Committee points out that forfeiture after notice
'For Statement of the views of the Copyright Office concerning
Act of 1909 and practice thereunder, see Letter from the Register
of Copyrights to the Librarian of Congress dated September 17, 1938,
printed at the Government Printing Office 1938. The following
appears therein-(p. 20)
"The failure to make deposit within the proper time does not in
itself invalidate the copyright which has already been secured by publication with notice; this can now result only after failure to make
deposit upon actual notice as provided in Section 13.
"It is true that Section 12 provides that no action or proceeding
shall be maintained for infringement until the 'deposit of copies
and registration' have taken place, which presumably was added as
a special inducement to make prompt deposit; but this does not
answer the question.
"Heretofore, the practice of the office has been to accept copies at
any time subsequent to publication with notice; thus, in effect, attaching no significance to the word 'promptly'; and certain decisions of
the courts seem to sanction the practice ...
"It seems very desirable to remove this doubt and uncertainty by
eliminating the word 'promptly' from Section 12, leaving Section 13
as heretofore to take care of any delinquent. ..."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

and three months' further delay was thought too severe
by some. Nowhere does it suggest approval of the much
more drastic result now insisted upon by respondents.
Read together as the Committee which reported the
bill said they should be, §§ 12 and 13 show, we think, the
Congress intbnded that prompt deposit when deemed
necessary should be enforced through actual notice by
the register; also that while no action can be maintained
before copies are actually deposited, mere delay will not
destroy the right to sue. Such forfeitures are never to
be inferred from doubtful language.
This view is in accord with the interpretation of somewhat similar provisions of the English Copyright Act.
Goubaud v. Wallace and Cate v. Devon Constitutional
Newspaper Co., supra. Also with the conclusions reached
in Lumiere v. Pathg Exchange and Mittenthal v. Berlin,
supra.
The challenged decree must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded to the District Court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The opening words of the 1909 copyright law,1 under
which petitioner here claims, grant the privilege of copyright only to those who have complied "with the provisions of this Act." The provisions of that 1909 Act, of the
first copyright Act of 1790,' and of every copyright Act
passed since 1790, have required that copies of a copyrighted article be delivered to a designated governmental
depository. Until today, this Court has never permitted
recovery for infringement of a copyright unless the statutory requirement for deposit had been complied with in
the manner and within the time required by the govern1 35 Stat. 1075.
2

1 Stat. 124, 125.

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

ing copyright statute. The 1909 Act-governing the
present case-requires that "after copyright has been secured by publication of the work with the notice of copyright as provided in Section nine of this Act, there shall
be promptly deposited in the copyright office or in the
mail addressed to the register of copyrights,... two coinplete copies of the best edition thereof then published,
."
(Italics supplied.)
It is admitted that petitioner did not comply with the
statute by prompt deposit of two copies of its work.
Fourteen months elapsed between the date of publication
and the date of deposit. Petitioner's asserted monopoly
rights rest solely on the statute ' and petitioner disobeyed
the statute's requirements. Notwithstanding this disobedience, petitioner is here permitted to collect damages
under the statute, even for alleged infringement committed in the fourteen month period during which the
statute's express command was continuously disregarded
by petitioner. This century and a half old statutory requirement for public deposit of a copyrighted article provided a public record for the public's benefit. It imposes
a simple and easily performed duty-not burdensome in
any respect-in return for a twenty-eight year monopoly,
with right of renewal for twenty-eight more years. To
permit recovery here protects the copyright owner's statutory privilege of monopoly, but emasculates the statutory
provisions designed-for over a century and a half-to
protect the-public.
The judgment here rests upon the conclusions: (1)
that the statute grants a copyright from the date of first
publication with notice; (2) that after deposits are made
the statute permits a retroactive recovery for public use
3Banks v. Manchester, 128 U. S. 244; Caliga v. Inter Ocean
Newspaper Co., 215 U. S. 182, 188; Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210
U. S. 339, 346; Globe Newspaper Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356, 367.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

of an article of which copies were never promptly deposited as required by the statute; (3) that § 13 provides
an exclusive penalty for failure to make the deposit; and
(4) that-according to administrative interpretation of
the Act-deposits are not essential. These conclusions
are not in harmony with the historic policy of the copyright law.
First. There is no novelty in the requirement of the
Act of 1909 that deposit of copies shall be made after
the copyright has already b.ccn secured. Every copyright Act, including the original Act of 1790, provided for
a copyright interest which (as in the 1909 Act) vested
prior to the time by which the last deposit was required.
True the 1909 Act grants a copyright upon first publication, that is, before the date on which deposit is required.
But all of the previous Acts granted a copyright interest "from the [time of] recording the title" of an article,
and recording always took place before the date by which
the last deposits were required.4 And while a copyright
interest under the Acts prior to that of 1909-as in that
Act-thus vested before the last deposits were required,
4 Section 4 of the first Act of 1790, 1 Stat. 124, 125, required the
last deposit of one copy of the copyrighted article "within six
months after the publishing thereof . . ."; § 4 of the Act of 1831, 4

Stat. 436, 437, required the last deposit to be made "within three
months from the publication . . ."; § 10 of the Act of 1846, 9 Stat.

102, 106, required the last. deposits to be made "within three months
from the publication . . ."; § 2 of the Act of 1865, 13 Stat. 540, re-

quired the last deporsit to be made "within one month of the date of
publication . . ."; the Act of 1867, 14 Stat. 395, required deposit
"within one month after publication . . ."; § 93 of the Act of 1870,

16 Stat. 213, required the last deposits "within ten days after . . .
publication . . ."; Revised Statutes of 1878, § 4956, required deposit
"within ten days from the publication . . ."; § 3 of the Act of 1891,

26 Stat. 1106, required deposit "not later than the day of the publication . . ."; § 12 of the Act of 1909, 35 Stat. 1078, provides that
"after copyright . .. , there shall be promptly deposited . . ."

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

this Court uniformly held that under these Acts "conditions subsequent" providing for deposits were actually
"conditions precedent" to the perfection of the copyright. Construing the requirement of deposits in the
Acts of 1790 and 1802, this Court said: "The answer is,
that this is not a technical grant of precedent and subsequent conditions. All the conditions are important;
the law requires them to be performed; and, consequently, their performance is essential -to a perfect title. On,
the performance of a part 5f them, the right vests; and
this was essential to its protection under the statute;
but other acts are to 'be done, unless congress have legislated in vain, to render the right perfect." (Italics supplied.) 5
The 1831 Act was also construed by this Court as
follows: "Although, under § 6 of the . . . act, the exclusive right to the copyright vests upon the recording of
the title to the book, and runs for the prescribed period
from that date, and although the right of action for infringement, under § 6, also accrues at that time, yet it is
quite clear, that, under § 4, in respect at least to suits
brought after three months from the publication of the
book, [within which the 1831 Act required deposit]
it must be shown, as a condition precedent to the right
to maintain the suit, that a copy of the book was delivered to the clerk of the District Court within three
months from the publication. . . . Undoubtedly, the
three conditions prescribed by the statute, namely, the
deposit before publication of the printed copy of the title
of the book, the giving of information of the copyright by
the insertion of the notice on the title-page or the next
page, and the depositing of a copy of the book within
three months afte:- the publication, are conditions prece5 Wheaton & Donaldson v. Peters & Grigg, 8 Peters 591, 665.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

dent to the perfection of the copyright." (Italics supplied.),

Second. All copyright laws before 1891 had required
deposit within some designated period after publication.
The Act of 1891, however, required deposit "not later
than the date of [first] publication." The Joint Committee on the bill which became the 1909 Act considered
this requirement too drastic because "the delay of a
single day" (after publication) in making the deposit
"might destroy a copyright." Instead of requiring deposit within a fixed number of days, or by the date of
publication, the bill as reported, and the 1909 Act as
passed, permitted a copyright to be perfected by a
"prompt deposit" after publication. The Committee
did not recommend, nor did Congress provide that copyright could be perfected without deposit; the Committee
did recommend, and Congress enacted an extension of the
time for deposit.
In considering what Congress meant by continuing in
the 1909 revision of the copyright laws the requirement
for the deposit of copies, "we must look to the origin and
source of the expression and the judicial construction put
upon it before the enactment in question was passed." '
Prior to the 1909 Act this Court had construed provisions
for deposit as essential requirements to the perfection
of copyright, whether considered as conditions precedent
or subsequent.' The Committee reporting the 1909 Act
pointed out that "Under existing law [the 1891 Act]
the filing of title and deposit of copies on or before the
date of first publication are conditions precedent, and
any failure to comply with them works a forfeiture of
6 Callaghan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 651, 652; cf. Merrell v. Tice,
104 U. S. 557; Thompson v. Hubbard, 131 U. S. 123, 150.
7 Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 121.
8 See notes 5, 6, supra.

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK, J., dissenting.

the copyright. It is proposed under this bill to so change
this as to have the copyright effective upon the publication with notice, and the other formalities become conditions subsequent." '
"A condition precedent is one which must happen or
be performed before the estate to which it is annexed
can vest" or which must be performed "before some right
dependent thereon accrues." 10 A "condition subsequent
is one annexed to an estate already vested, . . . and
by the failure or non-performance of which it is defeated." "I
It is clear that Congress intended that the requirement
as to deposits must be complied with in order to perfect
the copyright interest under the 1909 Act. Any other
construction runs counter to the policy of the copyright
law and rewards disobedience to plain statutory provisions.
Only compelling language could justify the conclusion that Congress intended to abandon a statutory policy-in effect since 1790-which required owners of patent or copyright monopolies to disclose upon the public
records the extent of their claimed monopolies. Under
the prevailing judgment here, public deposit and public
registration are no longer necessary in order to obtain
rights under the copyright law. And without deposit
and registration, there need be no public disclosure of
the day or the year of publication (by which copyright
is obtained) of many copyrighted works. Under § 18the only mandatory provision for public disclosure now
left unimpaired-many types of copyright will be obtained merely by marking publications with the name of
the proprietor and the word "Copyright", "Copyr.", or
9House Rep. No. 2222, 60th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 10.
'oBlack's Law Dictionary, 3rd Ed., West Publishing Co.. 1,90
n Id.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

"C". Hereafter, there need be no public (or even private) record of the beginning and the ending of many
of these monopolies. And it is unreasonable to assume
that an owner of a copyright will voluntarily make the
extent and limitations of his monopoly more public than
the law requires. Congress did not intend to enshroud
copyright monopolies in such secrecy (See §§ 16, 23, 55,
62). If disobedience of the statutory requirement is to
be rewarded, the reward should certainly be limited-as
the Court of Appeals held-so that a deposit which does
not comply with the law could not be given retroactive
operation permitting recovery of damages for public use
during the period of disobedience.
Third. Section 12 of the 1909 Act-requiring registration and prompt deposit, after publication, of two complete copies of the best edition of a copyrighted articleprovides that no action or proceeding shall be maintained for copyright infringement until the required
copies are deposited and the article registered with the
register of copyrights. Under § 13, if the copies are not
promptly deposited after publication, the register of
copyrights may demand deposit by the proprietor. If
deposit is not then made within three months, the proprietor is liable to a fine of $100.00 and payment to the
Library of Congress of twice the amount of the. retail
price of the best edition of the article, and the copyright
becomes void for all purposes. It is suggested that § 13
provides the sole and exclusive penalty for failure to
comply with the statutory requirement of prompt deposit
of copies. But this ignores one of the two distinct purposes of Congress in requiring deposits of copies in the
1909 Act and in all preceding copyright Acts. First, the
deposit is intended to record publicly full and complete
information about a work for which copyright is claimed
and to make that work continuously available for public

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

inspection in order that the extent and boundaries of
the monopoly may be understood by the public at all
times during the life of the copyright. The judgment
here renders this primary Congressional purpose ineffective. Second, Congress intended to preserve "desirable or useful" 1 works in a governmental agency dedicated to the diffusion of public knowledge. In furtherance of this second purpose the Act of 1909,-as did
other Acts since 1846-required copies to be deposited
with the Library of Congress. These two separate and
distinct purposes have been manifested by Congress
sometimes in different sections of a single copyright statute and at other times in separate Acts.
To effectuate the first purpose, that is, to notify the
public of the existence and extent of a copyright monopoly, the first Act of 1790 required deposit, public recording and registration in a District Court, and publication in a newspaper; the Act of 1831 required deposit
with the Clerk of a District Court (without penalty for
failure to deposit); the Act of 1870 required deposit of
one copy of the title with the Librarian of Congress before publication and two copies of the article within ten
days after publication without provision for money penalty for failure to comply; § 4956 of the Revised Statutes
(1878) required deposit of one copy of the title before
publication and two copies of the work after publication.
Deposit has served as an integral part of every legislative
plan to give the public full information of copyright monopolies. These plans have included deposits, registration, notice on the copyrighted article itself and full publication in newspapers. Deposit, registration and notice
on the article-which every prior copyright Act required-are specifically provided for in the 1909 Act.
12

§ 60, Act of 1909.
133096 -39-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1938
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

To effectuate the second purpose, that is, to preserve
worthy works for the diffusion of knowledge, the Act of
1790 made separate provision for delivery of an additional
copy to the Secretary of State "to be preserved in his
office "; in a non-copyright Act of 1846, (9 Stat. 102, 106)
creating the Smithsonian Institute "for the diffusion of
knowledge," Congress required deposit of separate copies
with the Institute and with the Library of Congress; a
special Act of 1865 (13 Stat. 540, the origin of § 13
now considered) permitted a separate copy to be franked
to the Library of Congress within a month of publication "for the use of said Library," gave the Librarian
the right to demand this additional copy, and penalized
non-compliance with his demand by forfeiture of copyright; § 93 of the Act of 1870 required two additional
copies of the best edition to be delivered, within ten days
after publication, to the Librarian of Congress, and (§
94) "in default of such deposit" which was required for
the benefit of the Library, a penalty of $25.00 could be
collected by the Librarian of Congress; § 4959 of the Revised Statutes (1878) required deposit of two additional
separate copies of the best edition "within ten days from
publication" with the Librarian of Congress, and § 4960
extended the penalty of $25.00 to cover all failures to
make deposits of copies.
Section 12 of the Act of 1909, following the provisions
of the Act of 1891 (26 Stat. 1106) provided in a single
section for deposit of copies with the Librarian both for
notice to the public and for use of the Library. Section
13 of the 1909 Act now provides in a single section-as
had § 4960 of the Revised Statutes-a penalty for failure to make deposits which are required for the two purposes of notice to the public and use by the Library.
Neither this § 13 nor any of its legislative predecessors
indicated a Congressional intent to abandon-as a con-

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
:30

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

dition to the perfection of a copyright-the requirement
of deposits for the salutary purpose of providing adequate
public records of the existence and continuing extent of
copyright monopolies. Section 13 gives the Librarian of
Congress authority to demand deposit of copies of every
article on which copyright is claimed, adding an additional penalty for failure to comply with his demand. This
additional penalty may be imposed whether the claimed
copyright is valid or invalid, and does not nullify the
mandatory provision of § 12 requiring deposit of copies
for the public benefit.
Section 12 itself provides that "no action or proceeding shall be maintained for infringement of copyright
in any work until the provisions of this Act with respect
to the deposit of copies and registration of such work
shall have been complied with." Compliance with "the
provisions of this Act" is made a condition of the right to
sue, and the Act is not complied with by delaying fourteen months after publication before making deposit.
The Act requires "prompt deposit."
It is said that two new sections (59 and 60) of the 1909
Act indicate an intention of Congress to abandon the
protective mandate for public record of copyright monopolies. These sections show a contrary purpose and
distinctly mark the line between deposits for Library uses
and deposits for public information.
Section 59 permits the Librarian of Congress acting
alone to transfer deposited copies to other governmental
libraries for their use. Since 1909, acting under this authority, the Librarian has distributed 186,037 volumes.13
L,The books were distributed to the Departments of Agriculture,
Commerce, Navy, Treasury, Education; and to the Federal Trade
Commission, Bureau of St:alards, Army Medical Library, Walter

lRecd I opital, Engineer School, Corp,, of Engineers-, Soldiers' Home,
l)isrit ofl Columbia Library and others. Annual Report, Register
of Copyrights, 193S, p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

Section 60 permits the Librarian (supervising both the
Library and Copyright offices) acting jointly with the
Register of Copyrights, (directly in charge of deposits for
copyright purposes) to determine what deposits "received
during any period of years it is desirable or useful to preserve in the permanent files of the Copyright Office . . ."
(Italics supplied.) After duly published notice to the
public, and "specific notice to the copyright proprietor of
record" other articles can be destroyed or returned to the
proprietor "of record." But even as to articles destroyed
or returned, public records of the copyright monopolies
must be retained in the registration files (§§ 10, 11, 16, 45,
47, 53, 54, 55) and in the indices or catalogues (§ 56).
All these records "shall be open to public inspection."
(§ 58). And-among other purposes-these records remain open to public inspection, in the event of a copyright renewal.
During the last forty-one years copyright registrations
numbered over five million, and "have increased over fivefold." "4 In 1909, it was obviously necessary to enact
legislation providing for disposal of some of the multitudinous accumulated copyrighted articles no longer
necessary for the purpose of public disclosure. But far
from showing a Congressional intent to permit copyright
monopolies with no public governmental record available
for public inspection, H§ 59 and 60 are the clearest and
most conclusive evidence of a contrary purpose. They
carried forward and emphasized once more the dual statutory purpose to require deposits for the use of the Library,
and to preserve for the public the historic and wise policy
that the ownership, nature and extent of private monopolies granted by government should always be spread
upon government records open for public inspection.
Fourth. There remains the suggestion that administrative interpretation of the 1909 Act lends support to
14 Annual Report, Register of Copyrights, 1938, p. 1.

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the judgment here under which the statutory provisions
for public registration and deposit are nullified. On the
contrary, the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Register of Copyrights under the 1909 Act have continuously and consistently recognized that registration and
deposit are mandatory. From the first (1910) until the
latest (1927) edition of these rules and regulations they
have substantially provided as follows:
"Promptly after first publication of the work with the
copyright notice inscribed, two complete -copies of the
best edition of the work then published must be sent to
the Copyright Office, with the proper application for
registration correctly filled out and a money order for the
amount of the legal fee.
"The statute requires that the deposit of the copyright
work shall be made 'promptly' which has been defined as
'without unnecessary delay.' It is not essential, however, that the deposit be made on the very day of publication." (Italics supplied.)'
But it is said that a letter from the Register of Copyrights to the Librarian of Congress-dated September 17,
1938-indicates a different interpretation of the Act by
the Copyright Office. However, this letter does not purport to change the formal rules and regulations-in force
and effect since 1910-which provide that deposit and
registration "must" be "promptly" made. The 1909 Aet
gives the Register of Copyrights authority to promulgate
rules and regulations but it does not give him authority
to alter the law's meaning by comnuicating with the
Librarian of Congress. Nor, in fact, does this letter represent an effort by the Register of Copyrights to change
the rules and regulations dating from 1910. Practitioners
in the Copyright Office, as well as the public generally,
Copyriaht Oflivc, Bulletin No. 15,
2 Rules and Regulations of ilie
1927. The word "promptly" was inserted in ti first p:r:agraph for
the first time in 1917.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

rely upon formal rules and regulations made available to
the public. But whether they have access to interdepartmental communications such as the letter does not
appear.
This interdepartmental communication bears the date
of September 17, 1938. It appeared in public form for
the first time January 4, 1939. Its appearance thus occurred nearly six years after the complaint in this suit
was filed; more than eight months after the Circuit Court
of Appeals decided that the statutory provisions for deposit were mandatory; almost three months after this
Court granted certiorari; and twenty-nine days after the
cause was argued and submitted for final decision by this
Court. The communication is admittedly contrary to the
only two court decisions which it cites on the precise question of the effect of failure to make deposit.1" It does not
represent an administrative practice consistently pursued,
or an administrative interpretation of long standing, and
therefore is not entitled to any weight in the construction
of the 1909 Act. The administrative rules and regulations-to which we may look-have since 1910 consistently required that deposit "must" be made.
It is of far greater importance to the public today than
it was in 1790, 1831, 1870, or 1891, that public record
be made of copyright monopolies granted to further the
arts and sciences, sipce these privileges have been extended by statute to include almost every conceivable
type of production of the human mind." It has been well
16

Opinion of the court below; Ebeling & Reuss, Inc. v. Rafi, unoffi-

cially reported, 28 United States Patent Quarterly, 366, (E. D.,
Penn.).
1 The Act of 1909 as amended, 17 U. S. C., § 5, lists the following
classes of works in which copyright may be claimed: Books, including composite and cyclopedic works, directories, gazetteers, and other
compilations; Periodicals, including newspapers; Lectures, sermons,
addresses (prepared for oral delivery); Dramatic or dramatico-

WASHINGTONIAN CO. v. PEARSON.
30

BLACK, J., dissenting.

said that the "general rule of law is, that the noblest of
human productions-knowledge, truths ascertained, conceptions, and ideas--become, after voluntary communication to others, free as the air to common use." Is All
voluntary communications become "free as the air to
common use" unless protected by compliance with the
copyright statutes. More than twenty-five years ago
(1911) a careful and accurate survey of the copyright
law's led to the conclusion that "For seventy-five years
it has been the settled law of this country that protection under the copyright law is granted only to those
who perform the conditions essential to a perfect copyright title." "o No decision of this Court-previous to
that of today-has questioned the consistent purpose of
Congress to require "that the public should have notice,
by a true and correct official registry, as to the real
author or proprietor entitled to the enjoyment of such
monopoly as against the public." - ' To grant monopoly
privileges-by judicial construction-to those who fail to
comply with statutory safeguards intended to protect the
public against abuses of such privileges conflicts with
statutory policy extending back to the beginning of the
nation's history. An author is entitled to the benefit of
eyery right afforded by copyright law, but only "upon
complying with the provisions of" that law. Congress
has provided for a grant of monopoly privileges under
musical compositions; Musical compositions; Maps; Works of art;
models or designs for works of art; Reproduction, of a work of art;
Drawings or plastic works of a scientific or technic:il character; Photographs; Prints and pictorial illustrations; Motion-picture photoplays; Motion pictures other than photoplays.

"IBrandeis, J., dissenting, International News Serv;ce v. Associated Press. 248 U. S. 215, 250.
" Louis Demige & Co. v. Breuker & Kessler Co., 191 F. 35, 36;
aff'd, 235 U. S. 3:.
2o Ko ppel v. Dowting, 11 App. 1). C. 93, 104.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

copyright for a term which may extend by renewal to
fifty-six years for those who do comply. Petitioner having conceded that it disobeyed a plain requirement of the
Act designed to inform and protect the public, I cannot
agree that it should recover damages under the very law
it admittedly disobeyed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

concur in

this dissent.

UTAH FUEL CO. ET AL. v. NATIONAL BITUMINOUS
COAL COMM'N ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 528.

Argued January 3, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

An order of the National Bituminous Coal Commission directed its
secretary to make available to interested parties, for possible use
in evidence in a hearing which was to be held by the Commission to determine the weighted average of the total costs per
ton of coal produced in certain areas, certain cost and sales realization data theretofore furnished by producers pursuant to an order
under § 10 (a) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937. Several
producers, members of the Bituminous Coal Code, filed a bill in
the District Court to enjoin the threatened disclosure. The bill
alleged, inter alia, that the petitioners were without other. adequate
remedy (the order not being reviewable under § 6 (b) of the
Act), and that they would sustain immediate and irreparable
damage from such disclosure; and further, that the Commission's proposed action was arbitrary and unreasonable, unauthorized by the statute, and in violation of a promise of privacy inferable from the order under which the data were filed and the
forms used for returns thereof. Held:
1. The suit was within the equity jurisdiction of the District
Court. P. 59.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be determined by
the allegations of the bill; and usually if the bill makes a claim
which if well founded is within the jurisdiction of the court, then
it is within that jurisdiction whether well founded or not.

