CASES ADJUDGED
MNTE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

IN RE NEAGLE, Petitioner.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1472. Argued.Marcb 4, 5, 1890. - Decided April 14, 1890.

An appeal from the decision of a Circuit Court of the United States in a
habeas corpus case, under Rev. Stat. § 764, as amended by the act of
March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 437, c. 353, brings up the whole case, both law
and facts, and imposes upon this court the duty of reexamining it, upon
the full record as it was heard in the inferior court.
A person who is in custody for an act done or omitted in pursuance of a
law of the United States, or of an order, process or decree of a court,
or judge thereof, or is in custody in violation of the Constitution, or a
law or treaty of the United. States, may, under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 753, be brought before any court of. the United States, or justice
or judge thereof, by writ of habeas corputs, for the purpose of an inquiry
into the cause of his detention; and the court or justice or judge is required by § 761 to proceed in a summary way to deiermine the facts of
the case, by hearing the testimony and arguments, and thereupon to dispose of the party as law, and j1~stice require.
By virtue of Rev. Stat. §§ 606, 610, the justices of the Supreme CQurt
of the United States are allotted among the nine circuits, to each one of
which a judge is assigned; and the latter section makes it the duty of
each judge to attend the Circuit Court in each district of the circuit to
which he is allotted, and thereby imposes upon him the necessity of
I The docket title of this case is "Thomas Cunningham, Sheriff of the
County of San Joaquin, California, Appellant, v. David Yea gle."
VOL. CXXXV-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.
travelling from his residence to the Circuit Court which he is to attend,
and from each place in that circuit where the court is held'to the other
places where it is held. Held, that, while a judge is thus travelling to
or from those places, he is as much in discharge of his duty as when listening to and deciding cases in open court, and is as much entitled to
protection in the one case as in the other.
While there is no express statute authorizing the appointment of a deputy
marshal, or any other officer to attend a judge of the Supreme Court
Wvhen travelling in his circuit, and to protect him against assaults" or
other injury, the general obligation imposed upon the President of the
United States 'by the Constitution to see that the laws be faithfully executed, and the means placed in his hands, both by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, to enable him to do this, impose upon the
Executive department the duty of protecting a justice or judge of any
of the courts of the United States, when there is just reason to believe
that he will be in personal danger while executing the duties of his
office.
An assault upon a judge-of a court of the United States, while in discharge
bf his official duties, is a breach of the peace of the United States, as
distinguished from thd peace of the State in which the assault takes
place.
Under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 788, it is the duty of marshals and
their deputies in each State to exercise, in keeping the peace of the
United States, the powers given to the sheriffs of the State for keeping
the peace of the State; and a deputy marshal of the United States, specialty charged with the duty of protecting and guarding a judge of a
court of the United States, has imposed upon him the duty of doing
whatever may be necessary for that purpose, even to the taking of
'human life.
United States officers and other persons, held in custody by state authorities for doing acts which they were authorized or required to do by the
Constitution -and laws of the United States, are entitled to be released
from such imprisonment; and the writ of habeas copus is the appropriate remedy for that purpose.
David Neagle, a deputy marshal of the United States for the District ot
California, was brought by writ of habeas coipus before the Circuit
Court of that District, upon the allegation that he was held in imprisonment by.the sheriff of San Joaquin County, California, on a charge of
the murder of David S. Terry. He alleged that the killing of Terry by
him was done in pursuance of his duty as such deputy marshal in defending the life. of Mr. Justice Field, while in discharge of his duties
as Circuit Judge of the ninth circuit. On the trial of this writ in the
Circuit Court it entered an order discharging the prisoner, finding that
be was in custody for an act done in pursuance of a law of the United
States, and was imprisoned in violation of the Constitution and laws of
the United States. The case being brought up to the Supreme Court by
appeal, this court, on examining the voluminous testimony, arrived at

IN

RE NEAGLF

Statement of the Case.
the conviction that there was a settled purpose on the part of Terry and
his wife, amounting to a conspiracy, to murder Mr. Justice Field, on his
official visit to California in the summer of 1889; that this arose from
animosity against him on account of judicial decisions made in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of California
in a suit or suits to which they were parties; that the purpose which
they had of doing Mr. Justice Field an injury became so well and so
publicly known, that a correspondence ensued between the marshal anti
the District Attorney of that District and the Attorney General of the
United States, the result of which was that Nleagle was appointed a deputy marshal for the express purpose of guarding Mr. Justiqc Field
against an attack by Terry and his wife which might result in his death;
that such a4 attack did take place; that Neagle, being there for the said
purpose of affording protection, had just reason to believe that the attack would result in the death of M1r. Justice Field unless he interfered:
and that he did justifiably interfere by shooting Terry while in the acttof
assaulting 'Mr. Justice Field, whom lie had already struck two or three
times.
lck,
(1) That Neagle was justified in defending Mr. Justice Field in thlis
manner;
(2) That in so doing he acted in discharge of his duty as, an officer of
the United States;
(3) That having so acted, in that capacity, he could not be guilty of
murder under the laws of California, nor held to answer to itg
courts for an act for which lie had the authority of the laws of
the United States;
(4) That the judgment of the Circuit Court, discharging him from the
custody of the sheriff of San Joaquin County, must therefore be
affirmed.

MR. JusTiCE MILLER, on behalf of the court, stited the case
as follows:
This was an appeal by Cunningham, sheriff of the county
of San Joaquin, in the State of California, from a judgment
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, discharging David Neagle from the

custody of said sheriff, who held him a prisoner on a chargfof nmurder.
On the 16th day of August, 1889, there was presented t()
Judge Sawyer, the Circuit Judge of the United States for the

Ninth Circuit, embracing the Northern District of California,
a petition signed David Neagle, deputy United States marshal,
by A. L. Farrish on his behalf. This petition represented. that

OCTOBER TERMt, 1889.
Statement of the- Case:

the said Farrish was a deputy marshal duly appointed for the
Northern District of California by J. C..Franks, who was the
marshal of that district. It further alleged that David Neagle
was, at the time of the occurrences recited in the petition and
at the time of filing it, a duly appointed and acting deputy
United States marshal for the same district. It then proceeded
to state that said Neagle was imprisoned, confined and restrained of his liberty in the county" jail in San Joaquin
County, in the State of California, by Thomas Cunningham,
sheriff of said county, upon a charge of murder, under a warrant of arrest, a copy of which was annexed to the petition.
The warrant was as follows:
"In the Justice's Court of Stockton Township..
" STATE OF CA-LORNA,

County of San Joaquin, . st"
"The People of the State of California to any sheriff, constable, marshal, or policeman of said State or of the county
of San Joaquin:
"Information on oath having been this day laid before me
by Sarah A. Terry that the crime of murder, a felony, has been
committed within said county of San Joaquin on the 14th day
of August, A.D. 1889, in this, that one David S. Terry, a
human being then and there being, was wilfully, unlawfully,
feloniously, and with malice aforethought shot, killed and
murdered, and accusing Stephen J. Field and David Neagle
thereof: You are therefore commanded forthwith to arrest the
above-named Stephen J. Field ' and David Neagle and bring
them before me, at my office, in the city of Stockton, or, in
I The Governor of California, on learning that a warrant had been issued
for the arrest of Mr. Justice Field, promptly wrote to the Attorney General
of the State, urging "the propriety of at once instructing the District
Attorney of San Joaquin County to dismiss the unwarranted proceeding
against him," as his arrest "would be a burning disgrace to the State unless disavowed." The Attorney General as promptly responded by advising the District Attorney that there was "no evidence to implfcate Justice
Field in said shooting," and that "public justice demands that the charge
against him be dismissed;" which was accordingly done.

IN RE. IEAGLE.
Statement of the Case.

case of my absence or inability to act, before the nearest and
most accessible magistrate in the counter:
"Dated at Stockton this 14th day of August, A.D. 1889.
"H. V. J. SWAM,

""Jzustice of the Peace.
"The defendant, David Neagle, having been brought before
me on this warrant, is committed for examination to the
sheriff of San Joaquin County, California.
"Dated August 15, 1889.

H. V. J. SWAIN,

"Justice of t7he Peace."
The petition then recited the circumstances of. a rencontre
between said'Neagle and David S. Terry, in which the latter
was instantly killed by two.shots from a revolver in the hands
of the former. The circumstances of this encounter and of
what led to it will be considered with more particularity here.
after. The main allegation of this petition was that Keagle,
as United States deputy marshal, acting under the orders of
Marshal Franks, and in pursuance of* instructions from the
Attorney General of the United States, had, in consequence of
an anticipated attempt at violence on the part of Terry
against the Honorable Stephen J. Field, a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, been in attendance upon
said justice, and was sitting by his side at a breakfast table
when a murderous assault was made by Terry on Judge Field,
and in defence of'the life of the judge the homicide was
committed for which Neagle was held by Cunningham. The
allegation was very distinct that Justice Field was engaged in
the discharge of his duties as circuit justice of the United
States for that circuit, having held court at Los Angeles, one of
the places at which the coirt is by law held, and, having left
that court, was on his way to San Francisco for the purpose of
holding the Circuit Court at that place. The allegation was
also very full that Neagle was directed by Marshal Franks to
accompany him for the urpose of-protecting him, and that
these orders of Franks were given in anticipation of the assault
which actually occurred. It was also stated, in more .general'.

OCTOBER TERM, ,1889.
Statement of the Case.

terms, that Marshal Neagle, in killing Terry under the circumstances, was in the discharge of his duty as an officer of the
United States, and was not, therefore, guilty of a murder, and
that his imprisonment under the warrant held by Sheriff Cunningham was in violation of the laws and Constitution of the
United States, and that he was in custody for an act done in
pursuance of the laws of- the United States. This petition
being sworn to.by Farrish, and presented to Judge Sawyer, he
made the following order:
"Let a writ of Aabeas corpus issue in pursuance of the prayer
of the within petition, returnable before the United States
Circuit Court for the Northern District of California.
" SAWYER, CircuitJudge."
The writ was accordingly issued and delivered to Cunningham, who made the following return:

"CoVNT

OF SAN JOAQuIn,

State of California.
"SHERIFF'S

OFFICE.

"To the honorable Circuit Court of the United States for the
*Northern District of California:
"I hereby certify and return that before the coming to me
of the annexed writ of Aabeas corpus the said David Neagle
was committed to my custody, and is detained by me by virtue of a warrant issued out of the justice's court of Stockton
township, State of California, county of San Joaquin, and by
the endorsement made upon said warrant. Copy of said warrant and endorsement is annexed hereto and made a part of
this return., Nevertheless, I have the body of the said David
Neagle before the honorable court, as I am in the said writ
commanded.
"August 17, 1889.
THos. CUNN rNGHAM,
"Sherifl'San Joaquin County, California."
Various pleadings and amended pleadings were n.are ivnict
do not tend, much to the elucidation of the matter before us.
Cunninghla.i filed L demurrer to the petition for the writ of

IN RE NEAGLF
Mr. Montgomery's Argument for Appellant.

habeas -corusand Neagle filed a traverse to the return of the
sheriff, which was accompanied by exhibits, the substance of
which will be hereafter considered when the case comes to be
examined upon its facts.
The hearing in the Circuit Court was had before Circuit
Judge Sawyer and District Judge Sabin. -The sheriff, Cunningham, was represented by G. A. Johnson, Attorney General of the State of California, and other counsel. A large
body of testimony, documentary and otherwise, was submitted
to the court, on which, after a full bonsideration of the subject,
the court made the following order:
"In the Matter of David Neagle, on habeas cor2us.
"In the above-entitled matter, the court having heard the
testimony introduced on behalf of the petitioner, none having
been offered for the respondent, and also the arguments of the
counsel for petitioner and respondent, and it appearing to the
court that the allegations of the petitioner in his amended
answer or traverse to the return of the sheriff of San Joaquin
County, respondent herein, are true, and that the prisoner is,
in custody for an act done in pursuance of a law of the United
-States, and in custody in violation of the Constitution and
laws of the United States, it is therefore ordered that petitioner be, and he is hereby, discharged from custody."
From that order an appeal was allowed which brofight the
case to this court, accompanied by a voluminous record of all
the-matters which were before the court on the hearing.

fr. Z. Aontgomery, for appellant, argued mainly on the
facts, maintaining that they showed that Terry had no purpose of seriously injuring Mr. Justice Field, and that therefore
the killing was without excuse. He also presented in his brief
the following questions of law:
Section 753 of the Revised Statutes provides "-That the writ
(of habeas corpus) shall not extend to a prisoner in jail .
unless he is in custody for an act done or committed in pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an order, process, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Montgomery's Argument for Appellant.

decree of a; court thereof, or in custody in violation of the Constitution, or of a law or treaty of the United States." If, in
killing Terry, Neagle was acting "in pursuance of a law of the
United States," and if it appears that he was in custody in
violation of the Constitution or a law of the United States,
construing.the word "law" as -the law-making power intended
it should be. construed, then the writ of ha eas corpus was
properly issued; otherwise not. What, then, is the meaning
of the w6rd "law" as used in said section ?
The Circuit Court, in rendering the decision now under
review, by way of defining the word ".law," used this language: "It will be observed that the language of the provision of section .753 is an act done
.
in pursuance of
a law of the United States, not in pursuance of a statute of the
United States."
The court seems to -have assumed that there is such a thing
as-"a common law" of the United States. But this court has
said there is no such thing. "Itis clear that there can be no
common law of the United States. The federal government
is composed of twenty-four sovereign and independent states;
each of which may have its local usages, customs and common
law. There is no principle which pervades the Union and has
the authority of law, that is not embodied in the Constitution
or laws of the Union. The common law could be made a part
of our federal system only by legislative adoption." TVeaton
v. Peters,8 Pet. 591, 658.
In the case of Tenesse v. Davis, 100 U. 6. 257, a case
strongly
ifelied upon by the Circuit Court as a
sustaining.
authority for its decision iu this case, the. Supreme Court, in
determining what is meant by'the words !.laws of the United
States," as employed in the second section of the third article
of the Federal Constitution, said: "Cases arising under the
laws of the United States are such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, .'hether they constitute the right or privilege or claim or protection, 6r defence of the party, in whole
or in part, by whom they are asserted." p. 264.
This, it will be observed, is a judicial construction by our
highest court placed upon the words "laws of the United

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Montgomery's Argument for Appellant.

States," as used in that very article of the Federal Constitu--'
tion, which was intended to fix a limit beyond which Congress
itself could not go in conferring jurisdiction upon a United
States court. So that if we construe the words, "law of the
United States," found in section 753 of the :Revised Statutes, as
including other laws than those enacted by Congress, we give
to them a meaning which,. in the light of the decision just
quoted, would render them unconstitutional. In all the cases
cited as authority by the Circuit Court, where an act of an
officer of the United States was held t6 have been "done or'
committed in pursuance of a law of the United States," the
law" relied upon as authorizing such act was a statute.
In order to grasp the true spirit and intention of section 753,
in authorizing federal courts to release, on habeas coruns, persons "in custody for acts done or omitted in pursuance of a
law of the United'States," etc., it may be well to reciir to the.
evil intended to be remedied by the act as originally passed in
1833, and afterwards incorporated in section '753. In ExyVte
Jenkins, 2 Wall. Jr. 521, a case cited by the Circuit Court in
deciding this case, Mr. Justice Grier, referring to the act- in
question, said: "This act was passed when a certain State of
this Union had threatened to nullify acts "of Congress and t6
treat those as criminals who should attempt to execute them,
and it was intended as a remedy Against such state legislation."
p. 529.
A creful examination of the cases cited wherein the f~deral
coucts have discharged on kabeas cofpis persons held in custody "for Acts done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the
United States," will show not only that the acts s6 done oromitted were in pursuance of a plain statutory law of the
United StAtes, but that such statutory law had been repudiated and sought to be nullified either by state legislation, or
by state judicial tribunals without the aid of such state legis:
lation. In other words, they-were cases wherein persons had
been arrested and imprisoned because of acts done or omitted
in obedience to statutory laws of the United States, which
statutory laws certain state tribunals had refused to recognize as laws. If it be contended that the slaying of. Terry

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Montgomery's Argument for Appella.

by Neagle was, in fact, an act of justifiable homicide, done
pursuant to a law of the United States, and 1eagle's arrest
and imprisonment even to await trial for said homicide constituted an illegal restraint of his liberty, which made it
the duty of the federal court to release him on kabeas corpus,
as provided. by § 753, I answer that such a contention is
%refuted, not only by the authorities cited, but by the express
language of this court in xparte 1?oyall, 117 U. S. 241, 247.
'So, likewise, if the California statute which defines the crime
of murder, the crime with which Keagle stands charged, was
repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or if the facts which under the laws of California constitute
*murder, would under the laws of the United States' be justifiable homicide, then it might be truthfully said that the State's
"1prosecution against Neagle had nothing upon which to rest,
and the entire proceeding against him is a nullity."
But it is not pretended that there is any repugnance between the state law defining the crime with which Keagle is
charged, and the Constitution or statutes of the United States.
Hence I repeat there is no legal pretext for the interposition
of a federal court in order to prevent his conviction and pun'ishment for an act "done in pursuance of a law of the United
States."
Thus it seems clear that, even if Neagle in the killing of
Terry, had in fact been acting in pursuance of. a law of the
United States, still, unless there was something in the laws
of California as construed by her courts that would make
such a homibide punishable, he could not be lawfully released
under § 753 merely because he was being held in custody' to
aivait his trial in a state court in order to have it determined
judicially whether the homicide had, or had not, been committed in pursuance of a law of the United States.
While we concede that, under the laws of California, Neagle
or anybody else would.have had a right to protect Mr. Justice
Field against a felonious assault, even by taking the life of
the assailant, if necessary, we deny that the marshal had any
authority under the statutes of the United States to send him
on such a mission, or that the fact that he was a deputy mar.

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Mlontgomery's Argument for Appellant.

shal conferred any special power upon hini. Such a power,
if it exists, must be found in § 787 or § T88 of the iRevised
Statutes. Section 787 makes it "the duty of the marshal of
each district to attend the District and Circuit Courts when
sitting therein, and to execute" precepts. This does not authorize the marshal to attend the judges of the court, wherever they may-go: and such seems to have been the interpretation put upon the act by the District Attorney, when he
wrote to the Attorney General on the 7th of May: "And
-while due caution has always been taken by the marshal,
when either Judge or Mrs. Terry is about the building in
which the courts are held, he has not felt it within his authority to guard either Judge Sawyer or Justice Field against
harm when away from the appraisers' building."
In this construction of the law it seems to me that the
marshal was clearly right. But he now seeks, and his deputy,
seeks, and the decision under review seeks to justify
,eagle,
the marshal, in sending a body guard to attend Mr. Justice
Field when away from the court, and away from the appraisers' building, by reason and under authority of instructions
from the United States Attorney General. My first answer
to this plea is, that neither the Attorney General, nor the
President acting through the Attorney General, was empowered by law to give to Marshal Franks any such authority as
would justify him in sending Deputy Marshal Neagle for any'
such purpose. And my second answer is, that there is nothing
in the record to stow that either the Attorney General, or
the President through the Attorney General, ever gave or
attempted to give to Marshal Franks any order, 'direction
or instruction, which even purports to authorize the sending
of a deputy marshal on any such errand as that referred to.
If the President has any such power as he is claimed to
have exercised in this instance, where does he get it? If the
President has power, within the jurisdiction of the several
States, to keep a body guard for every instrument of the
federal government, he has power to place a marshal in the
house of every American citizen in order to shield him from
harm at the hands of his fellow-citizens. And, if it has come

I OCTOBER TERM, 1889:"
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

to this, what use, would I ask, have we for state governments?
Mr.Attomey GeneraZ for the appellee.
Neagle's right to a writ of htabeas wo2Twois an inheritance
'from the common law,.guaranteed by the Constitution, Art. 1.

c. 2, § 9.
Under section 51 of the Revised Statutes, authorizing the
Circuit Court to issue writs of labeas corpus, the petitioner
being restrained of his liberty, as he claims, .inviolation of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, was entitled to
demand, upon filing a proper' petition, that a writ issue as a
writ, of right, and that the court determine whether he was
thus unlawfully restrained of his liberty. Section 53 does
not attempt to limit the right of the court to issue the writ in
any case covered by the Constitution; that is, in any case
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
It does, by a. process of exclusion and definition, make more
clear some of the cases. to which the federal jurisdiction
extends.
The question, then, is whether the imprisonment, from
which the petitioner sought to be relieved by this writ, was
an imprisonment arising under the Constitution of the United
States, and the laws made in pursuance thereof; for any
question arising under valid laws arises under the Constitution. A prisoner in custody for an act done or omitted, in
pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an order,
process, or decree of the court or judge thereof, is in custody
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
But whether the right to the writ rests on the Constitution or statute, or both, the question is whether the petitioner;
.eagle, arrested by the officer of the State of California for
taking the life of David S. Terry, in defence of the life of
Mr. Justice Field, was in custody in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States. I shall not stop
to argue the question whether Neagle acted in good faith
and' with sufficient reason for supposing the life of Justice

IN

RE NEAGLE.

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

Field was in danger. I am content to leave, that question
upon the statement of facts, and the conclusion on the facts
as set forth in the opinion of the Circuit Court.
I. It was the duty of the Executive Department of the
United States to guard and protect, at any hazard, the life
of Mr. Justice Field in the discharge of.his duty: (1) Because
such protection is essential to the existence of the government;
t2) Because it is enjoined upon the President, as the executive,
iebeing required "to take care that the laws be faithfully
executed ;" (3) The marshal was merely the hand of the
executive, and unless protected by the marshal the courts and
judges have no protectibn.
The reason why I say it is the duty of the Executive Department to protect the judicial, and why I say it has the authority
so to do, is because'the power of self-preservation is essential
to the very existence of the government.
n the thirtieth number of the Federalist, written by Hamilton, I find this: "A government ought to contain in itsblf
every power requisite to the full accomplishment of the
objects committed to its care, and the complete execution of
the trusts for which it is responsible, fre6 from e very control
but a regard to the public good and the sense of the people."
In the fifty-eighth number of the same work, written by
the same author, [these numbers are taken fron Dawson's I
edition,] I find this, speaking of the power given in the Constitution .to the general government to regulate the election
of senators and representatives: "Its propriety rests upon
the evidence of this plafin proposition, that every government
ought to contain in itself the means of its own preservation,"
1 In the editions of the Federalist prior to 1863, these two papers are
respectively numbered 31 and 59. In that year Mr. Dawson's edition appeared, as the result of a collation of the first edition with the original
articles in the newspapers. In his edition the title was changed from
- Federalist" to "Fcederalist;" the name of one of the writers, (Mr. Jay,)
was changed from " Jay" to "JLy;" and the numbering of the papers
after No. 28 was so altered thilt No. 31 of all previous edifions became
No. 30, and No. 59 became No. 58. Tile expediency of changing a numeration accepted by Hamilton, Jay and TMadison, and adopted by the latter in
the Hallowell editions, may be questioned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

Not less forcibly, by another distinguished gentleman, who
honors us this morning by his presence, as a listener, is the
same principle stated. 'Mr. Bayard, late Secretary-of State,
soon after this difficulty- occurred,' wrote as follows: "The
robust and essential principle must be recognized and pro'claimed, that the inherent powers of every government which
is sufficient to authorize and enforce the judgments of its
courts are equally and at all times and in. ill places sufficient
to protect the individual judge who fearlessly and conscientiously in the discharge of his duty pronounces judgment."
This court has more than once announced the same doctrine.
See Cohensi v. Firginid,6 Wheat. 264, 384, 387, 388; -Martin

v. Hunter, I Wheat. 304, 363; Ex yarte Siebold, 100 U. S.
371; Tenne8see v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257'; Exparte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651.
Argument certainly cannot be necessary to show the duty
of the Executive Department of the government of "the
United States to protect the courts and judges in the discharge of their duties: Indeed; it is hardly supposed that
this will be questioned. The President, as the' head of the
Executive Department, is under the constitutional obligation
"to take care that the laws be faithfully executed." To the
end that he may in.every contingency discharge this duty, he
is made Commander-in-Chief -of the army and navy, and of the
militia of the several States when called into active service.
No one questions the right or duty of the President to furnish guards for the mail or an escort for a paymaster carrying
governmient treasure wherever danger is apprehended. Are
the persons of the United States judges, travelling from place
to place in the performance of their duties less sacred? less
entitled to government protection than mail-bags or packages
of m6ney? Nor is the protection of the person more properly
a matter of local concern than the protection of property.
The person of a United States officer, in the discharge of his
duty, is always clothed with the United States sovereignty,
and in that sovereignty should be his protection.
The Constitution provides that before th& President enters
upon the execution of his office he shalh take an oath: "I do
-

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of
President of the United States and will to the best of my
ability preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the
United States."
Standing, on the 4th of March, 1861, upon the steps of this
Capitol, confronted by the mightiest rebellion the world ever'
saw, President Lincoln said to his dissatisfied countrymen:
"You have no oath .registered in heaven to destroy the government, while I shall have the most solemn one to preserve,
protect and defend it."
He evidently supposed that this oath, embodied in the
Constitution, was of some significance; and that being required to take this oath he was invested with some power
adequate to the obligation. He understood that to preserve,
protect and defend the Constitution meant to preserve, protect
and defend the government; and that it was his rignt and his
duty, independently or in the absence of acts of Congress, to
use all the power placed at his disposal for the protection and
preservation of the government. I observe that neither one
of the arguments filed on behalf of the appellatm, refdrs to this
clause of the Constitution at all. Has it, therefore,;no significance? Does it not by necessary implication invest the President with self-executing powers; that is, powers independent
of statute? Is it true that after the inauguration of President
Washington and before Congress had passed any laws the
President had no authority, so far as he had the means, to
protect the property of the United States? - It is certain that
he was without any such authority if the arguments -for the
appellant, that he can act only in pursuance of specific acts of
Congress, are sound.
We insist that, by the Constitution of the United States, a
government was created possessed of all the powers necessary
to existence as an independent nation; that these powers were
distributed in three great constitutional departments, and that
each of these departments is, by that Constitution, invested
with all of those governmental powers, naturally belonging to
such department, which have not been expressly withheld by
the terms of the Constitution. In other words, that Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

is invested not only with expressed but with implied legislative powers; that the judiciary is invested not only with expressed powers granted in the Constitution as its share of the
government, but with all the judicial powers which have not
been expressly withheld from it; and that the President, in
like manner, by the very fact that he is made the chief executive of the nation, and is charged to protect, preserve, and
defend the Constitution, and to take care that the laws are
faithfully executed, is invested with necessary and implied
executive powers which neither of the other branches of the
government can either take away or abridge; that many of
these powers, pertaining to each branch of the government,
are self-executing, and in no way dependent, except as to the
ways and means, upon legislation.
If it be said that in the Constitution or statutes no specific
direction to the President, the Attorney General, or the marshal can.be found to protect the judges from assault or assassination, the answer is plain. This argumnent is an assumption
that the doctrine of necessary and implied powers, wyhich has
been so often sustained in support of statutes, is confined to
the legislative branch of the government, and that the executive has no powers except those expressly grahted in the Constitution. On the contrary, when, by the Constitution, the
President is invested with the executive power of the nation,
and when that instrument enjoins upon him that he shall
"take care that the laws be faithfully executed," it confers
upon him all power reasonably incident to the exercise of the
executive function, and necessary to the vindication and enforcement of the laws, which has not been withheld from him by
the Constitution; and the power so granted in the Constitution Congress neither has nor has claimed to have, the right to
abrogate. See Exparte WLebold, ubi sup., at pp. 395, 396; and
EAxparte Yarbrough, ubi sup.

It must not be forgotten that, if the courts and judges can-.
not be protected by the executive through marshals, they cann6t be protected at all. They are powerless to protect themselves. The executive is armed, not only with the 'power of
the marshals and the civil posse, but with all the military and

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

naval forces of the government. Congress holds the purse,
and, is in condition not only to assert and defend its own
rights, but to coerce the just consideration of its wishes at all
times and on all subjects; while the judiciary is strong only in
the respect and reverence of the people.
II. It was the duty of the judiciary, having been thus protected by the Executive Department, to sit in judgment upon,
and to vindicate the officer of the Executive Department, if
innocent, in the discharge of his duty: (1) because such authority in the federal judiciary is essential in principle to the
existence of the nation; (2) such authority is amply sustained
by decisions of this court.
Such authority in the federal judiciary is essential in pr'inciple to the existence of the nation. It rests on the axiom already cited that every government must have within itself the
resources for its own protection and preservation. It is argued
that this homicide may be a crime against the State, and
therefore the question should be adjudicated by a state tribunal. But this is a begging of the whole question. If Neagle
simply did his duty as an officer of the United States he could
not have done a wrong to the State of California; for an act
cannot, at the same time, be a duty to the general governinent and a crime against the State. The fallacy of this argument lies in the assumption that here are two cordinate
sovereignties, and that the citizen owes equal allegiance to
both. On the contrary, as has been decided in this court, as
often as the question has ever arisen, in all matters within the
3phere of the general government, that government and the
obligations it imposes are supreme, and where any supposed
right or claim of a State contravenes such obligation, it must
yield. Cohens v. Virginia, ubi sup., at page 385 ; Ableman v.
Boot., 21 How. 506, 517, 518.
The assumption of the right in the state court to try a
federal officer for an act done in the discharge 6f his official
duty implies the precedent right to arrest and the subsequent
right to convict and punish such officer, and each involves
consequences utterly inconsistent with the dignity and security
of an independent government. The right to arrest the marVOL. cxxxv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for Appellee.

.hal for this act after its performance implies the right to foraid and prevent its performance. Such a right is inconsistent
with -the dignity and supremacy of the general government.
I do not claim that because a man is a federal officer he is not
subject to arrest and trial in the state courts. I only claim
that, for his official acts as such federal officer, he cannot be
called in question in the state courts. In short, that the functions and agencies of the federal government cannot be interrupted or interfered with by state authority. AlcCulloch v.
.A.aryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet.
449; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113.
Section 643 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the
issuance of writs of habeas corpus cum causa, and the removal
'from state to federal courts of prosecutions instituted against
revenue officers - and officers acting under registration laws,
and providing for the trial of such cases in the federal courts,
is a clear assertion of this power; and this law has been
upheld in -this court. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
The same assertion of *authority is found in the Enrolment
Act, 13 Stat. 8, c. 13, § 12; United States v. Gleason, 1 Wool.
C. 0. 75 ; United States v. Gleason, 1 Wool. C. . 128:
III. The right of a; state court to hear and determine
whether a federal officer has properly discharged his duty,
according to the federal law, must stand or fall upon its own
merit, and in no way depends upon the question whether the
federal government has provided the formalities for a jury
trial of that question. The jurisdiction of the state court in
the premises, like the title of a plaintiff in ejectment, must
stand or fall by itself.
Nor is there such force in the objection that the case is disposed of before a'single judge, without a jury trial, as might
at first be supposed. Nothing is more common than for cases
of homicide to be disposed of simply by preliminary examination before a justice of the peace, or United States commissioner, or an examination before a coroner's jury, or upon an
ex pqrte examination before a grand jury. The truth is, the
guaranty of the right of trial by jury is for the benefit of the
accused, not of the government. Moreover, the law makes no-

IN RE NEAGLE. ,
Mr. Attorney General's Argumefit for Appellee.

distinction between trials for homicide and other felonies and.
misdemeanors, s to the right of a jury trial. If the jurisdiction of the federal court to hear and discharge a prisoner is to
be denied in. every case in which, according to the course of
the common law, a jury trial would follow an indictment in
a state court, then the authority of the federal courts to protect their' officers against prosecution for fidelity to duty in a
state court iwiuld be practically destroyed; for a jury trial is
guaranteed in every criminal prosecution. But, however this
may be, it is sufficient that it is the law that, either in the first
or last instance, upon habeas coups, or upon appeal or error,
the federal courts have- the right, and it is their bounden duty,
to sit in judgment upon the official conduct of a federal oftcer.
IV. The only remaining question is whether the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Oalifornia had the right to
discharge the petitioner upon habeas eous in the first instance,
or whether the matter should have been allowed to proceed in
the state court, subject to the right of 'this court to review- the
action of the state court -upon a writ of error.
"When the petitioner- is in custody by state authority for an
act done or omitted to be done, in pursuance of a law of the
United States, or of an order, process, or decree of a court or
Judge thereof, ....
in such and like cases of urgency involving the authority and operation of the general goveritment, or the obligptoxs of this country to, or its relations with;
foreign nations, the tcourts of the United States have frequently
interposed by writs of habeas corpus and discharged prisoners
who were held in custody under state authority." F pate
Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251. See, also, Wildenhus's Case; 120
U. S. 1; Botiller v.- Domlnguez, 130 U. S. 238; Exi parte
Bridges,:2 Woods, 428!; Erpart Me Cardle, 6 Wall. 318, 325;
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
Numerous cases. involving the right of the United States
courts to discharge by habeas corpus persons from the custody
of the officers of the state courts, on a charge of murder, hAve
been decided: at'circuit, all'supporting the jurisdiction of the
United States Courts in the premises. Ex parte Jenkmns, 2
Wall. Jr. 521, dpcided by Mr. Justice Grier; Eolartk Robin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Nfr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

80n, 6 McLean, 355, decided by Mr. Justice McLean; Boberto
Y. The Jailor of .PayettPCounty, 2 Abb. (U. S.) 265; In re
Ramsey, 2 Flipp. 451; In re Neill, 8 Blatchford, 156, 167;
&i re Farrand,1 Abb. (U. S.) 149 ; Electoral College of South
Carolina, I Hughes, 571; In re .lurst,2 Flipp. 510, are all
cases involving the same principle and decided. in the same
way; but as these cases are all cited and discussed in the
opinion of the Circuit Court in this case, I merely refer to
them.
V. The writ of habeas corpus in this case was a writ of
right. The petitioner being in custody, by reason of an act
done in the discharge of his duty to the federal government,
had the absolute right to its protection ald to be heard and
discharged at once. The case, within the decisions of this
eourt, was a case of "urgency," and the Circuit Court had no
discretion in the premises.
Mr.Joseph 17. Choate (with whom was
ter on the brief) for appellee.

ir. James C. Car-

I. There is no merit or force in any of the technical points
raised by the Bill of Exceptions.
If. The true function and office of the writ of habeas copus
provided by the several statutes, amendatory of section 14 of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, and now embodied in section 753
.of the Revised Statutes, is not-confined to what it was at common law, but necessarily devolves the power upon the federal
court or judge, in inquiring into the cause of restraint of liberty, to hear and determine the facts and the law which constitute the petitioner's case of justification, by federal.authority,
of -the act done, or of a violation, by his continued custody, of
the federal Constitution, law or treaty, or of privilege, etc., by
t e law of nations, and to discharge the petitioner from custody, if such is made out, and to remand him if not.
The 14th section of the Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. 82, limited
the power of" federal judges to grant the writ, in the case of
prisoners iil jail, to cases where they were "in custody under
or by color of the authority of the United States, or are corn-

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appele.

mitted to trial before some court of the same, or are necessary
to be brought into court to testify."
How far, under that statute,-the federal courts could -go
behind the return, considering that it gave them the power
to grant the writ for the express "purpose of an inquiry into
the cause of restraint of liberty," probably never was, and
need not now be determined.
Certainly, as the English law then stood, that is, the coinmon law and the Habeas Corpus Act of Charles II., the judges
and courts in England confined themselves very closely to
what appeared upon the face of the return, where it had been
legal and regular, and the process had been issued by a court
of competent jurisdiction. But the writ of habeasioous
seems always to have had a more extended use in the United
States than in England, and inquiries under it have been more
varied and far-reaching here than in that country. Church
on Habeas Corpus, § 221, p. 272.
The act of March 2, 1833, 4 Stat. 632, c. 57, besides providing.
by its third section, for the removal at any time before trial.
from the state court into the Circuit Court, of any suit or prosecution for any act done under the 'evenue laws of the United
States, or for any right, authority'or title set up or claimed
by such officer under any such law, by its seventh section
conferred upon federal judges, in addition to the authority
already conferred by law, power to grant writs of haleas corpu in all cases of a prisoner or prisoners in jail or confinement,
"where he or they shall be committed--or confined on, or by
any authority or law, for any act done, or omitted to be done,
in pursuance of a law of the United States, or any order,
process or decree of any judge or court thereof."
This act, like that of 1789,. contained no provisions regulating the practice and procedure after the return; but, in view
of the national crisis which led to the passage of the act, it
can hardly be doubted that the intent of Congress, by tis
seventh section, was to enable the federal judge, if, upon the
proofs, he found the fact to be that the petitioner was in custody for an act done in pursuance of a law of the United
States, to discharge him; and, to ascertain that fact, he must

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

of necessity resort to any evidence that might be offered material to determile it.
The act of August 29, 1842, however, with the debates that
t)receded, its passage, and the emergency out of which it arose,
sheds the clearest light upon the function and the purpose of
the haZeas corpus provisions, as they were finally carried into
the revision.
At the time of the passage of that act the executive and
judiciary of the State of New York, in the case of McLeod,
charged with murder in the state court, had successfully
refused and resisted the intervention of the federal government, attempted upon the ground that, by the law of nations,
the act of McLeod, which was charged to have resulted in the
homicide, was an trct done under the authority of the British
nation, and therefore did not subject him individually to trial
and punishment therefor by the municipal law of the State
where the homicide was committed; and that, as the Constitution of the United States committed the whole subject
of foreign intercourse to the federal government, the British
subject, so charged with crime, ought, upon the demand of
the federal government, to be released from the custody of
.the state court.
But, as the statutes stood, the federal judges had no power
to issue a writ of habeas corpus in such a case; and it- was to
give, them that power, and to provide in what cases they
should exercise it, that the act of' 1842, 5 Stat. 539, c. 257,
entitled "An Act to provide further PemediaZ justice in the
courts of the United States," was passed.
Here clearly was an unmistakable assertion' of the supremacy of the judicial power of the national'government over
the States and state courts, to the full extent of withdrawing
from the state court the prisoner charged with alleged crime,
and there awaiting trial' by jury, and providing for the summary trial by the federal, judge without a jury, on proofs to
be taken before him, of the one federal question raised in the
,cause, with full power and discretion in the federal judge to
discharge him, if he made out his claim of foreign sovereign
authority, and prohibiting the States from ever again trying

IN RE NEAGIB.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

or touching him for that alleged offence. ITis to be noted, too,
that the question must, in the nature of the case, be determined by the federal judge, not upon a mere inspection of
any statute, order or commission, but necessarily upon a complete exploration of all the facts, just as they would in natural
course have been laid before the jury in the state court, if
the case had there proceeded. To this extent, and for the.
determination of this single question, it was the clear intent
of Congress to override and supersede the jurisdiction of the

state court.
An examination of the debates in the Senate which preceded this enactment will demonstrate this position.
The next piece of legislation was the act of February 5,
1867, 14 Stat. 385, c. 28, which again enlarged the power of
the federal judges to issue writs of habeas corpus, so as to
include all cases of restraint of liberty in violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty of the United States; and here
again the procedure is regulated so as to secure a full and'
final trial upon evidence, before the federal judge without a
jury, of the one single federal question arising in the case
as the ground for discharge from custody, and enabling and
requiring the federal judge to explore all the facts bearing on
that one question as fully as a jury would have done, if it had
been left to proceed in the state court. Upon the return of
the writ, a day is to be set for "the hearing of the cause."
The petitioner may deny any material facts set forth in the
return, and may allege any facts to show that the detention
is in contravention of the Constitution or laws of the United
States. The pleadings on either side may be amended so thatthe material facts may be ascertained - afid it is provided
that the "said court or judge shall proceed in a summary way
to determine the facts of thfe case by hearing testimony and
the arguments of the parties interested, and if it shall appear
that the prisoner is deprived of his or her liberty in contravention of the Constitution or laws of the United States he or
she shall forthwith be discharged and set at liberty." p. 386.
The act concludes with the same provision, staying all proceed;ngs on the same charge, pending proceedings on appea,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

and after final judgment of discharge, as was contained in the
act of 1842.
. Upon the face of this act, certainly, it is impossible to put
any other construction than that the one federal question is
withdrawn from the state court for final decision by the
circuit judge without a jury, and that the prisoner must be
discharged, if that question be decided in his favor, and that,
too, whether there is any provision already made by Con-giess
for trying him or not. It was clearly intended to preclude all
further trial, if, and only if, the federal question was decided
in his favor, except that the decision of the circuit judge was
to be reviewed in this court.
Meantime came the case of Ex poarte Jenkcins, 2 Wall. Jr.
521, 526, and the Fugitive Slave Law Cases.
In this condition of the statutes and the decisions, the
revision of the statute was made in 1874, Rev. Stat. c. 13,
§§ 751-766, "Habeas Corpus."
It cannot be doubted that the effect of the revision is, and
was intended to be, to make the procedure and the power and
duty of the judge issuing the writ uniform and the same in
all th6 cases covered by the several successive acts, and now
embodied in § 753; to withdraw the federal question, on which
the petitioner claims justification and exemption, away from
the state court for full arid final determination by the federal
judge without a jury; and to discharge him from the custody
of the state court, when he establishes, by proof to the satisfaction of the federal judge, that he is entitled to his discharge,
but if he fails to make out such right, then to remand him to
the state court's custody.
No other meaning than this can be imputed to the words in
761: "and thereupon to dispose of the party as law and justice may require" in view of the explicit duty to discharge
contained in the Acts of 1842 and 1867, which were being con(lensed and revised, and of the obvious intent to subject all
cases alike to the same regulation.
Under this statutory scheme of habeas co~piue, it is wholly
immaterial whether there is any provision by federal criminal
law-conferring jurisdiction upon any court over the prisoner

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

when discharged. Congress has by this very act made what
it deemed to be suitable provision for the case by substituting
for a trial by jury, under federal authority, of the one question
of justification, a trial by a judge without a jury, and by the
Supreme Court on appeal. If he makes out such justification
before that tribunal, the necessary theory of the act is that he
is to be deemed innocent; that he has committed no crime;
that he has only done what the supreme law of the country
has required him to do. If, however, he fails to make out
his alleged justification under federal authority, then-he is
remanded for trial on the charge made in the state court. ,
It is certainly too late at this day to question or discuss the
power of Congress to provide, by m~ans of this scheme of
habeas cor us procedure for the removal from the state court
into the federal court, for examination and determination, of
thig single question of federal authority, or of custody in violation of the federal Constitution and laws, when it arises in any
case, civil or criminal, in a state court.
This exercise of power under the Constitution is far within
that which was conceded to Congress by this court in Tennessee
v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
In truth the alarm which is suggested at the idea of its
being entrusted to a federal court, consisting of two judges, to
try, subject to a review in this court, the question of federal
*authority and consequent immunity, as being a possible mode
of escape for a party possibly guilty of murder, without any
trial, is based upon no foundation.
The single question is to be fully tried, not upon affidavits,
but upon testimony-not exparte, but after a full hearing of
both sides. And the power entrusted to the federal court over
this one question is not so great as the same power over the
whole case, which is entrusted to the ordinary committing
magistrate, or to the judge on the trial, on the motion to
quash, or on a motion in arrest of judgment after verdict. It
is, in legal apprehension, the same power which is given to this
courc, upon the single federal question, on writ of error.
No case appears to have arisen undeir section 7 of this act
for twenty years after its passage. When the execution of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

obnoxious Fugitive Slave law exposed the marshals to violent
oppositio? and attack in the discharge of the duties imposed
upon them by Congress, and to arrest, indictment and trial in
the state courts on charges of assault or murder, for acts
necessarily done by them in the pQrformance of such duties,
they immediately appealed to the federal courts for the protection afforded by this section seven, and the Circuit Courts
have uniformly used it for the efficient protection and relief of
all federal officers so charged and in custody, and this, as we
submit, with the implied assent of Congress and the express
approval of this court. The result of this line of decisions is
so cogent, in support of the action of the court below in this
case, as to command careful attention here. See E parte
Jenkins, 2 Wall. Jr. 521 (1853) ; Ex parte Robinson, 6 McLean,
355 ; .EwparteRobinson, 4 Am. Law Reg. 617; In reJeDon,ald, 9 Am. Law IReg. 661; United States em rel. R-oberts v.
Jailorof Fayette County, 2 Abbott (U. S.) 265.

In this state of the adjudications under the seventh section
of the Act of 1833, Congress revised the en- :re series of statutes in regard to habeas corpus in the manner already pointed
out. It must be deemed to have known and, approved the
settled construction which the federal courts, for more than
twenty years, had given to the- Act of 1833; and when it
incorporated in section 753 the cases covered by that act with
the cases covered by the Judiciary Act and the Acts of 1842
and 1867, and enjoined upon the Circuit Courts, in all the cases
alike, the duty to make a full and exhaustive inquiry into the
facts, and io hear the cause and render final judgment of discharge, if law and justice so required, it must be deemed to
have intended to sanction and confirm the exercise of the
jurisdiction which the federal courts, under the more limited
scope of the Act of 1833, had habitually asserted. .ltcDonald
v. ilovey, 110 U. S.629; Daramus v. 11arrison, 26 Alabama,
326; Sedgwick on Construction of Stat. (2d ed.) 229, note,
and cases cited.
After the revision, other cases occurred, where the Circuit
Courts released upon habeas corpus parties held in custody by
the state courts for alleged crimes against the State. Exvarte

IN, RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Choate'6 Argument for Appellee.

Bridges, 2 Woods, 428; Ramsey v. The Jailor 2 Flipp. 457;
In re Brosnahan, 18 Fed.' Rep. 62. These must have been
the cases to which this court referred in Bciarte Royall, 117
U. S. 241, 251, when it said that in "cases of urgency involving the authority and operations of the general government,
or the obligations of this country to, or its relations with, foreign nations, the courts of the United States have frequently
interposed by writs of habeas eowoyus and discharged prisoners
who were held in custody under state authority."
IIL." The personal protection of Mr. Justice Field by Neagle was a duty imposed upon him by authority of the United
States, and the homicide necessarily committed by him in rendering that protection effectual was "an act done by him in
pursuance of a law of the United States," in the sense of the
statute; and his detention therefor by the state court on a
charge of murder was "in violation of the Constitution and
laws of the United States" in the sense of the statute.
It is not pretended that there is any single specific statute
making it his duty to furnish this protection. The authority
arose directly and necessarily out of the Constitution and positive congressional enactments. Whatever is necessarily implied is as much a part of the Constitution and statutes as if
it were actually expressed therein.
The corporate government established by the Constitution
is a nation, absolutely sovereign over every foot of soil and
over every person within the national territory and within the
sphere of action assigned to it. Within that sphere, its Constitution and laws are the supreme law of the land, and its
proper instrumentalities of government can be subjected to no
restraint, and can be held to no accountability by any other
power whatsoever.
It has, necessarily, the inherent power of protecting itself
and its agents in the exercise of all its constitutional powers,
and of executing its own laws by its own tribunals, without
any interruption from a State or any state authorities.
The government of the United States and the government
of a State are distinct and independent of each other, within
their respective spheres of action, although existing and exer-.
cising their powers within the same-territorial limits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

Neither government can intrude within the jurisdiction of
the other, or authorize any interference therein, by its judicial
officers, with the action of the other. But whenever any conflict arises between the enactments of the two sovereignties,
or in the enforcement of their asserted authorities, those of
the national government have supremacy, until the validity
of the different enactments and authorities is determined b
the tribunals of the United States.
In such case, the surrender to a state court of the right to
determine the existence of its sovereignty is the surrender of
fartir v. Hunter's 1essee, 1 Wheat. 304
sovereignty itself.
(1816); AZcCullock v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316 (1819); Cohens
v. Tirginia,6 Wheat. 264 (1821); Ableman v. Booth, 21 How.
506 (1858); Exparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371 (1879); Tennessee

v. Davis, 100 U. S.257 (1879).
Such absolute and perfect protection being thus guaranteed
to them by the Constitution, this at least must necessarily
follow: that if, when attacked in the discharge of their duties,
they protect themselves, or are protected by others, whose aid
in the emergency they require, such protection is not merely
self-defence authorized by the law of nature or the common
law, but is an act clearly authorized by, and done in pursuance
them to, proceed against all
of, the Constitution, whichofenjoins
their duties.
obstacles in the discharge
But for the letter of the law, as it is so stoutly insisted that
we must have "a law" to authorize the protection of the
judge: Article III., Section 1, of the Constitution, declares
that "the judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the
Congress may from time to time ordain and establish;" and
the second section proceeds to define the -cases to which this
judicial power shall ixtend, and as Jay, C. J., says, in Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 475, this shows the precise sense and
latitude in which the words "to establish justice," as used in
the preamble, are to be understood.
To, carry into practical operation the provisiops of the Constitution, to establish justice," and bring it home to the
people. Qongress has divided the United States into judicial

IN RE NEAGLE.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

districts, Rev. Stat. § 530; two of which are in the State of
California, Rev. Stat. § 531,; Act of August 5, 1886, 24 Stat.
308, c. 928. Circuit Courts are required by law to be held in
these districts, Rev. Stat. § 609-; and Mr. Justice Field was
required by law to be present at them at least once in two
years, Rev. Stat. § 610. In'obedience to these laws, he was, at
the time and place of the attack, travelling from one California circuit, where he had been holding court, to the other,
where he was about to hold it. He was, therefore, at the time
and place of the attack, in the direct and immediate discharge
of his ofleial duties,-just as much so as if he had been sitting
in court in San Francisco.
Nothing can be clearer than that, if Mr. Justice Field himself
had taken the life of Terry necessarily in the defence of his
own, in the maintenance and protection of his right and duty
to proceed upon his circuit and administer justice at San
Francisco, the Constitution and the laws already cited imposing that duty upon him would have brought his case, beyond
all question, within section 753 of the Revised Statutes. INeagle's act does so on the same principle and for the same
reasons.
IV. But to Neagle's right and duty, as a bystander and
citizen, to protect Mr. Justice Field, is to be added his official
authority and duty conferred and imposed upon him by acts
of Congress as a United States deputy marshal, attending the
Justice on his circuit, within the district of which he was
marshal. Thus, acting under federal authority and in pursuance of the statutes under which, he was appointed, his act
in protection of the Justice was clearly within the category of
section 753 of the Revised Statutes, "done in pursuance of a
lav of the United States."
Conceding that marshals must look to the acts of Congress
for their powers, these are ample to cover the above proposition. See Rev. Stat. §§ 787, 788. The latter section confers
upon them the powers given to sheriffs and deputy sheriffs by
state laws. The California code conferred upon sheriffs and
their. deputies the usual powers to pregerve the peace, suppress
riots, etc. The Supreme Court of the State has also held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellee.

where the code is silent the common law governs. One of the
common-law duties of a sheriff and his deputies was to accompany the judges on circuit and to protect them by an armed,
force. 1 Mvacaulay's History, 223; Dalton's Office of Sheriffs, London, 1698, c. 98.
These statutes certainly constituted Keagle a peace officer.
to keep the peace of the United States when it was broken by
the attack on Mr. Justice Field. That, under such circumstances or similar ones, there is such a thing as "the peace of
the United States," and that the marshal and his deputies are
the proper arm of the federal government to maintain it.
seems to have been definitely settled by this court in Siebold's
Case, ut supra.
V. But, if more be needed to demonstrate that Neagle, in
protecting Mr. Justice Field, was discharging a duty imposed
upon him by federal authority, or, in other words, was acting
in pursuance of a law of the United States, it is to be found in
the order of the Attorney General, which is conclusively presumed to have been the order of the President, commanding
the performance of that duty.
We live under a government of laws and not of men, and
can claim no authority or power for the President, or for any
executive department, not conferred by law. What we assert
is, that it is not only within the lawful power, but is the plain
duty of the President, when informed that the due and regular administration of justice, on one of the federal circuits,
is about to be interfered with by a threatened attack on the
federal judge, assigned by law to administer it, and actually
"engaged in that service, to provide, by adequate means, for
'his protection. Little v. Barreme, 2 Oranch, 170; .JcElrath v.
United.States8, 102 U. S. 426; Runkle v. United States, 122
U. S. 643, 557; United States v. JMacdaniel, 7 Pet. 1, 14;
.Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497 ; 6 Opinions Attys. Gen.
341%342, 346 ; 1 Opinions Attys. Gen. 475 ; Confication Cases,
20 Wall. 92, 108 ; United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125
U. S. 273, 279, 284; Wells v. Nickles, 104 U. S. 444.
VI. The court below did not err in holding that Neagle
used no more force than was necessary in protecting Mr.

IN RE NEAGLE..
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

Justice ,Field, and that he was therefore entitled to his discharge from custody "for an act done under a law of the
United States."
VII. The clearly ascertained fact of the case, that the
petitioner was in custody of a state court for an act done in
pursuance of a law of the United States, and that he was still
an officer of the United States, under obligation to proceed
day by day with the discharge of his official duties, shows
clearly that he was "in custody in violation of the Constitution of the United States," as provided by the other clause of
section 753 of the Revised Statutes, and equally entitled to his
immediate discharge on that ground, in the discretion of the
Circuit Court, just as much as Mr. Justice Field himself was
entitled to be.
Xr. 0. A. Johnson, Attorney General of the State of California, for appellant.
Section 754 of the Revised Statutes says that application
for the writ of habeas corpus shall be made by complaint in
writing, signed by the person for whose relief it is intended,
and that the facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified
by the oath of the parson making the application. The application for this writ was not signed by the relator, nor sworn
to by him. The petitioner is A. L. Farrish, and not David
Neagle, and the petition is sworn to by Farrish.
The amended traverse to the return was filed after the evidence was heard, and should have been stricken out. The testimony and proofs should have been stricken out, being introduced before the completion of the issues, but motions for
these purposes were denied.
Respondent below then filed a demurrer to the amended
traverse, but the court decided the whole case without first
passing on the demurrer.
So much for the technical objections. As to the main question, we concede in the outset that in accordance with § 753,
Rev. Stat. the writ of habeas corpus may extend to a prisoner
in jail, if he is in custody for an act done or omitted in pursu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

ance of a law of the United States, or of an order, process or
decree of a court or judge thereof, or is in custody in violation
of the Constitution or of a law or treaty of the United States.
But what we maintain is that the word "law," as mentioned in Section '753, means statutory, law and its necessary
incidents.
We propose now to'call the court's attention to the authorities cited by Judges Sawyer and Sabin, in their opinion in the
court below, discharging the relator, and will endeavor to see
whether they sustain their conclusion. The great question involved is as to the proper boundary lines between national and
state jurisdiction. The judges say: "We simply determine
whether it (the homicide) was an act performed in pursuance
of a law of the United States. Nor do we act in this matter
because we have the slightest doubt as to the authority of the
state courts, and their ability and disposition to, ultimately,
do exact justice to the prisoner. We have not the slightest
doubt or apprehension on that particular, but there is a principle involved."
In the foregoing we agree with them entirely, and we are
all desirous that the principle shall be definitely and permanently settled.
The first case cited is x parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 249.
This case illustrates how careful federal courts are, in exercising a discretionary power, to interfere with process issued
under state laws; that it is not only a matter of comity, but
"it is a principle of right and of law, and, therefore, of necessity" ; and it is a duty to conciliate rather than alienate and
dissever the federal and state tribunals, "so that they may
coperate as harmonious members" of one judicial system.
This machinery of a federal government and of state governmenti is at once delicate and complex, and consists of
balances and adjustments for all time to come, so that there
may be no friction; like the harmony of our solar system,
where each planet fMoves in its own orbit, without any impingement by the greater orbit which lightens all.
Exeparte Royall has no application to the case at bar, for
in that case there was a constitutional question involved,

II

INE NEAGLE.

Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

whether or not the constitutional provision against impairing
the obligation of a contract was violated by the act of the
General Assembly of Virginia; while the opinion of Judges
Sawyer and Sabin does not claim that the statute of California against murder is unconstitutional, or that such a statute
does not properly appertain to the police power of the State;
so the case of Ex, parte :RoyaZt and the case at bar are not
parallel. Nor does the opinion claim, as we understand it,
that any specific provision of the constitution of the United
States has been infringed by the arrest and detention 6Z the
relator.
The next case cited is Ex parte ,Siebold, 100 U. S. 371,
392. This case, and the other cases where indictments had
been found, involved the question of the constitutionality of
certain sections of Title 26 of the Revised Statutes, entitled
"The Elective Franchise," to wit: Sections 2011, 2012, 2016,
2017, 2021, 2022; and also §§ 5515, and 5522, under the title
"Crimes." These sections relate to elections of members of
the House of Representatives, and were an assertion on the
part of Congress of a power to pass laws for regulating and
superintending said elections. The question involved was the
constitutional power of Congress to make such regulations,
and this court sustained such power. In that case there was
an act of Congress against obstructing the supervisors of elections and the marshals, and giving them power to keep the
peace. In the case at bar there is no act of Congress, as we
contend, nor, if we understand the opinion of the court below,
is it contended that there is an act of Congress giving jurisdiction to the federal court of this case of alleged murder.
The next case cited by Judge Sawyer is that of Tenness'e
v. .Davis, 100 U. S.257. But that case and this are entirely
different. That case was removed fron' the state court into
the federal court because of an express act of Congress bearing on the subject (Section 643, Rev. Stat.). The case was
transferred to tle Circuit Court under the provisions of the
foregoing act. A motion was made in the Circuit Court by
the Attorney General to remand the case to the state court,
on the ground that the federal court had no jurisdiction.
VOL. Cxxxv-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

The case went up to the Supreme Court on a certificate of
division of opinion between the judges, and yet even in such
a case as that, where there was an express act of Congress,
two of the judges dissented, Mr. Justice Clifford and Mr.
Ju~tice Field.
The majority in their opinion say: "A case consists of the
right of one party as-well as the other, and may truly be said
to arise under the Constitution or a law or a treaty of the
United States whenever its correct decision depends upon the
consf'. uction of either. Cases arising under the laws of the
United States are such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether they constitute the right or privilege, or claim,
or protection, or defence of the party, in whole or in part, by
whom they are asserted." p. 264. Here there is no statute
of the.United States whicli expressly or by necessary implication gave any authority for the relator to commit the homicide in question, so that his act could become a matter of
federal cognizance.
The next case cited by the judges in their opinion is that of
-ExparteJenkins et al., 2 Wall. Jr. 521. That case can have no
significance here on this inquiry. That was a case, where, as is
said, Jenkins and other deputy United States marshals were
arrested on the warrant of a justice of the peace in Pennsylvania for shooting and wounding a negro, who resisted an
arrest attempted by them under a warrant issued by the
United States Court for a fugitive slave, in which case the
justice of the United States Circuit Court took jurisdiction,
and discharged them on a writ of habeas corpus. But in this
case there was a law of the United States, to wit: the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, and a writ had been issued to the
marshal by a United States judge under that law; hence, Mr.
Justice Grier well says: "In conclusion, as we find that the
prisoners are officers of the United States, in confinement for
acts done in pursuance of a law of the United States, and
under a process from a judge of the same,

.

.

.

therefore,

the order of the court is, that the prisoner be discharged."
The next case referred to in the opinion we are reviewing
is Ew parte Robinson, 6 McLean, 355. A petition and affi-

IN RE XEAGLE.
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

davit of Hiram H. Robinson, marshal *of the United Statea,
stated that he was imprisoned under the order of the Honorable Judge Parker, one of the judges of the couit of common
pleas for the county of Hamilton, for the performance of his
duty as marshal, under process signed by a commissioner of
the United States, and prayed for a writ of habeas corpus.
He was discharged b~y Judge McLean, because what he did
was authorized by the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850.
The next case cited in the opinion of Judges Sawyer arid
Sabin is United States ex 'el. Roberts v. Jailor of Fayette
County, 2 Abb. (U: S.) 265, 279. This is a case where a deputy
marshal was assisted by Roberts in endeavoring to serve process upon one Call, who was charged with crimes under the
internal revenue laws, and who was killed by Roberts. Says
the judge: "I disclain! all right and power to discharge the
relator on any such ground'as that the proof shows he acted
in self-defenice. A jury would probably acquit him on such
ground, independent of the process under'which he acted, but
I have nothing to do with such an inquiry. It belongs only
to the state court. I have only to inquire whether what he
did was done in pursuance of a law and process of the United
States, and sojustified, not exceed, by that law and process."
The next case cited in the opinion of the lower court is In
'e Ramsey, 2 Flippin, 451. The prisoner, while in the discharge of his duty as deputy United States marshal, killed one
Joseph Lightfoot. For that he was arrested and held by
the state officers. The officer had in his possession a warrant
for the arrest of Lightfoot at the time of the homicide; Lightfoot had declared that he would not submit to an arrest; 4ad
reason to know that the officer came there to arrest him, ald
had a warrant; and his conduct was such as to imperil the life
of the officer. Judge Ballard discharged the marshal.
The next case cited is In 're le, 8,Blatchford, 167, which
involved certain statutes, whereby the power of discharging
from service in the army of the United States minors under
the age of eighteen years is taken away from the courts, and
isconfided wholly to the Secretary of War. The petitioner,
General Neill, refused to produce the body of an enlisted sol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

dier before a state judge, and was discharged by Mr. Justice
Blatchford, on the basis of these statutes and the statutes in
relation to the writ of habeas corpus.,
The next case cited is In re Farrand,1 Abb. (U. S.) 140,
where a commander in the army of the United States made
return to a writ of habeas corpus issued by a state court,
showing that he held the petitioner as a recruit in the army,
and pursuant to laws of the United States regulating enlistments. The state court directed the recruit to be discharged.
The officer refused to discharge him, and was committed for
contempt. Judge Ballard, on habeas corpus, discharged him.
The next case cited is Electoral College of South Carolina,
1 HEughes, 571. The conclusion of Judge Bond's opinion will
sufficiently explain the case. He says: "That the state board
of canvassers were clothed, under the law, with discretionary
powers, which required them to discriminate the votes; to determine and certify the candidates elected after scrutiny, and
that they were a part of the executive department of the government, and were in nowise subject to the control, as to what
they should do after they had commenced to perform that
duty, of the judicial department, and that as this was a general election, at which members of Congress were to be elected,
and electors of President and Vice-President of the United
States to be chosen, they were acting in official capacity; or
in other words, in pursuance of a law of the United States;
and, therefore, if any one disturbs them in the exercise of
their functions, they are entitled to the protection of the courts
of the United States."
- Thus it will be seen that in all these cases cited by Judges
Sawyer and Sabin some provision of the Constitution of the
United States was violated, or some statute of the United
States, or some order or process of a judge or court of the
United States, and for this reason the petitioner was discharged
from arrest.
In fact, that court is confronted with a formidable array of
authorities and opinions in opposition to its view. United
States v. Guiteau, .1 Mackey, 498, 538; E' parte Crouch,112
U. S. 179; the dissenting opinions of Mr. Justice Clifford and

IN RE NEAGLE,
Mr. Johnson's Argument for AppeUant.

Mr. Justice Field in Tennessee v. Davis, ubi sup'a;-in Do
yarte *irginia, 100 U. S. 349; and Virginia v. Rives, 100
U. S. 336; although we admit, as claimed, that the necessary
incidents and implications of the statutes of Congress are as
much a part of the law as their express provisions; for the
Constitution itself confers on Congress the authority to pass
all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution the
powers expressly granted. (Art. 1, sec. 8, Clause 18.)
There. ig here no act of Congress, as in the act incorporating the United States Bank, Osborn v. Bank of th1e United
States, 9 Wheat. .865 ; no act of Congress, as in the case of
Tennessee v. Davis, to wit: Section 643, Revised Statutes;
no process issued by a United States commissioner commanding the arrest of some one charged with certain crimes under
the internal revenue laws, as in the case of United ,States ex
rel. Roberts v. Jailor of Fayette County, and in the case
of Ablernan v. Booth, 21 How. 507; no showing. that the
party seeking his enlargement was duly mustered intc the
military service of the United States, and was d6tained by its
officer as such -oldier, as in Tarbles Case, 13 Wall. 397; and
no process from a Circuit Court or judge, as in the case of Dx
yparte Jenkins et al.
We respectfully submit, therefore, whether or not the law
as laid down by the lower court is not a new departure from
established precedents and well adjudicated cases. Any other
position would seem to be alarming in its character, and obliterative of the tetminal bounds between federal and state
jurisdiction. It would recognize a vast body of officers, andI
constantly increasing, as owing no allegiance except to the
federal courts, and 'possessed of special privileges and immuiinities not conferred by any act of Congress.
We need not particularize, as such a holding would include
the whole service of the United States, -Mjnt, Post Office,
Customs, Land Department, Sub-Treasury, Internal Revenue.
Even if it be conceded that Congress has the right to legislate on this subject, and make such a case as the one at bar a
case arising under the laws of the United States, it is sufficient
to say that Congress has not done so, and there is no other

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Mr. Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

repository of federal legislative power than the Congress.
The general government itself is but a government of limited
powers, though supreme within those limits. The great residuum of our liberties exists in the States and the people thereof;
they consist in inherent powers and are self-derived, not the
outcome of a concession which they have made in the gr-uit
to the United States.
Our position is fully covered by the case of .Ex parte Yarbro'ugh, 110 U. S. 651, 659, where the court says :-"It is very
true that while Congress at an early day passed criminal laws
to punish piracy with death, and fer punishing all ordinary
offences against person and property committed within the
District of Columbia, and in forts, arsenals, and other places
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, it was
"dow to pass laws protecting oflcers of the government from
personal injuries in)Ficted while in discharge of their official
duties within the States. This waq not.for want of power, but
because no occasion had arisen whwh requiredsuch legislation,
the remedies in the state courts for vDersonal violence having,
proved suflcient.

":Perhaps the earliest attempts of Congress to protect government officers, while in the exercise of their duty in a hostile
community, grew out of the nullification ordinance of South
Carolina, and is found in the act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports.

.

.

.

When, early in the late

civil war, the enforcement of the acts of Congress for obtaining zoldiers by draft brought the officers engaged in it-into
hostile neighborhoods, it was found necessary to pass laws for
their protection. Accordingly, in 1863, an act was passed
making it a criminal offence to assault or obstruct any officer
while engaged in making the draft or in any service in relation thereto." 12 Stat. 731. See also Ex parte .Merryman,
Taney's Dec. 246; .Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet..527, 611;
Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 80, 94-; Gelston v. Boyt, 3 Wheat.

246, 331.
It is claimed also by the court below that there is a common law which may be appealed to in this case, which contention we have answered by saying that he is onfronted with

Il

RE lEAGLE.

Mr.-Johnson's Argument for Appellant.

statutes on the subject matter. But is there any common law
for the United States as applicable tb this case? Of course,
common law terms are to receive a common law signification,
such as murder or any other offence at common law, where it
is not otherwise defined by act of Congress, or such as habeas
corpu, or trial by jury..
In the case of tate of Pennsylvaniav. T7e Wheeling, etc.,
Bridge Com~dny et al., 13 How. 518, 563, the court says: "It
is said that there is no common law of the Union on which
the procedure can be founded; that the common law of Virginia is subject to its legislative action, and that the bridge,
having been constructed under its authority, it can in no sense
be considered a nuisance: that whatever shall be done within
the limits of a State is subject to its laws, written or unwritten, unless it be a violation of the Constitution, or of some act
of Congress. It is admitted that the federal courts have no
jurisdiction of common law offences, and that there is no
abstract pervading principle of the common law of the Union
under which we can take jurisdiction." See also WAeaton v.
Peters, 8 Pet. 591, 658; Exparte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, 93.
We cannot close our argument in this case without bringing
up the subject of the police power, which is an inherent power
with the States, which they cannot surrender or abdicate, and
which cannot be taken away, although Congress may establish
police regulations also; but their operation must be confined
to the subjects over which it is given control by the Constitution of the United States. The whole domain of the criminal
law comes under this power; and the common law maxim,
" Sic utere tuo ut on alienum l&das," seems to express in &
few words its extensive apilication. Whatever concerns the
public order, the public morals, the public health, the pdiblic
security and safety, and the right of any and every person to
enjoy these immunities, comes .under the general police power
of the State. The offences which Congress has the right to
define and punish are only offences against the authority of
the United States. It cannot assume any supervision of the
police regulations of the States. All this is elementary learning.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

,There is a police regulation of the State of California defining the crime of murder and affixing the punishment, when
compnitted within the territory of the State.
This is a matter of mere internal regulation, which can be
best looked after and provided for in local districts, and to
make it an exclusively national question or a concurrent one
With the States would lead to constant attrition, inharmony,
conflicts, and embroilments between the States and the national government, which it was the express dsign of the
Constitution to prevent.
The Constitution was formed to make a more perfect union,
establish justice,, insure domestic tranquillity, and promote the
general welfare. Hence, the judicial power of the United
,States is confined to cases arising under the Constitution of
the United States, the laws of the United States, and treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, and to
some special cases and ccintroversies'which halve no bearing on
the pending question.
As to the extent of the police powers, we cite Bartemeyer
v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; .7Iugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 657;
Powell v. Pennsylvania,127 U. S. 678; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27.
-ir. Samuel Shellabargerand Mr. Jeremiah .M.
appellant, submitted on their brief.

ilson, for

Mt. JusTicE MILLEB, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

If it be true, as stated in the order of th6 court discharging
the prisoner, that he was held ''in custody for an act done in
pursuance of a law of the United States, and in custody in
violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States,"
there does not seem to be any doubt that, under the statute on
that subject, he was properly discharged by the Circuit Court.
Section 753 oI the Revised Statutes reads as follows:
"The writ of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to a
prisoner in jail, unless where he is in custody under or by color

IN RE NBAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the authority of thet United States; or is committed for trial
before some court thereof; or is in custody for an act done or
omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an
order, process, or decree of a court or judge thereof ; or is in
custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty
of the United States; or, being a subject or citizen of a foreignState, and domiciled therein, is in custody for an act done or'
omitted under any alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection, or exemption claimed under the commission, or order,
or sanction of any foreign State, or under color thereof, the
validity and effect whereof depend upon the law of nations; or
unless it is necessary to bring the prisoner into court to testify."
And section 761 declares that when by the writ of habeas
cow~ps the petitioner is brought up for a hearing the " 6ourt
or justice or judge shall proceed in a summary 'way to determine the facts of the case, by hearing the testimony and argu-,
ments, and thereupon to dispose of the party as law and justice
require." This of course means that if he is held in custody in
violation of the Constitution or a law of the United States, or
for an act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United
States, he must be discharged.
By the law, as it existed at the time of the enactment of the
Revised Statutes,. an appeal could be taken to the Circuit
Court from any court of justice or judge inferior to the Cir-'
cuit Court in a certain class of kiabeas eorjus cases. But there
was no appeal to the Supreme Court in any case except where
the prisoner was the subject or citizen of a foreign State, and
was committed or confined under the authority or law of the
7jnited States or of any State, on account of any act done' or
omitted to be done under the commission or authority of a.
foreign State, the validity of which depended upon the law of
nations. But afterwards, by the act of Congress of March 3,
1885, 23 Stat. 437, this was extended by amendment as follows:
"1That section seven hundred and sixty-fo-ir of the Revised
Statutes be amended so that the same shall read as follows:
' From*the final decision of such Circuit Court an appeal may
be taken to the Supreme Court in the cases described in the
preceding section.'"

OCTOBER TER-I, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The preceding section here referred to is section 763, and is
the one on which the prisoner relies for his discharge from
custody in this case.
It will be observed that in both the provisions of the Revised
Statutes and of this latter act of Congress the mode of review,
whether by the Circuit Court of the judgment of an inferior
court or justice or judge, or by this court of the judgment of
a Circuit Court, the word "appeal," and not "writ of error,"
is used, and as Congress has always used these words with a
clear understanding of what is meant by them, namely, that
by a writ of error only questions of law are brought up for
review, as in actions at common law, while by an appeal, excepu when specially provided otherwise, the entire case on
both law and facts is to be reconsidered, there seems to be
little doubt that, so far as it is essential to a. proper decision
of this case, the appeal requires us to. examine into the evidence brought to sustain or defeat the right of the petitioner
to his discharge.
The history of the incidents which led to the tragic event of
the killing of Terry by the prisoner Neagle had its origin in
a suit brought by William Sharon of Nevada, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of California,
against Sarah Althea Hill, alleged to be a citizen of California,
for the purpose of obtaining a decree adjudging a certain instrument in writing, possessed and exhibited by her, purporting to be a declaration of marriage between them, under the
code of California, to be a forgery, and to have it set aside
and annulled. This suit, which was commenced October 3,
1883, was finally heard before Judge Sawyer, the Circuit Judge
for that circuit, and Judge Deady, United States District
Judge for Oregon, who had been duly appointed to assist in
holding the Circuit Court for the District of California. The
hearing was on September 29, 1885, and on the 15th of January, 1886, a decree was rendered granting the prayer of the
bill. In that decree it was declared that the instrument purporting to be a declaration of marriage, set out and described
in the bill of complaint, "was not signed or executed at any
time by William Sharon, the complainant; that it is not

IN RE IEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

genuine; that it is false, counterfeited, fabricated, forged, aid
fraudulent, and, as such, is utterly null and void. And it is
further ordered and decreed that the respondent, Sarah
Althea Hill, deliver up and deposit with the clerk of the court
said instrument, to be endorsed 'cancelled,' and that the clerk
write across it 'cancelled' and sign his name and affix his seal
thereto."
The rendition of this decree was accompanied by two opinions, the principal one being written by Judge Deady and a
concurring one by. Judge Sawyer. They were very full in
their statement of the fraud and forgery practised by M iss
Uill, and stated that it was also accompanied by perjury.
And inasmuch as Mr. Sharon had died between the hearing
of the argument of the case on the 29th of Septeibber, 1885,
and the time of rendering this decision, January 15, 1886, an
order was made setting forth that fact, and declaring that the
decree was entered as of the date of the hearing, nunc Pro
tune.

Nothing was done under this decree. The defendant, Sarah
Althea Hill, did not deliver up the instrumeiit to the clerk to
be cancelled, but she continued to insist upon its use in the
state court. Under these circumstances, Frederick W. Sharbn,,
as the executor of the will of his father, William Sharon, filed
in the Circuit Court for the North6rn District of California, on
March 12, 1888, a bill of revivor, stating the circumstances of
the decree, the death of his father, and that the decree had not
been performed; alleging also the intermarriage of Miss H411
with David S. Terry, of the city of Stockton in California,
and making the said Terry and wife parties t6 this bill of
revivor. The defendants both, demurred and answered, resisting the prayer of the plaintiff, and denying that the petitioner
was entitled to any relief.
This case was argued in the Circuit Court before Field,
Circuit Justice, Sawyer, Circuit Judge, and Sabin, District
Judge. While the matter was held under advisement, Judge
Sawyer, on returning from Los Angeles, in the Southern District of California, where he had been holding court, found
himself on the train as it left Fresno, which is understood to

OCTOBER TERIMv,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

have been the residence of Terry and wife, in a car in which
he noticed that Mr. and Mrs. Terry were in a section behind
him, on the same side. On this trip from Fresno to San Francisco, Mrs. Terry grossly insulted Judge Sawyer, and .had her
husband change seats so as to sit directly in front of the
Judge, while she passed him with insolent remarks, and pulled
his hair with a vicious jerk, and then, in an excited manner,
taking her seat by her husband's side, said: "I will give him
a taste of what he wvill get by and by. Let him render this
decision if he dares," :- the decision being the one already
mentioned, then under advisement. Terry then made some
remark about too many witnesses being in the car, adding
that "The best thing to, do with him would be to take, him
,out into the bay and drown him." These incidents were witnessed by two gentlemen who knew all the parties, and whose
testimony is found in the record before us.
This was. August 14, 1888. On the 3d of September, the
court rendered its decision granting the prayer'of the bill of
re.vivor in the name of Frederick W. Sharon and against Sarah
Althea Terry and her husband, David S. Terry. The opinion
was delivered by Mr. Ju stice Field, and during its delivery a
scene of great violence occurred in the court-room. It appears
that shortly before the court opened on that day, both the
defendants in the case came into the court-room, and took seats
within the bar at the table next the clerk's desk, gnd almost
immediately in front of the judges. Besides Mr. Justice Field
there were present on the bench Judge Sawyer, and Judge
Sabin of the District Court of -the United States for the Di§trict of INevada. .The defendants had denied the jurisdiction
of the court originally to render the decree sought to be
revived, and the opinion of the court necessarily discussed
this question without reaching the merits of the controversy.
When allusion was. made to this question Mrs. Terry lose
from her seat, and addressing the justice who was delivering
t!. 3 opinion, asked in an excited manner whether he was going
to order her to give up the marriage contract to be cancelled.
Mr. Justice Field said: "Be seated, madam." She repeated
.he question, and was again told to be seated. She then said,-

IN RE NEAGtE..
Opinion of the Coutrt.

in a very, excited and violenft manner, that*Justice Field had
been bought, and wanted to know the price he had sold himself
for; that he had *got Newland's money for it, and everybody
knew that he had got it, or words to that effect. Mr. Justice
Field then directed the marshal to remove her from the court-'
room. She asserted that she would not go from the room, and'
it.
that no one could take her from
Marshal Franks proceeded to carry out the order of the
court by attempting to compel her -to leave, when Terry, her
husband, rose from his seat under great excitement, exclaim:
igthat no man living should touch his wife, and
utrthe
marshal a blow in his face.so violent as to kno, out a.Iooth.
He then unbuttoned his coat, thrust his hand under his yest.
apparently for the purpose of drawing a bowie-knife, when
lie was seized by persons present and forced down on his back.
In the meantime Mrs. Terry was removed from the courtroom by the marshal, and Terry was allowed to rise and was
accompanied by officers to the door leading to the marshal's
office. As he was about leaving the room, or immediately
after being out of it, he succeeded indrawing a bowie-knife;
when his arms were seized by a deputy marshal and others
present to prevent him from using it, and they were able to
wrench it from him only after a severe struggle. The most,
prominent person engaged in wresting the knife from Terry
was Neagle, the prisoner now in court.
For this conduct both Terry and his wife were sentenced by.
the court tQoimpi:isonment for contempt, Mrs. Terry for one
month and Terry for ix months, and these sentences were
immediately carried into effect. Both the judgment of the
court on.,the petition for the revival of the decree in the case
of Sharon against Hill and the judgment of the Circuit Court
imprisoning Terry and wife for contempt have been brought
to this court for review, and in both cases the judgments have
been affirmed.' The report of the cases may be found in Ex
,parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, and Terry v. Sharon, 131 U. S. 40.
Terry and Mrs. Terry were separately indicted by the grand
jury of the Circuit Court of the United States during the same
term for their part in these transactions, and the cases were:,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pending in said court at the time of Terry's death. It also
appears that Mrs. Terry, during her part of this altercation in
the court-room, was making efforts to open a small satchel
which she had with her, but through her excitement she failed.
This satchel, which was taken from her, was found to have in
it a revolving pistol.
From that time until his death the denunciations by Terry
and his wife of Mr. Justice Field were open,,frequent, and of
the most vindictive and malevolent character. While being
transported from San Francisco to Alameda, where they were
imprisoned, Mrs. Terry repeated a number of times that she
wouldikill both Judge Field and Judge Sawyer. Terry, who
was-present, said nothing to restrain her, but added that he
was not through with Judge Field yet; and, while in jail at
Alameda, Terry said that after he got out of jail he would
horsewhip Judge Field; and that he did not believe he would
ever return to California, but this earth was not large enough
to keep him from finding Judge Field and horsewhipping him;
and, in reply to a remark that this would be a dangerous thing
to do, and that Judge Field would resent it, he said: "If
Judge Field resents it I will kill him." And while in jail
Mrs. Terry exhibited to a witness Terry's knife, at which he
laughed, and said, "Yes, I always carry that," and made a
remark about judges and marshals, that "they were alla lot
of cowardly curs," and he would," see, some of them in their
graves yet." Mrs. Terry also said that she expected to kill
-Judge

Field some day.

Perhaps the clearest expression of Terry's feelings and
intentions in the matter was in a conversation with Mr.
Thomas T. Williams, editor of one of the daily newspapers of
California. This interview was brought about by a message
from .Terry requesting Williams to call and see him. In
speaking of the occurrences in the court, he said that Justice
Field had put a lie in the record about him, and when he met
Field he would have to take that back, "and if he did not take
it back and apologize for having lied about him, he would s§la
his faca or pull his nose." "I said to him," said the witness,
"'Judge Terry, would not that be a dangerous thing to do?

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice Field is not a man who would permit any one to put a
deadly insult upon him like that.' He said, ' Oh, Field won't
fight.' I said, 'Well, Judge, I have found nearly all men will
fight; nearly every'man will fight when there is occasion for
it, and Judge Field has had a character in this State of having
the courage of his convictions, and being a brave man.' At
the conclusion of that branch of the conversation, I said to
him, ' Well, Judge Field is not your physical equal, and if any
trouble should occur he would be very likely to use a weapon.'
He said, ' Well, that's as good a thing as I want to get.' The
whole impression conveyed to me by this conversation was,
that he felt he had some cause of grievance against Judge
Field; that he hoped they might meet, that he might have an
opportunity to force a quarrel upon him, and he would get
him into a fight." Mr. Williams says that after the return of
Justice Field to California in the spring or summer of 1889, he
had other conversations with Terry, in which the same vindictive feelings of hatred were manifested and expressed by him.
It is useless to go over the testimony on this subject more
particularly. It is sufficient to say that the evidence isabundant that both Terry and wife contemplate. some attack upon
Judge Field during his official visit to California in the summer of 1889, which they intended shouid result in his death.
Many of these matters were published in the newspapers, and
the press of California was filled with the conjectures of a
probable attack by Terry on Justice Field, as soon as it became
known that he was going to attend the Circuit Court in that
year.
So much impressed were the friends of Judge Field, and of
public justice, both in California and in Washington, with the
fear that he would fall a sacrifice to the resentment of Terry
and his wife, that application was made to the Attorney General of the United States suggesting the propriety of his furnishing some protection to the judge while in California. This
resulted in a correspondence between the Attorney General of
the United States, the District Attorney, and the marshal- of
the Northern District of California on that subject. This correspondence is here set out:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

I

DEPARTmENT OF JUSTICE,

April 27tAh, 1889.
xs, United States Marshal, San Francisco, Cal.
". SIR: The proceedings which have heretofore been had in
connection with the case of Mr. and Ms. Terry in your United
States Circuit Court have become matter of public notoriety,
and I deem it my duty to call your attention to the propriety
of exercising unusual caution, in case further proceedings shall
be had in that case, for the protection of his Honor Justice
Field or whoever may be called upon to hear and determine
.the matter; Of course, I do not know what may be the feelings or purpose of Mr. and Mrs. Terry in the premises, but
many things which have happened indicate that violence on
'their part is not impossible. It isdue to the dignity and independence of the court and the character of its judge that no
effort on the part of the government shall be spared to make
them feel entirely safe and free from anxiety in the discharge
of their high duties.
"You will understand, of course, that this letter is not for
the public, but to put you upon your guard. It will be proper
for you to show it to the district attorney, if deemed best.
"WASHINGToN,

"Jo N( C. Fn.

"Yours truly,

W. H. H. MILLER.,
"Attorney General."

"UNITED

STATES MARSHAL'S OFFICE,

o OCALIFORNL,
"Sw Fn~oisco, May 6, 1889.
"Hon. W. H. H. MILLER, Attorney General, Washington, D. C.
"Sta: Yours of the 27th ultimo, at hand.
"When the Hon. Judge Lorenzo Sawyer, our Circuit Judge,
retuined from Los Angeles 4some time before the celebrated
cburt scene) and informed me of the disgraceful action of Mrs.
Terry towards him on the cars, while her husband sat in front
smilingly approving it, I resolved to watch the Terrys (and so.
notified my deputies) whenever, they should enter the courtroom, and be ready to suppress the very first indignity offered,
by.. either of them to the judges.' After, this, at the time of
their ejectment from the court-room, when I held Judge Terry
"NORTHERN DISTRICT

IN RE

-EAGLE.

i9

Opinion of the Court.

and his wife as prisoners in my private office and heard his
threats against Justice Field, I was more fully determined than
ever to throw around the Justice and Judge Sawyer every
safeguard I could.
"I have given the matter careful consideration, with the
determination to fully protect the federal judges at this time,
trusting that the department will reimburse me for any reasonable expenditure.
"I have always, whenever there is. any likelihood of either
Judge'or M[rs. Terry appearing in court, had a force of deputies with myself on hand to watch their every action. You
can rest assured that When Justice Field arrives, he, as well
as all the federal judges, will be protected from insults, and
where*an order is made it will be executed without fear as to
consequences. I shall follow your instructions and act with
more than usual caution. I have already consulted with the
United States attorney, J. T. Carey, Esq., as to the advisability of making application to you, at the time the Terrys are
tried upon criminal charges, for me to select two or more detectives to assist in the case, and also assist me in protecting
Justice Field while in my district. I -wish the judges to feel
secure, and for this purpose will see to it that their every wish
is promptly obeyed. I notice your remarks in regard to the
publicity of your letter, and will obey your request. I shall
only be too happy to receive any suggestions from you at any
time.
"The opinion among the bettei class of citizens here is very
bitter against the Terrys, though, of course, they have theii
friends, and, unfortunately, among that class it is necessary to
watch."Your most obedient servant,
J. C. FRNxs,
"U. S. .Marshal .2orthrn Dist. of Cal."
"Hon. W. tI. H. :MIL.EF,

" SAN Ficisco, CAL:, May 7, 1889.

"U. S. Attorney General, Washington, D. C..
"DEA SiR: Iarshal Franks exhibited to me your letter
bearing date the 27th ult., addressed to him upon the subject
vo.

cxxxv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

)f using due caution by way of protecting Justice Field and
he federal judges here in the discharge of their duties in matters in, which the Terrys are interested. I noted your suggestion with a great degree of pleasure, not because our marshal
is at all disposed to leave anything undone within his authority or power to do, but because it encouraged him to know
and feel that the Head of our Department was in full sympathy
with the efforts being made to protect the judges and vindicate
the dignity of our courts.
"I write merely to suggest that there is just reason, in the
light of. the past and the threats made by Judge and Mrs.
Terry against Justice Field and Judge Sawyer, to apprehend
personal violence at any moment and at any place, as well in
court as out of court, and that while due caution has always
been taken by the marshal when either Judge or Mrs. Terry
is about the building in which the courts, are held, he has not
felt it within his authority to guard either Judge Sawyer or
Justice Field against harm when away from the appraisers'
building.
"Discretion dictates, however, that a protection. should be
thrown about them at other times and places, when proceedingi are being had before them in which the Terrys are inter'ested, and I verily believe, -in view of the direful threats made
against Justice Field, that he will be in great danger at all
times while here.
"Mr. Franks is a prudent, cool, and courageous officer, who
will not abuse any authority granted him. I would therefore
suggest that he be authorized in his discretion to retain one
or more deputies, at such times as he may deem necessary,
for the purposes suggested. That publicity may not be given
to the matter, it is important that the deputies whom he may
select be not known as such, and that efficient service may be
assured for the purposes indicated, it seems to me that they
should be strangers to the Terrys.
"The Terrys are unable to appreciate that an officer should
perform his official duty when that duty in any way requires
his efforts to be directed against them. The marshal, his deputies, and myself suffer daily indignities and insults from Mrs.

IN

RE NEAGLE.

Opinion of the Court.

Terry, in court and out of court, committed in the presence of
her husband and without interference upon his part. I do not
purpose being deterred from any duty, nor do I purpose being
intimidated in the least degree from doing my whole duty in
the premises, but I shall feel doubly assured in being able to
do so knowing that our marshal has your kind wishes and
encouragement in doing everything needed to protect the officers of the court in the discharge of their duties.
"This, of course, is not intended for the public files of your
office, rior will it be on file in my office. Prudence dictates
great caution on the part of the officials who may be called
upon to have anything to do in the premises, and I deem it to
be of the greatest importance that the suggestions back and
forth be confidential.
"I shall write you further upon the subject of these cases in

a few days.
"I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant,
"JoitN

T.

CAREY,

" U. S. -Atornev."
"IDEPARTMENT OF JUSTIcE,
" W ASHINGTON,

D. C., May 27, 1889.

"J. 0. FRANxs, Esq., United States Marshal, San Francisco, Cal.

"SIR: Referring to former correspondence of the depart-"
ment relating to a possible disorder in the session of the
approaching term of court, owing to the small number of
bailiffs under your control to preserve order, you are directed

to employ certain special deputies at ayer diem of five dollars,
payable out of the appropriation for fees and expenses of

marshals, to be submitted to the court as a separate account
from your other accounts against the government for approval,
under section 846, Revised Statutes, as an extraordinary expense, that the same may be forwarded to this Department in
order to secure executive action and approval.
"Very respectfully,
W. 11. II.
LLEP,
" A ttorney Gelural.:'

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Cout,

The result of this correspondence was that Marshal Franks
appointed Mr. Neagle a deputy marshal for the Northern
District of California, and gave him special'instructions to
attend upon Judge Field both in court and while going from
one court to another, and protect him from any assault that
might be attempted upon him by Terry and wife. Accordingly,
when Judge Field went from San Francisco to Los Angeles
to hold the Circuit Court of the United States at that place,
Mr. Neagle accompanied him, remained with him-for the few
days that he was engaged in the business of that court, and
returned with him to San Francisco.
It appears from the uncohtradicted evidence, in the'case that
while the sleeping-car, in which were Justice Field and Mr. Neagle, stopped a moment in the early luorning at Fresno, Terry
apd wife got on the train. The fact that they were on the train
became known to Keagle, and he held a conversation with
the conductor as to what peace officers could be found at
Lathrop, where the train stopped for breakfast, and the conduc1dor was requested to telegraph to the proper 6fficers of that
place to have a constable or some peace officer on the ground
when 'the train should arrive, -anticipating that there might. be
v iolence attempted by Terry upon Judge Field. It is sufficient,
to say that this resulted in no available aid to assist in keeping
the peace. When the trair- arrived, Neagrle informed Judge
Field of the presence of Terry on the train, and advised him
to remain and take his breakfast in the car. This the Judge
refused to do, and he and Neagle got out 'of the car and went
into the dining-room, and took seats b4eside each other in the
place. assigned them by the person in charge of-the breakfastroom, and very shortly after this Terry and wife"came into the
room; and Mrs. Terry, recognizing Judge Field, turned and
left j n great haste, whil Terry passed beyond where Judge
Field and Neagle were and took his seat at another table. It
was'afterwards ascertained that Mrs. Terry went to the car,
and took from it a satchel in which was a'revolver. 'Before
she returned to the eating-room, Terry arose from his seat;
and, pa sing around, the table in such a way as brought him
behind Judge Field; who did not see him or notice him, came

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion"of the Court.

up where he was sitting with his feet under the table, and
struck him a blow on the side of his face, which was repeated
on the other side. le also had his arm drawn back and his
fist doubled up, apparently to strike'a third blow, when Neagle, who had been observing him all this time, arose from his
seat with his revolver in his hand, and in a'very loud voice
shouted out: "Stop! stop! I am an officer !" Upon this Terry
turned his attention to Neagle, and, as Ieagle testifies, seemed
to recognize him, and immediately turned his hand to thrust
it in his bosom, as Keagle felt sure, with the purpose of drawing a bowie-knife. At this instant Keagle fired two shots from
his revolver into the body of Terry, who immediately sank
down and died ina few minutes.
Mrs. Terry entered the room with the satchel in her hanl
just after Terry sank to the floor. She rushWd up to the
place where he was, threw herself upon his body, made loud
iexclamations and moans, and commenced inviting the spectators to avenge her wrong upon Field and Neagle. She appeared to be carried away by passion, and in a very earnest
manner charged that Field and Keagle had murdered her
husband intentionally, and shortly afterwards she appealed to
the persons present to examine the body of Terry to see that
he had no weapons. This she did once or twice. The satchel
which she had, being taken from her, was found to contain a
revolver.
These are the material circumstances produced in evidence
before the Circuit Court on the hearing of this habeas corpus
case. It is but a short sketch of a history which is given in
over five hundred pages in the record, but we think it is sufficient to enable us to apply the law of the case to the question before us. Without a imore minute discussion of this
testimony, it produces upon us the conviction of a settled purpose on the part of Terry and his wife, amounting to a conspiracy, to murder Justice Field. And we are quite sure
that if lNeagle had been merely a brother or a friend of Judge
Field, travelling with him, and aware of all the previous relations of Terry to the Judge, - as he was, - of his bitter animosity, his declared purpose to have revenge even to the point.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of killing him, he would have been justified in what he did in
defence of Mr. Justice Field's life, and possibly of his own.
But such a justification would be a proper subject for consideration on a trial of the case for murder in the courts of
the State of California, and there exists no authority in the
courts of the United States to discharge the prisoner while
held in custody by the State authorities for this offence, unless
there be found in aid of the defence of the prisoner some element of power and authority asserted under the government,
of the United States.
This element is said to be found in the facts that Mr. Justice Field, when attacked, was in the immediate discharge of
his duty as judge of the Circuit Courts of the United States
within California. ; hat the assault upon him grew out of the
animosity of Terry and wife, arising out of the previous digcharge of his duty as circuit justice in the case for which
they were committed for contempt of court; and- that the
deputy marshal of the United States, who killed Terry in
defence of Field's life, was charged with a duty under the
law of the United States to protect Field from the violence
which Terry was inflicting, and which was intended to lead
to Field's death.
To the inquiry whether this proposition is sustained by law
and the facts which we have recited, we now address ourselves.
Mr. Justice Field was a member of the Supreme Court of
the United States, and had been a member of that court for
over a quarter of a century, during which he had become
venerable for his age and for his long and valuable service in
that court. The business of the Supreme Court has become
so exacting that for many years past the justices of it have
been compelled to remain for the larger part of the year in
Washington City, from whatever part of the country they
may have been appointed. The term for each year, including
the necessary travel and preparations to attend at its beginning, has generally lasted from eight to nine months.
But the justices of this court have imposed upon them other
duties, the most important of which arise out of the fact that
they are also judges of the Circuit Courts of the United States.

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the- Cour.

Of these circuits there are nine, to each one of which a justice
of the Supreme Court is- allotte*d, under section 606 of the
Revised Statutes, the provision of which is as follows:
"The- chief justice and associate justices of the Supreme
Court shall be allotted among the circuits by an order of the
court, and a new allotment shall be made whenever it becomes
necessary or donvenient by reason of the alteration of any circuit, or of the new appointment of a chief justice or associate
justice, or otherwise."
Section 610 declares that it "shall be the duty of the chief
justice, and of each justice of the Supreme Court, to atten. at
least one term of the.Circuit Court, in each district of the circuit to which he is allotted during every period of two years."
Although this enactment does not require in terms that the
justices shall go to their circuits more than once in two years,
the effect of it is to compel most of them to do this, because
there are so many districts in many of the circuits that it is
impossible for the circuit justice to reach them all in one year,
and the result of this is that he goes to some of them in one
year, and to others in the next year, thus requiring an attendance in the circuit every year.
The justices of the Supreme Court have been members of
the Circuit Courts of the United States ever since the organization of the government, and their attendance on the circuit
and appearance at the, places where the courts are held has.
always been thought to be a matter of iinportance. In order
to enable him to perform this duty, :Mr. Justice Field had to
travel each year from Washington City, near the Atlantic
coast, to San Francisco, on the Pacific coast. In doing this
he was as much in the discharge of a duty imposed upon him
by law as he was while sitting in court and trying causes.
There are many duties which the judge performs outside of
the court-room where he sits to pronounce judgment or to preside over a trial. The statutes of the United States, and the
established practice of the courts, require that the judge perform a very large share of his judicial labors at what is called
This chamber work is as import~nt as, neces"chambers."
sary, as much a discharge of his official duty as that~performed

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in the court-house. Important cases are often argued before
the judge at any place convenient to the parties concerned,
and a decision of the judge is arrived at by investigations
made in his own room, wherever he may be, and it is idle to
say that this is not as much the performance of judicial duty
as the filing of the judgment with the clerk, and the announcement of the result in open court.
So it is impossible for a justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States, who is compelled by the obligations of duty to
be so much in Washington City, to discharge his duties of
attendance on the Circuit Courts as prescribed by section 610,
without travelling in the usual and most convenient modes of
doing it to the place where the court is to be held. This duty
is as much an obligation imposed by the law as if it had said
in words "the justices of the Supreme Court shall go from
Washington City to the place where their terms are held every
year."
Justice Field had not only left Washington and travelled
the three thousand miles or more which were necessary to reach
his circuit, but he had entered upon the duties of that circuit,
had held the court at San Francisco for some time; and,
taking a short leave of that court, had gone down to Los
Angeles, another place where a court was to be held, and sat
as a judge there for several days, bearing cases and rendering
decisions. It was in the necessary act of returning from Los
Angeles to San Francisco, by the usual mode of travel between
the two places, where his court was still in session, and where
he was required to be, that he was assaulted by Terry in the
manner which we have already described.,
The occurrence which we are called uponto consider was of
so extraordinary a character that it is not to be expected that
many cases can be found to cite as authority upon the subject.
In the case of Ufnited 8tctes v. The Schooner -Little Charles,
1 Brock. 380, 382, a question arose before Chief Justice Marshall, holding the Circuit Court o the United States for
Virginia, as to the validity of an order made by the District
Judge at his chambers, and not in court. The act of. Congress
authorized stated terms of the District Court, and gave the judge

LN R E N E.

LE.

Opinion of the Court.

power to hold special courts at his discreti6n, either at the
place appointed by the law or suel other place in the district
as the nature of the buisiuess and his discretion should direct.
He says: "It does not seem to be a violent construction of
such an act to consider the judge as constituting a court whenever he proceeds on judicial business;" and cites the practice of
the courts in support of that view of the subject.
In the case of United States v. Gleason, 1 Wool. 0. C.
128, 132, the prisoner was indicted fof the murder of two
enrolling officers who were charged with the duty of arresting
deserters, or those who had been' drafted into the service and
had failed to attend. These men, it was said, had visited the
region of country where they were murdered, and, having
failed of accomplishing their purpose of arresting the deserters, were on their return to their home when they were killed,
and the court was asked to instruct the jury. that under these
circumstances they were not engaged in the duty of arresting
the deserters named. "It is claimed by the couiuel for the
defendant," says the report, "that if the parties killed had
.been so engaged, and had come to that neighborhood with the
purpose of arresting the supposed deserters, but at the moment of the assault had abandoned the purpose.of making the
arrests at that time, and were returning to headquarters at
Grinnell, with a view to making other arrangements for
arrest at another time, they were not so engaged as to bring
the case within the law." But the court held that this was
not a sound construction of the statute, and "that if the
parties killed had come into that neighborhood with intent to
arrest the deserters named, and had been employed by the
proper officer for that service, and were, in the proper prosecution of that purpose, returning to Grinnell with a view to
making other arrangements to discharge this duty, they were
still engaged in arresting the deserters, within the meaning
of the statute. It is not necessary,' said the court, "that the.
party killed should be engaged in the immediate act of arrest,
but it is sufficient if he be employed in and about that business
when assaulted. The purpose of the law is to protect the life
of the person so employed, and this protection continues so

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

long as he is engaged in a service necessary and proper" to
that employment."
We have no doubt that Mr. Justice Field when attacked by
Terry was engaged in the discharge of his duties as Circuit
Justice of the Ninth Circuit, and was entitled to all the protection under those circumstances which the law could give
him.
It is urged, however, that there exists no statute authorizing
any such protection as that which Neagle was instructed to
give Judge Field in the present case, and indeed no protection
whatever against a vindictive or malicious assault growing out
of the faithful discharge of his official duties; and that the
language of section 153 of the Revised Statutes, that the party
seeking the benefit of the writ of habeas eo2-pus must in this
connection show that he is "in custody for an act done or
omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States," makes it
necessary that upon this occasion it should be shown that the
act for whrch Neagle is imprisoned was done by virtue of an
act of Congress. It is not supposed that any special act of
Congress exists which authorizes the marshals or deputy marshals of the United States in express terms to accompany the
judges of the Supreme Court through their circuits, and act.
as a body-guard to them, to defend them against malicious
assaults against their persons. But we are of opinion that
this view of the statute is an unwarranted restriction of
the meaning of a law designed to extend in a liberal manner the benefit of the writ of labea8 corpus to persons imprisoned for the performance of their duty. And we are satisfied
that if it was the duty of Neagle, under the circumstances,
a duty which could only arise under the laws of the United
States, to defend Mr. Justice Field from a murderous attack
upon him, he brings himself within the meaning of the section
we have recited. This view of the subject is confirmed by
the alternative provision, that he must be in custody "for
an act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United
States or of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge
thereof, or is in custody, in violation of the Constitution or of
a law or treaty of the United States."

IN RE N]EAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

In the view we take of the Constitution of the United
States, any obligation fairly and properly inferrible from that
instrument, or any duty of the marshal to be derived from the
general scope of his duties under the laws of the United
States, is "a law" within the meaning of this phrase. It
would be a great reproach to the system of government of the
United States, declared to be within its sphere sovereign and'
supreme, if there is to be f6und within the domain of its
powers no means of protecting the judges, in the conscientious.
and faithful discharge of their duties, from the malice and
hatred of those upon whom their judgments may operate
unfavorably.
It has in modern times become apparent that the physical
health of the community is more efficiently promoted'by
hygienic and preventive means, than by the skill which is
applied to the cure of disease after it has become fully developed. So also the law, which is intended to prevent crime, in
its general spread among the community, by regulations, police
organization, and otherwise, which are adapted for the protection of the lives and property of citizens, for the dispersion
of mobs, for the arrest of thieves and assassins, for the watch
which is kept over the community, as well as over this class of
people, is more efficient than punishment of crimes after they
have been committed.
If a person in the situation of Judge Field could have no
other guarantee of his personal safety, while engaged in the
conscientious discharge of a disagreeable .duty, than the fact
that if he was murdered his murderer would be subject to the
laws of a State and by those laws could be punished, the .security would be very insufficient. The plan which Terry and
wife had in mind of insulting him and assaulting h'im-and
drawing him into a defensive physical contest, in the course of
which they would slay him, shows the little value of such
remedies. We do not believe that the government of th6
United States is thus inefficient, c- that its Constitution and
laws have left the high officers of the government so defence:
less and unprotected.
The views expressed by this court through Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Bradley, in Eaxparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 3711 394, are very per.
tinent to this subject, and express our views with great force.
That was a case of a writ of habeas corpus, where Siebold had
been indicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Mkfaryland, for an offence committed against
.the election laws, during an election at which members of
Congress and officers of the State of Maryland were elected.
He was convicted, and sentenced to fine and imprisonment,
and filed his petition in this court for a writ of habea cortu8,
to be relieved on the ground that the court which had convicted him was without jurisdicti6n. The foundation of this
allegation was that the Congress of the United States had no
right to prescribe laws for the conduct of the election in ques°tion, or for enforcing the laws of the State of Maryland by
the courts of the United States. In the course of the discussion of the relative powers of the federal and state courts on
this subject, it is said:
"Somewhat akin to the argument which has been considered is the objection that the deputy marshals authorized
'by the act of Congress to be.created and to attend the elections are authorized to keep the peace; and that this is a
duty which belongs to the state authorities alone. It is
argued that the preservation of peace and good order in
society is not within the powers confided to the government
of the United States, but belongs exclusively to the State§.
Here again we are met with the theory that the government
of the United States does not rest-upon the. soil and territory
of the country. We think that this theory is founded on an
entire misconception of the nature and powers of that government. We hold it to be an incontrovertible principle, that
the government of the United States may, by means of physi-"
cal force, exercised through its official agents, execute on every
foot of American soil the powers and functions that belong to
it. This necessarily involv's the power to command obedience
to its laws, and hence the pbwer to keep the peace to that ex-tent.. This power to enforce its laws and to execute its functions in all places does' not derogate from the power of the
State to execute its laws at the same time and in the same

IN RE

TEAGLE.

Opinion of the Court.

places. The one does not exclude the other, except where
both cannot be executed at the same time. In that case
the words of the Constitution -itself show which is to yield,
'This Constitution, and all laws which shall be made in prsuance thereof, . . . shall be the supreme law of the
land.' . . . Without the concurrent sovereignty referred
to, the national government would be nothing but an advisory government. Its executive power would be absolutely
nullified. Why do we have marshals at all, if they cannot
physically lay their hands on persons and things in the per,
formavce of their proper duties? What functions-can they
perform, if they cannot use force? In executing the processes
of the courts, must they call on the nearest constable for
protectioh? must they iely on him to use the requisite compulsion, and to keep the-peace, whilst, they are soliciting and
entreating the parties and bystanders to allow the law to
take its course 9, This is the necessary consequence of the
positions that are assumed. If we indulge in such impracticable views as these, and keep on refining and rerefining, we
shall drive the national government out of the United States,
and relegate it to the District of Columbia, or perhaps to some
foreign soil. We shall bring it back to a condition of greater
helplessness than that of the old confederation. . . . It
must execute its powers, or it is no government. It must execute them on the land as well as on the sea, on things as well
as ourpersons. And, to do this, it must necessarily have power
to command obedience, preserve order, and keep the peace;
and no person or power in this land has the right to resist
or question its authority, so long as it keeps within the bounqs
of its jurisdiction."
At the same term of the court, in the case of' Tennessee V
.Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 262, Where the same questions in regar4
to the relative powers of the federal and state courts were
concerned, in regard to criminal offences, the court expressed
its views through Mr. Justice Strong, quoting from the case
of Mai-tin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 363, the following language:
"The general government must cease to exist whenever it
loses the power of protecting itself in the exercise of its con

OCTOBER, TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

stitutional powers;" and then proceeding: "It can act only
through its officers and agents, and they must act within the
States. If, when thus acting, and within the scope of their
authority, those officers can be arrested and broi,-ht to trial
in a state court, for an alleged offence against the law of the
State, yet warranted by the federal authority they possess,
and if the general government is powerless to interfere at
once for their protection -if their protection must be left to
the action of the state court - the operations of the general
government may at any time be arrested at the will of one of
its members. The legislation of a State may be unfriendly.
It may -affix penalties to acts done under the immediate direction of the national government, and in obedience to its laws.
It may deny the authority conferred by those laws. The
state court may administer not only the laws of the State, but
equally federal law, in such a manner as to paralyze the operations of the government. And even if; after trial and final
judgment in the state court, the case can be brought into the
United States court for review, the officer is withdrawn from
the discharge of his duty during the pendency of the prosecution, and the exercise of acknowledged federal power arrested.
We do not think such an element of weakness is to be found
in the Constitution. The United States is a government with
authority extending over the whole territory of the Union,
acting upon the States and the people of the States. While
it is limited in the number of its powers, so far as its sovereignty extends it is supreme. No state government can
exclude it from the exercise of any authority conferred upon it
by the Constitution; obstruct its authorized officers against
its will; or withhold from it, for a moment, the cognizance of
any subject which that instrument has committed to it."
To cite all the cases in which this principle of the supremacy
of the government of the United States, in the exercise of all
the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, is maintained, would be an endless task. We have selected these as
being the most forcible expressions of the views of the court,
having a direct reference to the nature of the case before us.
Where, then, are we to look for the protection which we

IN' RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

have shown Judge Field was entitled to when engaged in the
discharge of his official duties? Not to the courts of the
United States; because, as has been more than once said in
this court, in the division of the powers of government between the three great departments, executive, legislative and
judicial, the judicial is the weakest for the purposes of selfprotection and for the enforcement of the powers which it exercises. The ministerial officers through whom its commands
must be executed are marshals of the United States, and
belong emphatically to the executive department of the government. They are appointed by the President, with the
advice and consent of the Senate. They are removable from
office at his pleasure. They are subjected by act of Congress
to the supervision and control of the Department of Justice,
'in the hands of one of the cabinet officers of the President, and
their compensation is provided by acts of Congress. The
same may be said of the district attorneys of the United
States, who prosecute and defend the claims of the government in the courts.
The legislative branch of the government can only protect
the judicial officers by the enactment of laws for that purpose, and the argument we are now combating assumes that
no such law has been passed by Congress.
If we turn to the executive department of the government,
we find a very different condition of affairs. The Constitution, section 3, Article 2, declares that the *President "shall
take care that the laws be faithfully executed," and he is
provided with the means of fulfilling this obligation by his
authority to commission all the officers of the United Stats,
and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, tp
appoint the most important of them and to fill vacancies. M.
is declared to be commander-in-chief of the army and navy of
the United States. The duties which are thus imposed upon
-him he is further enabled to perform by the recognition in the
Constitution, and the creation by acts of Congress, of executive departments, which have varied in number from four or
five to seven or eight, the heads of which are familiarly called
cabinet ministers. These aid him in the performance of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

great duties of his office, and represent him.in a thousand acts
to which it can hardly be supposed his personal attention is
called, and thus he is enabled to fulfil the duty of. his great
department, expressed in the phrase that "he shall take care
that the laws be faithfully executed."
Is this duty limited to the enforcement of acts of Congress
or of treaties of the United States according to their express
te2"s, or does it include the rights, duties and obligations
growing out of the Constitution itself, our international relations, and all the protection implied by the nature of the government under the Constitution?
One of the most remarkable episodes in the history of our
foreign relations, and which has become an attractive historical incident, is the case of Martin Koszta, a native of Hungary, who, though not fully a naturalized citizen of the United
States, had in due form of law made his declaration of" intention to become a citizen. While in Smyrna he was seized by
command of the Austrian consul general at that place, and
carried on board the Hussar, an Austrian vessel, where he was
held in close confinement. Captain Ingraham, in command
of the American sloop of war St. Louis, arriving in port at
that critical period, and ascertaining that Koszta had with
him his naturalization papers, demanded his surrender to him,
and was compelled to train his guns upon the Austrian vessel
before his demands were complied with. It was, however, th
prevent bloodshed, agreed that Koszta should be placed in the
hands of the French consul subject to the result of diplomatic
negotiations betwveen Austria and the United States. The
celebrated correspondence between Mr. Marcy, Secretary of
State, and Chevalier Hillsemann, the Austrian minister at
Washington, which arose out of this affair and resulted in the
release and restoration to liberty of Koszta, attracted a great
deal of public attention, and the position assumed by Mr.
Marcy met the approval of the country and of Congress, who
voted a gold medal to Captain Ingraham for his conduct in
the affair. Upon what act of Congress then existing can any
one lay his finger in support of the action of our government
in this matter?

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

So, if the President or the Postmaster General is advised
that the mails of the United States, possibly carrying treasure,.
are liable to be robbed and the mail carriers assaulted and
murdered in any particular region of country, who can doubt
the authority of the President or of one of the executive departments under him to make an order for the protection of
the mail and of the persons and lives of its carriers, by doing
exactly what was done in the case of Mr. Justice Field,
namely, providing a sufficient guard, whether it be by soldiers
of the army or by marshals of the United States, with ajose
eomitatus properly armed and equipped, to secure the safe performance of the duty of carrying the mail wherever it may be
intended to go?
The United States is the owner of millions of acres of valuable public land, and has been the owner of much more which
it has sold. Some of these lands owe a large part of their
value to the forests which grow upon them. These forests
are liable to depredations by people living in the neighborhood, known as timber thieves, who make a living by cutting
and selling such timber, and who are trespassers. But until
quite recently, even if there be one now, there was no statute
authorizing any preventive measures for the protection of this
valuable public property. Has the President no authority to
place guards upon the public territory to protect its timber?
No authority to seize the timber when cut and found upon
the ground? Has he no power to take any measures to protect this vast domain? Fortunately we find this question
answered by this court in the case of Wells v. Nickles, 104
U. S.444. That was a case in which a class of men appointed
by local land officers, under instructions from the Secretary of
the Interior, having found a large quantity of.this timber cut
down from the forests of the United States and lying where
it was cut, seized it. The question of the title to this property
coming in controversy between Wells and Nickles, it became
essential to inquire into the authority of these timber agents
of the government thus to seize the timber cut by trespassers
on its lands. The court said: "The effort we have made to
ascertain and fix the authority of these timber agents by any
VOL. c xXxv-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court

-

positive provision of law has been unsuccessful." But the
court, notwithstanding there was no -special statute for it,
held that the Department of the Interior, acting under the
idea of protecting from depredation timber on the lands of the
government, had gradually come to assert the right to seize
what is cut and taken away from them wherever it can be
traced, and in aid of this the registers and receivers of .the
Land Office had, by instructions from the Secretary of the
Interior, been constituted agents of the United States for these
purposes, with power to appoint special agents under themselves. And the court upheld the authority of the Secretary
of the Interior to make these rules and regulations for the
protection of the public lands.
One of the cases in this court in Which this question was
presented in the most imposing form is that of United State8
v. San Jacinto Tin Company, 125 U. S. 273, 279, 280. In
that case, a suit was brought in the name of the United States,
by order of the Attorney General, to set aside a patent which
had been issued for a large body of valuable land, on the
ground that it was obtained from the government by fraud
and deceit practised upon its officers. A preliminary question
was raised by counsel for defendant, which was earnestly
insisted upon, as to the right of the Attorney General or any
other officer of the government to institute such a suit in the
absence of any act of Congress authorizing it. It was conceded that there was no express authority given to the Attorney General to institute that particular suit or any suit of that
class. The question was one of very great interest, and was
very ably argued both in the court below and in this court.
The response of this court to that suggestion conceded that in
the acts :of .Congress establishing the Department of Justice
and defining the duties of the Attorney General there was no
such express authority, and it was said that there was also no
express authority to him to bring suits against debtors of the
government upon bonds, or to begin criminal prosecutions, or
to institute criminal proceedings in any of the cases in which
the United States was plaintiff, yet he was invested with the
general superintendence of all such.suits. It was further said:

IN RE lEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

"If the United States, in any particular case, has a just cause
for calling upon the judiciary of the country, in any of its
courts, for relief by setting aside or annulling any of its contracts, its obligations, or its most solemn instruments, the
question of the appeal to the judicial tribunals of the country
must primarily be decided by the Attorney General of the
United States. That such a power should exist somewhere,
and that the United States should not be more helpless in
relieving itself of frauds, impostures, and deceptions, than the
private individual, is hardly open to argument.

.

.

.

There

must, then, be an officer or officers of the government to determine when the United States shall sue, to decide for what
it shall sue, and to be responsible that such suits shall be
brought in appropriate cases. The attorneys of the United
States in every judicial district are officers of this character,
and they are by statute under the immediate supervision and
control of the Attorney General. How, then, can it be argued
that if the United States has been deceived, entrapped, or defrauded, into the making, under the forms of law, of an instrument which injuriously affects its rights of property, or other
rights, it cannot bring a suit to avoid the effect of such instrument, thus fraudulently obtained, without a .special act of
Congress in each case, or without some special authority
applicable to this class of cases?" The same question was
raised in the earlier case of United States v. Hughies, 11 How.
552, and decided the same way.
We cannot doubt the power of the President to take measures for the protection of a judge of one of the courts of the
United States, who, while in the discharge of the duties of his
office, is threatened with a personal attack which may probably result in his death, and we think it clear that where this
protection is to be afforded through the civil power, the Department of Justice is the proper one to set in motion the
necessary means of protection. The correspondence already
recited in this opinion between the marshal of the Northern District of California, and the Attorney General, and
the district attorney of the United States for that district,
although prescribing no very specific mode of affording this

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

protection by the Attorney General, is sufficient, we think, to
warrant the marshal in taking the steps which he did take, in
making the provisions which he did make, for the. rotection
and defence of Mr. Justice Field.
But there is positive law investing the marshals and their
deputies with. powers which not only justify what Marshal
Neagle did in this matter, but which imposed it upon him as
a duty. In chapter fourteen of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, which is devoted to the appointment and duties
of the district attorneys, marshals, and clerks of the courts of
the United States, section 788 declares:
"The marshals and their deputies shall have, in each State,
the same powers, in executing the laws of the United States,
as the sheriffs and their deputies in such State may have, by
law, in executing the laws thereof."
If, therefoie, a sheriff of the State of California was authorized to do in regard to the laws of California what Neagle
did, that is, if he was authorized to keep the peace, to protect
a judge from assault and murder, then Neagle was authorized
to do the same thing in reference to the laws of the United
States.
Section 4176 of the Political Code of California reads as
follows:
"The sheriff must:
"First. Preserve the peace.
"Second. Arrest and, take before the nearest magistrate for
examination all persons who attempt to commit or have committed a public offence.
"Third. Prevent and suppress all affrays, breaches of the
peace, riots and insurrections, which may come to his knowledge. .....
And the Penal Code of California declares (section 191) that
homicide is justifiable when committed by any person "when
resisting any attempt to murder any person or to commit a
felony or to do some great bodily injury upon any person;"
or " when committed in defence of habitation, property or
person ..gainst one who manifestly intends or endeavors by
violence or surprise to commit a felony."

IN RE NEAGL.
Opinion of the Court.

That there is a peace of the United States;. that a man assaulting a judge of the United- States while in the discharge'
of his duties violates that peace; that in such case the marshal of the United States stands in .the same relation to the
peace of the United States which the sheriff of the county
does to the peace of the State of California; are questions too
clear to need argument to prove them. That it would be the
duty of a sheriff, if one had been present at this assault by
Terry upon Judge Field, to prevent this breach of the peace,..
to prevent this assault, to prevent the murder which was contemplated by it, cannot be doubted. And if, in. performing
this duty, it became necessary for the protection of Judge
Field, or of himself, to kill Terry, in a case where, like this, it
was evidently a question of the choice of who should be killed,
the assailant and violator of the law and disturber of the
peace, or the unoffending man who was in his power, there
can be no question of the authority of the sheriff to have killed
Terry. So the marshal of the United States, charged with
the duty of protecting and guarding the judge of the United
States eourt agaipst this special assault upon his person and
his life, being present at the critical moment, when prompt
action was necessary, found it to be his duty, a duty which'he"
had no liberty to refuse to perform, to take the steps which
resulted in Terry's death. This duty.was imposed on him by
the section of the Revised Statutes which we have recited, in
connection with the powers conferred by the State of California upon its peace ofcers, which become,.by this statute, in
proper cases, transferred as duties to the marshals of the,
United States.
But all these questions being conceded, itis urged against
thb relief sought by this writ of hAaea8 corpus, that th question of the guilt of the prisoner of the crime of murder is a
question to be determined by the laws of California, and to be
decided by its'courts, and that there exists no power in the
government of the United States to take away the prisoner
from the custody of the proper authorities of the State of
California -and carry him before a judge of the court of the
United States, and release him without a trial by jury accord-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to the laws of the State of California. That the statute
of the United Staies authorizes aid directs*such a proceeding
and such a judgment in a case where the offence charged
against the prisoner consists in an act done in pursuance of a
law of the United States and by virtue of its authority, and
where the imprisonment of the party is in violation of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, is clear by its
express language.
'The enactmeats now found in the Revised Statutes of the
United States on the subject of the writ of habeas corpus are
the result of a long course of legislation forced upon Congress
by the attempt of the States of the Union to exercise the
power of imprisonment over officers and other persons asserting rights under the federal government or foreign govern.ments, which the States denied. The original act of Congress
the writ of habeas corpus, by its 14th section,
on the subject
"authorized
the of
judges and the courts of the United States, in
the case of prisoners in jail 'or in custody under or by color of
the authority of the United States, or committed for trial
before some court of the same, or when necessary to be brought
into court to testify, to issue the writ, and the judge or court
before whom they were brought was directed to make inquiry
into the cause of commitment. 1 Stat. 81, c. 20, § 14. This
did not present the question, or, at least, it gave rise to no
question whibh came before the courts, as to releasing by this
writ parties held in custody under the laws of the States.
But when, during the controversy growing out of the nullifi.cation laws of South Carolina, officers of the United States
were arrested and imprisoned for the performance of their
duties in collecting the revenue of the United States in that
State, and held by the state authorities, it became necessary
for the Congress of the United States to take some action for
their relief. Accordingly the act of Congress of March 2,
1833, 4 Stat. 634, c. 57, § 7, among other remedies for such
condition.of affairs, provided, by its 7th section, that the federal judges should" grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases of
a prisoner in jail or confinement, where he should be committed or confined on or by any authority or law, for any act

IN RE NEIAGLE.

7

Opinion of the Court.

done, or omitted to be done, in pursuance of a law of the,
United States, or any order, process or decree of any judge or
court thereof.
The next extension of the circumstances on which a writ of
abeas corpus might issue by the federal judges arose out 'of
the celebrated .AfcLeod Case, in which McLeod, charged with
murder, in a state court of New York, had pleaded that he
was a British subject, and that what he had done was under
and by the authority of his government, and should be a matter of international adjustment, and that he was not subject
to be tried by a court of New York under the laws of that
State. The federal government acknowledged the force of
this reasoning, and undertook to obtain from the government
of the State of New York the release of the prisoner, but
failed. He was, however, tried and acquitted, and afterwards
released by the State of -New York. This led to an exteinsion
of the powers of the federal judges under the writ of habeas
corpus, by the act of August 29, 1812, 5 Stat. 539, c. 257, entitled "An act to provide further remedial justice in the courts
of the United States." It conferred upon them the power to
issue a writ of habeas corpus in all cases where the prisoner
claimed that the act for which he was held in custody was
done under the sanction of any foreign power, and where the
validity and effect of this plea depended upon the law of
nations. In advocating the bill, which afterwards became a
law, on this subject, Senator Berrien, who introduced it into
the Senate, observed: "The object was to allow, a foreigner,
prosecuted in one of the States of the Union for an offence
committed in that State, but which he pleads has been committed under authority of his own sovereign or the authority
of the law of nations, to be brought up on that issue before the
only competent judicial power to decide upon matters involved
in foreign relations or the law of nations. The plea must show
that it has reference to the laws or treaties of the United
States or the law of nations, and showing this, the writ of
habeas coipus is awarded to try that issue. If it shall appear
that the accused has a bar on the plea alleged, it is right and
proper that he should not be delayed in prison .awaiting the

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings of the state jurisdiction on the preliminary issue
of his plea at bar. If satisfied of the existence in fact and
.validity in law of the bar, the federal jurisdiction will have
the power of administering prompt relief." No more forcible
statement of the principle on which the law of the case now
before us stands can be made.
*The next extension of the powers of the court under the
writ of habeas corpus wag the act of February 5, 1867 .14
Stat. 385, c. 28, and this contains the broad gr~und of the
present Revised Statutes, under which the relief is sought in
the case before us, and includes all cases of restraint of liberty
in violation of the Constitution or a law or treaty of the
United States, and declares that "the said court or judge shall
proceed in a summary way to determine the facts of the case,
by hearing testimony and the arguments of the parties interested, and if it shall appear that the petitioner is deprived of
his or her liberty in contravention of the Constitution or laws
of the United States, he or she shall forthwith be discharged
and set at liberty."
It would seem as if the 'argument might close here. If the
duty of the United States to protect its officers from violence,
even to death, in discharge of the duties. which its laws impose upon them, be established, and Congress has made the
writ of Aabeas oorpus one of the means by which this protection is made efficient, and if the facts of this case show that"
the prisoner was acting-both under the authority of law, and
the directions of his superior officers of the Department of
Justice, we can see no reason why this writ should not be
made to serve its purpose in the present case.
We have already cited such decisions of this court as are
most important and directly in point, and there is a series of
cases decided by the Circuit and District Courts to the same
purport. Several'of these arose out of proceedings under the
fugitive slave law, in which the marshal of the United States,
while engaged in apprehending the fugitive slave with a view
to returning him to his master in another State, was arrested
by the authorities of the State. In many of these cases they
made application to the judges of the United States for relief

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court..

by the writ of habeas corpus, which give rise to several very
interesting decisions on this suibject.
In Exaparte Jenkins, 2 Wall. Jr. 521, 529, the marshal, who
had been engaged, while executing a warrant, in arresting a
fugitive, in a bloody encounter, was himself arrested under a
warrant of a justice of the peace for assault with intent to
kill, which makes the case very analogous to the one now
under consideration. He presented to the Circuit Court of
the United States for. the Eastern District of Pennsylvania a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which was heard before
Mr. Justice Grier, who held that under the act of 1833,
already referred to, the marshal was entitled to his discharge,
because what he had done was in pursuance of and by the authority conferred upon him by the act of Congress concerning
the rendition of fugitive slaves. He said: "The authority
conferred on the judges of the United States by this act of
Congress gives them all the power that any other court could
exercise under the writ of habeas corpus, or gives them none
at all. If under such a writ they may not-discharge their
officer when imprisoned 'by any authority' for an act done in
pursuance of a law of -the United States, it would be impossible to discover for what useful purpose the act was passed."
It "was passed when a certain State of this Union had.threatened to nullify acts of Congress, and to treat those as 6riminals who should attempt to execute them; and it was intended
as a remedy against such state legislation."
This same matter was up again when the fugitive slave,
Thomas, had the marshal arrested in a civil suit for an alleged
assault andbattery. He was carried before Judge Kane on
another writ of habeas corpus and again released. 2 Wall. Jr.
531. A third time the marshal, being indicted, was arrested
on a bench warrant issued by the state court, and again
brought before the Circuit Court of the United States by
a writ of habeas corp8 and discharged. Some remarks of
Judge Kane on this occasion are very pertinent to the objections raised in the present case. He said, 2 Wall. Jr. 543:
"It has been urged that my order, if it shall withdraw the
relators from the prosecution pending against them [in .the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

state court], will in effect prevent their trial by jury at' all,
since there is no act of Congress under which, they can be
indicted for an abuse of process. It will not be an anomaly,
however, if the action of this court shall interfere with the
trial of these prisoners by a jury. Our constitutions secure
that mode of trial as a right to the accused; but they nowhere recognize it as a right of the government, either state
or federal, still less of an individual prosecutor. The .action
of a jury is overruled constantly by the granting of new trials
after conviction. It is arrested by the entering of nolleprosequis, while the case is at bar. It is made ineffectual at any
time by the discharge on kabea8 corpus. . . . And there
is no harm in this. No one imagines that because a man is
accused he must therefore, of course, be tried. Public prosecutions are not devised for the purpose of indemnifying the
wrongs of individuals, still less of retaliating upon them."
Many other decisions by the Circuit and District Courts, to
the same purport, are to be found, among them the following:
Fx _part Robinson, 6 McLean, 355;. 4 Amer. Law Register,
61.1; Roberts v. Jailor of Fayette Co., 2 Abbott (U. S.) 265;
In re Ramsey, 2 Flippin, 451; In re Neill, 8 Blatchford,
156; Ex _parte Bridges, 2 Woods, 428; Ex parte Royall, 117
U. S. 241.
Similar language was used by Mr. Choate in the Sehate of.
the United States upon the passage of the act of 1842. Ie
said: "If you have the power, to interpose after judgment,
you have the power to do so before. If you can reverse a
judgment, you can anticipate its rendition. If, within the
Constitution, your judicial power extends to these cases or
these controversies, whether you take hold of the case or controversy at one stage or another, is totally immaterial. The
single question submitted to the national tribunal, the question whether, under the statute adopting the law of nations,
the prisoner is entitled to the exemption or immunity he
claims, may as well be extracted from the entire case, and
presented and decided in those tribunals before any judgment
in the state court, as for it to be revised afterwards on a writ
of error. Either way, they pass on no other question. Either

IN RE NEAGLE.
Opinion of the Court.

way, they do not adih;qister the criminal law of a State. In
the one case as much as in the other, and no more, do they
interfere with state judicial power."
The same answer is given in the present case. To the objec,
tion made in argument, that the prisoner is discharged by this
writ from the power of the state court to try him for the
whole offence, the reply is, that if the prisoner is held in the
state court to answer for an act which he was authorized to
do by the law of the United. States, which it was his duty to
do as marshal of the United States, and if in doing that act
he did no more than. what was necessary and proper for him
to do, he cannot be guilty of a crime under the law of the
State of California. When these things are shown, it is established that he is innocent of any crime against the laws of the
State, or of any other authority whatever. There is no occa:
sion for any further trial in the state court, or in any court.
The Circuit Court of the United States was as competent to
ascertain these facts as any other tribunal, and it was not at all
necessary that a jury should be impanelled to render a verdict
on them. It is the exercise of a power common under all.
systems of criminal jurisprudence. There must always be a
preliminary examination by a committing magistrate, or some
similar authority, as to whether there is an offence to be submitted to a jury, and if this is submitted in the first instance
to a grand jury, that is still not the right of trial by jury
which is insisted on in the present argument.
We have thus given, in this case, a most attentive consideration to all tne questions of law and fact which we have thought
to be properly involved in it. We have felt it to be our duty
to examine into the facts with a completeness justified by the
importance of the case, as well as from the duty imposed upon
us by the statute, which we think requires of us to place ourselves, as far as possible, in the place of the Circuit Court and
to examine the testimony and the arguments in it, aid to dispose of the party as law and justice require.
The result at which we have arrived upon this examination
is, that in the protection of the person and the life of Mfr.
Justice Field while in the discharge of his official duties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Laiiar, 3., Fuller, C. 3.

Neagle was authorized to resist the attack of Terry upon him;
that Neagle was correct in the belief that without prompt
action on his part the assault of Terry upon the judge would
have ended in the death of the latter; that such befng his wellfounded belief, he was justified in taking the life of Terry, as
the only means of preventing the death of the man who was
intended to be his victim; that in taking the life of Terry,
under the circumstances, he was acting under the authority of
the law of the United States, and was justified 'in so doing;
and that he is not liable to answer in the courts of California
on a~count of his part in that transaction.
TVe therefore affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court
a,?thorizing his dischargefrom the custody of the sheri'
of San Joaquin County.
MR.

JuSTIcE

JUSTICE FULLER)

(with whom concurred. MR. CHIEF
dissenting.

LAxA&

The Chief Justice and- myself are unable to assent to the
conclusion reached by the majority of the court.
Our dissent is not based, on any conviction as to the guilt or
innocence of the appellee. The view which we take renders
that question immaterial to the inquiry presented by this appeal. That inquiry is, whether the appellee, Keagle, shall inthis ex parte proceeding be.discharged and delivered from any
trial or further inquiry in any court, state or federal, for what
he has been accused of in the forms prescribed by the .constitution and laws of the -State in which the act in question
was committed. Upon that issue we hold to the principle announced by this court- in the case of Ex _parte Crouch, 112
U. S., 178, 180, in which Mr. Chief Justice Waite, delivering
the opinion of the court, said: "It is elementary learning that,
if a prisoner is in the custody of a state court of competent
jurisdiction, not illegally asserted, he cannot be taken from
that jurisdiction and discharged on habeas corpus issued by a
court of 'the United States, simply because he is not guilty of
the offence for which he is held. All questions which may
arise in the orderly course of the proceeding against him are to

IN RE IN-EAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C.J.

be determined by the court to whose jurisdiction he has been
subjected, and no other court is authorized to interfere to prevent it. Here the right of the prisoner to a discharge depends
alone on the sufficiency of his defence to the information under
which he is held. Whether his defence is sufficient or not is
for the court which tries him to determine. If, in this determination, errors are committed, they can only be corrected
in an appropriate form of proceeding for that purpose.,, The
office of a writ of habeas co pus is neither to correct such
errors, nor to take the prisoner away from the court which
holds him for trial, for fear, if he remains, they may be committed. Authorities to this' effect in our own reports are
xxparte Watkins,"3 Pet. 202; E.oparte Iange, 18
numerous.
Wall. 163, 166; Ex parte Parks, 92 U. S. 18, 23; Exparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 374; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339,
343 ; Ex -parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604,.612 ; Ax parte Curtis,
106 U. S. 371, 375; Eoparte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 653."
Mifany of the propositions advanced in behalf of the appellee
and urged with impressive force we do not challenge. We do
not question, for instance, the soundness of the elaborate discussion of the history of the office and function of the writ of
haaleas corpue, its operation under and by virtue of section- 753
of the Revised Statutes, or the propriety of- its use -in the
manner and for the purposes for whish it has been used, in
any case where the prisoner is under arrest by a State for an
act done "in pursuance of a law of the United States." Nor
do we contend that any objection arises to such use of the
writ, and based merely on that fact, in cases where no provision is made by the federal law for the trial and conviction of
the accused. Nor do we question the general propositions,
that the federal government established by the Constitution is
absolutely sovereign over every foot of soil, and over every
person; within the national territory, within the sphere of ao-"
tion assigned to it; and that within that sphere its constitution
and laws are the supreme law of the land,' and its proper instrumentalities of government can be subjected to no restraint,
and can be held to no accountability whatever. Nor, again,
do we dispute the proposition that whatever is necessarily ira-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J, Fuller, C. J.

plied in the Conititution and laws of the United States is as
much a part of them as if it were actually expressed. All
these questions we pretermit.
The recognition by this court, including ourselves, of their
soundness does not in the least elucidate the case; for they
lie outside of the true controversy. The ground on which we
dissent, and which in and by itself seems to be fatal to the
ase of the appellee, is this: That in treating section 753 of
the Revised Statutes as an act of authority for this particular
lise of the writ a wholly inadmissible construction is placed on
the word "law," as used in that statute, and a wholly inadmissible application is made of the clause "in custody in violation of the Constitution

.

.

.

of the United States."

It will not be necessary to consider these two propositions
separately, for they are called into this case as practically one.
The section referred to is as follows:
"The writ of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to a
.prisoner in jail, unless where he is.in custody under or by
color of the authority of the United States, or is committed
for trial before some court thereof ; or is in custody for an act
done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States, or
of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge thereof;
or is in custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law
or treaty of the United States," etc.
It is not contended in behalf of the appellee that the writ
of habeas corpus could be used, as here it is, in any case, without authority of a statute. In Es parte Bollman, 4 Cranch,
75, 94, Chief Justice Marshall said: "The power to award the
writ [qf khabas corpus] by any of the courts of the United
Sfates must l3e given by written law."
It is not contended that there is any statute other than
those now found in the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Nor is it contended that in those statutes there is any author-'
ity for the use here made of the writ other than what is embraced in the clauses above quoted. The issue, as stated
above, is thus narrowed to the proper force to be attributed
to those clauses.
Tt is stated as the vital position in appellee's case, that it is not

IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinioni: Lamar, J., Fuller, C.1J.

supposed that any special act, of Congress exists which authorizes the marshals or deputy marshals of the United States .in
express terms to accompany the judges of the Supreme Court
through their circuits and act as a body guard to thremn to.
defend them against malicious assaults against their perso~s;
that in the view taken of the Constitution of the United
States, any obligation fairly and properly inferrible from that
instrument, or any dutyof the marshal to be derived from the
general scope of his duties under, the laws of the United
States, is "a law" within the meaning of this phrase; and that
it would be a great reproach to the system of government of
the United States, declared to be within its sphere' sovereign
and supreme, if there was to be found within the domain of
its powers no means of protecting the judges, in the conscientious and faithful discharge of their duties, from the malice
and hatred of those upon whom their judgments might operate unfavorably. In considering this position, it is indispensable to observe carefully the distinction between the individual
man Keagle, and the same person in his official capacity as a
deputy marshal of the United States; and also the individual
man whose life he defended, and the same person in his official
capacity of a Circuit Justice of the United States.
The practical importance of the distinction between the
rights and liabilities of a person in his private character, and
the authority and immunity of the same person.in his official
capacity, is clearly pointed out and illustrated in United St'z 8
v. -Orby, 7 Wall 482, 486, in which the court says: "1No officer or employ& of the United States is placed by his position,
or the services he is called to perform, above responsibility to
the legal tribunals of the country, and to the ordinary processes for his arrest and detention, when accused of felony, in
the forms prescribed by the Constitution and laws." And the
court adds: "Indeed, it may be doubted -whether it is conpetent for Congress to exempt the employ~s of the 'United
States from arrest on criminal process from the state courts,
when the crimes charged against them are not merely maz
prohibia,but are malc in se. But whether legislation of that
character be constitutional or not, no intention to extend such

OCT0OBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, 3., 'Fuller, C. J.

exemption should be attributed to Congress unless clearly
manifested by its language."
Now, we agree, taking the facts of the case as they are
shQwn by the record, that the personal protection of Mr. Justice Field, as a private citizen, even to the death of Terry, was
not only the right, but was also the duty of Neagle and of
any other bystander. And wq maintain that for the exercise
of that right or duty he is answerable to the courts of the
State of California, and to them alone. But we deny that
upon the facts of this record, he, as deputy marshal Keagle,
or as privap citizen Neagle, had any duty imposed on him by
the laws ofdthe United States growing out of the official char.bcter of Judge Field as a Circuit Justice. We deny that anywhere in this transaction, accepting throughout the appellee's
version of the facts, he occupied in law any position other than
what would have been occupied by any other person who
should have interfered- in the same manner, in any other qssault of the same character, between any two other persons in
that room. In short, we think that there was nothing whatever in fact of an official character in the transaction, whatever
may have been the appellee's view of his alleged official duties
and powers and, therefore, we think that the courts of the
United States have in the present .state of our legislation no
jurisdiction whatever in the premises, and that the appellee
should have been remanded to the custody of the sheriff.
The coitention of the appellee, however, is that it was his
official duty as United States marshal to protect the justice;
and that for so doing in discharge of this duty, "which could
only arise under'the laws of the United States," his detention
by the state courts brings the case within section 753 of the
Revised Statutes, as aforesaid.
We shall therefore addlress ourselves as briefly as is consistent with the gravity of the question involved, to a consideration of the justice of that claim. We must, however, call
attention again to the formal and deliberate admission that
it is not pretended that there is any 8ingle specific statute mak-

ing it, in so many words, eagle's-duty to protect the justice.
The position assumed is, anti jv wholly, that the authority

IN RE_ REAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, X., Fuller, C. .

and duty to protect the justice did arise directly and necessarily out of the Constitution and positive congressional enactments.
The Attorney General of the United States has appeared in
this case for the appellee, in behalf of the government; and
in order that the grounds upon which the government relies in
support of its claim against the State of California that 1Neagle,
should be discharged on this writ may fully. appear, it is proper
to give some of his most important propositions in his own
language. He maintains that "it was the duty of the judiciary, having been thus protected by the executive department,
to sit in judgment upon and to vindicate the officer of the executive department, if innocent/in the discharge of his duty,
because such authority in the federal judiciary is essential in
principle to the existence of the nation." "We insist that,
by the Constitution of the Unfted States, a government was
created possessed of all the powers necessdry to existence as
an independent nation; that these powers were distributed in
three great constitutional departments, and that each of these
departments is, by that Constitution, invested with all of those
governmental powers naturally belonging to such department
which have not been expressly withheld by the terms of the
Constitution. In other words, that Congress is invested not
only with expressed but with implied legislative powers; that
the judiciary is invested not only with. expressed powers
granted in the Constitution as its share of the government,
but with all the judicial powers which have not been expressly withheld from it.; and that the President, in like manner, by the, very fact that he is made the chief executive of
the nation, aqd is charged to.protect, preserve, and defend the
Constitution, and to take care that the laws are faithfully executed, is invested with necessary and implied executive powers
which neither of the other branches of the government can
either take away or abridge; that many of these powers pertaining to each braich of the government are self-execiiting,
and in no way dependent, except as to the ways and means.
upon legislation."
",The Constitution provides that before-the President .enters.
VOL. cxxxv-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

upon the execution of his office he shall take an oath - I do
solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of
President of the United States, and will to the best of my
ability preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the
United States." And he asks: "Has this clause no significance? Does it not, by necessary implication, invest the President with self-executing powers; that is, powers independent
of statute? "
In reply to these propositions, we have this to say: We
recognize that the powers of the government, " within its
sphere," as defined by the Constitution, and interpreted by
the well-settled principles which have resulted from a century
of wise and patriotic analysis, are supreme; that these supreme
powers extend to the protection of itself and all of its agencies,
as well as to the preservation and the perpetuationof its usefulness; and that these powers may be found not only in the
express authorities conferred by the Constitution, but also in
necessary and proper implications. But while that is all
true, it is also true that the powers must be exercised, not only
by the organs, but also in conformity with the modes, piescribed by the Constitution itself. These great federal powers,
whose existence in all their. plenitude and energy is incontestable, are not autocratic and lawless; they are organized
powers, committed by the people to the hands of their servants
for their own government, and distributed among the legislative, executive, and judicial departments; they are not extra
the Constitution, for, in and by that Constitution, and in and
by it alone, the United States, as a great democratic federal
republic, was called into existence, and finds its continued existence possible. In that instrument is fdund not only the
answer to the general line of argument pursued in this .case,
but also to the specific question propounded by the Attorney
General in respect to the President's oath, and its implications.
The President is sworn to "preserve, protect and defend
the Constitution.' That oath has great significance. The
sections which follow that prescribing the oath (sees. 2 and 3
of Art. 2) prescribe the duties and fix the powers of the President. But -one very prominent feature of the Constitution

IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

which he is sworn to preserve, and which the whole body of
the judiciary are bound to enforce, is the closing paragraph of
see. 8, Art. 1, in which it is declared that "the Congress shall
have power

to make all laws which shall be neoes-

sary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in
the government of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof."
This clause is that -which contains the germ of all the implication of powers under the Constitution. It is that which has
built up the Congress of the United States into the most
august and imposing legislative assembly in the world; and
which has secured vigor to the practical operations of the
government, and at the same time tended largely to preserve
the equilibrium of its various powers among its co-ordinate
departments, as partitioned by that instrument. And that
clause alone, conclusively refutes the assertion of the Attorney General, that it was "the duty of the executive department of the United States to guard and protect, at any hazard, the life of Mr. Justice Field in the discharge of his duty,
because such protection is essential to the existence of the
government." Waiving the question of the essentiality of
any such protection to the existence of the government, the
manifest answer is, that the protection needed and to be
given must proceed not from the President, but primarily
from Congress. Again, while it is the President's duty- to
take care that the laws be faithfully executed, it is not his
duty to make laws or a law of the United States. The laws
he is to see executed are manifestly those contained in the
Constitution, and those enacted by Congress, whose duty it is
to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers of those tribunals. In fact, for the President
to- have undertaken to make any law of the United States
pertineht to this matter would have been to invade the
domain of power expressly committed by the .Constitution
exclusively to Congress. That body was -perfectly able to
pass such laws as it should deem expedient in reference to
such matter; indeed, it has passed such laws in reference -to

OCTOBER TERM, '1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. .-

elections, expressly directing the United States marshals to at?
tend places of election, to act as peace officers, to arrest with
and without process, and to protect the supervisors of election.
in the discharge of their duties; and there was not the slightest legal necessity out of which to imply any such power in.
the President.
For these reasons the letters of the Attorney General to
Marshal Franks, granting that they did import what is
claimed, and granting that the Attorney General was to all
intents and purposes, _pro hao 'vice, the President, invested
NIagle with no special powers whatever. They were, if so
construed, without authority of law, and Neagle was then, and.
there a simple deputy marshal, - no more and no less.
To illustrate the large sphere of powers self-executing and
independent of statutes claimed to be vested in the executive,
reference is made to the continually recurring cases of the
President's interference for the protection of our foreign-born
and naturalized citizens on a visit to their native country; and
we are cited, as -a striking instance of the exercise of such,
pow.er, to the case of ,Martin Kozsta, who, though not fully anaturalized citizen of the United States, had in due form of
law made his declaration of intention to become a citizen, and
who, whilst at Smyrna, was- seized by order of an Austrian
official and confined on board an Austrian vessel, and who,
,being afterwards delivered up to Captain Ingraham, com-.
nanding an American war vessel, in compliance with a de,
ruand, backed by a demonstration of force, on the part of that
officer,. was placed in the bands of a,French consul subject,
to.negotiations between the American and Austrian governments, .resulting in the- famous correspondence between the
American. Secretary of-State, Mr. Marcy, and the Chevalier
tiilsemann, representing the Austrian government, and the
restoraion of Kozsta to freedom. We are asked :-Upon
what express statute of Congress then existing can this act
of the government be justified ?
We answer, that such action of the government was justiI
fled because it pertained to the foreign relations of the United
States, in respect to which the federal government is the ex-,

IN RE NEAGLE.
161ssantung Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C.J.

'clusive rerresentative and embodiment of the entire soverleignty of the nation, in its united character; for to foreign
mations, and in our intercourse with them, states and"state
governments, and even the internal adjustment of federal
,power, with its complex system of checks and balances, are
,unknown, and the only authority those nations are permitted
to deal with is the authority of the nation as a unit.
That authority the Constitution vests expressly and cOnclu-,
sively in the treaty-making power- the President and Senate
-by one simple and comprehensive grant: "He [the President] shall have power, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, to make treaties, Rrovided two-thirds. of the
senators present concur." This broad grant makes enumieration of particular powers unnecessary. All other delegations
of powers in reference to the international relations of this
country are carefully and specifically enumerated and assigned,
one by one, to their designated departments. In reply, therefore, to the question, what law expressly justifies such- action;
we answer, the organic law, the Constitution, which epressly
commits all matters pertaining to our diplomatic negotiations.
to the treaty-making power.
Other cases are referred to in illustration of the same point;
but the one which it is alleged presents that principle in the
most imposing form is that of United States v. San Jaointo
Tin Co., 125 U. S.273. In that case a suit was brought, in the
name of the United States, by order of the Attorney Gen'eral,
to set aside a patent which had been issued for a large-body
of land, on the ground that it had been obtained from the
government by fraud and deceit practised upon its officers.
There are, it is true, some expressions in the opinion delivered
in that case which seem to admit that there is no specifi5 'act
of Congress expressly authorizing the Attorney General -to
bring suit for the annulment of a patent procured by fraud
from the government; but a close examination of the docirine
of the court shows that it goes no farther than the assertion
that the authority of the Attorney General arises by inplication, directly and immediately, out of the express' law of
Congress.. The opinion quotes the clause of the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

which declares that the judicial power shall extend to all
cases to which the United States shall be a party, and says
that this means, mainly, where it is a party plaintiff. It then
refers to the statute of Congress which expressly directs the
United States District Attorneys to bring suits in behalf of the
government; and that the suits thus brought by them are to
be under the immediate superintendence and control of the
Attorney General. The utmost extent to which the court
goes is, that whilst admitting there is no express authority in
the Attorney General to institute the suit, yet such authority
is directly and necessarily involved in the express provisions
of the statute vesting him with the entire control and superintendence of such suits, and the provision and control of the
District Attorneys in their conduct of them.
Equally conclusive is the answer which the Constitution
makes to the assertion that by the Constitution the judiciary
is invested, not only with the express powers granted in the
Constitution as its share of the government, but with all the
judicial powers w.-tich have not been expressly withheld. from
it. It may be fouind in the clause which declares that "The
Congress shall have power . .-.to constitute tribunals inferior
to the Supreme Court;" and in that which declares it shall
make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the powers of those tribunals. The correlation between those
clauses is manifest and unmistakable. If Congress can and
must, by the very terms of the Constitution, make all laws
proper for carrying into execution all the powers of any department of the government, and if it can create the Circuit
Court, expand its powers, abridge them, and abolish the court
at will, how can it be that that court, at the least, shall have
any implied powers derived from the Constitution and independent of the statutes? And yet, in this transaction, it must
be remembered that Mr. Justice Field is only claimed to be
the re presentative of that .court.
Not only do the foregoing views seem to us to be the logical and unavoidable results of original and independent studies
of the Constitution, but they are also sustained and enforced
by a long series of judicial recognitions and assertions.

IN RE -WEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

In United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 396, Chief Justice
Marshall in delivering the opinion of the court, said of the
clause above relied on: '(In construing this clause it would be
incorrect, and would produce endless difficulties, if the opinion
should be maintained that no law was authorized which was
not indispensably 'ecessary to give effect to a specified power.
Where various systems might be adopted for that purpose, it
might be said with respect to each, that it was not necessary,
because the end might be obtained by other means. Congress
must possess the choice of meats, atid must be empowered to
use any means which are in fact conducive 'to the'exercise of
a power granted by the Constitution. In -McCMloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 420, 421, Chief
Justice Maishall, for the court, delivered.one of those opinions
which are among 'the chief ornaments of.American jurisprudence. It is largely devoted to an exhaustive analysis of the
constitutional clause in question. Among other things, he
says: "The result of the most careful and attentive consideration bestowed upon this clause is, that if it does not enlarge,
it cannot be construed to restrain the powers of Congress, or
to impair the right of the legislature to exercise its best judgment in the selection of measures to carry into execution the
constitutional powers of the government. If no other motive
for its insertion can be suggested, a sufficient one is found in
the desire to remove all doubts respecting the right to legislate
on that vast mass of incidental powers which must be involved
in the Constitution, if that instrument be not a splendid bauble. We admit, as all must admit, that the powers of the
government are limited, and that its limits are not to be transcended. But we think the sound construction of the Constitution must allow to the national legislature that discretion,
with respect to the means by which the powers it confers are
to be carried into execution, which will enable that body to
perform the high duties assigned to it, in the manner -most
beneficial to the people."
In United States v. Reese, 92 U..S. 214, 217, Chief Justice
Waitq; delivering the opinion of the court, said: " R ights ' and
immunities created by or dependent iupgn the Constitution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

the United States can be protected by Congress. The form
and the manner of the protection may be such. as Congress, in
the .legitimate exercise of its legislative discretion, shall provide. These may be varied to meet the necessities of the particular right to be protected."
In S rauder v. West . irgini, 100 U. S. 303, 310, the court
say: "A right or an immunity, whether created by the Constitution or only guaranteed by it, even without any express
delegation of power, may be protected by Congress."
Cooley, in his work on "Constitutional Limitations," -collates
from the numerous adjudications of this court, cited by him,
the following principles: "So .far as that instrument [the
'Constitution] apportions powers to the national judiciary, it
:niust be understood, for the most part, as simply authorizing
Congress to pass the necessary legislation for the exercise of
those powers by the federal courts, and not as directly, of its
own force, vesting thbm with that authority. The Constitution does not, of its own force, give to natiQnal courts jurisdiction of the several cases which it enumerates, but an act of
Congress is essential, first, to create courts, and afterwards to
apportion the jurisdiction among them. The exceptions are
of those few cases of which the Constitution confers jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court by name. And although the
courts of the United States administer the common law in
.many cases, they do not derive authority from the common
law to take cognizance of and punish offences 'against the
government. Offences against the nation are defined and
their punishment prescribed by acts of Congress." In a note to
this paragraph he says: "Demurrer to an indictment for a libel
upon the President and Congress. By the court: 'The only
.question which this case presents is, whether the Circuit Courts
can exercise a common law jurisdiction in criminal cases.
I
The general acquiescence of legal men shows the
prevalence of opinion in favor of the negative of the proposition. The course of reasoning which leads to this conclusion
is simple, obvious, and admits of but flittle illustration. The
powers of the general government are made up of concessions
'from he several States; whatever is not expressly given to

IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

the former the latter expressly reserve.
.
It is not necessary to inquire whether the general government, in any and
what extent, possesses the power of conferring on its courts a
jurisdiction in cases similar to the present; it is enough that
such jurisdiction has not been conferred by any legislative act,
if it does not result to those courts as.a consequence of their
creation.' United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32; see United
States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415. ' It is clear there can be no
common law of the United States. The federal government
is composed of twenty-four sovereign and independent States,
each of which may have its local usages, customs and com,mon law. There is no principle which pervades the Union,
and has the authority of law, that is not embodied in the Constitution or laws of the Union. The common law could be
made a part of our federal system only by legislative adoption.' Per McLean, J., Wkeaton v. Peters, 8 Pet, 591. 658;"
and citing many other authorities.
In Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 267, referring to the
judiciary act of 1789, the court said: "It [the Constitution]
did not attempt to confer upon the federal courts all the judicial power vested in the government. Additional grants have
from time to time been made. Congress has authorized more
and more fully, as occasion has required," etc.
It would seem plain, therefore, that if the Constitution
means anything, and if these judicial. utterances, extending as
they do over a period of eighty years, and embracing a variety
of interests, mean anything, they mean that the power to provide and prescribe the laws necessary to effectuate the.governmental and official powers of the United States and its
officers is vested in Congress.
The gravamen of this case is in the assertion tnat leagle
slew Terry in pursuance of -a law of the United States. He
who claims to have committed a homicide by authority must
show the authority. If he claims the authority of law, then
'what law? And if a law, how came it to be a law? .Somehbw
and somewhere it must have had an origin. Is it a law because
of the existence of a special and private authority issued from
one of the executive departments? So in. almost these. words

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C.J.

it is claimed in this case. Is it a law because of some constitutional investiture of sovereignty in the persons of judges
who carry that sovereignty with them wherever they may go?
Because of some power inherent in the judiciary to create for
others a rule or law of conduct outside of legislation, which
shall extend to the death penalty? So, also, in this case, in
totidem verbis, it is claimed. We dissent from both these
claims. There can be no such law from either of those sources.
The right claimed must be traced to legislation of Congress;
else it cannot exist.
If it be said that Congress has the power to make such laws,
yet in the absence of statutes from that source other departments may act in the premises; or if it be said that the possession of that power by the government does not negative
the existence of similar powers in other departments of the
government; the response that these powers are plainly not
concurrent, but are exclusive, can, be made in the language of
Mr. Justice Story, in Prigg v. Pennsylvania,16 Pet. 539, 617.
Speaking of the fugitive slave law of 1,793, he says: "If
Congress have a constitutional power to regulate a particular
subjbct, and they do actually regulate it in a given manner,
and in a certain form, . . . in such a case the legislation
of Congress, in what it does prescribe, manifestly indicates
that it does not intend that there shall be any farther legislation to act upon the subject matter. Its silence as to what
it does not do is as expressive of what its intention is, as the
direct provisions made by it."
If it be said that that case had reference to the interference
of a State with congressional powers, whilst in the case at
bar no such question is involved, the answer is that the difference is favorable and not adverse to the theory of this opinion.
The principle is the same; and if that principle can be applied,
as applied it was, to the denial to a state' legislature of the
powers previously enjoyed over matters originally appertaining to it, a multo fortioii will it apply to the exclusion of two
cordinate departments of the same government from powers
which they never possessed.
As before stated, if the killing of Terry was done "in pursu-

IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C.J.

ance of a law of the United States," that law had somewhere
an origin. There are under the general government only two
possible sources of law. The common law never existed
in our federal system. Thec legislative power possessed by
the United States must be found, either exercised in the Coustitution as fundamental law, or by some body or person to
whom it was delegated by the Constitution. It has already
been pointed out that the Constitution does. not itself create
any such law as that contended for; and that it could not
have been created by any executive or judicial action or status
is made manifest, not only by the clause in sec. 8, Art. I,
already cited and commented on, but also by sec. 1, Art. I,
and the two paragraphs of Art. VI.
Sec. 1, Art. I, provides that "All legislative power herein
granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House'of IRepresentatives."
The second paragraph of Art. VI provides that "the laws of
the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof,
and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the
authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of
the laud." Now, what is it that constitutes the supreme laws,
of which so much is said in this case? How distinctly, how
plainly and how fully the Constitution answers 1 The Constitution itself, the treaties, and the laws made in pursuance of
the Constitution. Made by whom? By Congress, manifestly.'
The two clauses already quoted give the power of legislation
in the most sweeping terms. It alone has power to make any
law. Anything purporting to be a law not enacted by Congress would not be "in pursuance of" any provision of the
Constitution.
Thus we are driven to look for the source of this asserted
law to some legislation of Congress -legislation made under
either its express constitutional anthority, or under its properly
implied authority, it is immaterial which; and there is none
of either class.
-The authority is sought to be traced here through the selfpreservative power of the federal judiciary implied from the
Constitution; and then'through the obligation of the execu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

tive" to protect the judges, implied from the Constitution,
whereas there is no such implication in either case, for the
simple but all-sufficient reason that by the Constitution itself
the'whole of those functions is committed to Congress.
Since then the Constitution did not, by its own direct proqisions, regulate this matter, but committed it to the hands of
Congress with full powers in the premises; it is only by the
enactment of some law of Congress that the appellee can
showv that he is in custody "in violation of the Constitution."
As previously remarked, the two propositions are, as to this
case, essentially one. Turning again to the statute under
which- the writ is sued out, we find that the clause relied on is
that-which makes the writ applicable where the person "is in
cust6dy for an act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of
the United States." The question then arises, What sort of
law? What does.the expression import? Is it not plain that
it means just what the same expression all through the Constitution imports?
. If that instrument, which is the fountain of the federal
power, be consulted, it will be found that in it and the amendments thereto the word law, in either its singular form or its
plural, laws, is used forty-two times. Of these instances of
that use sixteen are where the word is used in reference to the
jurisprudence of the States, and of the law of nations, or
where they are merely terms of description - sucb as "courts
of law," "cases in law and equity," etc. Of the other
instances of its use, and which all have reference to that body
of rules which constitute the jurisprudence distinctly of the
United States, there are only three cases in which it is not
manifest that the word is used as equivalent to "statutes,"
" enactments of the Congress;" and it is clear in those three
instances the word is used also as equivalent to "statutes."
The following are examples:
"The Congress may, atany time, by law, make or alter such
regulations, [in regard to the election of Senators and Representatives]." Art. I, sec. t.
"Every bill . . . shall, before it become a law, be presented," etc. - Art. I, sec. 7.

IN RE I EAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

"Congress shall have power . . . to establish
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies," etc. Art. I,
sec. 8.
"Congress shall have power . .
to make all lZaws
which shall be necessary and proper," etc. Art. I, sec.' 8.
"N o bill of attainder or expostfato law shall be passed."
Art. I, see. 9.
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion." 1st Amendment.
It Would be tedious, and it is unnecessary, to set them all
forth. They all have the same manifest meaning of "statutes,"
except three, and in those three instances the words do not
mean anything other than statutes. We think it plain that
the expression, "a law of the United States," as used in section 753 of the Revised Statutes, mean just what the similar
expression means all through the Constitution, - and that is
a statute of the United States. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.
257, 264.
Of the decisions of this court cited as authority to sustain the
order discharging the appellee, PErparteSiebold, 100 U. S.-371,
and Tennessee v. Davis, supra are relied on as having the most
direct bearing on the case. We do not consider Bxparte Siebold
as being adverse to the proposition which we maintain. In that
case the existence of express statutes upon which the controversy arose was undisputed. The sole question was as to the
constitutional competency of Congress to pass certain laws
which, in the most express, explicit, and imperative words,
required marshals and deputy marshals of the United States,
to attend places for the election of members of Congress,Nto
keep the peace at the polls, make arrests, and protect the
supervising officers in the discharge of their duties at .those
elections. The court decided that the enactments of Congress
in question were constitutional. The power of Congress to pass
these laws being thus settled, no assertion as to the powers of
the marshals and deputy marshals to execute them in the
States can be found in that able opinion which do not follow
as a logical consequence. We fail to see anywhere in the
decision any intimation that, independently of such legislation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

the officers therein named could, by virtue of their office, have
exercised the same powers in obedience to the instructions of
an executive department, in the exercise of its authority irnplied from the Constitution.
In Tennessee v. Davis, the case was removed from a state
court to the Circuit Court of the United States, under the express provisions of section 643 of the Revised Statutes. The
homicide, for which the petitioner was prosecuted, was committed by him while executing his duties, as a revenue officer,
in pursuance of the express requirements of the revenue laws,
"and in defence of his own life, upon a party offering
unlawful
resistance. So far from running counter to the position we
are seeking to maifitain, we think the principle there laid
down, on the point we are now discussing, is in accord with
that position. Thelanguage of the court, through Mr. Justice
Strong, who delivered its opinion, is as follows: "Cases arising under the laws of the United States are such as grow
out of the legislation of -Congress, whether they constitute the
right, or privilege, or claim or protection, or defence of the
party, in whole or in part, by whom they are asserted. Story
on the Constitution, sec. 1647; 6 Wheat. 379."
Whilst it is true that the opinions in both of those cases assert in the strongest and most impressive language the supremacy of the government of the United States in the exercise
of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, we regard
them also as a vindication of Congress as the law-making department of the government, as the depository of the implied
and constructed powers of the government; or, as Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall expresses it, of the power to legislate upon
that vast mass of incidental powers which must be involved
in the Constitution, if that instrument be not a splendid bauble.
As ihe Siebold Case and Tennessee v. Davis have been
referred to as the most important and directly in point in support of the opposite view, we do not deem it necessary to give
an extended examination of the series of cases decided by the
Circuit and District Courts cited to the same purport. Ex
yarte Jenkins, 2 Wall. Jr. 521, to which attention is more
especially called, combined in itself the main features of most-

'IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamuar, T., Fuller, C. J.

of the others, which were proceedings under the fugitive slaive
law, in which United States marshals were arrested while executing process under that law by state officers acting under
the authority of the statutes of the State, the inevitable effect,
if not the avowed object, of which was to nullify the operation of the aforesaid act of Congress.
This was so in Exycarte Jenkins. The United States marshal was arrested on a warrant issued by a state magistrate
while he was executing a warrant issued under said law ofCongress. He was brought before the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on a
writ of habea corpus, and was discharged upon the ground
that the fugitive slave law, having been enacted in pursuance
of the Constitution of the United States,. was paramount to
the law"of Pennsylvania in conflict with it, and that the marshal, being in custody for an act done in pursuance of that law
of Congress, and in execution of process under it, was entitled
to his discharge. It is so manifest'that that case was within
the provision of section '753 of the Revised Statutes that further comment is unnecessary; and the same may be said of
all of the other decisions of the circuit and district courts.
In every one of them the party discharged was in custody
either for an act done in pursuance of aft express statute of
Congress, or in the execution of a decree, order, or process of
a court, or the custody was in violation of the Constitution
of the United States.
We stated at the outset of these remarks that we raised no
question upon the discussion of the history of- the legislation
of Congress upon the subject of the writ of habe8 corpqs.
We think, however, it is pertinent in this connection to inquire
what was the necessity for any such legislation at all if the
theory contended for as to the sufficiency of the self-executing
powers of the executive and judicial departments of the government to protect all the agencies and instrumentalities of
the federal government is correct. Why could not President
Jackson, in 1833, as the head of the executive department, invested with the power and charged with the duty to take care
that the laws be faithfully executed and to defend the Consti--

6

OOCTOBEI TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

tution, -have enforced the collection of the federal revenues in
the port of Charleston, and have protected the revenue officers
of the government against any arrest made under the pretensions of state authority, without the aid of the act of 1833?
Why, in 1842, when the third habeas corpus act was passed,
could not the President of the United States, by virtue of the
same self-executing powers of the executive, together with
those of the judicial department, have enforced the international obligations of the government, without any such act of
Congress? It is a noteworthy fact in our history, that whenever the exigencies of the country, from time to time, have
required the exercise of executive and judicial power for the
enforcement of the supreme authority 9f the United States
government for the protection of its agencies, etc., it was
found, in every instance, necessary to invoke the interposition
of the power of the national legislature. Asearly as 1807, in
LEx, parte Bollman and Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, 94, Chief
Justice Marshall said: "The power to award the writ [of
habeas corpus] by any of the courts of the United States, must
be given by written law. . . . The inquiry, therefore, on
this motion will be, whether by any statute compatible with
the Constitution of the United States, the power to award a
writ of habeas cotpus, in such case as that of Erick Bollman
and Samuel Swartwout, has been given to this court."
It is claimed that such a law is found in section 787 of the
Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the marshal of each district to attend the district and circuit courts when sitting .therein, and
to execute, throughout the district, all lawful precepts directed
to him, and issued under the authority of the United States;
and he shall have power to command all necessary assistance
in the execution of his duty."
It is contended that the duty imposed upon the marshal of
each district by this section is not satisfied by a mere formal
attendance upon the judges while on the bench; but that it
extends to the whole term of the courts while in session, and
can fairly be construed as requiring him to attend the judge
while on his way from one court to another, to perform his

IN RE NEAGLE.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

duty. Itis manifest that the statute will bear no such construction. In the first place, the judge is not the court; the
person does not embody the tribunal, nor does the tribunal
follow him in his journeys. In the second place, the direction
that he shall attend the court confers no authority or power
on him of any character; it is merely a requirement that he
shall be present, in person, at the court when sitting, in order
to receive the lawful commands of the tribunal, and to discharge the duties elsewhere imposed upon him.
Great as the crime of Terry was in his assault upon Mr.
Justice Field, so far from its being -a: crime against the court, it
was not even a contempt of court, and could not have received
adequate punishment as such. Section 725 of the Revised
Statutes limits contempt to cases of misbehavior in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice.
It is claimed that the law needed for appellee's case can be
found in section 788 of the Revised Statutes. That sectioii is
as follows: "The marshals and -their deputies shall have, in
each State, the same powers, in executing the laws of the
United States, as the sheriffs and their deputies in such State
may have, by law, in executing the laws thereof."
I It is then argued that by the Code of California the
sheriff
has extensive powers as a conservator of the peace, the statutes to that effeat being quoted in extenio; that he also has
certain additional common law powers and. obligations to protect the judges and to personally attend them on their visits
ro that State ; that, therefore, no statutory authority of the
United States for the attendance on Mr. Justice Field by
Neagle, and for Neagle's personal presence on -the scene was
necessary; and that that statute constituted "Neagle a peae
officer to keep the peace of the United States. This line of
argument seems to us wholly untenable.
By way of preliminary remark it may be well to say, that
so far as the simple fact of Keagle's attendance on Mr. Justice
Field, and the fact of his personal presence, are concerned, no
authority, statutory or otherwise, was needed. He had a right
to be there; and being there, no matter how or why, if it beVOL. CXXXV-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. 3.

-came necessary to discharge all official duty, he would be just
as much entitled to the protection of section 753 of the Revised Statutes as if he had been discharging an official duty in
going there. The fallacy in the use made of section 788, in
the argument just outlined, is this: That section gives to the
officers named the same measure of powers when in the discharge of their duties as those possessed -by the sheriffs, it is
true; but it does not alter the duties themselves. It does not
empower them to enlarge the scope of their labors and responsibilities, but only adds to their efficiency within that scope.
They are still, by the very terms of the statute itself, limited
to the execution of "the laws of the United States;" -and are
not in any way by adoption, mediate oit immediate, from the
code or the common law, authorized to execute the laws of
California. The statute, therefore, leaves the m.tter just
where it found it. If the act of Terry had resulted in the,
death of Mr. Justice Field, would the murder of him have been
a crime against the United States? Would the government
of the United States, with all the supreme powers of which we
have heard so much in this discussion, have been competent,
in-the present condition of its statutes, to prosecute in its own
tribunals the murder of its own Supreme Court justice, or
even to inquire into the heinous offence through its own tribunals ? If yes,, then the slaying of Terry by the appellee, in
the. necessary prevention of iuch act, was authorized by the
law of the United States, and he should be discharged; and
*that, independently of any official character, the situation being
the same in the case of any citizen.' But if no, how stahds the
matter then? The killing of Terry was not by authority of
the United States, no matter by whom done; and the only
authority relied on for vifidication must be that of the State,
and the slayer should be remainded to the state courts to be
tried. The question then recurs; Would it have been a crime
against the United States? There can be but one answer.
Murder is not an offence against the United States, except
when committed on the high seas or in some port or harbor without the jurisdiction of the State, or in the District of
Columbia, or in the Territories, or. at other places where the'

IN

RE NgAGLE.

Dissenting Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

national government has exclusive jurisdiction.

It is well

settled that such crime must be defined by statute, and no such
statute has yet been pointed out. The United States government, being thus powerless to try and punish a man charged
with murder, we are not prepared to affirm that it is omnipotent to discharge from trial and give immunity from any
liability to trial where he is accused of murder, unless an express statute of Congress is produced permitting such discharge.
We are not unmindful of the fact that in the foregoing
remarks we have not discussed the bearings of this decision
upon the autondmy.of the States, in divesting thfem of what
was once regarded as their exclusive jurisdiction over crimes
committed within their own territory, against their own laws,
and in enabling a federal judge or court, by an order in a
habeas cor us proceeding, to deprive a State of its" power to
maintain its own public order, or to protect the security of
society and the lives of its own citizens, whenever the amenability to its courts of a federal officer or employ6 or agent is
sought to be.enforced. We have not entered upon that question, because, as arising here, its suggestion is sufficient, and
its consideration might involve the extent to which legislation
in that direction may constitutionally go, which could only, lte
properly determined when directly presented, by the record
in a case before the court of adjudication.
For these reasons, as briefly stated as possible, we think the
judgment of the court below should be reversed and the
prisoner remanded to the custody of the sheriff of San Joaqumn
County, California; and we are the less reluctant to expres
this conclusion, because we cannot permit ourselves to dodbt
that the authorities of the State of California are competdiit
and willing to do justice; and that even if the appellee had
been indicted, and had gone to trial upon this record, G6d
and his country would have given him a good deliverance.
M . JusTicE FIELD did not sit at the hearing of this case,
and took no part in its decision.

