MACKALL v. MACKAIJL.
Syllabus.

state commerce, or, by the imposition of burdens thereon, to
regulate such commerce, without congressional permission.
The same rule tht applies to the sugar of Louisiana, the cotton of South Carolina, the wines of California, the hops of
Washington, the tobacco of Maryland and Connecticut, or the
products, natural or manufactured, of any State, applies to all
commodities in which a right of traffic exists, recognized by
the laws of Congress, the decisions of courts and the usages of
the commercial world. It devolves on Congress to indicat
such exceptions as in its judgment a wise discretion may demand under particular circumstances. Lyng was merely the
representative of the importers, and his conviction cannot be
sustained, in view of the conclusions at which we have arrived.
The judgment of the Supreme Co-trt of the State of Xichigan is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
JUsTIcEs HARLAw, GRAY and BRE W R dissented upon the
grounds stated in their opinion in Zeisy v. Hardin, ante, 100.

MA&CKALL v. MACICALL.
A.PPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 159. Argued April], 2, 1890. - Decided April 21, 1890.

A bill in equity was filed to set aside a deed made to one of his sons by the
grantor as made under undue influence, and to affirm the validity of a
will executed by that grantor a short time before the making of the deed,
A decree was entered, affirming the deed as to a part of the property
conveyed by it as a confirmation of a previously acquired equitable title,.
and setting it aside as to the remainder. The plaintiffs appealed; the
defendant took no appeal; Held, that, although the decree was apparently incongruous in supporting the deed as to a part and setting it aside
as to the remainder on a bill charging undue influence, yet as no appeal
had been taken by the defendant, the court would look into the merits,
and that, whatever criticism might be made upon its form, the decree
was substantially right.

OCTOIBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
When a husband and wife separate, and one son remains with the father,
taking his part, sharing his confidence and affection, and assisting him in
his affairs, and the other children go with the mother, taking her part
in the family differences, and this state of things continues for years,
until terminated by -the death of the father, it is natural, and reasonable
that the father, in disposing of his estate, should desire to specially pro-,
vide for the son who remained with him and took his part; and a deed
made by him with this object, and under the natural influences springing from such relationship will be sustained, unless it be made further
\to appear that the son practised upon the father imposition, fraud,
,importunity, duress, or something of that nature, in order to secure its
execution.
The fact that a party who has received a parol gift .of real estate has
entered into possession and has expended money in improvements
thereon, presents equitable considerations to uphold a decree establishing a subsequent conveyance as a confirmation of the equitable title.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. . S. Jenkle (with whom was -Mr.R. -.. Newton on
the brief) for appellants.
Mr. Jeremiah .. Wilsonr and _r. : S. C. Blackburn for
Brooke Mackall, appellee. .Mr. W Willoughby filed a brief
for same.
, r. Robert hristy and his wife, .Mrs. Catharine CMristy,
appellees in person.

MR. JUSTiCE BuEw s delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia. The facts are these:
On December 9, 1879, Brooke Mackall,
Sr., made a will,
whereby he gave tQ his children, other than Brooke Mackall, Jr., all his property, declaring as to said Brooke Mackafl, Jr.; that "by this my last will and testament I do not
give, devise, or bequeath to my son, Brooke Mackall, Jr., any
part, parcel or portion of my property whatever, as the said
Brooke M.ackall, Jr., heretofore received from me many and
large advances, and as it would be unjust to my other children
hereinbefore named, but I direct Leonard to pay him one

MACKALL v. MACKALL.

169.

Opinion of the Court.

dollar." This will was duly probated. On February 27, 1880,
he executed and delivered to Brooke Mackall, Jr., a deed conveying many lots in Washington and Georgetown. A few
days thereafter, and on March 7, 1880, he died, being at the
time about eighty years of age. On February 14, 1882, complainants, devisees under the will, filed their bill, setting forth
the will and the deed, and praying a decree, "declaring null
and void and of no effect the deed of conveyance executed on
the 27th day of February, 1880, by the decedent to'the defendant, Brooke Mackall, Jr., and ordering the same to be delivered
up to the complainants, and affirming the validity of the will
made by the decedent on the 9th day of December, 1879."
The gravamen of the bill was undue influence on the part of
Brooke Mackall; Jr., in securing the execution of the deed.
Upon final hearing, a decree was entered as follows by the
general term, in w+hich the case was heard in the first instance:
"That the deed of Brooke Mackall, Sr., to the defendant, Brooke
Mackall, Jr., of February 27, 1880, described in the bill of
complaint, shall, as to lot No. 7, in square 223, at the southwest corner of Fourteenth Street and New York Avenue, in
the city of Washington, D. 0., and the interest therein described and growing out of the same, operate as a conffrmation of the title, legal and equitable, in the said grantee, the
defendant, Brooke Mackall, Jr., as to all the parties to this
su't, and shall stand as a deed of conveyance for such purposes; but as to the remainder' of the property described in
said conveyance, not relating to said lot No. 7, in square 223,
the said conveyance shall be, and the same is hereby, adjudged
and decreed to be inoperative, null and void." From that
decree the complainants appealed to this court.
As the bill was to set aside the deed as a wh.ole, as having
been obtained through undue influence, the decree is apparently incongruous, in that it declares that the deed be sustained
as a confirmation of the title of Brooke Mackall, Jr., to lot
No. 7, and void as to the other real estate; for if it were, as
charged in the bill, a deed obtained through undue influence,,
it would seem that it should have been adjudged void in toto,
and not sustained in part. It will be observed, however, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Brooke Mackall, Jr., took no appeal; so that the question
before us is, not whether there was error in declaring the deed
void in part, but whether there was error in declaring it valid
in part. Error, if error there was, may have been in either
portion of the decree; but the limit of our inquiry is as to
whether the deed was valid, and should be confirmed as to lot
No. 7. If that part of the decree can be sustained, the incongruity is no matter of concern, for defendants have taken no
steps to bring before us the other portion.
Further, in respect to this lot No. 7, it must be observed
that the answer alleges that the defendant, Brooke Mackall,
Jr., was, and had been for many years, the equitable owner.
So, if the deed, as an independent and separate instrument,
was valid, or the allegation of Brooke Mackall, Jr., that he
was the equitable owner of lot No. 7, is true, any informality
in the language of the decree may be disregarded, for in substance it was right. This compels an inquiry not merely into
the circumstances surrounding the execution of the deed, but
also as to the relations of the parties to this litigation to one
another, and to the decedent.
Mrore than twenty years before his death differences arose
between Brooke Mackall, Sr., and his wife, which culminated
in a decree of divorce. In those differences Brooke Mackall,
Jr., sided with his father, the other children with their mother;
and a large part of the record before us is made up of a story
of those differences, and of the conduct and testimony of the
children. No good purpose would be served by parading in
this opinion those unpleasant facts, or by attempting to pass
judgment in approval or condemnation of the conduct of
either. Charity kindly throws a mantle of oblivion over these
matters of long ago; and justice requires only notice of the
fact that in the separation of parents the children took part,
the one with the father, the others with the mother. During
the score of years which intervened between this separation
and the death of Brooke Mackall, Sr., the defendant, Brooke
Mackall, Jr., was his constant companion and friend. This
intimacy was unbroken, save in two instances of short duration each, the latter one being in the fall of 1879, during

MACK ATL

AKA
1C 1 1

Opinion of the Court.

which time the will referred to was executed. That after this
,temporaryestrangement had ceased, he should desire to transfer
to this son and constant companion 'his property, is not only not
strange, but most natural and reasonable. It is true the deed.
was made after his last sickness had commenced; but how
natural that during those hours of sickness the relations between himself and his children, during timties of trouble and,
length of years, should present themselves to his mind with
exceeding force! It is conceded that up to the time of his
sickness he was a strong man, physically and mentally. Such
a nature forms strong likes and strong dislikes; and at no time
are such likes and dislikes so potent as when the thought of
approaching death suggests the last action in respect thereto.
That up to and including the time of the execution of this
deed he retained his mental faculties in full vigor, unclouded
by opiates, the testimony of his physician, his pastor, the justice of the peace before whom the deed was acknowledged,
his counsel and his nurse abundantly establishes. Indeed,
the contention of counsel on the argument was, not that the
grantor was ignorant of the scope and purposes of the deed,',
or was doing that which he did not intend to do, but rather
that the deed thus knowingly and intentionally executed'was.
induced by undue influence; and, -inthis respect, reference
was made to the long intimacy between father and son,'the
alleged usurpation by the latter of absolute control over the
life, habits and property of the former, efforts to prevent
others during the last sickness of the father from seeing him,
and the subjection of the will of the father to that of the
son, manifest in times of health, naturally stronger in hours
of sickness. A confidential relation between father and son is
thus deduced, which, resembling that between client and attorney, principal and agent, parishioner and priest, compels proof
of valuable consideration and bona tides in order to sustain a
deed from one to the other. But while the relationships be
tween the two suggest influence, do they prove undue influence? In this respect, we quote from the notes to the case of
Small v. Small, 4 Greenl. 220, reported in 16 Am. Dec. 259, as
follows:

OCTOBE1R TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"Influence gained by kindness and affection will not be
regarded as 'undue,' if no imposition or fraud be practised,
even though it induce the testator to make an unequal and
unjust disposition of his property in favor of those who have
contributed to his comfort and ministered to his wants, if
such disposition is voluntarily made. IMatter of 6Geespin's
Will, 26 N. J. Eq. 523. . . . Confidential relations existing between the testator and beneficiary do not alone furnish any presumption of undue influence. Lee . v. Lee, 71
N. 0. 139. Nor does the fact that the testator on his deathbed was surrounded by beneficiaries in his will. Bundy v. .Mc-Knight, 48 Indiana, 502. . . . Nor that the testator, an
old and helpless man, made his will in favor of a son who had
for years cared for him and attended to his business affairs,
his other children having forsaken him. Eliott's Will, 2 J.
J. Marsh. 340; S. C. Redf. Am. Cas. on Wills, 434.
It would be a great reproach to the law if, in its jealous
watchfulness over the freedom of testamentary disposition, it
should deprive age and infirmity of the kindly ministrations
of affection, or of the power of rewarding those who bestow
them.
"Undue influence must destroy free agency. It is well
settled that in order to avoid a will on the ground of undue
influence, it must appear that the testator's free agency was
destroyed, and that his will was overborne by excessive .importunity, imposition or fraud, so that the will does not, in
fact, express his wishes as to the disposition of his property,
but those of the person exercising the influence."
That the relations between this father and his several children during the score of years preeeding his death naturally
inclined him towards the one and against the others is evident, and to have been expected. It would have been strange
.if such a result had not followed; but such partiality towards
the one, and influence resulting- therefrom, are not only
natural, but just and reasonable, and come far short of presenting the undue influence which the law denounces. Right
or wrong, it is to be expected that a parent will favor the
child who stands by him, and give to him, rather than the

M.ACKALL

q.

XAGKALL.

Opinion of the Court.

other,

his property. To defeat a conveyance under those

circumstances, something more than the natural influence

springing from such relationship must be shown; imposition,
fraud, importunity, duress, or something of that nature, muist
appear; otherwise that disposition of property which accords
with the natural inclinations of the human heart must be sustained. So that if this case turned simply upon the question
of undue influence, compelling a voluntary conveyance, it
would be difficult to find enough in the testimony to overthrow this deed.
But the case does not rest upon this alone. Brooke -Mackall, Jr., alleged in his answer that lot seven was equitably
his, having been given him years before by his father; and
this allegation seems to have been recognized as true by the
court below, for it established the deed as a confirmation of
his title. It appears that in November, 1851, Brooke Mack'all,
Sr., purchased the lot, one-half of Key and Dunlop, and the
other half of W. W. Corcoran. Neither party at the time
made a deed, and from Key and Dunlop the 'title was*only.
acquired, thereafter by a decree in equity. A deed from Corcoran was not obtained until some time in 1865. Prior to
,this time the father bad given the property to the son, and
placed him in possession. This fact is proved, not alone by
the testimony of the son, or the uncertain recollection of witnesses, but from written statements, which 'carry no taint of
failing memory, and speak the same language one day and
another. On October 6, 1865, Mr. Hyde, the agent for Mr.
Corcoran, gave a certificate, in which,. after mentioning the
balance claimed to have'been owing, he adds: "This sum hasbeen paid, and Mr. Mackall asks, in lieu of the delivery of the
deed as aforesaid to himself, to have, the property conVeyed to
Brooke Mackall, Jr.,, he being a party to the same." On November 28, 1865, Brooke Mackall, Sr., gave a deposition, which
was filed in a case -in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, in which he stated: "Mir. Corcoran also refused to
give me a deed' unless I paid him additional for some back
taxes, which I refused to do. I never did get a deed until
the other day, since his return from Europe. This property

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

I gave my son, Brooke Makall, Jr., some years ago, and he
has had it in possession- ever since, and has subdivided them
into six lots. There is not a more valuable property in the
city, as is the belief of many good judges. He rented the
part occupied as a restaurant on the 9th of February, 1863,
and has been drawing the rent ever since." There was also
filed in the, testimony in that case the following letter and
xelinquishment:
"WASHINGTOx,

March 3, 1866.

"Maj. Gen'l XMEis, Quartermaster General.
"Sm: Ddring the lifetime of Gov. Corwin, I employed him
individually in behalf of my son, Brooke Mackall, Jr., of this
city, who owns the lot on the corner of New York Avenue
and 14th Street, occupied by paymaster-general department,
to procure and collect from said department what was due to
• said Brooke Mackall, Jr, for rent and use* of the premises.
Since Gov. Corwin's death neither Brooke nor myself, as his
agent, has ever recognized any one except Black,. Lamon &
Ca. as attorneys in the premises, as will appear by power of
attorney to them from Brooke Mackall, Jr. Mr. Corwin desired
me to allow his partner, Judge Johnson, to assist in the claim,
but I refused to allow any one but himself to take charge of
it, having confidence in him as an old friend.
" Very. respectfully,
(Signed)
B. MACKALL.
"I hereby relinquish all right to, and authorize Brooke
Mackall, Jr., to receive the amount awarded for use of, property on 14th Street and New York Avenue, as it is his.
"Witness:
(Signed)
B. M&cALL.

"(Signed)

L. G.

BRANDEBURG.

"22d October, 1865."
On July 12, 1871, Brooke Mackall, Sr., filed an answer
under oath in said cause, which was entitled Ayred Richards
et aZ. v. Brooke Mackall et al., in which he alleged "that he
purchased said lot and promised to give it to his son, Brooke,
Mackall, Jr., at some future time, but has not since been in

AOTKALL v. MACKALL.
Opinion of the Court.

a financial condition to carry out such intention, and has
never given him any conveyance of the said lot, nor any
paper-writing relating to said lot."
Again, litigation concerning this lot has been twice at least
to this court. .Mackall v. Richards, 112 U. S. 369; Richards
v. Afackall, 124: U. S. 183. In each of these cases the equitable title of Brooke Mfackall, Jr., was recognized. We refer
to these various statements and decisions not as conclusive
against the appellants; but as furnishing a solid foundation
upon which to rest the testimony of Brooke Mackall, Jr., that
the lot was given to him twenty years before the execution
of this deed, possession taken, and improvements made by him.
A party who receives a parol gift of real estate, enters into
possession and expends money in improvements thereon, presents equitable, considerations which will uphold a decree
establishing a subsequent conveyance as a confirmatiQn of his
equitable title. So that in this respect, also, the ruling of the
court below finds abundant support.
Another matter requires notice: The will referred to gives
his property to his children other than Brooke -Mackall, Jr.,
and this, notwithstanding the fact that he had made two prior
wills, giving his property to Brooke Mackall, Jr. But as
explaining this last will, in the second item he says: "I do
not give, devise, or bequeath to my son, Brooke Mackall, Jr.,
any part, parcel or portion of my property whatever, as the
said Brooke Afackall, Jr., heretofore received from me many
and large advances." While no property is mentioned, yet,
reading between the lines, it is evident that the testator recognized the validity of his parol gift of-lot 7'; and doubtless
that*was what was meant when he said that Brooke Mackall,
Jr., had heretofore received from him large advances. It was
his other property which he was giving to his other children; and it would be straining the language of the will to
suppose that therebr he intended to ignore his parol gift, and
to dispossess this son of that which he had given to him
theretofore.
Putting these various matters together, we think that whatever criticism may be made upon the form, of the decree,
Afflrmed.
it is substantially right, and therefore it is

