LYNG

. MICHIGAN.

Statement of the Case.

LYNG v. -MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1219.

Submitted March 19, 1890. -Decded

April 28, 1890.

Following Leisy v. Hardin, ante', 100, the judgment of the court below in
this case is reversed.

Plaintiff in error was prosecuted and convicted in the Circuit Court for Iron County, Michigan, under an information
alleging "that on the 19th day of July, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight, at the
village of. Iron River, in said Iron County, Henry Lyng, then
and there being, was a person whose business consisted in part
of selling at wholesale brewed and malt liquors, (not proprietary patent medicine,) as agent for Franz Hagemeister and
Henry Hagemeister, copartners doing business in the city of
Green Bay, Wisconsin, under the firm name of Hagemeister &
Son, without he or they having paid in full or in part the tax
required by law to be paid upon the business, neither he nor
they being druggists selling liquors for chemical, medicinal or
sacramental purposes only and in strict compliafice with the
law."
The case went to the Supreme Court 'of Michigan on exceptions, and the conviction was affirmed, and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court with instructions to proceed to judgment.
This was done accordingly, and the Supreme Court having
affirmed the judgment, the cause was thereupon brought to
this court by writ of error.
The opinion of the Supreme Court is to be found in 42
Northwestern Reporter, 139.
The trial in the Circuit Court was had upon the following
facts agreed :
"1. Franz Hagemeister and Henry Hagemeister are citizens
of the United States of America, and reside at the city of
Green Bay, in the State of Wisc6nsin, and are engaged in the
manufacture of lager beer, under the name of 'IHagemeister
VOL. cxxxv-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

& Son,' at Green Bay aforesaid, where they have a brewery
for the manufacture thereof.
"2. Such lager beer is brewed liquor within the meaning of
act No. 313 of the laws of Michigan for 1887.
"3. Said Hagemeister & Son own a warehouse in the village
of Iron River in the township of Iron River, in the county
of Iron and State of Michigan, where they store quantities of
their lager beer so made by them at Green Bay aforesaid, and
from there shipped to their said warehouse in said village of
Iron River, to be there stored and disposed of.
"4. The defendant, Henry Lyng, is employed by said Hagemeister & Son as their agent, on a regular salary, to look after
their said warehouse, to take orders for and deliver said beer,
so manufactured and stored, in quantities exceeding three gallons, and to collect and remit the proceeds of the sales thereof
to said Hagemeister & Son, and was so employed on the 19th
day of July, 1888.
"5. On the 19th day of July, 1888, at the village of Iron
River, in the county of Iron and State of Michigan, said
defendant, in the course of his said employment by Hagemeister & Son, did deliver from said warehouse to Martin Lally,
and to divers other persons, all of whom paid him therefor,
certain of said lager beer, so made and shipped by Hagemeister
& Son from Green Bay aforesaid, in quantities exceeding three
gallons. .. All of said lager beer was so delivered in the original
packages in which it had been shipped. The defendant sold
no other liquors.
"6. Neither the said defendant nor the said Hagemeister &
Son, or either of them, have paid any tax in the village of
Iron River aforesaid on the business of selling or keeping for
sale malt liquors at wholesale or at wholesale and retail, nor
given aiy bond such as is mentioned in act No. 313 of the
Public Acts of Michigan for 1887.'
Sections 1, 2, 4, '[, and 24, of act No. 313 of Public Acts of
Michigan, 1887, p. 445, et 8eq., are as follows:
The People of the State of .Michigan enact,
" SEOTION 1.
That in all townships, cities* and villages of this State there
shall be paid annually the following tax upon the business of

LYNG v. NtICHIGAN,
Statement of the Case.

manufacturing, selling or keeping for sale, by all persons
whose business, in whole or in part, consists in selling or keeping for sale, or manufacturing, distilled, or brewed or malt
liquors or mixed liquors, as follows; Upon the business bf,
selling or offering for sale spirituous or intoxicating liquors, or
mixed liquors by retail, or any mixture or compound, excepting proprietary patent medicines, which in whole or in part
consist of spirituous or intoxicating liquors, and any malt,
brewed or fermented liquors, five hundred dollars per annum;
upon the business of selling only brewed or malt liquors at
wholesale or retail, or at wholesale and retail, three -hundred
dollars per annum; upon the business of selling spirituous or
intoxicating liquors at wholesale, five hundred d9llars; or at
wholesrale and retait, eight hundred dollars per annum; upon
the business of manufacturing brewed or malt liquors for sale,
sixty-five dollars per annum; upon the business of manufacturing for sale spirituous or intoxicating liquors, eight hundred dollars per annum. No person paying a tax on spirituous
or intoxicating liquors under this act shall be liable to pay
any tax on the sale of malt, brewed or fermented liquors: No
person paying a manufacturer's tax on brewed or malt liquors
under this act shall be liable to pay a wholesale dealer's tax
on the same.
"SEo. 2. Retail dealers of spirituous or intoxicating liquors,
and brewed, malt and fermented liquors shall be held and
deemed to include all persons who sell any of such liquors-by
the drink, and in auantities of three gallons or less, or one
dozen quart bottles or less, at any one time, to any person or
persons. Wholesale dealers shall be held and deemed to mean
and include all persons who sell or offer for sale such liquors
and beverages in quantities of more than three gallons, or
more than one dozen quart bottles, at any one time, to any
person or persons. No tax imposed under this act shall be
required from any person for selling any wine or cider made
from fruits grown or gathered in this State, unless such wine
or cider be sold by the drink as other beverages are."
1"SEc. 4. Every person engaged in, or intending to engage
in, any business named in section one of this act, and requiring

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the'payment of any tax mentioned in said section one, shall;
on ot before the first day of May in each year, make and file
with the county treasurer in the county where it is proposed
to carry on such business, a statement in writing and on oath,
showing the name and residence of such person, the ward,
village or township in which it is proposed to carry on such
sale or manufacture, and the nature of the business which
such person is engaged in, or is intending to engage in; and
shall, on or before the first day of May in each year, pay to
the said county. treasurer, in advance, the taxes required by
said section one for such business for the year commencing on
said first day of May and ending on the thirtieth day of April
next, thereafter."
"SEa. 7. If any person or persons shall engage or- be engaged in any business requiring the payment of -a tax under
section one of this act without having- paid in full the tax
required by this act, and without having the receipt and
notice for such tax posted up as required by this act, or
without having made, executed and delivered the bond
required by this act, or shall in any manner violate any of
the provisions of this act, such person or persons shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
if there is no specific penalty provided therefor by this act,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred
dollars and costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not less than ten days nor more than ninety days,
or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the
couri, And in case such fine and costs shall not have been
paid at the time such imprisonment expires, the person serving
out such sentence shall be further detained in jail until such
fine and costs shall have been fully paid: Provided, Tiat in
no case shall the whole term of imprisonment exceed six
nionths. And any person or persons engaged in any business
requiring the payment of a tax under section one of this act,
who, after paying the tax so required, shall be convicted of
the violation of any of the provisions of this act, shall thereby,
in addition to all other penalties prescribed by this act, forfeit
the 'tax so paid by him or them, and be precluded from con-

LYNG v. MICIGAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

tinuing such business for the remainder of the year or time for
which said tax was paid, and be debarred from again engaging
in any business requiring the payment of a tax under section
one of this act, or from becoming a surety or sureties uponany bond required under section seven of this act, for the
period of one year from the time of such conviction. Each
violation of any of the provisions of this act shall be construed to constitute a separate and complete offence, and for.
each violation on the same day, or on different days, the. p;rson or persons offending shall be, liable to the penaltibs-a-d
forfeitures herein provided, and be precluded and debarred
from continuing or engaging in any business requiring the
payment of a tax under this act as aforesaid. And it shall be
the duty of sheriffs, marshals, constables and police officers to
forthwith close all saloons and other places where the business
of, manufacturing, selling or keeping for sale.any of the liquors
mentioned in section one of ihis act is being conducted, upon
which business the tax required by said section one has not
been paid in full, and in which the receipt mentioned in section five of this act shall not be posted up and displayed."
"SE. 24. All persons engaged in the business of selling or
keeping for sale any of the liquors mentioned in this act,
whether as owner or as clerk, agent, or servant or employ6,
shall be equally liable as principals for any violation of any of
the provisions of this act, and any person or principal shall be
liable for the acts of his clerk, servant, agent or employ6 for
any violation of thd .provisions of this act."
Mr. Howard E. T2opson for plaintiff in error.
'Mr. Edward.Cahill for defendant in error.
MR. CHEF JusrlcE FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

Under the statute in question, which is entitled "An act to
provide for the taxation and regulation of the business ofmanufacturing, selling, keeping for sale, furnishing, giving or
delivering spirituous or intoxicating liquors and malt, brewed

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

or fermented liquors or vinous liquors in this State, and to
repeal all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with .the provisions
of this act," an annual tax is levied "upon the business of selling only brewed or malt liquors at wholesale or retail, or at
wholesale and retail" of three hundred dollars, and "upon. the
business of manufacturing brewed or malt liquors for sale,
sixty-five dollars per annum." The manufacturer of malt or
brewed liquors made outside of the State of Michigan cannot
introduce them into the hands of consumers or retail dealers
in that State, without becoming subject to this wholesale
dealer's tax of three hundred dollars per annum' in every
township, village or city where he attempts to do this. The
manufacturer in the State need only pay the manufacturer's
tax of sixty-five dollars, and is then exempt from paying the,
-tax imposed on the wholesale dealer.
. We have repeatedly held that no State has the right to lay
a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of
duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or
on the occupation or business of carrying it on, for the reason
that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts
to a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress. lelop v.- 31obile, 127 U. S. 640, 648, and cases cited. In Bowman v. Chicago and N'orthwestern Railway, 125 U. S. 465,
it was decided that a section of the Code of the State of Iowa,
forbidding common carriers to bring intoxicating liquors into
the State from any other State or Territory, without first
being furnished with a certificate as prescribed, was essentially
a. regulation of commerce among the States, and not being sanctioned by the authority, express or implied, of Congress, was
invalid because repugnant to the Con titution of the United
States; and in Leisy v. Hardin, ante, 100, the judgment in
which has just been announced, that the right of importation
of ardent spirits, distilled liquors, ale and beer from one State
into another, includes, by necessary implication, the right of
sale in the original packages at the place where the importation terminates; and that the power cannot be conceded to a
•State to exclude, directly or indirectly, the subjects of inter-'

MACKALL v. MACKAIJL.
Syllabus.

state commerce, or, by the imposition of burdens thereon, to
regulate such commerce, without congressional permission.
The same rule tht applies to the sugar of Louisiana, the cotton of South Carolina, the wines of California, the hops of
Washington, the tobacco of Maryland and Connecticut, or the
products, natural or manufactured, of any State, applies to all
commodities in which a right of traffic exists, recognized by
the laws of Congress, the decisions of courts and the usages of
the commercial world. It devolves on Congress to indicat
such exceptions as in its judgment a wise discretion may demand under particular circumstances. Lyng was merely the
representative of the importers, and his conviction cannot be
sustained, in view of the conclusions at which we have arrived.
The judgment of the Supreme Co-trt of the State of Xichigan is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
JUsTIcEs HARLAw, GRAY and BRE W R dissented upon the
grounds stated in their opinion in Zeisy v. Hardin, ante, 100.

MA&CKALL v. MACICALL.
A.PPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 159. Argued April], 2, 1890. - Decided April 21, 1890.

A bill in equity was filed to set aside a deed made to one of his sons by the
grantor as made under undue influence, and to affirm the validity of a
will executed by that grantor a short time before the making of the deed,
A decree was entered, affirming the deed as to a part of the property
conveyed by it as a confirmation of a previously acquired equitable title,.
and setting it aside as to the remainder. The plaintiffs appealed; the
defendant took no appeal; Held, that, although the decree was apparently incongruous in supporting the deed as to a part and setting it aside
as to the remainder on a bill charging undue influence, yet as no appeal
had been taken by the defendant, the court would look into the merits,
and that, whatever criticism might be made upon its form, the decree
was substantially right.

