NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. u. AUSTIN. 315
Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROA])
AUSTIN.

COMPANY

.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINXESOTA.
No. 289.

Submitted April 22, .890.-Decided May 5,1890.

An amendment to a complaint In an action pending In a state court, allowed
by the court after the evidence was in,,by which the ad damnum clause
was increased from a sum too small to allow the defendant to petition
to have the cause removed to the Circuit Court of the United States to
a sum in excess of the jurisdictional sum necessary for that. purpose,
canno be reviewed here if the defendant, after such allowance, files no
petition for such removal.

Ausm brought his action in the District Court of Otter
Tail County, Minnesota, to recover damages for the burning.
of certain growing trees on his land by fire, set .by an engine
of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, his complaint
alleging the trees to have been of the value of $475, and that
he was damaged in that sum, and demanding judgment for
that amount, with costs and disbursements. The defendant
put in a general denial. The cause coming on for trial, the
record states that "after the jury had been duly empanelled
and sworn, and before the commencement of the trial, the
plaintiff asked to amend his complaint by increasing the ad
damnum clause therein from the sum of four hundred and
seventy-five dollars, the amount originally stated and claimed
in said complaint, to the sum of one thousand dollars. To
this amendment the defendant objected upon the ground that
to allow the same would be an abuse of discretion, and prevented defendant from securing the removal of said action
from the above-named court to the Circuit Court of theUnited States, where it would be entitled to have the same
tried had such amendment been moved for at the proper time
and granted. The court took under consideration the matter
of allowing said amendmeht." The trial was then proceeded
with, and the evidence tended to show that the damages -sustained were much greater than $500. Upon the conclusion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff's case, he renewed his motion "to amend his complaint to make the same conform to the testimony. Whereupon the amendment was granted by the court allowing the
plaintiff to claim damages in the sum of one thousand dollars.
and to which amendment the defendant duly excepted.
Plaiiitiff also renewed his motion to amend the ad damnur,
clause of the complaint. The motion was granted, defendant
excepting."
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff and
assessed his damages at $750, and judgment was rendered
accordingly. The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court
of Minnesota, by which the judgment was affirmed, and thereupon a writ of error was sued out from this court.
.. James -1lcVaugkt, Mr. W. P. Clough, Ar. A. H. Garland and Xr. H. J Aay for plaintiff in error.
Mr. XAf D. Grover and ..A&. J. W. Mfason for defendant in
error.
M-. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
The contention of plaintiff in error seems to be that the
right to remove the suit into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota, under the act of March
3, 1875, was specially set up or claimed by it; that the decision was against the right so set up or claimed; and that, therefore, this court has jurisdiction. But the difficulty with that
view is, that when the amendment was permitted to be made,
after the evidence had satisfied the trial court that its allowance was proper, the defendant filed no petition and made no
application to remove the cause. It is true that, when the
plaintiff first applied to amend, the defendant objected upon
the ground that it would be an abuse of discretion, because
the defendant would be obliged to submit to a trial when the
amount actually involved would have entitled it to a removal,
if that fact had appeared when the suit was commenced or if
the amendment had been made at an earlier stage of the case.
This was by way of argument, and upon the theory that the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. AUSTIN.

317

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff had purposely laid his damages in the first instance at
a sum which did not permit a removal, and then sought to'
increase the ad damnum after the trial commenced and when
it was assumed to be too late to remove.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota, in passing upon the action
of the District Court, Austin v. Northern Paoific Railroad,
34 -Minnesota,473, held that "in respect to the propriety of
allowing amendments, the court can make no distinction
between cases exclusively triable in the state court, and those
claimed to be removable to the United States courts. If the
case is one in which an amendment might properly be made
in the former class of cases, then it may be made in the latter,
because the action of the court is authorized by law, and, while
a case remains in the state court and under its jurisdiction, no
party can legally complain of proceedings which are in conformity with the laws of the State. The~e being no complaint
that the case was not in itself a proper one for the exercise of
the discretion of the court in the allowance of the amendment,
under the practice in this State, we think the objection was
properly overruled. . . . But there is nothing upon the record in this case to show that the plaintiff's course was a device
to prevent a removal. According to the practice as understood and actually prevailing in the United States courts of
this circuit when this action was tried, the defendant would
not hav been entitled to a removal if the complaint had been
amended before the case came t6 trial. Mryers v. Union PaciJfc Railway Co., 16 Fed. Rep. 292. But the Supreme Court
of the United States subsequently held, by a divided court,
that corporations, like the defendant, created and organized
under the laws of the United States, were entitled to remove
suits against them to the United States courts. Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S.1. Under the circumstances,
therefore, we are not warranted in concluding that the allowance of the amendment was an abuse of discretion. If the
facts were such as to warrant the inference that the plaintiff
purposely brought the action for a smaller amount in order
to prevent a removal, and afterwards secured the amendment,
a different question would be presented."

OCTOBER TERVi, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-

lothing is better settled than that to enable us to take jurisdiction on the ground of the denial by a state court of a right
claimed under a statute of the United States, the record must
show that the right was specially set up or claimed at the
proper time and in the proper way, and that the decision was
against the right so set up or claimed. Spies v. Illinois, 123
U. S. 131; Chappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132. As the defendant did not apply for the removal of the cause, the right
now claimed under the statute was not denied by the District Court, nor by the Supreme Court in affirming the judgment. If the application had been made, the question would
then have arisen whether it came too late under the circmstances. The defendant was not entitled to remove the
suit as originally brought "before or at the term at which such
cause could be first tried, and before the trial thereof." But
the objection to removal, depending upon the absence of the
jurisdictional amount, was obviated by the amendment. As
the time within which a removal must be applied for is not
jurisdictional, but modal and formal, Ayers v. Watson, 113
U. S. 594, 598, it may, though obligatory to a certain extent,
be waived. And as, where a removal is effected, the party
who obtains it is estopped upon the question of the time, so, if
the conduct of the plaintiff in a given case were merely a device
to prevent a removal, it might be that the objection as to the
time could not be raised by him. If, on the other hand, the
motives of the plaintiff could not be inquired into, or, if admitted, would not affect the result, as in most cases of remit.titur, :Tompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694; PaciA~t Postal Tele.
graph Co. v. O'Connor, 128 U. S. 394, the defendant would
simply suffer for want of comprehensiveness in the statute.
The amendment here was held to have been properly allowed,
and we have no power or disposition to interfere with the
action of the court in regard to it. The only importance it
has, is in'its bearing upon the charge of bad faith in respect
to the right of removal, and that question cannot properly
arise in the absence of an application to remove.
The writ of errormust be dismissed, and it is so ordered.

