OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

hburs, as a matter of private enterprise for transporting express
matter and passengers, as an accommodation to the people
along the line, is not inconsistent with his sworn certificate
"that it will take fifty per cent more men and horses to perform mail service

.

.

.

on a reduced schedule from sixty-

two hours to forty-three hours in summer and fifty hours in
winter." He was a-t liberty at any time to abandon his 43hour schedule and adopt the 62-hour schedule named in his
contract.
By the terms of section 3961 of the Revised Statutes increased compensation, or expedited service, is to be calculated
upon the basis of the ecesswry men and stock required to perform the service under the original contract. It is not alleged
that the defendant did not use 50 per cent more men and
horses undqr the epedited schedule than was necessary in
carrying the mails on a 62-hour schedule; nor is it alleged
that the cost-of the expedited service wa s excessive. We see
no such false representations by the defendant, nor such mistake by the post-offire, set forth in this petition, as would
justify a recovery in this case, and the judgment of the court
below sustaining the o ,murrer is, therefore,
Mr.. JUSTICE FIELD

did not sit in this case or take any part

in its decision.

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN RAILROAD COXPANY v. XcDADE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 137.

Argued December 2, 3,1889.-Decided May 19, 1890

An employer of labor in connection with machinery is not bound to insure
the absolute safety of the machinery or mechanical appliances which he
provides for the use of his employ~s, nor is he bound to supply for their
use the best and safest or newest of such appliances; but he is bound
to use all reasonable care and prudence for the safety of those in his

WASHINGTON &G. RAILROAD CO. v. McDADE.

555

Statement of the Case.
service, by providing them with machinery reasonably safe and suitable
for use, and if he fails in this duty, he is responsible to them for any
injury which may happen to them through a defect of machinery which
was, or ought to have been knowa to him, and which was nct known to
the employ~s; but if anemploy6, who is injured by reason of a defect in
such machinery, knew of the defect which caused it, and remained in the'
service of his employer, and continued to use the defective machinery
without giving notice thereof to him, he must be deemed to have assumed
the risk of all danger reasonably to be apprehended from such use.
When a person employed by another to labor in connection with machinery,
is wanting in such reasonable care and prudence as would have prevented
the happening of an accident and is injured by the machinery, he is guilty
of contributory negligence, and his employer is thereby absolved from
responsibility for the injury, although it was occasioned by defect in the
iiahiuery and through the negligence of the employe .
The 'question of contributory negligence is, as a general -rule, one for the
jury, under proper instructions by the court; especially where the facts
are in dispute, and the evidence in relation to them is such that fair-'
minded men may draw different conclusions from it.
A court ma refuse to give a requested instruction when it has already
given substantially the same instruct*-- in its own language.

THIS was an action on the case brought in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia by Lewis H. McDade
against the Washington and Georgetown Railroad Company,
a District corporation, to recover damages for personal injuries
sustained while employed by the company, as a blacksmith, in
its shops in Georgetown. The injury consisted in the loss of
his left arm, which was caught in a belt used to propel a part
of the machinery in the company's shop, and thereby so
broken and mangled that it had to be amputaf d neai tbe
shoulder immediately after the accident.
The declaration alleged that the defendant was a corporation
and owned' and operated a horse railway in the city of Washington and District of Columbia, 'and certain machinery for
the construction and repair of the tracks, cais and other appliances and implements used in connection therewith; that on
the 5th of February, 1883, the plaintiff was in the employ of
the defendant, as a blacksmith, and was required by defendant,
from time to time, to put and place a certain belt upon a
pulley attached to -a counter-shaft, when the same was in
motion, to communicate power and motion from the machin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ery in the machine shop of the-defendant to the fan and drill.
press used by plaintiff in the blacksmith shop; that the said
machinery and appliances were defective and dangerous, in
that there was no loose pulley and lever or shifter for the
purpose of putting the belt on and removing it from the first
named pulley, but that plaintiff had no notice or knowledge
thereof, being unused to and unskilled in such machinery and
appliances; that the defendant, its servants and agents knew
that the same were defective and dangerous, but failed to
notify the plaintiff thereof; that on the 5th of February, 1883,
the plaintiff, while ignorant of such defect and danger as
aforesaid, was, at the defendant's request,.engaged in the act
of putting said belt on the first-named pulley, and by reason
of such defect and dangerous condition of the machinery, and,
without any fault or negligence on his part, was caught in or
struck by said belt with great force, and his left arm was
severed thereby, by means of which he was made very sick,
sore and lame for a long space of time, and suffered great
anguish of body and mind, and was crippled and disabled for'
life from the'performance. of his usual trade and labor as a
blacksmith; that he was put to great expense and trouble in
trying to be healed and cured of said wound and sickness;
and that he paid large sums of money for medical attendance,
medicines and nursing, to his damage the sum of twenty
thousand dollars.
The defendant pleaded the general .issue, and defended,
mainly, upon the ground that the plaintiff was guilty of such
contributory negligence as precluded a recovery for the injuries sustained.
The case coming on for trial before the court and a jury,
the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, testified, i4 substance, as follows: He entered the service of the defendant as
a blacksmith, at its shops in Georgetown, on the 1st of May,
188i, and continued there until the time of the accident on
February 5, 1883. When he first went there he worked at the
same forge with a man named Eckrit, who was head blacksmith, but at a differeat fire, they making and repairing the
irons used in the manufaoture of street cars. In the same

WASHINGTON &c. IAILROAD CO. v. XcDADE.

557

Statement of the Case.

room, which was about forty feet square, at a separate forge,
a man named Morgan made horseshoe nails. Eckrit left the
service of the defendant a few months afterwards, and one
Parsons was then employed as an assistant to the plaintiff,
who had been made chief blacksmith.
The blast of air used at their forge was supplied by a fan
propelled by an engine which ran all the machinery in the
shops by means of shafts, pulleys and belts, and was situated
in an adjoining room connected with the blacksmith shop
by a door in the partition wall. The main shaft was in the
engine-room. In the blacksmith shop there was a countershaft, three and one-half to four inches in diameter, about
twelve feet from the ground and thirty inches from the wall,
to which motion was communicated by means of a belt running on a fixed pulley attached thereto, and on another fixed
pulley on the main shaft, and passing through a small opening
in the partition wall for that purpose. The belt which directly
gave motion to the fan was about three or four inches wide,
and ran on a small fixed pulley attached to the fan, and on
a fixed pulley about thirty inches in diameter attached to the
counter-shaft by means of a screw projecting about an inch
and a half above the hub of the pulley. The latter pulley,
when the machinery was in motion, revolved about 180 times
per minute. Another fan in the blacksmith shop, propelled in
like manner, furnished a blast of air for the forge at which
Morgan worked; and a drill press in the same room was propelled by means of a belt running on a pulley affixed thereto,
and on a fixed pulley on the counter-shaft.
Perhaps on an average once a week the engine and a portion of the machinery was run in the evening or at night,
after work in the blacksmith shop had ceased for the day, and
the belt used to propel the fan was then thrown off the pulley
on the counter-shaft, sometimes by the plaintiff, but generally
by some one else-in the employ of the defendant. During the
time that Eckrit and the plaintiff were both in the employ of
the defendant, Eckrit always put the belt on when it had been
taken off, except when it was taken off for repairs; and whenever such repairs Were needed, one Moore, who kept in repair

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

all-the belting in the shop, would take it off and put it on
again, but never at any other time. After Eckrit left, the
plaintiff was directed to take the place of Eckrit at the forge,
and all the time until the injury, a period of sixteen or eighteen
months, he habitually put on the belt-whenever he found it off,
except when it was taken off for repairs, supposing it to be a
part of his duty. The first time it was off after Eckrit left,
he called the attention of the engineer, Mr. Kline, to the fact
that the belt was off, who said, "Can't you put it on?" to
which plaintiff replied, "I suppose so," and then put it on.
Hawk, the foreman of the shops, from whom plaintiff received
his orders, never gave him any instructions what to do, except
that he should take Eckrit's place, and both 'ie and Saylor,
the superintendent of the company, often saw the plaintiff put
the belt on, but never gave him any instructions about it, or
informed him that it was Moore's duty to put the belt on
when it had been taken of, and not to do it himself. Plaintiff knew that it was Moore's duty to repair the belts, and put
them on the first time after they had been repaired, but never
knew that it was Moore's duty to put them on at any other
time, and Moore never did put on this belt at any other time.
He further testified that he was 53 years of age, and had
been a blacksmith since he was 17, having worked. in Washington and Baltimore, the latter city being where he had
learned his trade, but that he was ignorant of machinery, never
before having been employed in a shop where the blast of air
for the forge was created by machinery but once, and in .that
instance the fan was two hundred feet off, and not in the
shop; and that the belt connected with ihe fan in the defendant's shop was the only belt he ever put on.
In order to put the belt'on the large pulley on the .counter-shaft it was necessary -to use a movable ladder about
twelve feet long, placed against the partition wall. In going
up this ladder his back might touch the shaft, and the face of
the pulley was nearer the wall than his'own face; and in plac"ing the belt on the pulley he would turn his face towards the
.pulley. On the morning of the accident the plaintiff went to
the shop a few minutes before 7 o'clock to commence work,

WASHINGTON &c. RAILROAD CO. v. kcDADE.

559

Statement of the Case.

Parsons and the engineer, Kline, both being there when he
arrived. Observing the belt off and the machinery in motion,
plaintiff ascended the ladder and attempted to put on the
belt, but it came off immediately. He then came down the
ladder and went into the engine-room, saying to Kline that
there was something wrong with the b6lt, as it would not stay
on. Kline then ascended the ladder and attempted to put the
belt on, but it immediately came off as before. Kline then came
down the ladder and said to the plaintiff that he would go
and slow up the engine, and that plaintiff should then put on
the belt. He says that he waited a sufficient length of time,
as he supposed, for Kline to reach the engine and slow it up,
and after the pulley had slacked somewhat in its revolutions,
he again ascended the ladder and attempted to put the belt
on, but it was thrown off towards and against him, and
formed a loop, which caught on the. set screw in the hub of
the pulley, wound- around the counter-shaft, and drew his
left arm in between the belt and the counter-shaft, drushing
and tearing it to such an extent that it was necessary to
amputate it near the shoulder, immediately: When his
arm was caught he screamed, hnd the engineer immediately
stopped the engine.
The accident occurred on a Monday morning. On the
preceding Friday or Saturday the belt had been repaired by
Moore, who placed it on the pulley after it was repaired. Ib
worked all right afterwards, and was still on the pulley when
plaintiff quit work on Saturday evening.
The plaintiff further testified that he had suffered great
.physical and mental pain from the accident, having been confined to his room for six weeks, and most of the time to his
bed; that his nervous system had been shocked to such an
extent that for eighteen months thereafter he could not do
any work; and that since that time, although better and
stronger, he had suffered considerably, and was permanently
disabled from working at his trade.
He further said that he never had had- any experience with
machinery, and he did not know that it was any more dangerous to put a belt on. a pulley while it was in motion than it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

to strike a piece of iron with a hammer; that no one ever
informed him that it was dangerous to put a belt on a pulley
while it was in motion; that Eckrit, Moore and Kline always
put the belts on while the machinery was in motion ,,
that if
he had known that it was dangerous to put a belt on a pulley
while it was in motion he would not have done so; that he
had never seen any one put a belt on a pulley until he saw
it in the defendant's shops; that in other parts of the shops,
both before and at the time of the accident, the defendant
had a loose pulley for the purpose of shifting belts', of which
fact he was ignorant until afterwards; and that there were
no loose pulleys in the' blacksmith shop; and he did not know
there were such things until after the injury, having afterwards seen one for the first time in Springman's blacksmith
shop in Washington.
On cross-examination the plaintiff testified that "on the
occasion of his injury, 'vhen Kline left him to go to the engine,room, he said he would go and slow up the engine, not stop it,
and for plaintiff to put on the belt; that he stood at the foot
of the ladder for about a minute after Kline left him, and
until the speed of the machinery was somewhat slackened, and
then went up the ladder, which took him about half a minute,
and attempted to put on the belt; that when he was caught
in the belt he screamed, and Kline came to the door of the
blacksmith shop and then went back and stopped the engine."
Dr. Ritchie testified on behalf of the plaintiff that he attended him when he was injured, and amputated his arm;
that his suffering was acute and the shock so great as to cause
permanent nervous impairment and mental depression; and
that the physical injury was permanent.
John T. Spring-man, a witness for the plaintiff, testified that
about a year and a half before that time, having had occasion
to do some very heavy work in his foundry, he bought a large
blower, and supplied the air by means of a fan propelled by
machinery; that he had placed a loose pulley at the fan, and
another on the counter-shaft, both next to the fixed pulleys,
shifting the belt, when necessary, du to those loose pulleys by
means of a lever near the floor; that he had never seen such

WASHINGTON &c. RAILROAD CO. v. McDADE.

561

Statement of the Case.

a contrivance anywhere else, although he had been a blacksmith twenty-five years; and that such a contrivance for shifting belts was considered safe, vhile to put them on and take
them off by hand was considered dangerous.
lobert Thompson, a witness for the plaintiff, testified that
he had had a large experience in machinery and belting.
having worked for twenty-five years in planing mills and sash
factories, and that loose pulleys for placing and removing
belts on and off fixed pulleys had been in common and general
use for over twenty-five years; that they can be used wherever there is room to place them, and are generally placed on
the counter-shaft immediately adjoining the fixed pulley, the
fixed pulley at the machine being as Wide as both pulleys on
the counter-shaft; that the belt is removed from one pulley
to the other by means of a lever called a shifter, which can be
operated very easily with one hand.without any danger, thus
stopping and starting the particular part of- the machine
while the rest of the machinery is in 'motion: and that it is
dangerous to put belts on pulleys by band while they are in
motion, and he would not. do it without the shifter, which
renders such work perfectly safe:
Smith Pettit and John B. Randolph, witnesses for the plaintiff, -the former a machinist of 30 years' experience, and the
latter the machinist at the State, War and Navy Department
for a number of years, - both testified substantially t6 the
same effect as the preceding witness, in respect to the long
use of loose pulleys, and a shifter for the purpose of removing
belts, in all well-regulated machine-shops, and to the danger
of putting them on in any other manner.
John W. Eekrit, who had worked With the plaintiff in the
shop at one time, as before testified to, a witness for the plaintiff, stated that he put the belt on the pulley three or four
times after the plaintiff came there, but that no one directed
him to do so, and he did not know whether or not Hawk was
aware of such fact; and that he had put on belts before by
hand.
The plaintiff thereupon rested his case, and the defendant
moved the court to instruct the jury to return a verdict in Its
VOL. CXX-XV-36

OCTOBER TER'M, 1889..
Statement of the Case.

favor upon the aforesaid evidence, which the court declined
to do, and the defendant thereupon excepted.
The defendant then gave evidence tending to prove that the
machinery in its car-shops was of the most approved character, there being none better or more suitable t6 be found in
the country.; that loose pulleys and a shifter were not used in
blacksmith shops like its own, but were used only when the
machine required the power to be quickly thrown off or put
on, ok where the work to be done was very heavy and the
belt not easily managed by hand; that the belt in question
could be shifted very easily by hand, without danger, by a
person of ordinary intelligence who had seen it done a few
times; that there was a loose pulley on the drill-press in the
blacksmith shop; that Hawk, the foreman, a carpenter by
trade, had charge of all the men in the shops, and gave orders
and directions to all of them, being perfectly competent to fill
the position which he held, no one else having any authority
to give orders- to any of the men employed in the shop, as
regards the belting; that the engineer's duties were only such
as -perta.ined to running the engine, which fact was known to
the plaintiff; that the duties of Moore extended not only to
taking off and putting on the beltq when they needed repairs,
but consisted in his having general charge of the belts in the
shops, putting them on and taking them off whenever. such
work was necessary, which fact was known to all the men in
the shops, including the plaintiff, and that both -Morgan, who
worked in the blacksmith shop, and. the predecessor of the
plaintiff, always called on Moore whenever the belt -was off.
IHawk, the foreman, testified that on the Saturday preceding the accident, at about 4 o'clock in -the afternoon, when
work in the blacksmith shop was about to cease, he went
there, and, standing about- twenty-five feet from the plaintiff
and his helper, Parsons, since deceased, addressed them both,
saying that the engine would be run after working hours and
the belt would be thrown off, and that Monday, when tlfe bell
rang to go to work, Moore should.be called to put the belt on.
He said that he gave that order because the belt -bad been*
repaired on the Friday preceding, but that he was not sure

VASHIIIGTON &c. RAILROAD CO: v. MoDADE.

563

Statement of the Case.
that either the plaintiff or Parsons heard him, as the machinery
was in motion and was making considerable noise, and neither
made any response. He said he was a carpenter, and had no
special knowledge of machinery; that the belt was not taken
off more than 12 or 15 times while the plaintiff was there;
that when the belt was repaired on the preceding Friday it
was made a little too short, which probably caused it to slip
off when the plaintiff attempted to put it on; and that he
never gave the plaintiff any instructions about his work at
any time.
George E. Noyes, a witness for the defendant, a machinist
of experience, testified that he had never examined the machinery of the defendant carefully, but that it seemed to him
that its general plan was good; that fast and loose pulleys
are generally used where any part of the machinery is stopped.
periodically, and are sometimes, but not always, connected
with forges ; that it. is always dangerous to put on a belt by
hand when the machinery is in motion, and no one likes to do
it, the only preventive being a loose pulley; but that in his
shop he usually had boys to put on the belts by hand, and
thought an ordinarily bright boy could learn to do such work
in a day, by being shown how a few times.
Moore gave testimony to the effect that on two occasions
he was sent for to put on the plaintiff's' belt - once, by- the
plaintiff, and the other time by )?arsons ; that it was.his duty
to attend to the belts generally; and that hie always took the
belt off and put it on again when he repaired it, but never at
any other time unless he was sent for.,
The engineer, Kline, a, witness for ithe defendant, in describing the manner in which the plaiitiff received his injury,
stated that on the morning of the acc dent, after the inachinery had been running four or five minutes,,-the plaintiff came
into the engine-room and said," IIwish you would 'come and
help me with my belt;" and that after they got into the blacksmith shop, the plaintiff 'said, ".How am I to ggt that belt
back *on this side of the pulley 11"-He said he then ascended
the ladder, and threw the bel6 back- on the 'ight" side. but
could not put it on, and then came down the ladder and said"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to McDade, "Hold up until I shut down." He then went
into the engine-room and shut off the steam, but the engine
did not stop immediately, the momentum being sufficient to
carry the fly-wheels around 8 or 12 times before the speed was
checked. In the meantime, standing by his engine, he heard
McDade scream, and went. to see what the matter was. He
stated that from the time he came down'the ladder until
the engine stopped was not greater than three-quarters of a
minute.
The plaintiff, on his cross-examination in rebuttal, testified
to the following effect: He didn't know whether putting on
the belt was a part of his duty, but supposed it was, and
acted accordingly. He again asserted that he had no idea
of there being any serious danger in putting the belt.on the
pulley by hand - nQt any more than in picking up a hammer
from the floor. Speaking of the accident, he said that when
Kline had attempted to put the belt on and failed, he came
down the ladder and said to -him, "Go up and put it on
whilst I slow up the engine," or, "Go up the ladder, put the
belt on, and I will slow the engine." He further stated that
he did not attempt to put the belt on until the engine was
slowed - whether it was sufficiently slowed or not he did not
know; but that he understood the engine was to be slowed
up in order to enable him to put the belt on.
At the conclusion of the testimony the defendant renewed
its motion for a verdict, which motion the court overruled,
and an exception was duly taken. Counsel for the defendant
asked the court to grant twenty separate prayers for instructi6ns to the jury; three of which the court granted in the
language in which they were presented, ten were slightly
modified, and seven were denied. The court upon its own
motion gave one instruction. Under these instructions verdict and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff for $6195.
The Supreme Court in general term affirmed that judgment.
5 Mackey, 144. Hence this writ of error.
.Ar. Enock Totten and .Mr. Walter D. Davidge for the
iilaintiff in error.

WASHINGTON &c. R AILROAD CO. v. McDADE.

565

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The plaintiff's evidence given at the trial, with all the inferences that the jury could justifiably draw from it, was insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, and the court
erred in refusing to direct the jury to return a verdict for
the defendant. Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railrdad,109
U. S. 478.
There was not a syllable of evidence to show negligence
on the part of the defendant. It is submitted that upon all
the proofs and all the fair inferences the plaintiff could not
recover.
Upon this state of facts it is argued in behalf of the plaintiff
below: 1. That some device extraneous or in addition to the
devices used by the defendant would have been safer, and that
the defendant is therefore chargeable with negligence because
it did not supply such devices;
2. That the plaintiff did not know that it was dangerous to.
undertake to put thi. belt on the pulley under such circumstances.
The following cases are applicable to the first branch of
this argument: Schroeder v. -Michigan Car Co., 56 Michigan,
132; Sjogreno v. Hall, 56 Michigan, 274; Gilbertv. Guild, 144
Mass. 601; Burke v. Witherbee, 98 N. Y. 562; Shaw v. Sheldon, 103 N. Y. 667; KYelley v. Silver Spring Co., 12 R. I.
112 ; Sweeney v. Berlin Envelop Co., 101 N. Y. 520; Sullivan
v. India Atf'g Co., 113 Mass. 396 ; Leary v. Boston & Albany
Railroad,139 Mass. 580; ron. Ship Building, Co. v. Nuttall,
119 Penn. St. 149; Xoulton v. Gage, 138 IMass. 390; .fXichigan Central Railroad v. Smithson, 45 Michigan, 212; Pennsylvania Railroadv. Wachter, 60 Maryland, 395; O'Rorke v.
Union Pacjfte Railroad,22 Fed. Rep. 189.
As to the second branch of the argument. It is not sufficient
for the purposes of a cause that an intelligent, experienced
man, beyond middle life, with all his faculties unimpaired,
should swear that he did not know that such. a shaft and
wheel revolving at a high rate of speed, was dangerous. Such
a story, in the nature of things, cannot be true. "All machinery is dangerous to a greater or less extent, and particularly
when olperated by steam." Richards v. Rough, 53 Michigan,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212; Artz v. Rock Island Railroad,34 Iowa, 154; Baxter v.
Troy &i Boston Railroad,41 N. Y. 505.
The defendant had no means of obtaining information of
imperfections or accidental breakages, except through the
plaintiff. He was employed in immediate connection with
this machinery and should have discovered any infirmities
when they occurred, and was bound to inform his employer.
Where the means of information of the employ6 are equal or
greater than. those of the employer as to imperfections in
machinery, the employer will not be responsible for an injury
resulting from such imperfections. .dlad River Railroad v.
Barber, 5 Ohio St. 541; S. C. 67 Am. Dec. 312; Georgia Central Railroad v. Kenney, 58 Georgia, 485; Fones v. Phillips,
39 Arkansas, 17.
When the servant discovers that the machinery, tools or
the like, are unsafe or unfit, or that a fellow servant is careless
or incompetent, andi nevertheless, continues in the employment without protest or complaint, he assumes the risk of the
danger and waives all claims for damages. O'Rorke.v. Union
Pacifc Railroad,22 Fed. Rep. 189; Kelley v. Silver .pring
Co., 12 R. I. 112; Richards v. Rough, 53 Michigan, 212; &jogren -v. Hall, 53 Michigan, 274; Dorsey v. Phillips Construction Co., 42 Wisconsin, 583; Dillon v. Union Pacific Railroad, 3 Dillon, 319; t ielly v. Belcher Silver .Mining Co., 3
Sawyer, 500; Randallv. Balt. & Ohio Railroad,109 U. S. 478.
Even if this machinery had suddenly developed an infirmity,
the defendant cannot b6 held guilty of negligence, without
proof of notice or knowledge of the infirmity. To charge the
defendant it is essential to show knowledge, or that knowledge
might have been obtained, by the use of reasonable diligence,
of the defect. Without this there -can be no recovery.
Allen v. -New Gas Co., 1 Ex. Div. 251; Packing 'Co. v. "ightower, 92 Illinois, 139; Chicago & Alton Railroadv. Plfatt,
89 Illinois, 141 ; Diwey v. Chicago c& Northwestern Railroad,
31 Iowa, 373; Tierney v: .Minheagolis &c. R, ,"oad Co., 83
M~i~ane .ota , 311; Ma..._River Railroad v. Bdrver, 5 Ohic St.
54:1, 564:; S. C. 67 Am. Dec. 312; Pa'an'tonv. Northern Central
Railiload, 3 'N: 'Y 7; Deqraf v. Nfew York Central Railroad.7.6.N. Y. 125.

WASHINGTON &c. RAILROAD CO. v. McDADE.

567

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court instructed the jury.that the defendant had
the right t& use and employ, only such machinery and devices
as "the experience of trade and manufacture sanctioned as
reasonably safe." This was error. No authority can be found
for it. Such a test is unknown in the judicial writings on
this subject. The rule applicable to. machinery of this kind
is elaborately laid down by the Supreme Court of Michigan,
n Richards v. Rough, 53 Mich. 212, before cited, and the rule
isthere stated is sanctioned by this court in .Tuttle v. .fil,oaukee Railway, 122 U. S. 194. The rule may be stated thus:
The master must furnish safe and reasonably good machinary to his servant and keep it in reasonably good order, i.e.,
he must exercise ordinary care. ie is not bound to make
use of the safest appliances and instruments, nor to change his
machinery with every new invention, nor to introduce every
supposed improvement in his appliances. lie must have good
but not the best machinery. He is not bound to throw away
his old machinery and buy new. Wonder v. B. & 0. Rail-.
road,32 Maryland, 411; Jones v. Granite Hills, 126 Mass. 84;
Keith v. Granite Iills, 126 Mass. 90; Fort Vayne &c. Railroad v. Gildersleeve, 33 Micbigan, 133, 256; Burke v. ]Withersee, 98 N. Y. 562 ; Leonard v. Collins, 70 N. Y. 90; Ladd v.
Nlew Bedford Railroad,119 Mass. 412 ; elley v. Silver Spring
Co., 12 R. I. 112.
-Mr. William A. Cook and Xr. C. C. Cole for defendant in
error. Air. I. L. Cole was with them on the brief.
MR.JUSTICE LAYA_, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of. the court.

A motion was" filed in this case to dismiss the writ of error
on the g-ound that the general term of the court below never
acquired jurisdiction -of the case, and that, as a consequence
thereof, this court is also without jurisdiction. In-connection
with the motion to dismiss there was also a motion to strike out
the bill of exceptions.
The argument urged by the plaintiff in supporL of both motions is, that the rules and statutes prescribing the practice

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and proceedings for the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, in securing the review, in a general term of that
court, of a judgment at a special term, have not been comulied
with in this case.
Neither of these motions can be sustained. We think the
court in general term acquired jurisdiction of the case; and as
it comes here regularly from that court we shall proceed to
consider it upon its merits.
There are seven assignments of error which we will consider,
not seriatim,bat with reference to their relevancy to the issues
presented by the record. These issues are, (1) Was the machinery with which the defendant worked defective and unsafe
for the purpose for which it was-used, and more particularly,
was the putting the belt on the large pulley by hand dangerous? or should there have been a loose pulley upon which thebelt could have been safely shifted by means of a lever? (2)
Assuming that there was this defect in the machinery which
made it dangerous, was the plaintiff ignorant of the defect or
of the danger connected with it? (3) Did the defendant, in
failing to notify the plaintiff of the danger, have reason to
believe the plaintiff was ignorant either of the nature of the
machinery, or of the danger incident to its use? (4) Was the
plaintiff guilty of such contributory negligence as precluded a
recovery?
The three instructions given by the court to the jury as
requested by the counsel for the defendant were to the effect,
that, if the jury believed from the evidence that any one of
the three following conditions or state of facts existed, the
plaintiff could not recover: (1) That the accident would not
have occurred but for the negligence or want of ordinary care
and caution on the part of the plaintiff ; (2) That if the foreman of the shops, on the Saturday evening preceding the accident, ordered and directed the plaintiff to take the belt off the
pulley, and to send on Monday morning for Moore to put it
on, he was bound to obey the order directing him to send for
Moore, and his not obeying it was such negligence as would
prevent a recovery in this action ; and (3) Assuming that putting on the belt was attended with danger, the question to be

WASHINGTON &c. RAILROAD CO. v. McDADE.

569

Opinion of the Court.

determined by the jury was not whether the plaintiff knew of
such danger, but whether a man of ordinary care and observation, in his situation, would have known it, as he must be
presumed to possess that degree of intelligence; and that if
with such observation and care he would have known the
danger, then in putting on the belt he assumed all the risks
incident thereto.
The instruction given by the court on its own motion was
as follows: "If the jury find from the evidence that after he
was employed by the defendant the plaintiff voluntarily, and
without being required so to do, attended to the belt and
habitually and with the knowledge of the defendant's officers
placed the same in position without accident, and his course
of conduct in relation thereto was such as to induce the defendant or its officers to believe that he had the requisite skill
for that purpose, or that he had willingly assumed the duty
of so placing the belt, the defendant was not in default for
not having instructed him as to any danger incident to the
operation."
Another instruction given by the court in lieu of the 16th
one requested by the defendant was as follows: "But the jury
are instructed that the defendant was not a guarantor of the
safety of its machinery, and was only bound to use ordinary
care and prudence in the selection and arrangement and care
thereof, and had a right to use and employ such as the experience of trade and manufacture sanctioned as reasonably
safe."
The other instructions given by the court were modifications
to a degree of those asked by the defendant, and were mere
amplifications of those above mentioned.
We do not think there was any error in any of these instructions of which the defendant had any right to complain. The
propositions contained in them are in strict accord with the
principles laid down by the decisions of this court. HRough
v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 217; lYorthern Paifte Railroad v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 647, 648; Zane v. _Norhtern
Central Railway, 128 U. S. 91, 94; Jones v. East Tennevsee
&c.Railroad Co., 128 U. S. 443.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The general principles of law by which the liability of an
employer for injuries to an employd, growing out ocf defective
machinery, is tested are well settled by those decisions.
Neither individuals nor corporations are bound, as employers,
to insure the absolute safety of the machinery or mechanical
appliances which they provide for the use of their employ~s.
iNor are they bound to supply the best and safest or newest
of those appliances for the purpose of securing the safety of
those who are thus employed. They are, however, bound
to use all reasonable care and prudence for the safety of
those in their service, by providing them with machinery
reasonably safe and suitable for the use of the latter. If the
employer or master fails in this duty of precaution and care,
he is responsible for any injury which may happen through a
defect of machinery which was, or ought to have been, known
to him, and was unknown to the employ6 or servant. But if
the employ6 knew of the defect in the machinery from which
the injury happened, and yet remained in the service and
continued to use the machinery without'giving any. notice
thereof to the employer, he must be deemed to have assumed
the risk of all danger reasonably to be apprehended from such
use, and is entitled to no recovery. And further, if the
empioyd himself has been wanting in such reasonable care
and prudence as would have prevented the happening of the
accident, he is guilty of contributory negligence, and the employer is thereby absolved from responsibility for the injury,
although it was occasioned by the defect of the machinery,
through the negligence of the employer.
The state decisions in harmony with the principles laid
down by this court on this subject are too numerous for
citation.
We will now briefly notice the assignments of error, the
first of which is that th6 court erred in refusing to direct the
,jury to return a verdict ,for the defendant, as requested by
counsel.
.It is argued, in'support of this assignment, that there was
not a scintilla of evidence to show negligence on the part of
the defendant, as the employer of the plaintiff; that the part

WASHINGTON &c. IAILROAD

06.

v. McDADE.

571

Opinion of the Court.

of the machinery which caused the accident was not defective;
that the evidence showed it to be of the -most approved character, purchased without regard to cost, and such as was generally in use throughout the country; that loose pulleys and
a shifter or lever for shifting the belt were not used in blacksmith shops; that the plaintiff had been in the shop for nearly
eighteen months, and had become familiar by constant use
with the operation of putting the belt on the pulley, and it
was impossible for him not to know what danger attended its
use; that the company had employed a man, competent and
skilful, whose duty it was to put on all the belts in the establishment; that it was not in the line of the duty of the plaintiff to put on this belt, and whenever he did so he was acting
outside the scope of his employment; and, lastly, that the
manner in which the accident occurred, as described by the
plaintiff himself, in failing to wait until Kline had slowed -up
the engine, shows that he was, by his own heedlessness and
rash want of care, the author of his own misfortune. On the
other hand, the evidence offered by the plaintiff certainly
tended to show that the injury would not have occurred but
for the defect of the fixed pulley and the projecting screw;
that the machinery was unsafe, and not such as was generally
used in shops of that kind, as testified to by experienced
machinists introduced by the plaintiff, and the only one examined in behalf of the defendant; that he (the plaintiff) was
unaware of the dangers attendant upon putting on the belt by
hand; that he did not know that the belt in which he was
caught had been recently, and, perhaps, imperfectly repaired;
that there were in the other shops of the establishment shifters
and levers which could put the belt on the pulley without
danger; that he was wholly unaware of the danger attendant
upon putting on the belt by hand; and that he supposed he
was in the line of his duty when the injury happened.
If this evidence was worthy of belief it certainly could not
be said to show such contributory negligence as would justify
the court in directing a verdict for the defendant below. As
a general rule, the question of contributory negligence is one
for the jury, under proper instructions by the court, especially

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

,here the facts are in dispute, and the evidence in relation to
them is that from which fair-minded men may draw different
inferences. Railroad Comany v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657. Upon
every question in the case -the
safety or unsafety of the
machinery, the ignorance on the part of the plaintiff of the
danger of it, and the negligence of the plaintiff at the time of
the accident - the evidence was controverted, and rendered the
case just such a one as this court in Jones v. East Tennessee
&c. Railroad Co., supra, said that "a due regard for the
respective functions of the court and the jury would seem to
demand that these questions should have been submitted to
the jury." In the language there used, "we see no reason, so
long as the jury system is the law of the land, and the jury is
made the tribunalito decide disputed questions of fact, why it
should not decide such questions as these as wil as others."
There are two recent cases in Massachusetts which'are so
analogous, in many of their features, to the case under consideration, that we deem a special reference to them proper.
DaZey v. American Printing Co., 150 Mass. 77, was an.action
by an employd for personal injuries sustained while in the performance of his duties in the defendant's mill, using an elevator
operated by a belt passing over a pulley on a shaft. At the
tfial the evidence introduced by the plaintiff tended to show
that the belt was frequently off the pulley; that there was no
one in the employ of the defendant specially charged with
putting it on when it came off; and that any one using the
elevator put the belt on when he found it off. It further
showed that the plaintiff, having occasion, in the course of his
regular duties, to use the elevator, found the belt off andproceeded to put it on, but in so doing was caught in a set screw
projecting from a collar on the shaft and whirled around the
shaft, and received serious injuries. The defendant introduced
testimony to show that there was another man whose duty it
was to put on the belt. At the conclusion of the testimony, the
trial court directed a verdict in favor of the defendant, and,
the case being carried up on exceptions to the Supreme Judicial Court, that court reversed the judgment of the court
below, and ordered a new trial. In its opinion the court said:

WASBINGTON &c. RAILROAD C0, v. McDADE.

573

Opinion of the Court.

"The ground upon which the case was withdrawn from the
jury is not stated. We cannot say, as matter of law, that no
sufficient evidence was introduced or offered of negligence on
the part of the defendant, or of freedom from negligence on
the part of the plaintiff. . . . If the machinery was found
to be unsuitable, -and if the plaintiff was within the line of his
duty in attempting to adjust the belt, we cannot say that he
was not entitled to go to the jury on the question of whether
he 'Was in the exercise of due care."
Myes v. Hu&on Iron Co., 150]Mass. 125, was an action
for personal injuries sustained by the plaintiffs while in the
employ of the defendant. We extract from the syllabus the
following: "A mine was reached through a vertical shaft by
a bucket lowered by the unwinding of a rope from the
uncoupled drum of a hoisting engine, and usually controlled
in its descent by a brake operated by the engineer. Laborers
employed in the mine entered the bucket to descend as usual,
and, upon word being given, the engineer started to let it
down, but soon found that the brake was not holding. The
bucket fell rapidly for many feet, when it was suddenly
stopped by planks across the shaft, andthe laborers were hurt.
In actions against the employer to recover for such injuries,
there was evidence that the brake, besides a loss of initial
efficiency, was in design and original construction insufficient;
that there were safer contrivances for controlling such a
dcscent, some of which the defendant used elsewhere about
the mine; and that gearing used in hoisting had, through
wear and a change made in it by the defendant, become less
useful as a possible means of stopping the bucket if the brake
failed to hold, and, in fact, proved ineffectual to stop tthe
bucket at the time; also, that no person had previously Deen
iurt in going down in the bucket: HeZd, that the cases were
properly submitted to the jury, who were warranted in finding
verdicts for the plaintiff."
In the course of the opinion the court said: "The risk of
the safety of machinery is not assumed by an employ6, unless
he knows the danger, or unless it is so obvious that lie will be
presumed to know it." And in another part of the opinion it

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

was said:" The plaintiffs were allowed to show that other
machinery or appliances than those used by the defendant
would have been safer; for example, a strap-brake, a friction
V, so-called, or a reversible engine. In order to aid the jury
in determining whether the defendant had exercised reasonable care in providing and maintaining the machinery actually
in use, it was competent to show what other kinds of machinery or appliances were uged elsewhere, and might have been
used at shaft No. 1. WMeeler v. Wason -Manuf. Co., 135
Mass. 294, 298. It does not follow from the introduction of
such evidence that the defendant was bound to use the very
saf.est, or newest, or any particular, machinery or appliances;
but, as 'reasonable care' is a relative term, the jury might
properly consider what could be done to secure safety, and the
evidence was competent."
As regards the instruction given by the court, on its own
motion, above quoted, we think nothing contained therein is
prejudicial to the defendant. Indeed it may be doubted if it
did not favor the defendant more than the evidence in the
case and the law applicable thereto would warrant.
The same remark is true of the instruction given by the
court in lieu of the 16th one asked -by the defendant. That
instruction as requested was as follows: "The employer is
bound to Vse ordinary care and prtfdence in providing proper
machinery, but he is not a guarantor of its safety. If he uses
ordinary care and prudence he is absolved from responsibility.
The machinery need not be the safest of the kind, provided it
is such as a person of reasonable care and prudence would
provide." The one given by the court in lieu thereof was as
follows: "But the jury are instructed that the defendant was
not a guarantor of the safety of its machinery, and was only
bound to use ordinary care and prudence in the selection and
arrangement and care thereof, and had a right to use and
employ such as the experience of trade and manufacture sanctioned as reasonably safe." The instruction here given is in a
large part identical with the language used by this court in
.IHougA v. Railway Co., .9upra. The assignment of error is
inexact in its statement that the court said in effect "that the

WASRINGTON &c. RAILROAD CO. v. McDADIE.

575

Opinion of the Court.
defendant was bound to use and employ such machinery onk
'as the experience of trade and manufacture sanctioned as
reasonable and safe."' What the court said was, that the
defendant "was only bound to use ordinary care and prudence
in the selection and arrangement and care" of its machinery.
In adding that the defendant had the right to use such machinery "as the experience 6f trade and, manufacture sanctioned,"
the court i!nposed no additional obligation upon it, but relaxed
the rigor of the rule in its favor. If there was any error in
such relaxation the defendant could not complain of it. But
taken in connection with the other instructions giver by the
court, on that question, we think the instruction as it stands
was just and reasonable -at
least not prejudicial to the
defendant.
We repeat, we are of the opinion that all of the instructions
sufficiently guarded the interests of the defendant, and that,
in the language of the'court below, "If there was any error, it
was in too great an indulgence and relaxation of the law in its

-favor."
Nor do we see any error in the refusal of the .court to grant
all the instructions prayed for by the defendant. Such of
them as were correct, as mere abstract propositions, had
already been covered by theinstructions which the court had
given. The others, had they been granted, would, as conclusions of law, have bound the jury to render a verdict for the
defendant.
For the foregoing reasons the judgment of the court below

is

Affirmed.

Mn. JusnoE BRnwEun, not having been a member of the
court at the time this case was considered, took no part in its
decision.

