OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the ease.

LEISY v. HARDIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 1459. Submitted January 6, 1890.-Decided April 25, 1890.
A statute of a State, prohibiting the sale of any intoxicating liquors, except
for pharmaceutical, medicinal, chemical or sacramental purposes, and
under a license from a county court of the State, is, as applied to a sale
by the importer, and in the original packages or kegs, unbroken and unopened, of such liquors manufactured in and brought from another State,
unconstitutional and void, as repugnant to the clause of the Constitution granting to Congress the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States.
Peircev. New Hampshire, 5 How. 504, overruled.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, on behalf of the court, stated the
case as follows:
Christine Leisy, Edward Leisy, Lena and Albert Leisy, corn.posing the firm of Gus. Leisy & Co., citizens of Illinois,
brought their action of replevin against A. J. Hardin, the duly
elected and qualified marshal of the city of Keokuk, Iowa, and
m off oio constable of Jackson township, Lee County, Iowa, in
the Superior Court of Keokuk, in said county, to recover 122
one-quarter barrels of beer, 171 one-eighth barrels of beer, and
11 sealed cases of beer, whichhad been seized by him in a
proceeding on behalf of the State of Iowa against said defendants, under certain provisions of the code of the State of
Iowa; and upon issue joined, a jury having been duly waived
by the parties, the case was submitted to the court for trial,
-and, hazing been tried, the court, after having taken the case
under advisement, finally "rendered and filed in said cause its
findings of fact and conclusions of law in words and figures
following, to wit:
. "1st. That plaintiffs, Gus. Leisy & Co., are a firm of that
name and style, residing in the State of Illinois, with principal
place of business at Peoria, Illinoi ; that said firm is composed
wholly of citizens of Illinois; that said firm is engaged as

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Statement of the Case.,

brewers in the manufacture of beer in the said city of Peoria,
Illinois, selng same in the States of Illinois and Iowa.
"2d. That the property in question, to wit, 122 one-quarter
barrels of beer, of the value of $300, 171 one-eighth barrels
of beer, value $215, and 11 sealed cases of beer, value of
$25, was all manufactured by said Leisy & Co. in the city
of Peoria, Illinois, and put up in said kegs and cases by the
manufacturers, viz., Gus. Leisy & Co., at Peoria, Illinois; that
each of said kegs was sealed and had placed upon it, over the
plug in the opening of each keg, a United States interal
revenue stamp of the district in which Peoria is situated; that
said cases were substantially made of wood, each one"of them
containing 24 quart bottles of beer, each bottle of beer corkedand the cork fa~tenedin with a metallic cap, sealed and covered
with tin-foil, and each case was sealed with a metallic seal; that*
said beer in all of said kegs and cases was manufactured and put
up into said kegs and cases as aforesaid by the manufacturers,
to wit, Gus. Leisy & Co., plaintiffs in this suit, and to open said
cases the metallic seals had to be broken.
"3d. That the property herein-described was transported by
said Gus. Leisy & Co. from Peoria, Illinois, by means of railways to Keokuk, Iowa, in said - sealed kegs and cases, at same
was manufactured and put up by them in the city of Peoria,
Illinois.
"14th. That said property was sold and offered for sale in
Keokuk, Iowa, by John Leisy,.a resident of Keokuk, Iowa, who
is agent for'said Gus: Leisy & Co. ; that the only sales and offers
to sell of said beer was in the original keg and sealed case as
manufactured and put up by said Gus. Leisy & Co.- and iram
ported by them into the State of Iowa; that no kegs or cases
sold or. offered for sale were broken or opened on the premises;
that as soon as same was purchased it was removed from the'
premises occupied by !Rus. Leisy & Co., which said premises
are owned by Christiana Leisy, a member of tLhe firm of -Gus.
Leisy & CO., residing in and being a citizen of Peoria, fllinois;
that none of such sales or offers to sell were made to minors
or persons in the habit of becoming intoxicated.
"5th. That on the 30th day of June, 1888, the defendant, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case

constable of Jackson township, Lee County, Iowa, by virtue of
a search warrant issued by J. G. Garrettson, an acting justice
of the peace of said Jackson township, upon an information
filed charging that in premises occupied by said John Leisy
there were certain intoxicating liquors, etc., seized the property
therein described and took same into his custody.
"6th. And the court finds that said intoxicating liquors
thus seized by the defendant in his official capacity as constable were kept for sale in the premises described in the
search warrant in Keokuk, Lee County, Iowa, and occupied
by Gus. Leisy & Co. for the purpose of being sold, in violation
of the provisions of the laws of Iowa, but which laws, the
court holds, are unconstitutional and void, as herein stated.
"7th. That on the 2d day of July, 1888, plaintiffs filed in
this court their petition,. alleging, among other things, that
they were the owners and entitled to the possession of said
property, and that the law under which said warrant was
issued was unconstitutional and void, being in violation of
section 8 of article I of the Constitution of the United States,
and having filed a proper bond, a writ of replevin issued and
the possession of said property was given to plaintiffs.
"From the foregoing facts the court finds the following
conclusions:
"That plaintiffs are the sole and unqualified owners of said
property and entitled to the possession of same and judgment for
one dollar damages for their detention and costs of suit; that
so much of chapter 6, title XI, of th6 Code of 1873, and the
amendments thereto, as prohibits such sales by plaintiffs as
were made by plaintiffs, is unconstitutional, being in contravention of section 8 of article I of the -Constitution of the
Utiited States; that said law has been held unconstitutional.
in a like case heretofore tried and determined by this.court,
involving the same question, in the case of Collins v.- Hill&,
decided prior to the commencement of this suit and prior to:"
the seizure of said property by defendant; to all of which the
defendant at the time excepted."
Judgment was thereupon rendered as follows:
"This cause coming on for hearing, plaintiffs appearing by

LEISY

i,.

IARDIN.

Statement of.the Case.

Anderson & Davis, their attorneys, and the defendant, by H.
Scott Howell & Son and Win. B. Collins, his attorneys, and
the cause coming on for final hearing on the pleadings on fileand the evidence introduced, the court makes the special finding of facts and law herewith ordered to .be made of recor(d
and finds that plaintiffs are the sole and unqualified owners
and entitled to possession of the following-described personal.
property, to wit: 122 one-quarter (T), barrels of beer" of the
value of $300; 171 one-eighth () barrels of beer-of the'value
of $215, and 11 sealed cases of beer of the value of $25.
"That, plaintiffs. being in possession of said property by
v*tue of a bond heretofore given, said possession. in plaintiffs
is conirmed. The court further finds that the writ issued by
J. G. Garrettson, a justice of the peace, under which defendant held possession of said property and seized same, is void,
same having been issued under geetions of the law of Iowa
that are unconstitutional and void.
"That plaintiff is entitled to one dollar damages for the
wrongful detention of said property.
"It is therefore Qrdered and considered by the court. thati
the plaintiffs have and recover of defendant the sum of one
dollar damages, and,costs of this action, taxed at $"To which findings, order and judgment of court the defendant at the time excepts and asks until 'the 31st' day. of
October, 1888, to prepare and file his bill of exceptions, which
request is granted and order hereby made."
A: motion for new trial Was made and overruled, and thecause taken to the Supreme Court of ]bwa by appeal, and
errors therein assigned as follows:
"L The"court erred in finding that ihe plaintiffs were the
sole and unqualified ownelrs and were entitled to the losses.
sion of the intoxicating liquors seized and held by appellant.
"II. In finding that the plaintiffs were entitled to one dollar damages for their detention, and for costs of suit.
"IIl. The court erred in holding that the sales of beer in
'original packages,' by the keg and case, as made by ,Pohni
Leisy, agent of plaintiffs, were lawful,
:1
IV. The codrt erred in its conclusions and finding that so

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

much of the law of.the State of Iowa embraced in chapter 6,
title XI, Code of 1873, and the amendments thereto, as prohibits such sales of beer in the State of Iowa was unconstitutional, being in contravention of section 8, article I, of the
Constitution of the United States.
1V. The court erred in rendering a judgment for plaintiffs
and awarding them the intoxicating liquors in question and
damages and costs against defendant.
"VI. The court erred in overruling the defendant's mubtion
for a new trial."
The Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the Superior
Court, and entered judgment against the plaintiffs and their
sureties on the replevin bond in the amount of the value
of the property, with costs. The judgment thus concluded:
"And it is further certified by this court, and hereby made a
part of the record, that in the decision of this suit there is
drawn.in question the validity of certain statutes of the State
of Iowa, namely, chap. 6 of title XI of the Code of Iowa of
1873 and the amendments thereto, on the ground of their
being repugnant to and in contravention of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution of the United States, said appellees, Gus.
Leisy & Co., claiming such statutes of the State of Iowa are
,invalid, and the decision in this cause is in favor of the validity
of said statutes of the State of Iowa."
To review this judgment, a writ of error was sued out from
this court.
The opinion of the Supreme Court, not yet reported in the
official series, will be found in 43 N. W. Rep. 188.
/The seizure of the beer in question by the constable was
made under the provisions of 'chapter 6, title XI, of the Code
of 1873 and amendments thereto. (Code 1873, p. 279; Laws
1884, c. 8, p. 8, c. 143, p. 146; Laws 1888, c. 71, p. 91; 1 McClain's Ann. Code, §§ 2359 to 2431, p. 603.)
Section 1523 of the Code is as follows:
"No person shall manufacture or sell, by himself, his clerk,
steward or agent, directly or indirectly, any intoxicating liquors
except as hereinafter provided. And the keeping of intoxicating liquor, with the intent on the part of the owner thereof,

LEISY v. HARDINT.
Statement of the Case.

or any person acting under his authority, or by his permission,
to sell the same within this state contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, is hereby prohibited, and the intoxicating liquior
so kept, together with the-vessels in.which it is contained, is
declared a nuisance, and shall be forfeited and dealt with. as
hereinafter provided."
Chapter 71 of the Laws of the 22d General Assembly is an
act approved April 12, 1888 (Laws Iowa, 1888, p. 91), of
which the first section is as follows:
"That after this act takes effect no person shall manufacture for sale, sell, keep for sale, give away, exchange, barter
or dispense any intoxicating liquor, for any purpose whatever,
otherwise than as provided in this act. Persons holding permits as herein provided shall be authorized to sell and dispense
intoxicating liquors for pharmaceutical and medicinal purposes
and alcohol for specified chemical purposes, and wine for sacramental purposes, but for no other purposes whatever; and
all permits must be procured as hereinafter provided from the
district court of the proper county at any term thereof after
this act takes effect, and a permit to buy and sell intoxicating
liquors when so procured shall continue in force for one year
from date of its issue unless revoked according td law or until
application for renewal is disposed of, if such application is
made before the year expires. Provided, tha' renewals 'of
permits may be annually granted upon written application by
permit holders who show to the satisfaction of the court or
judge that they have during the preceding year complied with
the provisions of this act and execute a new bond as in this
act required to be originally given, but parties may appear
and resist renewals the same as in applications for permits."
Section 2 provides for. notice of application for permit, and
section 3 reads thus:
"Applications for permits shall be made by petition signed
and sworn to by the applicant and filed in the office of the
clerk of the -.district court- of the proper county at least ten
4ays before the first day of the term, which petition shall state
the applicant's name'; place of residence; in what business he
is then engaged, and in what business he has been engaged for

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

two-years. previous to filing petition; the place, particularly
describing it, 'where the business of buying and selling liquor
is to be conducted; that he is a citizen of the United States
and of thd State of Iowa; that he is a registered pharmacist
and now is, and for the last six months has been lawfully condupting a pharmacy in the township or town wherein he proposes to sell intoxicating liquors under the permit applied for,
'and as the proprietor of such pharmacy, that he has not been
adjudged guilty of violating the law relating to intoxicating
liquors 'within the last two years next preceding his application; and is not the keeper, of a hotel, eating-house, saloon,
restaurant or place of -public amusement; that he is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and has
Dot within the last two years next preceding his application
been directly or indirectly engaged, employed or interested in
the unlawful manufacture, sale or keeping for sale of intoxicating liquors; and that he desires a permit to purchase, keep
and sell such liquors for lawful purposes only."
Various sections follow, relating to giving bond; petition as
to the good moral character of applicant; hearing on the application; oath upon the issuing of permit; keeping of record;
punishment by fine, imprisonment, etc.
By section 20, sections 1524, 1526, and other sections of the
Code were, in terms, repealed.
The Code provided for the seizure of intoxicating liquors
unlawfully offered for sale, and no question in reference to
that arises here, if the law in cbntroversy be valid.
By section 1 of chapter 8 of the Laws of 1884, p. 8, ale,
beer, wine, spirituous, vinous and malt liquors are defined to
be intoxicating liquors.
Section 1524 of the Code of 1873, p. 279, was as follows:
"Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to forbid the
sale, by the importer thereof, of foreign intoxicating liquor
imported under the authority of the laws of the -United States
regarding the importation of such liquors and in accordance
with such laws: Provided,That the said liquor, at the time
of said sale by said importer, remains in the original casks or
packages in which it was by him. imported, and in quantities

LEISY' v. HARDIN.

1Q7

Opinion of the Court.
not less than the quantities in which the laws of the United
States require such liquors to be imported, aud is sold *by him
in said original casks or packages and in said quantities only;
and nothing contained in this law shall prevent any persons
from manufacturing in this State liquors for the purpose
of being sold according to the provisions of this chapter, to
b. used for mechanical, medicinal, culinary or sacramental
purposes."
This section is substantially identical with section 2 of
chapter 45 of the acts of the fifth general assembly of Iowa,
approved January 22, 1855 (Laws Iowa, 1854-1855, p. 58);
and it was carried into the revision of 1860 as section 1560
(Revision 1860, Chap. 64, p. 259). It was repealed by section
20 of the act of April 12, 1888, as before stated.
Section 1553 of the Code, as amended by the act of April 5,
1886 (Laws Iowa, 1886, p. 83, c. 66, § 10), forbade any common carrier to bring within the State of Iowa, for any pel'son
or persons, or corporation, any intoxicating liquors from any
othbr State or Territory of the United States, without first
having been furnished with a certificate% under the seal of the
county auditor of the county to which said liquor was to be
transported, or was consigned for transportation, certifying
that the consignee, or person to whom such liquor was to be
transported, conveyed or delivered, was authorized to sell
intoxicating liquors in such county. This was held to be
in contravention of. the federal constitutiin, in Bowman v.
Chicago & North IFestern Railway Co., 125 U. S.465.
-Yr.James C. Davis for plaintiffs in error.
Ar.H. Scott Howell and .Mr. I. B. Collins for defendant
inerror.
3&. John Y. Stone, Attorney General for the State of Iowa,
for that State.
MR. CHIEF JusTIoE FUtLER,after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of -the court.

OCTOB],R TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The power vested in Congress "to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes," is the power to prescribe the rule by which
that commerce is to be governed, and is a power complete in
itself, acknowledging no limitations other than those prescribed in the Constitution. It is co-extensive with the subject on which it acts and cannot be stopped at the external
boundary of a State, but must enter its interior and must be
capable of authorizing the disposition of those articles which
it introduces, so that they may become mingled with the common mass of property within the territory entered. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; -Brown v. -Maryland,12 Wheat. 419.
And while, by virtue of its jurisdiction o' er persons and
property within its limits, a State may provide for the security
of the lives, limbs, health and comfort of persons and the protection of property so situated, yet a subject matter which
has been confided exclusively to Congress by the Constitution
is not within the jurisdiction of the police power of the State,
unless placed there by congressional action. Henderso"n v.
.Mayor of New Yorke, 92 U. S. 259; Railroad Co. v. Husen,
95 U. S.465; Walling v. Mickigan, 116 U. S.466; Robbins
v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S.489. The power to regulate commerce among the States is a unit, but if particular
subjects within its operation do not require the application of
a general or uniform system, the States may legislate in
regard to them with a view to local needs and circumstances,
until Congress otherwise directs; but the power thus exercised
by the States is not identical in its extent with the power to
regulate commerce among the States. The power to pass laws,
in respect to internal commerce, inspection laws, quarantine
laws, health laws and laws in relation to bridges, ferries and
highways, belongs to the class of powers pertaining to locality, essential to local intercommunication, to the progress and
development of local prosperity and to the protection, the
safety and the welfare of society, originally necessarily belonging to, and upon the adoption of the Constitution reserved
by, the States, except so far as falling within the scope of a
power confided to the general government. Where the sub-

ILEISY v. HARDIN. .
Opinion of the Court.

ject matter requires a uniform system as between the States,
the power controlling it is vested exclusively in Coigress, and,
cannot -be encroached upon by the States.; but where, in relation to the subject matter, different rules may be suitable for
different localities, the States may exercise powers which,
though they may be said to partake of the nature of the
power granted to the general government, are strictly not
such, but are simply local powers, which have full operation
until or unless circumscribed by the action of Congress -in
effectuation of the general power. Cooley v. Port Wardew
of PuiladteZphia, 12 How. 299.
It was stated in the 32d number Qf the Federalist that the
States might exercise concurrent and independent power
in all cases but three: First, where the power was lodged
exclusively in the federal constitution; second, where it was
given to the United States and prohibited to the States;
third) where, from the nature and subjects of the power, i
must be necessarily exercised by the national government
.exclusively. But it is easy to see that Congress may assert
an authority under one of the granted powers, which would
exclude the exercise by the States upon the same subject of
a different but similar power, between which and that pos.;
sessed by the general government no inherent repugnancy
existed.
Whenever, however, a particular power of the general government is one which must necessarily be exercised by it, and
Congress remains silent, this is not only not a concession that'
the powers reserved by the States may be exerted as if the
specific power had not been elsewhere reposed, but, on the
contrary, the only legitimate conclusion is that the general
government intended that power should not be affirmatively
exercised, and the action of the States cannot be permitted to
effect that which would be incompatible with such intention..
Ience, inasmuch as interstate commerce, consisting in the
transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of commodities,
is national in its character, and must be governed by a uniform
system, so long as Congress does not pass any law to regulate
it, or allowing the States so to do, it thereby indicates its will,

OCTOBER' TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

,tnat such commerce shall be free and untrammelled. County
f 31obile v.'Rimball, 102 U. S. 691; Brown v. louwton, 114
U. S. 622, 631; Wabash, St. Louis &c. Railway v. Pilinois,
118. U. S. 557; Robbins v. Shelby Taaxing District, 120 U. S.
489, 493.
* That ardent spirits, distilled liquors, ale and beer are subjects of exchange, barter and traffic, like any other commodity
in which a right of traffic exists, and are so recognized by the
usages of the commercial world, the laws of Congress and the
decisions of courts, is not denied. Being thus articles of commerce, can a. State, in the absence of legislation on the part
of Congress, Iprohibit their importation from abroad or from
a sister State? or when imported prohibit their sale. by the
importer? If -the importation cannot be prohibited without
,the consent of Congress, when does property imported from
'abroad, or from a sister State, so become part of the common
mass of property within., State as to be subject to its unimpeded control?
In Brown v. Maryland (supra)the act of the state legislature drawn in question was held invalid as repugnant to the
prohibition of the Const, itjon upon the States to lay any
impost or duty upon, impbrts .or exports, and to the clause
granting the power 'to regulate commerce; and it. was laid
down by the great magistrpte who presided over this court
'formore than a third of a century, that the point of time
when the prohibition ceases and the power of the State to tax
commences, is not the instant when the article enters the
country, but when the importer has so acted upon it that it
has become incorporated and mixed up with the mass of property in the country, which happens when the original package
is no longer such in his hands; that the distinction is obvious
between a tax which intercepts the import as an import on its
way to become incorporated with the general mass of property, and a tax which finds the article already incorporated
with that mass by the act of the importer; that as to the power
to regulate commerce, none of the evils which proceeded frb.i
the feebleness of the federal government contributed more to
the great revolution which introduced the present system, than

'LEISY v. HARDIN. '
Opinion- of the Court.

the deep and general conviction that commerce ought-to be
regulated by Congress; that the grant should be as extensive
as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreign commerce
and all commerce among the States; that that power was complete in itself, acknowledged no limitations other than those prescribed by the Constitution, was co-extensive with -the subject
on which it acts and not to be stopped at the -external boundary of a State, but must be capable of entering its interior;
that the right to sell any article imported was an inseparable
incident to the right to import it; and that the principles
expounded in the case applied equally to importations from a
sister State. Manifestly this must be so, for the same public policy applied to commerce among the States as to foreign
commerce, and not a reason could be assigned for confiding
the power over the one which did not conduce to establish the
propriety of confiding the power over the other. Story, Constitution, § 1066. And although the precise question before
us was not ruled in Gibbons v. Ogden and Brown v. farylaZnd,
yet we think it was virtually involved and answered, and that
this is demonstrated, among other cases, in Bowman v. Chicago
& NVorthwestem Ra ilway Co., 125 U. S.465. In the latter
case, section 1553 of the Code of the State of Iowa as alnended
by c. 143 of the acts of the twentieth General Assembly in
1886, forbidding common carriers to bring intoxicating liquors
into the State from any other State or Territory, without'first
being furnished with a certificate as prescribed, was declared
invalid, because essentially a regulation of commerce among
the States, and not sanctioned by the authority, express or
implied, Qf Congress. The opinion of. the court, delivered by
Mr. Justice Matthews, the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice
Field, an.d the dissenting opinion by Mr. Justice Harlan, on
behalf of Mr. Chief Justice Waite, Mr. Justice Gray, - and
himself, discussed the question involved in all its phases; ..and
while the determination of whether the right of transportation
of an article of commerce from one State to another includes
by necessary implication the right of the consignee to sell it in
unbroken packages at the place where the transportation terminates was in terms reserved, yet the argument of the majority

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

conducts irresistibly to that conclusion, and we think we cannot
do better than repeat the grounds upon which the decision was
made, to rest. It is there shown that the transportation of
freight or of the subjects of commerce, for the purpose of
exchange or sale, is beyond all question a constituent bf commerce itself; that this was the prominent idea in the minds of
the framers of the Constitutioii, when to Congress was committed the power to regulate commerce among the several
States; that the power to prevent embarrassing restrictions by
any State was the end desired; that the power was given by
the same words and in the same clause by which was conferred
power to regulate commerce, with foreign nations; and that it
would be absurd to suppbse that the tranpmission of the subjects of trade from the State of the buyer, or from the place
or production to the market, was not contemplated, for without' that there could be no consummated trade, either with
foreign nations or among the States. It is explained that
where State laws alleged to be regulations of commerce among
the States have been sustained, they were laws which related
to bridges or dams across streams, wholly within the State, or
police or health laws, or to subjects of a kindred nature, not
strictly of commercial regulation. But the transportation of
passengers or of merchandise from one State to,another is in
its nature' national, admitting of but one regulating power;
and it Was to guard against the possibility .of commercial
embarrassments which would result if one State could directly
or indirectly tax persons or property passing through it, or
prohibit particular property from entrance into the State, that
the power of regulating commerce among the States was conferred upon the federal government.
"If in the present case," said Mr. Justice Matthews, "the
law of Iowa, operated upon all merchandise sought to be
brought from another State into its- limits, there could be no
doubt that it would be a regulation of commerce among
the States," and he concludes that this must be so, though
it applied only to one class of articles of a particular kind.
The legislation of Congress on the subject of interstate commerce by means of railroads, designed to remove trammels

,LEISY v. IIARDLN.
Opinion of the Court.

upon transportation between different States, and upon the
subject of the transportation of passengers and merchandise,
(Revised Statutes, sections 4252 to 4289, inclusive,) including
the transportation of nitro-glycerine and other similar explosive substances, with the proviso that, as' to them, "any State,
territory, district, city or town within the United States"
should not be prevented by the language used "from regulating or from prohibiting the traffic in or transportation of those
substances between persons or places lying or being within
their respective territorial limits, or from prohibiting the introduction thereof into such limits for sale, use or consumption
therein," is referred to as indicative, of the intention of Congress that the transportation of commodities between the
States shall be free, except where it is positively restricted by
Congress itself, or by States in particular cases by the express
permission of Congress. It is said that the law in question
was not an inspection law, the object of which "is to improve
the quality of articles produced by the labor of a country,
to fit them for exportation; or, it may be, for domestic. use;"
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203; Turnr v. -Maryland,107
U. S.38, 55; nor could it be regarded as a regulation of quarantine or a sanitary provision for the purpose of protecting'
the physical health of the community; nor a law to prevent
the introduction into the State of diseases, contagious, infectious, or otherwise. Articles in such a condition as te-nd to
spread 'disease are not merchantable, are not legitimate subjects of trade and commerce, and the self-protecting power of
each State, therefore, may be rightfully exerted against their'
introduction, and such exercise of power cannot be considered
a regulation of commerce, prohibited by the Constitution;
and the observations of Mr. Justice Catron, in 7e License
Cases, 5 How. 504, 599, are quoted to the effect that what
does-not belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the
police power of the State, but that which does belong to com-'
merce is within the jurisdiction of the United States; that to
extend the police power over subjects of commerce would be
to make commerce subordinate to that power, and would
enable the State to bring within the police power "any article
VOL. oxxxV-

OOTOBER TERAM

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

of consumption that a State might wish to exclude, whether
it belonged to that which was drunks or to food and clothing;
and with nearly equal claims to propriety, as malt liquors and
the products of fruits other than grapes stand on no higher
ground than the light wines of this and other countries, excluded in effect by ice law as. it now stands. And it would
be only another step to regulate real or supposed extravagance
in food and clothing." And *Mr. Justice Matthews thus proceeds, p. 493: "For the purpose of protecting .its people
against the evils of intemperance, it has the right to prohibit
the manufacture within its. limits of intoxicating liquors; it
may also prohibit all domesti6 commerce in them between its
own inhabitants, whether the articles are introduced froni
other States or from foreign countries; it may punish those
who sell them in violation of its laws; it may adopt any
measures tending, even indirectly and remotely, to make the
policy effective until it passes the line *of power delegated to
Congress under the Constitution: -It cannot, without the consent of Congress, express or implied, regulate commerce between its pe6ple and those of the other States of the Union
in order. to effect its end, however desirable such a regulation
might be.

.

Can it be supposed that by omitting any.

express declaration on the subject, Congress has intended to
submit to the several States the decision of the question in
each locality of what shall and what shall not be articles of
traffic in the interstate commerce of the country? If. so, it
'has left to each State, according to its own caprice and arbitrary will, to discriminate for or against every- article grown,
produced, manufactured or sold in any State and sought to
be introduced as an article of commerce into any other. If
the State of Iowa may prohibit the importation of intoxicating liquors from all other -States, it may also include tobacco,
or any other article, the use or abuse of which it may deem
deleterious. It may not choose even, to be governed by considerations growing out of the health, comfort or peace of the
community. Its policy may be directed to other ends. It
may choose to establish a system .directed to the promotion
and benefit of its own, agriculture, manufactures or arts of any

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

description, and prevent the introduction and sale within its
limits of any or of all articles that it may select as coming
into competition with those which it seeks to protect. The
police power of the State would extend to such cases, as well
as to those in which it was sought-to legislate in behalf of the
health, peace and morals of the people. In view of the commercial anarchy and confusion that would result from the.
diverse exertions of power by the several States of the Union,
it cannot be supposed that the Constitution or Congress have
intended to limit the freedom, of commercial intercourse
among the people of the several States."
Many of the cases bearing upon the subject are cited and
considered in these opinions, and among others The License
Cases, 5 How. 504, wherein laws passed by Massachusetts,
New Hampshire and Rhode Island, in reference to the sale of
spirituous liquors, came under review and were sustained,
although the members of the court who participated in the
decisions did not concur in any. common ground upon which
to rest them. That of Peirce et al. v. New Rampshire is
perhaps the most important to be referred to here. In that
case the defendants had been fined for selling a barrel of gin
in New Hampshire which they had bought in Boston and
brought coastwise to Portsmouth, and there sold in the same
barrel and in the same condition in which it was purchased in,
Massachusetts, but contrary to the law of New Hampshire in
that behalf. The conclusion of the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Taney is in these words, p. 586: "Upon the whole, therefore, the law of New Hampshire is in my judgment a valid
one. For, although the gin sold was an import from another
State, and Congress have clearly the power to regulate such
importations, under the grant of power to regulate commerce
among the several States, yet, as Congress has made no regulation on the subject, the traffic in the article may be lawfully
regulated by the State is soon as it is landed in its territory,
and a tax imposed upon it, or a license required, or the sale
altogether prohibited, according to the policy which the State
may suppose to be its interest or duty to pursue."
Referring to the cases of Massachusetts and Rhode Island,

,

OCTOBER TERMI 1880
Opinion of the -Court.

the Chief Justice, after saying that if the laws of those States
came in collision with the laws of Congress authorizing the
importation of *spirits and distilled liquors, it would be the
duty of the court to declare them void, thus continues, p. 576:
"It has, indeed, been suggested, that, if a State deems the
traffic in ardent spirits to be injurious to its citizens, and calculated to introduce immorality, vice and pauperism into the
State, it may constitutionally refuse to permit its importation,
oiotwithstanding the laws of Congress; and that a State may
,do this upon the same principles that it may resist and prevent the introduction of disease, pestilence or pauperism from
abroad. 1ut -it must be remembered that disease, pestilence
and pauperism are not subjects of commerce, although sometimes among its attqndant evils. They are not things to be
regulated and trafficked in; but to be prevented, as far as
human foresight or human means can guard against them.
.But spirits and distilled liquors are universally admitted to be
subjects of ownership and property, and are therefore subjects
of exchange, barter and traffic, like any other commodity in
which a right of 'property exists. And Congress, under its
general power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, may
prescribe what article of merchandise shall be admitted and
what excludeil . and may therefore admit, or not, as it shall
deem best, the importation of ardent spirits. And inasmuch
as the laws of Congress authorize their importation, no State
has a right to prohibit their introduction.

.

.

. These state

laws act altogether upon the retail or domestic traffic within
their respective borders. They act upon the article after it
has- passed the line of foreign commerce, and become a part
of the general mass of property in tha State. These, laws
may, indeed, discourage imports, and diminish the price which
ardent spirits would otherwise bring. But although a State
is bound to receive and to permit the sale by the importer
of any article of'merchanhdise which Congress authorizes to
be imported, it is not bound to furnish a market for it, nor
to abstain from the passage of any law which it may deem
necessary or advisable to- guard the health or morals of its
citizens, although such law may discourage importation, or

IMSY 'v. HARDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

diminish the profits of the importer, or lessen the revenue of
the general government. And if any State deems the retat
and internal traffic in ardent spirits injurious to its citizens,
and calculated to produce idleness, vice or debaucheryr, I see
nothing in the Constitution of the United States to prevent it
from regulating and restraining the traffic, or from prohibiting it altogether, if it thinks proper."
The New Hampshire case, the chief justice observed, differs
from Brown v. Maryland,in that the latter was a case arising
out of commerce with foreign nations, which Congress had
regulated by law; whereas the case in hand was 'one of commerce between two States, in relation to which Congress had
not exerCised'its.power. "But the law of New Hampshire
acts directly upon an import from one State to another, while
in the hands of the importer for sale, and is therefore a regulation of commerce, acting upon the articli while -it is within
the admitted jurisdiction of the general government, and subject to its control and regulation. The question, therefore,
brought up for decision is, whether a State is prohibited by
the Constitution of the United States from making any regulations of foreign commerce, or of commerce with another
State, although such regulation is confined to its own territory,
and made for its own convenience or interest, and does not
come in conflict with any law of Congress. In other words,
whether the grant of power to Congress is of itself a prohibition to the States, and renders all state laws upon the subject
null and void." p. 578. He declares it to appear to him very
clear, p. 579, "that the mere grant of power to the general
government cannot, upon any just principles of construction,
be construed to be an absolute prohibition to the exercise of
iny power over the same subject by the States. The controlling and supreme power over commerce with foreign nations
and the several States is undoubtedly conferred upon Congress.
Yet, in my judgment, the State may, nevertheless, for the
safety or convenience of trade, or for the protection.of the
health of its citizens, make regulations of commerce for its
own ports and harbors, and for its own territory; and such
regulations are valid unless they come in conflict with a law

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of Congress."

He comments on the omission of any prohibi-

tion in terms, and concludes that if, as he thinks, "the framers
of the Constitution (knowing that a multitude of minor regulations must be necessary, which Congress amid its great
concerns could never find time to consider and provide) intended merely to make the power of the federal government
supreme upon this subject over that of the States, then the
omission of. any prohibition is accounted for, and is consistent
with the whole instrument. The supremacy of the laws of
Congress, in cases of collision with state laws, is secured in
the article which declares that the laws of Congress, passed
in pursuance of the powers granted, shall be the supreme law;
and it is only where both governments may. legislate on the
same subject that this article can operate." And he considers
that the legislation of Congress and the States has conformed
to this construction from the foundation of the government,
as exemplified in state laws in relation to pilots and pilotage
and health and quarantine laws.
But conceding the weight properly to be ascribed to the
judicial utterances of this eminent jurist, we are constrained
to say that the distinction between subjects in respect of
which there can be of necessity only one system or plan of
regulation for the whole country, and subjects local in their
nature, and, so far as relating to commerce, mere aids rather
than regulations, does not appear to us to have been sufficiently recognized by him in arriving at the conclusions
announced. That distinction has been settled by repeated
decisions of this court, and can no longer be regarded as open
to re-examination. After all, it amounts to no more than
drawing the line between the exercise of power over commerce with foreign nations and among the States and the
exercise of power over purely local commerce and local concerns.
The authority of Pei ce v. NSew Htampshire, in so far as it
rests on the view that the law of New Hampshire was valid
because Congress bad made no regulation on the subject,
must be regarded as having been distinctly overthrown by the
numerous cases hereinafter referred to.

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

The doctrine now firmly established is, as stated by -Mr:
Justice Field, in Bowman v. Chicago &c. Raiway Co., 125
U. S. 507, "that where the subject upon which Congress can
act under its commercial power is local in its nature or sphere
of operation, such as harbor pilotage, the improvement of
harbors, the establishment of beacons and buoys to guide vessels in and out of port, the construction of bridges over navigable rivers, the erection of wharves, piers and docks, and the
like, which can be properly regulated only by special provisions
adapted to their localities, the State can act until Congress
interferes and supersedes its authority; but where the subject is.
national in its character, and admits and requires uniformity
of regulation, affecting alike all the States, such as transporta,
tion between the States, including the importation of goods
from one State into another, Congress can alone act upon it
and provide the needed regulations. The-absence of any law
of Congress on the subject is equivalent to its declaration that
commerce in that matter shall be free. Thus the absence of.
regulations as to interstate commerce with reference to any
particular subject is taken as a declaration that the importation of that article into the States shall be unrestricted. It
is only after the importation is completed, and the property
imported has mingled with and become a part of the general*
property of the State, that its regulations can act upon it,
except so far as may be necessary to insure safety in the disposition of the import until thus mingled."
The conclusion follows that, as the grant of the power to
regulate commerce among the States, so far as one systeni is
required, is exclusive, the States cannot exercise that power
without the assent of Congress, and, in the absence of legislation, it is left for the courts to determine when state action
does or does not amount to- such exercise, or, in other words,
what is or is not a regulation of such commerce. When that
is determined, controversy is at an end. Illustrations exemplifying the general rule are numerous. Thus we have held the
following to be regulations of interstate commerce: A tax upon
freight transported from State to State, Case of the State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232; a statute imposing a burdensome condi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion on ship-masters as a prerequisite to the landing of passengers, llendersoh v. -Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259; a
statute prohibiting the driving or conveying of any Texas,
iMexican or Indian cattle, whether sound or diseased, into the
State between the first day of March and the first day of
November in each year, Railroad Co. v. Ewsen, 95 U. S. 465 ;
a statute requiring every auctioneer to collect and pay into
the state treasury a tax on his sales, when applied to imported
goods in the original packages by him sold for the importer,
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; a statute intended to
regulate or tax, or to impose any other restriction upon, the
transmission of persons or property, or telegraphic. messages,
from one State to another, WVabash, St. Louis &c. Railway v.
Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; a statute levying a tax upon non.resident drummers offering for sale or selling goods, wares or
merchandise by sample, manufactured or belonging to citizens of other States, Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,120
U. S. 489.
On the other hand, we have decided, in County of Aobile v.
Eimball, 102 U. S. 691, that a state statute providing for the
improvement of the river, bay and harbor of Mobile, since
what was authorized to be done was only as a mere aid to
commerce, was, in the absence of action by Congress, not in
conflict with the Constitution; in Escanaba Co. v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678, that the State of Illinois could lawfully authorize the city ou Chicago to deepen, widen and change the
channel of, and construct bridges over, the Chicago River; in
Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691, that the
jurisdiction and control of wharves properly belong to the
States in which they are situated unless otherwise provided ;
in Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, that a general state tax
laid alike upon all property is not unconstitutional, becarse
it happens to fall upon goods which, though not then intended for exportation, are subsequently exported; in -Morgan
Steamship Co. v. Louisiana Board of Health., 118 U. S. 455,
that a state law, requiring each vessel passing a quarantine
station to pay a fee for examination as to her sanitary condition and the ports from which she came, was a rightful exer-

LEISY v. HARDIN.

.121.

Opinion of the Court.

cise of police power; in Smith v. Alabama, 124. U. S.465, and
in Nashville &c.Railway Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96, that a
state statute requiring loco.motive engineers to be'exahiined and
obtain a license was not in its nature a regulation of commerce;
and in .Kimmish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217, that a statute providing that a person having in his possession Texas cattle, which
had not been wintered north of the southern boundary bf
Missouri at least one winter, shall be liable for any damages
which may accrue from allowing them to run at large, and.
thereby spread -the disease known as the Texas fever, was
constitutional.
We held also in Welton v. The State of .itisouri, 91 U. S.
275, that a.state statute requiring the payment of a license
tax from persons dealing in goods, wares and merchandise,
which are not the growth, produce or manufacture of the
State, by going from place to place to sell the- same in the
State, and requiring no such license tax from persons selling
in a similar way goods which are the growth, produce or
manufacture of the State, is an unconstitutional regulation;
and to the same effect in Walling v. .ichigan, 116 U. S. 446,
in relation to a tax upon non-resident sellers of intoxicating
liquors to be shipped into a State from places without it. But
it was held in Patterson v. entucky, 97 U. S. 501, and in
TWebebr v. Firginia,103 U. S.344, that the right conferred by
the patent laws of the United States did not remove the tangible property in which an invention might take form from
the operation of the laws of the State, nor restrict the power
of the latter to protect the community from direct danger inherent in particular articles.
In X3Tgler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, it Was adjudged that
"state legislation which prohibits the manufacture of spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors
within the limits of the State, to be there sold or bartered for
general use as a beverage, does not necessarily infringe any
right, privilege or immunity secured, by the Constitution of
the United States, or by the amendments thereto." And
this was in accordance with our decisions in Ba'temeyer v.
Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Beer Company v. .Massachusetts, 97 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

25; and Fos&er v. Xansa8, 112 U. S. 201. So in Xidd v.
Pearson,, 128 U. S. 1, it was held that a state statute which
provided (1) that foreign intoxicating liquors may be imported
into the State, and there kept for sale by the importer, in the
original packages, or for transportation in such packages afid
sale beyond the limits of the State; and (2) "that intoxicating
liquors may be manufactured and sold within the State for
mechanical, medicinal, culinary and sacramental purposes, but
for no other, not even for the purpose of transportation beyond
the limits of the State, was not an undertaking to regulate
commerce among the States. And in Eilenbecker v. Di8triet
Court of Plymouth County, 134: U. S. 31, 40, we affirmed the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa, -sustaining the sentence of the district court of Plymouth in that State, imposing
a fine of $500 and costs, and imprisonment in jail for three
months, if the fine was not paid within thirty days, as a punishment for contempt in refuging to obey a writ of injunction
issued by that court, enjoining and restraining the defendant
from selling or keeping for sale any intoxicating liquors,
including ale, wine and beer, in Plymouth County. Mr. Justice Miller there remarked: "If the objection to the statute is
that it authorizes a proceeding in the nature of a suit in equity
to suppress the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors
which are by law prohibited, and to abate the nuisance which
the statute declares such acts to be, wherever carried on, we
respond that, so far as at present advised, it appears to us that
all the powers of a court, whether at common law or in chan.
cery, may be called into operation by a legislative body for
the purpose of. suppressing this objectionable traffic; and we
know of no hindrance, in the Constitution of'the United States
to the form of proceedings, or to the court in which this
remedy shall be had. Certainly, it seems to us to be quite as
wise to use the processes of the law and the* powers of a court
to prevent the evil, as to punish the offence as a crime after- it
has been committed."
, These decisions rest upon the undoubted right of the States
of the Union to control their purely internal affairs, in doing
which they exercise powers not surrendered to the national

LEISY, v. HVARDIN.
Opinion of the Court.
government; but whenever, the law of the State amounts
essentially to a regulation of commerce.with foreign nations
or among the States, as it does when it inhibits, directly or
indirectly, the receipt of an imported commodity or its disposition before it has ceased to become an article of trade
between one State and another, or another country and this,
it comes in conflict with a power which, in this particular, has
been exclusively vested in the general government, and is
therefore void.
In .legler v..Ran as, upra, the court said. (p. 662) that it
could not "shut out of view the fact, within the knowledge of
all, that the public health, the public morals and the public
safety may be endangered by the general use of intoxicating
drinks; nor the fact, established by statistics accessible to
every one, that the idleness, disorder, pauperism and crime
existing in the country are, in s( -me degree at least, traceable
to this evil." And that "if in the judgment of the legislature
[of a State] the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for the
maker's own use, as a beverage, would tend to cripple, if it
did not defeat, the effort to guard the community against the
evils attending the excessive use of such liquors, it is not for
the courts, upon their views as to what is 'best and safest for
the community, to disregard the legislative determination of
that question. . . . Nor can it be said that government
interferes with or impairs any one's constitutional rights of
liberty or of property, when it determines that the manufacture and sale of intoxicating drinks, for general or individual
use, as a beverage, are, or may become, hurtful to society, and
constitute. therefore, a business in which no one may lawfully
engage." Undoubtedly, it is for the legislative branch of the
state governments to determine whether the manufacture of
particular articles of traffic, or the sale of such articles, will
injuriously affect the public, and it is not for Congress to
determine what measures a State may properly adopt as appropriate or needful for the protection of the public morals, the
piablic health or the public safety; but notwithstanding it is
not vested with supervisory power over matters of local administration. the responsibility is upon Congress, so far as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

regulation of interstate commerce is concerned, to -remove the
restriction upon the State in dealing with imported articles of
trade within its limits, which have not been mingled with the
common mass of property therein, if in its judgment the end
to be secured justifies and requires such action.
Prior to 1888 the statutes of Iowa permitted the sale of foreign liquors imported under the laws of the United States,
provided the sale was by the importer in the original casks or
packages, and in quantities not less than those in which they
were required to be imported; and the provisions of the statute to this effect were declared by the Supreme Court of Iowa,
in Pearson v. Aternational Distillery, 72 Iowa, 348, 354, to
be "intended to conform the statute to the doctrine of the
:United States Supreme Court, announced in Brown v. .Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, and -License Cases, 5 How. 504, so that
the statute should not conflict with the laws and authority of
the United States." But that provision of the statute was
repealed in 1888, and the law so far amended that we understand it now to provide that, whether imported or no, wine
cannot be sold in Iowa except for sacramental purposes, nor
alcohol except for specified chemical purposes, nor intoxicating
liquors, including ale and beer, except for pharmaceutical and
medicinal purposes, and not at all except by citizens of the
* State of Iowa, whd are registered pharmacists and have permits-obtained as prescribed by the statute, a permit being also
grantable to one discreet person in any township where a
pharmacist does not obtain it.
The plaintiffs in error are citizens of Illinois, are not pharmacists, and have no permit, but import-into Iowa beer, which
they sell in original packages, as described. Under -our decision in Bouman v. Micago &c. Railway Co., 8upra, they had
the right to import this beer into thiat State, and in the view
which we have expressed they had the right to sell it, by
which act alone it would become mingled in the common
mass of property within the State. Up to that point of time,
we hold that in the absence of congressional permission to do
so, the State had no power to interfere by seizure, or any
other action, in prohibition of importation and sale by the for-

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, &3.

eign or non-resident importer. Whatever our individual views
may be as to the deleterious or dangerous qualities of particualar. articles, we cannot hold that any articles which Congress
recognizes as subjects of interstate commerce are not such, or
that whatever are thus recognized can be controlled by, state
laws amounting to regulations, while they retain that character; although, at the same time, if directly dangerous in themselves, the State may take appropriate measures to guard
against injui-y before it obtains complete jurisdiction- over
them. To concede to a State the power to exclude, -directly
or indirectly, articles so situated, without congressional permission, is to concede to a majority of the people of a State,
represented in the state -legislature, the power to regulate
commercial intercourse between the States, by determining
what shall be its subjects, when that power was distinctly
granted to be exercised by the people of the United States,
represented in Congress, and its possession by the latter was
considered essential to that more perfect Union which the
Constitution was adopted to create. Undoubtedly, there is
difficulty in drawing the line between the municipal powers
of the one government and the -commercial powers of the
other, but when that line is determined, in the particular instance, accommodation to it, without serious inconvenience,
may readily be found, to use the language of Mr. Justice
ohnson, in
ibons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 238, in "a frank
and candid cocperation for the general good."
The legislation in question is to the extent indicated repugnant to the third clause of section 8' of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Iowa is
Reversed and the caue 'remandedfor fureher proceedingw
opinion.
not inconsistent with ti
MR. JUSTioE GRAY, with whom concurred MR. JusTicn HAnLAr and MR. AJUsTTcJ BREWER, dissenting.

Mr. Justice Harlan, Mr. Justice Brewer and myself are unable to concur in this judgment. As our dissent is based on

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

the previous decisions of this court, the respect due to our
associates, as well as to our predecessors, induces us to state our
position, as far as possible, in the words in which the law has
been heretofore declared from this bench.
The facts of the case, and the substance of the statutes
whose validity is drawn in question, may be briefly stated.
It was an action of replevin of sundry kegs and cases of beer,
begun in an inferior court of the State of Iowa against a constable of Lee County in Iowa, who had seized them at Keokuk
in that county under a search-warrant issued by a justice of the
peace pursuant to the statutes of Iowa, which prohibit the sale,
the keeping for sale, or the manufacture for sale, of any intoxicating liquor (including malt liquor) for any purpose whatever,
except for pharmaceutical, medicinal, chemical or sacramental
purposes, and under an annual license granted by the district
court of the proper county, upon being satisfied that the applicant is a citizen of the United States and of the State of
Iowa, and a resident of the county, and otherwise qualified.
The plaintiffs were citizens and residents of the State of Illinois, engaged as brewers in manufacturing beer at Peoria in
that State, and in selling it in the States of Illinois and Iowa.
The beer in question was manufactured by them at Peoria,
and there put up by them in said kegs and cases; each keg
being sealed, and having upon it, over the plug at the opening,
a United Stateg internal revenue stamp; and each case being
substantially Made of wood, containing two dozen quart bot.
tles of beer, and sealed with a metallic seal which had to be
broken in order to open the case. The kegs and cases owned
by the plaintiffs, and so sealed, were transported by them from
Peoria by railway to Keokuk, and there sold and offered for
sale by their agent, in a building owned by one of them, and
without breaking or opening the kegs or cases.
The Supreme Court of Iowa having given judgment for the
defendant, the question presented by this writ of error is
whether the statutes of Iowa, as applied to theie facts, contravene section 8 of article 1, or section 2 of article 4 of the Constitution of the United States, or section 1 of article 14 of the
Amendments to the Constitution.

LEISY v. IHADIN.

127

Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

iBy section 8 of article I of the Constitution, "the Congress.
shall have power," among other things, "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States,"
and "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing powers."
By section 2 of article 4, "the citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States."
By section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment, "no State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; ,{or -shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of -the laws."
By the Tenth Amendment, "the powers not delegated to
the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to
the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people."
Among the powers thus reserved to the several States i§
what is commonly called the police power -that inherent and
necessary power, essential to the very existence of civil society, and the safeguard of the inhabitants of the State against,
disorder, disease, poverty and crime.
"1The police power belonging to the States in virtue of their.
general sovereignty," said MN/r. Justice Story, delivering the
judgment of this court, "extends over all subjects within the
teriritorial limits of the States ; and has never been conceded
to the United States." Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539,
625. This is well illustrated by the.recent adjudications that
a statute prohibiting the sale of illuminating oils below a certain fire-test is beyond the constitutional power of Congress
to enact, except so far as it has effect within the United States
(as, for instance, in the District of Columbia) and without the
limits of any State; but that it is within the constitutional
p6wer of a State to. pass such a statute, even as to oils manufactured under letters patent from the United States. Urnited
StaM v. Dewitt$9 Wall. 41; Patteeonv. Rentwky, 97 U. S.
501.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

The police power includes all measures for the protection
of the life, the health, the property and the welfare of the
inhabitants, and for the promotion of good order and the
public morals. It covers the suppression of nuisances, whether
injurious to the public health, like unwholesome trades, or to
the public morals, like gambling houses and lottery tickets.
Saughterhouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 62, 87; Fertilizing Co. v.
Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Phalan v. Virginia, How. 163,
168; Stone v. .fississi"i, 101 U. S. 814.
This power, being essential to the maintenance of the authority of local government, and to the safety and welfare of
the people, is inalienable. As was said by Chief 5ustice
Waite, referring to earlier decisions to the same effect, 'KNo
legislature can bargain away the public health or the public
morals. The people themselves cannot do it, much, less their
servants. The supervision of both these subjects of governmental power is continuing, in its nature, and they are to be
dealt with as the special exigencies of the moment may require. Government is organized with a view to their preservation, and cannot divest itself of the power to provide for
them. For this purpose the largest legislative discretion is
allowed, and the discretion cannot be parted with any more
than the power itself." Stone v. .Mississi2pi, 101 U. S. 814,
819. See also Butehers' Uiion Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111
U. S. 746, 753 ; Few Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co.,
115 U. S. 650, 672; Nfew Orleans v. Eouston, 119 U. S. 265,
275.
The police power extends not only to things intrinsically
dangerous to the public health, such as infect6d rags or diseased meat, but to things which, when used in a lawful manner, are subjects of property and of commerce, and yet may
be used so as to be injurious or dangerous to the life, the
health or the morals of the people. Gunpowder, for instance,
is a subject of commerce and of lawful use, yet, because of its
explosive and dangerous quality, all admit that the State may
regtilate its keeping and sale. And there is no article, the
right of the State to control or to prohibit the sale or manufacture of which within its limits is better established, than

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, J.

intoxicating liquors. Zicense Cases, 5 How. 504; Downhamr
v. Alexandria Council, 10 Wall. 173; Bartemeyer v. lowa,.18
Wall. 129; Beer Co. v. .Massacusetts,97 U. S. 25; Tiernan v.
Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Foster v. KEansas, 112 U. S. 201; Mugler v. Kansas and Kansas v. Ziebold, 123 U. S. 623; Kidd v.
Pearson,128 U. S. 1; Eilenbecker v. Plyrnout County Court,
134 U. S. 31.
In Beer Co. v. fassackusetts, above cited, this court, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Mlassachusetts, reported in 115 Mass. 153, held that a statute of the
State, prohibiting 'the manufacture and sale of intoxicating
liquors, including malt liquors, except as therein provided, applied to a corporation which the State had long before char
tered, and authorized to hold real and personal property, for
the purpose of manufacturing malt liquors. Among the reasons assigned by this eburt for its judgment, were the following:
"If the public safety or the public morals require the discontinuance of any manufacture or traffic, the hand of the
legislature cannot be stayed from providing for its discontinuance, by any incidental inconvenience which individuals or
corporations may suffer. All rights are held subject to the
police power of the State."
"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the extent
and boundaries of the police power, and however difficult it
may be to render a satisfactory definition of it, there seems to
be no doubt that it does extend to the protection of the lives,
health and property of the citizens, and to the preservation of
good order and the public morals. The legislature cannot, by
any contract, divest itself of the power to provide for these
objects. They belong emphatically to that class of objects
which demand the application of the maxim, salus popul
guprema ex; and they are to be attained and provided for by,
such appropriate means as the legislative discretion may devise. That diicretion can no more be bargained away than
the power itself."
"Since we have already held, in the case of Bartemeyer v.
Iowa, that as a measure of police regulation, looking to the
VOL. cxxxv-9

•130

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer,

nJ.

preservation of public morals, a state law prohibiting the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors is not repugnant
to any clause of the*Constitution of the United States, we see
° nothing in the present case that can afford any sufficient
ground- for disturbing the decision of the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts." 97 U. S.32, 33.
In -Mugler v. Ean8as and Kansa8 v. Ziebold, above cited, a
statute of Kansas, prohibiting the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and declaring all places, where
such liquots were manufactured or sold in violation of the statute, -to be. common nuisances, and prohibiting their future use
for the purpose, was held to be a valid exercise of the police
power of the State, even as applied to persons who, long be,fore the passage of the statute, had constructed buildings specially adapted to such manufacture.
It has also. been adjudged that neither the grant of a license
to sell intoxicating liquors, nor the payment of a tax on such
liquors, under the internal revenue laws of the United States,
affords any defence to an indictment by a State for selling
the same liquors contrary to its statutes. License Tax Cases,
* 5 Wall. 462; Pervear v. Commonwealtk, 5 Wall. 475.
The clause of the Constitution, which declares that "the
•citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
:immuqnities of citizens in the several States," has no bearing
upon this case. The privileges and immunities thus secured
are those fundamental rights and privileges which appertain
onner v. Elliott, 18 How. 591, 593; Curtis, J.,
'tocitizenship.
in Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 580; Paul v. Virginia, 8
iWall. 168, 180; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S.391, 395. As
bserved by the court in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, "The right to
sell intoxicating liquors, so far as such a right exists, is not
one of the rights growing out of citizenship of the United
States." 18 Wall. 133.
Nor is the case affected by the Fourteenth Amendment of
tile Constitution. As Was said in the unanimous opinion of
t1iis court in Barbier v. Connolly, after stating the true scope
of that amendment, "But neither the amendment - broad
and comprehensive as. it is -nor any other amendment, was

LEISY v. HARDIn.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

designed to interfere with the power of the State, sometimes
termed its police power, to prescribe regulations to promote'
the health, peace, morals, education and good order of the
people, and to legislate so as to increase the industries of the
State, develop its resources, and add to its wealth and prosperity." 113 U. S. 27, 31. Upon that ground, the amendment has been adjudged not to apply to a state statute prohibiting the sale or manufacture of intoxicating liquors in
buildings long before constructed for the purpose, or the sale
of oleomargarine lawfully manufactured before the passage of
the statute. .M2gler v. FGn.sas, 123 U. S. 623, 663; Powell v.
Pennsyijlvania,127 U. S. 678, 683, 687.
The remaining and the principal question is, whether the
statu te of Iowa, as applied to the sale within that State of
intoxicating liquors in the same cases or kegs, unbroken and
unopened, in which they were brought by the seller from
another State, is repugnant to the clause of the Constitution
granting to Congress the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States.
In the great and leading case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, the point decided was that acts of the legislature
of New York, granting to certain persons for a term of years
the exclusive navigation by steamboats of al1 waters within
the jurisdiction of the State, were, so far as they affected such
navigation by vessels of other persons licensed under the laws
of the United States, repugnant to the clause of the Constitution empowering Congress to regulate foreign and interstate
commerce.
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering judgment, after speaking of the inspection laws of the States, and observing that
they had a remote and considerable influence on commerce,
but that the power to pass them was not derived from a
power to regulate commerce, said: "They form a portion of
that immense mass of legislation, which embraces everything
within the territory of a State, not surrendered to the general
government: all which can be most advantageously exercised
by the States themselves. Inspection laws, quarantine laws,
health laws of every description, as well as laws for regulating

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

the internal commerce of a State, and those which respect.
turnpike roads, ferries, etc., are component parts of this mass.
No direct general power over these objects is granted to Congress; and, consequently, they remain subject to state legislation. If the legislative power of the Union .can reach them,
.it must be for national purposes; it must be where the power
is expressly given for a special purpose, or is clearly incidental to some power which is expressly given." pp. 203, 204.
Again; he said that quarantine and health laws "are considered as flowing from the- acknowledged power of a State,
to provide for the health of its citizens," and that the constitutionality of such laws had never been denied. p. 205.
Mr. Justice Johnson, in his concurring opinion, said: "It is
no bbjection to the existence of distinct, substantive powers,
that, in their application, they bear upon the same subject.
The same bale of goods, the same cask of provisions, or the
same ship, that may be the subject of commercial regulation,
may also be the vehicle of disease. And the health laws that
require them to be stopped and ventilated are no more intended as regulations on commerce, than the laws which permit their importation are intended to inoculate the community
with disease. Their different purposes mark the distinction
between the powers brought into action; and while frankly
exercised, they can produce no serious collision." p. 235.
That Chief Justice Marshall and his associates did not consider the constitutional grant of power to Congress to regulate
foreign and interstate commerce as, of its own force, and
iithout national legislation, impairing the police power of
each State within its own borders to protect the health and
Welfare of its inhabitants, is clearly indicated in the passages
above quoted from the opinions in Gibbon8 v. Ogden, and is
conclusiiely proved by the unanimous judgment of the court
delivered by the Chief Justice five years later in Willson v.
Blackbird Creek -Marsk Co., 2 Pet. 245.
. In that case, the legislature of Delaware had authorized a
dam to be erected across a navigable'tide-water creek which
opened into Delaware Bay, thereby obstructing the navigation
of the creek by a vessel enrolled and licensed under the navi-

LEISY v' HARDIN
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

gation laws of the United States. The decision in Gibbons v.
.Ogder was cited by counsel, as conclusive against the validity
of the statute of the State. But its validity was upheld by
the court, for the following reasons:
"The act of assembly, by which the plaintiffs were authorized to construct their dam, shows plainly that this is one of
those many creeks,*passing through a deep level marsh adjoining the Delaware, up which the tide flows for some distance.
The value of the property on its banks must be enhanced by
excluding the water from the marsh, and the health of the
inhabitants probably improved. Measures calculated to pro1
duce these objects,, provided they do not come into collision
witl the powers of the general government, are undoubtedly
within those which are reserved to the States. But the measure authorized by this act stops a navigable creek, and must
be supposed to abridge the rights of those -who have been accustomed to use it. But this abridgment, unless it comes in
conflict with the Constitution or a law of the United States, is
an affair between the government of.Delaware and its citizens,
of which this court can take no cognizance.
"The counsel for the plaintiffs in error insists that it comes
in conflict with the power of the United States 'to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.'
"If Congress had passed any act which bore upon the case;
any act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, th6
object of which was to control state legislation over those
small navigable cfeeks into which the tide flows, and which
abound throughout the lower country of the middle and southern States;. we should feel not much difficulty in saying that a
state law coming in conflict with such act would be void. But
Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy of the law
of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States; a power which has not been so
exercised as to affect the question.
"We do not think that the act empowering the Blackbird
Creek Marsh Company to place a dam across the creek can,
under all the circumstances of the case, be considered as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJT.

repuguant to the power to regulate commerce in its dormant
state, or as being in conflict with any law passed on the subject." 2 Pet. 251, 252.
1In -rown, v. .Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, the point decided
was that an act of the legislature of Maryland, requiring all
importers of foreign goods by the bale or package, or of
spirituous liquors, and "other persons selling the same by
wholesale, bale or package, hogshead, barrel or tierce," to first
take out a license and pay fifty dollars for it, and imposing a
penalty for failure to do so, was, as applied to sales by an
importer of foreign liquors in the original packages, unconstitutional, both as laying an impost, and as repugnant to the
power of Congress to regulate foreign commerce.
The statute there in question was evidently enacted to raise
revenue from importers of foreign goods of every description,
and not as an exercise of the police power of the State. And
Chief Justice M arshall, in answering an argument of counsel,
expressly admitted that the power to direct the removal of
gunpowder, or the removal or destruction of infectious or unsound articles which endanger the public health, "is a branch
of the police power, which unquestionably remains, and ought
to remain, with the States." pp. 443, 444.
M oreover, the question there presented and decided concerned foreign commerce only, and not commerce among thie
-States. Chief Justice Marshall, at the outset of his opinion,
so defined it, saying: "The cause depends entirely on the
question, whether the legislature of a State can constitutionally require the importer of foreign articles to take out a
license from the State, before he shall be permitted to sell a
bale or package so imported." p. 436.
It is true, that, after discussing and deciding that question,
he threw out this brief remark: "It may be proper to add,
that we suppose the principles laid down in this case, to apply
equally to importations from a sister State." p. 449. But this
remark was obiter dictum, wholly aside from the question
before the court and having no bearing on its decision, and
therefore extrajudicial, as has since been noted by Chief
Justice Taney and Mr. Justice McLean in the License Cases,

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

5 How. 504, 575, 578, 594, and by Mr. Justice Miller in Woodr tf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 139.
To a remark made under such circumstances are peculiarly
applicable the warning words of Chief Justice Marshall him
self in an earlier case, where, having occasion to explain away
some dicta of his own in delivering judgment in MAarbury v:
Madi8on, 1 Oranich, 137, he said.: "It is .amaxim not to be
disregarded, that general expressions, in every opinion, are to
be taken in connection with .the case in which those expressions are used. If they go beyond the case, they, may be
respected, but ought -not to control the judgment in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for decision.
The reason of this maxim -isobvious. The question actually
before the court is investigated with care, and considered in
its full extent. Other principles, which may serve to illustrate
it, are considered in their relation to the case decided, but
their possible bearing on all other cases is seldom completely
investigated."
Coemi v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, 400.
Another striking instance in which that maxim has been applied and acted on is to be found in the opinion of the court
at the present term in Rans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 20.
But the unanimous judgment of this court in 184:7 in
Peirce v. Yew Hampshire,reported together. with Thurlow v.
.3assachusett8 and Fletcher v. Rhode Island as the License
Ca8e8, 5 How. 504, is directly in point, and appears to us con-elusively to govern the case at bar. Those cases were elaboorately-argued by erihinent counsel, and deliberately considered
by the court, and Chief Justice Taney, as well as each of six
associate justices, stated his reasons for concurring in'the judgment.
The cases from Massachusetts and.Rhode Island arose under
statutes of either State, prohibiting sales of spirituous liquors
by any person, in less than certain quantities, without first having obtained an annual license from municipal officers; in the
one case, from county cirhmissioners, who, by the express terms
of the statute, were not required to grant any licenses -when in
their opinion the public good did not require them to be
granted; and in the other .case, from a town council, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

were forbidden to grant licenses whenever the voters of the
town in town meeting decided that none should be granted.
Mass. Rev. Stat. 1836, c. 47, §§ 3, 17, 23-25; Stat. 1837, c. 42,
§ 2; R. L Pub. Laws of 1844, p. 496, § 4; Laws of 1845,
p. 72; 5 How. 506-510, 540. Those statutes were held, to
be constitutional, as applied to foreign liquors which had
passed out of the hands of the importer; while it was
assumed that, under the decision in Brown v. .aryland,
those statutes could be allowed no effect as to such liquors
while they remained in the hands of the importer in the original packages upon which duties had been paid to the'
United States. 5 How. 576, 590, 610, 618.
* The case of Peirce v. NT ew Hampeslire directly involved the
validity, as applied to liquors brought in from another State,
of a statute of New Hampshire, which imposed a penalty on
any person selling any wine, rum, gin, brandy, or other spirits,
in any quantity, "without license from the selectmen of the
town or place where such person resides." N. H. Laws of 1838,
c. 369; 5 How. 555.. The plaintiffs in error, having been indicted under that statute for selling to one Aaron Sias in the
town of Dover in the State of New Hampshire one barrel of
gin, without license from the selectmen of the town, at the trial
admitted that they so sold to him a barrel of American gin;
and introduced evidence that "the barrel of-gin was purchased
by the defendants in Boston in the Commonwealth of M,assachusetts, brought coastwise to the landing at Piscataqua
Bridge, and from thence to the -defendant's store in Dover,
and afterwards sold to Sias in the same barrel and in the same
condition in which it was purchased in Massachusetts." The
defendants contended that the statute was unconstitutional,
because it was "in violation of certain public treaties of the
United States with Holland, France and other countries, containing stipulations for the admission of spirits into the United
States;" and because it was repugnant to the clauses of the
Constitution of the United States restricting the power of the
States to lay duties on imports or exports, and. granting the
power to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States. Chief Justice Parker

*LEISY u. HARDINi.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

instructed the jury "that this State could not regulate commerce between this and other States; that this State could not
prohibit the introduction of articles from another State with
such a view, nor prohibit a sale, of them with such a purpose;
but that, although the State could not make such laws with
such views and for such purposes, she was not entirely forbidden to legislate in relation to articles introduced from
fdreign countries or from other States; that she might tax
them the same as other property, and might regulate the sale
to some extent; that a State might pass health and police laws,
which would, to a certain extent, affect foreign- commerce and
commerce between the States; and that this statute was a regulation of that character, and constitutional." After a verdict
of.guilty, exceptions to this instruction were overruled by the
highest court of the State. 5 How. 654-557 ; 13 N. H. 536.
In that case, as in the case at bar, the statute of the State
prohibited sales of intoxicating liquors by any person without
a license from municipal'authorities, and authorized licenses
to be granted only to persons residing within the State; and
the liquors were sold within the State by the importer, and
in the same barrel, keg or case, unbroken and in the same
condition, inwhich he had brought them from another State.
Yet the judgment of the highest court of New Hampshire
was unanimously affirmed by this court.
Chief Justice Taney, iMr. Justice Catron and Mr. Justice
Nelson were of opinion tha the statute of New Hampshire
was a regulation of interstate commerce, but yet valid so long
as it was not in conflict with any act of Congress.
Chief Justice Taney, afte recognizing that "spirits and
distilled liquors are universally, admitted to be subjects of
ownership and property, and are therefore subjects of exchange, barfer and traffic, like any,other commodity in which
a right of property exists; and Congress, under its general
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, may prescribe what article of merchandise shall be admitted and what
excluded, and may therefore admit, or not, as it shall deem
best, the importation of ardent spirits; and inasmuch as the
laws of Congress authorize their importation, no State has a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, J3.

right to prohibit their introduction;" and yet -upholding the
validity of the statutes of Massachusetts and Rhode Island,
as not interfering with the trade in ardent spirits while they
remained a part of foreign commerce, and were in thd hands
of the importer for sale, in the cask or vessel in which the
laws of Congress authorized them to be imported; p. 577;
proceeded to state the case from New Hampshire as follows:
"The present case, however, differs from Brown v. .Maryland in this: that the former was one arising out of commerce with foreign nations, which Congress has regulated by
law; whereas the present is a case of commerce between two
States; in relation to which Congress has not exercised- its
power. Some acts of Congress have indeed been referred to
in relation to 'the coasting trade. But they are evidently
intended merely to prevent smuggling, and do not regulate
imports or exports from one State to another: This case differs also from the cases of Massachusetts and Rhode Island;
because, in these two cases, the laws of the States operated
upon the articles after they had passed beyond the limits of
foreign commerce, and consequently were beyond the control
and power of Congress. But the law of New Hampshire acts
directly upon an import from one State to another, while in
-the hands of the importer for sale, and is therefore a regulation of commerce, acting upon the article while it is .within the
admitted jurisdiction of the general government, and subject
to its control and regulation." p. 578. And he concluded
his opinion thus: "Upon the whole, therefore, the law of New
Hampshire is, in my judgment, a valid, one. For, although
the gin sold was an import from another State, and Congress
has clearly the power to regulate such -importations, under
the grant of power to regulate commerce among the several
States, yet, as Congress has made no regulation on the subject,
the traffic in the article may. be lawfully regulated by the State
as soon as it is landed in its territory, and a tax imposed upon
it, or a license required, or the sale altogether prohibited, according to the policy which the State may suppose to be its
interest or duty to pursue." p. 586.
Mr. Justice Catron expressed similar views. While he was

LEISY v. HARDIlN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

of opinion that the ultimate right of determining what commodities might be lawful subjects of interstate commerce
belonged to Congress in the exercise of its power to regulate
commerce, and not to the States in the exercise of the police
power, he was equally clear that the statite of New Hampshire was a valid regulation, in the absence of any legislation
upon the subject by Congress. After pointing out the difficulties standing in the way of any attempt by Congress to
make the special and various regulations required at different.
places at the maritime or inland borders of the States, he said:
"I admit that this condition of things does not settle the
question of contested power; but it satisfactorily shows that
Congress cannot do what the States have done, are doing and
must continue to do, from a controlling necessity, even should
fhe exclusive power in Congress be maintained by our decision." p. 606. "Congress has stood by for nearly sixty
years, and seen the States regulate the commerce of the whole
country, more or less, at the ports of entry and at all their
borders, without objection; and for this court now to decide
that the power did not exist in the States, and that all they
had done in this respect was void from the beginning, would
overthrow and annul entire codes of state legislation on the
particular subject. We would by our decision expunge more
state laws and city corporate regulations than Congress is
likely to make in a century on the same subject; and on no
better assumption than that Congress and the state legislatures had been altogether mistaken as to their respective
powers for fifty years and more. If long usage, general
acquiescence .aftd the absence of complaint can settle the interpretation of the clause in question, then it should be deemed
as settled in conformity to the usage by the courts." p. 607.
And finally, in summing up his conclusions, he said: "That
the law of New Hampshire was a regulation of commerce
among the States in regard to the article for selling of which
the defendants were indicted and convicted; but that the
state law was constitutionally passed, because of the power of
the State thus to regulate; there being no regulation of Congress, special or general, in existence, to which the state law
was repugnant," pp. 608, 609.

OCTOBER TERM 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

Mr. Justice Nelson expressed his concurrence in the opinions delivered by the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Catron.
p. 618.
Justices McLean, Daniel, Woodbury and Grier, on the
other hand, were of opinion that the license laws of New
Aampshire, as well as those of Massachusetts and Rhode
Island, were merely police regulations and not regulations of
commerce, although they might incidentally affect commerce.
Mr. Justice McLean, in the course of his opinion in Tflurlow v. Massacausetts,said: "The license acts of Massachusetts
do not purport to be a regulation of commerce. They are
essentially police laws. Enactments similar in principle are
common to all' the States. Since the adoption of its constitution they have existed in Massachusetts." p. 588. [Mass.
Stats. 1786, c. 68; 1792, c. 25; 7 Dane Ab. 43, 44.] "It is
the settled construction of every regulation of commerce, that,
under the sanction of its general laws, no person can introduce
into a community malignant diseases, or anything which contaminates its morals, or endangers its safety. And this is
an acknowledged principle applicable to all general regulations. Individuals in the enjoyment of their own rights must
be careful not to injure the rights 6f others. From the explosive nature of gunpowder, a city may exclude it. :Now
this is an article of commerce, and is not known to carry infectious disease; yetj to guard against a contingent injury,
a city may prohibit its introduction. These exceptions are
always implied in commercial regulations, where the general
government is admitted to have the exclusive power. They
are not regulations of commerce, but acts of self-preservation.
And though they affect commerce to some extent, yet such
effect is the result of the exercise of an undoubted power in
-the State." pp. 589, 590. "A discretion on this subject must
be. exercised somewhere, and it can be exercised- nowhere
but under the state authority. The State majr. regulate the
sale of foreign spirits, and such regulation is valid, though it
reduce the quantity of spirits consumed. This is admitted.
And how can this discretion be controlled ? The powers of
the general government do not extend to it. It is in every

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

aspect a local regulation, and relates exclusively to the internal police of the State." p. 591. "The police power of a
State and the foreign commercial power of Congress must
stand together. Neither of them can be so exercised as materially to affect the other. The sources and objects of these
powers are exclusive, distinct and indepefident, and are essential to both governments." p. 592.
In his opinion in Peirce v. fYew fampshire, he declared
that the same views were equally applicable to that case; and
added: "The tax in the form of a license, as here presented,
counteracts no policy of the federal government, is repugnant
to no power it can exercise, and is imposed -by the exercise of
an undoubted power in the State. The license system is a
police regulation, and, as modified in the State of New Hampshire, was designed to restrain and prevent imifioral indulgence, and to advance the moral and physical welfare of
society." "If this tax had been laid on the property as an
import into the State, the law would have been repugnant to
the Constitution. It would have been a regulation of commerce among the States, which has been exclusively gi 'en to
Congress." "But this barrel of gin, like all other property
within the State of New Hampshire, was liable to taxation
by the State. It comes under the general regulation, and
cannot be sold without a license. The right of an importer of
ardent spirlts to sell in the cask, without a license, does not
attach to the plaintiffs in error, on"account of their having
transported this property from Massachusetts to New Hampshire." pp. 595, 596.
'Mr. Justice Daniel said: "The license laws of Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New Hampshire, now under
review, impose no exaction on foreign commerce. They ate
laws simply determinin the mode in which-a particular commodity may be circulated within the respective jurisdictions
of those States, vesting in their domestic tribunals a discretion
in selecting the agents for such circulation, without discriminating between the sources whence commodities may have
been derived. They do not restrict importation to any extent;
they do not interfere with it, either in appearance or reality;

OCTOBER TERM , 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

they do not prohibit sales, either by wholesale .or retail; they
assert only the power of regulating the latter, but this entirely within the sphere of their peculiar authority. These
laws are, therefore, in violation neither of the Constitution of
the United States, nor of any law nor treaty made in pursuance or under authority of the Constitution." p. 617.
Mr. Justice Woodbury repeated and enforced the same
views, saying, among other things: "It is manifest, also,
whether as an abstract proposition or practical measure, that
a prohibition to import is one thing, while a prohibition to
sell without license is another and entirely different. The
first woul operate on foreign commerce, on the voyage. The
latter affects only the internal busines* of the State after
the foreign importation is completed and on shore." p. 619.
"The subject of buying and selling within a State 'is one as
exclusively belonging to the power of the State over its internal trade, as that to regulate foreign commerce is with the
general government, under the. broadest construction of that
power." "The idea, too, that a prohibition to sell would be
tantamount toa prohibition to import does not seem to me
either logical or founded in fact. For, even under a prohibition to sell, a person could import, as he often does, for his
own consumption and that of his family and plantations; and
also, if a merchant, extensively engaged in commerce, often
does import articles, with no view of, selling them here, but
of storing them for a higher and more suitable" market in
another State, or abroad." p. 620. "But this license is a regulation neither of domestic commerce, between the States, nor
of foreign commerce. It does not operate on either, or the
imports of either, till they have entered the State and become
component parts of its property. Then it has by the Constitution the exclusive power to regulate its own internal cominerce and business in such articles, and bind all residents,
citizens or not, by its regulations, if they ask its protection
and privileges; and Congress, instead of being opposed and
thwarted by regulations as to this, can no more interfere in it
than the States can interfere in. regulation of foreign commerce? p. 625. "Whether such laws of the States as to

LEISY v. HARDINT.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

licenses are to be classed as police measures, or as regulations
of their internal conimerce, or as taxation merely, imposed on
local property and local bilsiness, and are to be justified by
each or by all of them together, is of little .consequence, if they
are laws -which from their nature and object must belong to all
sovereign States. Call them by whatever name, if they are necessary to the well being and independence of all communities,
they remain among the reserved rights of the States, -no
express grant of them to the general government having been
either proper, or apparently embraced in the Constitution. So,
whether they conflict or not, indirectly and slightly, with
some regulations of foreign commbrce, after the subject matter of that commerce touches the soil or waters within the
limits of a State, is not perhaps very material, if they do not
really relate to that commerce, or any other topic within the
jurisdiction of the general government." p. 627.
Mr. Justice Grier did not consider the question of the exclusiveness of the power of 'Congress to regulate foreign and
interstate commerce as involved in the decision, but maintained the validity of the statutes in question under "1the
police power, which is exclusively in the States." pp. 631, 632.
The other members of the court at that time were Mr.
Justice Wayne and Mr. Justice McKinley, who do not appear
by the report to have taken part in the decision of those cases,,
although the former appears at page 545 to have been present
at the argument, and by the clerk's minutes to have been upon
the bench when the judgments were delivered. It is certain
that neither of them dissented from the decision of the court.
The consequences of an opposite conclusion in the case
from New Hampshire, regarding liquors brought from one
State into another, were forcibly stated by several of the
judges.
Mr. Justice McLean said: "If the mere conveyance of
property from one State to another shall exempt it from
taxation, and from general -state regulation, it will not be
difficult to avoid the police laws of any State, especially by,
those who live at or near the boundary." p. 595.
Mr. Justice Catron said: "To hold that the state license

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion.: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

-

law was void, as respects spirits coming in from other States
as articles of commerce, would open the door to an almost
entire evasion, as the spirits might be introduced in the
smallest divisible quantities that the retail trade would require; the consequence of which would be, that the dealers
in New Hampshire would sell only spirits produced in other
States, and that the products of New Hampshire would find
an unrestrained market in the neighboring States having similar license laws to those of New Hampshire." p. 608.
Mr. Justice Woodbury said: " If the proposition was maintainable, tl~at, without any legislation by Congress as to the
trade between the States, (except that in coasting, as before
explained, to prevent smuggling,) anything imported from
another State, foreign or domestic, could be sold of right in
the package in which it was imported, not subject to any
license or internal regulation of a State, then it is obvious
that the whole license system may be evaded and nullified,
either from abroad, or from a* neighboring State. And the
more especially can it 15e done from the latter, as imports may
be made irbottles of any size, down to half a pint, of spirits
or wines; and if its sale cannot be interfered with and regulated, the retail business can be carried on in any small quantity, and by the most irresponsible and unsuitable persons,
with perfect impunity." pp. 625, 626.
Mr. Justice Grier, inan opinion marked by his characteristic vigor and directness of thought and expression, (after saying that he mainly concurred. with Mr. Justice McLean,)
summed up the whole matter as follows:
"1The true question presented by these cases, and one which
I am not disposed to evade, is, whether the States have a right
to prohibit the sale and consumption of an article of commerce
which they believe to be pernicious in its effects, and the cause
of disease, pauperism and crime. I do not consider the question of the exclusiveness of the power of Congress to regulate
commerce as necessarily connected with the decision of this
point.
"It has been frequently decided by-this court, 'that the
powers which relate to merely municipalFregulations, or what

LEISY v. HARDII.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

may more properly be called internal police, are not surren(lered by the States, or restrained by the Constitution of the
United States; and that, consequently, in relation to these,
the authority of a State is complete, unqualified and exclusive.'
Without attempting to define what are the peculiar subjects
or limits of'this power, it may safely be affirmed, that every
law for the restraint and punishment of crime, for the preservation of the public peace, health and morals, must come
within this category.
"As subjects of legislation, they are from their very nature
of primary importance; they lieat the foundation of social
existence; they are for the protection of life and liberty, and
necessarily compel all laws on subjects of secondary importance, which relate only to property, convenience or luxury;
to recede, when they come in conflict or collision, ' saluspouli
xTpremfZ lXr.'
"If the right to control these subjects be ' complete, unqualified and exclusive' in the state legislatures, no regulations of
secondary importance can supersede or restrain their operations, on any ground of prerogative or supremacy. The exigencies of the social compact require that such laws be executed
before and above all others.
"It is for this reason that quarantine laws, which, protect
the public health, compel mere commercial regulations to submit to their control. They restrain the liberty of the passengers; they operate on the ship which is the instrument of
commerce, and its officers and crew, the agents of navigation.,
They seize the infected cargo, and cast it overboard. Thesoldier and the sailor, though in the service of the government, are arrested, imprisoned and punished for their offences
against society. Paupers and convicts are refused admissiof
into the country. All these things are done, not from any
power which the States assume to regulate commerce or to
interfere with the regulations of Congress, but because police
laws for the preservation of health, prevention of crime and
protection of the public welfare, must of necessity have full
and free operation, according to the exigency which requires
their interference.
VOL. CxxXV-1O

OCTOBER TEEM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

"It is not necessary, for the sake of justifying the state
legislation now under consideration, to array the appalling
statistics of misery, pauperism and crime which have their
origin in the use or abuse of ardent spirits. The police Vower,
which is exclusively in the States, is alone competent to the
correction of these great evils, and all measures of restraint or
prohibition necessary to effect the purpose are within the
scope of that authority. There is no conflict of power, or of
legislation, as between the States and the United States; each
is acting within its sphere, and for the public good ; and if a
loss of revenue should ,accrue, to the United States from a
diminished consumption of ardent spirits, she will be the
gainer a thousand fold in the health, wealth and happiness of
the people." pp. 631, 632.
This abstract of the License Cases shows (what is made yet
clearer by an attentive reading of the opinions as a whole)
*thatthe difference of opinion among the judges was upon the
q-1estion whether the state statutes, which all agreed had
some influence upon commerce, 'and all agreed were valid
exercises of the police power, could properly be called regulations of commerce.
hile many of the judges said or assumed that a State could
not restrict the .sale by the importer and in the original
packages' of intoxicating liquors imported from a foreign
countfy, which Congress had authorized the importation of,
and had caused duties to be levied upon; all of them undoubtingly held that, where Congress had not, legislated, a State
might, for the protection of the health, the morals and the
safety. of- its inhabitants, restrict or prohibit, at its discretion
and according to its own views of policy, the sale .bythe importer of intoxicating liquors brought into it from another
State, and remaining in the barrels or packages in which they
were brought in.
The ability and thoroughness with *hich those cases were
argued at the. bar and on the bench, the care and thought
bestowed upon their consideration, as manifested in the opinions delivered by the several judges, and the confidence with
which each judge expressed his concurrence in. the result, make

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Ojinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

the decision of the highest possible authority. It has been
accepted and acted on as such by the legislatures, the courts
'and the people, of the nation and of the States, f6r forty years.
It has not been touched by any act of Congress; it has guided
the legislation of mnany of the States; and it has been treated
as beyond question by this court in a, long series of cases.
Feazie v. Moor (1852), 14 How. 568,.575; Sinnot v. Daven_port (1859), 22 How. S27, 243; Gilmanv. Pkilade~phia(1865),
3 Wall. 713, 730; Pervear v. OommowealtA (1866), 5 Wall.
475, 479; IToodruf v. Parham (1868), 8 Wall. 123,, 139;
United States v. Dewitt (869), 9,Wall. 41, 45; Henderson v.
Mayor of ew Yorkc (1874), 92 U. S. 259, 274; Beer Co. v..
3lassacAusetts (1877), 97 U. S. 25, 33; Patterson v. entu*y
(1878), 97 U. S. 501, 503; Mobile County v. .Kimbaxl (1880),
102 U. S. 691, 701; Brown v. Houston (1885), 114 U. S. 6221
631; Walling v. Michigan (1886), 116 U. S. 446, 461; Afugler
v. .Kansas (1887), 123 U. S. 623, 657, 658.
In the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, decided in 1849, tWo
years after the License Cases, statutes of New York and Mas
sachusetts, imposing taxes upon alien passengers arriving from
abroad, were adjudged to be repugnant to the Constitntion:
and laws of the United States, and therefore' void, by the
opinions of Justices McLean, Wayne,.Catron, M cKinley and
Grier, against the dissent of Chief Justice Taney and JusticesDaniel, Nelson and * -odbury, each of the judges delivering
a separate opinion. The decision in the License, Cases was
relied on by each of the dissenting judges ; pp. 470, 483,. 497,
518, 524, 559; and no doubt of the soundness of that decisibii
was suggested in the opinions of the majority of the court, or.,
in any of the cases in which the judgment of that majority
was afterwards approved and followed. Hfenderson V. -MayEor'
of New York, and Commiissioners of Iihmigration v. NVortA
German Lloyd, 92 U. S. 259; Cy -Lungv. Freeman, 92 U. S.
275; Peove v. Compagnie GineraleTransatlantique,107 U. S.
59; Head Xroney Cases, .112 U. S. 580.
When Mr. Justice Grier, in, the Passenger Cases, 7 How.
462, said, "And to what weight is that argument entitled,
which assumes, that, because it is -the policy of Congress -o

'OCTOBER TERM 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

lave this intercourse free, therefore it has not been regulated;
and each State may put as many restrictions upon it as she
pleases? " the context shows that he had in mind cases in
which the policy to leave commerce free had been manifested
by statute or treaty; and he had already, on page 457, made
it maulifest that he did not intend to retract or o qualify his
opinion in the License Cases.

An intention on the part of Congress that commerce shall
be free from the operation of laws passed by a State in the
exercise of its police power cannot be inferred from the mere
fact of there being no national legislation upon the subject,
unless in matters as to which the power of Congress is exclusive. Where the power of Congress is exclusive, the States
have, of course, no power to legislate ; and it may be said that
Congress, by not legislating, manifests an intention that there
should be no legislation on the subject. But in matters over
which the power of Congress is paramount only, and not exclusive, the power of the States .is not excluded until Congress
haslegislated; and no intention that the States should- not
exercise, or continue to exercise, their power over the subject
can be inferred from the want of congressional legislation.
Trwa

2?ortatiorb Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691, 702-704.

The true test for determining when the po~ver of Congress
to regulate commerce is, and when it is not, exclusive, was
formulated and established in Cooley v. Board of Wfardens, 12

HOw. 299, concerning the validity of a state law for the regdilation of pilots and pilotage, in which Mr. Justice Curtis, in
delivering judgment, said: "When the nature of a power like
this is spoken of, when it is said that the nature of the power
requires that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress,
it-must be intended to refer to the subjects of that power, and
to say they are of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress. Now, the power to regulate commerce
embraces a vast field, containing not only many, but exceedingly various subjects, quite unlike in their nature; some
imperatively demanding a single uniform rule, operating
_e lally on the commerce of the United States in every port;
and some, like the subject now in question, as imperatively

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

demanding that diversity, which alone can meet the local
necessities of navigation. Either absolutely to affirm, or deny,
that the nature of this power requires exclusive legislation by
Congress, is to lose sight of the nature of the sibjects of this
power, and to assert concerning all of them, what is really
applicable but to a part. Whatever subjects of this power ar,
in their nature national, or admit onl r of one uniform system.
or plan of regulation, may justly be said to be of such a nature
as to require exclusive legislation by Congress." He then
stated that the act of Congress of August 7, 1789, c. 9, § 4,
(1 Stat. 54) in regard to pilotage, manifested the understanding
of Congress, at the outset of the government, that the nature
of the subject was nut such as to require its exclusive legislatiou, but was such that, until Congress should find it necessary
to exercise its power, it should be left to the legislation -of the
States, because it was local and not national, and was likely
to be best provided for, not by one system or plan of regulation, but by as many as the legislative discretion of the sew
eral States should'deem applicable to the local peculiarities of
the ports within their limits; and he added, in words which
appear to us equally appropriate to the case now before the
court: The practice of the States, and of the national government,has been in conformity with this declaration, from
the origin of the national government to this time; and tht
nature of the subject, when exanined, is such as to leave no
doubt of the superior fitness and propriaty not to say the
absolute necessity, of different systems of regulation, drawn
from local knowledge and experience, and conformed to local
wants." "We are of opinion that this state law was enacted
by virtue of a power residing in the State to legislate; that it
is not in conflict with any law of Congress; that it does not
interfere with any system which Congress has established by
making regulations, or by intentionally leaving individuals
to their own unrestricted action." 12 How. 319-321.
In Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 730, this court.
speaking by Mr. Justice Swayne, applying the same test, and
relying on Wilson v. Blackird Creek Zlarsk Co. and Cooley v.
Board of Wardens, above cited, upheld the validity of a stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, ?3rewer, JJ.

ute of Pennsylvania authorizing the construction of' a bridge

across the Schuylkill River, so as to prevent the passage of
vessels with masts; and, after stating the points adjudged in
Brown v. Maryland and in the Passenger Cases, said: "But
a State, in the exercise of its police power, may forbid spirituous liquor imported from abroad, or from another State, to
be sold by retail, or to be sold at all, without a license; and it
may visit the violation of the prohibition with such punishment as it may deem proper.- License Cases, 5 How. 504."
By .the same test, and upon the authority of Willson v.
Blackbird Creek .Marsh Co., a statute of Wisconsin, authoriz;
ing the erection of a dam across a navigable river, was held
to be constitutional in Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459, 463. To
the like effect are Willarmette Bridge v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1,
8-12, and other cases there cited.
Upon like grounds, it was held, in Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, that a statute of Alabama, authorizing
the improvement of the harbor of Mobile, did not trench upon
the commercial power of Congress; and the court, after pointing out that some expressions of Chief Justice Marshall in
Gibbons v. Ogden as to the exclusiveness of the power of Congress to regulate commerce were restricted by the facts of that
case, and by the subsequent judgment in Willson v. Blackbird
Creek .Marsh Co., said: "In the License Cases, which were
before the court in 1847, there was great diversity of views in
the opinions of the different judges upon the operation of the
grant of the commercial power of' Congress in the absence of
Congressional legislation. Extreme doctrines upon both sides
of the question were asserted by some of the judges ; but the
decision reached, so far as it can be viewed as determining any
question of construction, was confirmatory of the doctrine that
legislation of Congress is essential to prohibit. the action of
the States upon the subjects there considered." 102 U. S.
700, 701.
In Woodruf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, a state statute, imposing a uniform tax on all sales by auction within it, was
held constitutional, as applied to sales of goods the product of
otherStates and sold in the original and unbroken packages.

LEISY v. HARDILY.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

In Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148, decided at the same time, it was
adjudged that a state statute which prohibited any dealers,
introducing any intoxicating liquors into the State, from offering them for sale, without first paying a tax of fifty cents a
gallon, and imposed a like tax on liquors manufactured within
the State, was valid, as applied to liquors brought from another State, and held and offered for sale in the same barrels
or packages in which they were brought in; because, in the
words of Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion of the
court in both cases, it was not "an attempt to regulate commerce, but an appropriate and legitimate exercise of tho taxing power of the State." 8 Wall. 153. These two cases we.
cited by the court in Low v. Austin, 13 Wall. 29, 34, and in
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 1U. S. 566, 573, in which, in accord
with the opinions in the License Cases, state taxation upon
original cases of wines imported from a foreign country, and
upon which duties had been paid under acts of Congress, was
held to be invalid.
In TFeltom v. .31issouri,91 U. S. 275, the point decided was
that. a state statute, requiring the payment of a license tax
from persons selling, by going from place to place within the
State for the purpose, goods not the growth or manufacture
of the State, and not from persons so selling goods which.
were the growth or manufacture of the State, was unconstitutional and void, by reason of the discrimination; and in Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676, a state statute imposing a
like tax, without discriminating as to the place of growth or
produce of material or manufacture, was adjudged to be constitutional and valid, as applied to machines made in and
brought from another State.

In Brown v. Houston, 114: U. S. 622, it was decided that coal,
mined in Pennsylvania and- brought in boats by river from
Pittsburg to New Orleans, to be there sold by the boat-load on
account of the Pennsylvania owner, and remaining afloat in
its original condition and original packages, was subject, incommon with all other property in the ciy, to taxation under
the general tax laws of Louisiana; and the court referred to
Woodruf v. Parham, above cited, as upholding the validit-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, J.

of a "tax laid on auction sales of all property indiscriminately," and "which had no relation to the movement of
goods from one State to another." 114 U. S. 634.
In Walling v. Xfichigan, 116 U. S. 446, the statute of
Michigan, which was held to be an unconstitutional restraint
of interstate commerce, imposed a different tax upon persons
engaged within the State in the business of selling or soliciting
the sale of intoxicating liquors to be sent into the State, from
that imposed upon persons selling or soliciting the sale of such
liquors manufactured within the State; and the court declared
that the statute "would be perfectly justified as "an exercise
by the legislature of Michigan of the police power of the State
for the discouragement of the use of intoxicating liquors, and
the preservation of the health and morals of the people," "if
it did not discriminate -against the citizens and products of
other States in a matter of commerce between the States, and
thus usurp one of the prerogatives of the national legislature."
116 -C. S. 460.
In WabasA, St. Louis & Pacific Railway v. illinois, 118
U. S. 557, the only point decided was that a State had no
power to regulate the rates of freight of any part of continuous transportation upon railroads partly within the State and
partly in other States. In Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489, a state law requiring the payment of a license
tax by drummers and persons not having a regularly licensed
house of business within the taxing district, offei ing for sale
or selling any goods by sample, was decided to be unconstitutional as applied to persons offering to sell goods on behalf of
merchants residing in other States, because, as the majority of
the court held, its effect was "to tax the saleof such goods, or
the offer to sell them, before they are brought into the State."
120 U. S. 497. Neither of those cases appears to us to tend to
limit ihe police power of the State to protect the public health,
the public morals and the public peace within its own borders.
As was said by this court in Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99,
103, "In conferring upon Congress the regulation of commerce, it was never intended to cut the States off from legislating on all subjects relating to the health, life and safety of

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly affect
the commerce of the country. Legislation, in a great variety
of ways, may affect commerce and persons engaged in it,
without constituting a regulation of it, within the meaning
of the Constitution." It was accordingly held in that case
that an action against a carrier engaged in interstate commerce might be maintained under a state statute giving a civil
remedy, unknown to the common law, for negligence causing
death; and in subsequent cases that what a State might
punish or afford redress for, it might seek by propee precautions to prevent; and consequently, that a state statute requiring, under a penalty, engineers of allrailroad trains with'in the
State to be examined and licensed by a state board, either as
to their qualifications generally, or as to their capacity to distinguish between color signals, was not in its nature a regulation of comm6r,-, but was a constitutional exercise of the-power
reserved to the States, and intended to secure the safety of
persons and property within their territorial limits, and, so far
as it affected interstate commerce, not in conflict with any
express enactment of Congress upon the subject, nor 'contrary
to any intention of Congress to be presumed from its silence.
Srmith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; iashville, Chattanooga &
St. Louis Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96.
In Railroad Co. v. ifusen, 95 U. S. 465, it was expressly
conceded, in the opinion of the court delivered by Mr. Justice
Strong, that a State, in the exercise of its police power, could
"legislate to prevent the spread of crime, or pauperism, or
disturbance of the peace," as well as "justify the exclusion of
property, dangerous to the property of citizens of the State;
for example, animals-having contagious or infectious diseases."
95 U. S. 471. And the decision, by which the statute of Misourii, forbidding the introdfLction of any Texas, Mexicaii or
indian cattle into the State, was held to be an unconstitutional
interference with interstate commerce, rested, as clearly appears
in the opinion in that case, and -has since been -distinctly
recognized by the court, upon the ground that the statute
made no distinction, in the transportation forbidden, betsyeen
cattle which might be diseased. and those which were not.
.immis v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217, 221.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

The authority of the States, in the exercise of their police
power, and for the protection of life and health, to pass laws
affecting things which are lawful subjects,-or instruments of
commerce, and even while they are actually employed in commerce, has been expressly recognized by Congress in the acts
regulating the transportation of nitro-glycerine, as well as in
the acts for the observation and execution of the quarantine
and health laws of the States. Rev. Stat. §§ 4278-4280;
4792-4796.
In lorgan's Steamship Co. v. Louisiana Board of Health,
118 U. S. 455, 465, the system of quarantine laws established
by the State of Louisiana was held, in accordance with earlier
opinions, to be a constitutional exercise of the police power;
and it was said by the court: "Quarantine laws belong to
that class of state legislation which, whether passed with intent to regulate commerce or not, must be admitted to have
that effect, and which are valid until displaced or contravened
by some legislation of Congress. The matter is one in which
the rules that should govern it may in many respects be different in different localities, and for that reason be better understood and more wisely established by the local authorities.
The practice which should control a quarantine station on the
Mississippi River, a hundred miles from the sea, may be
widely and wisely different from that which is best for the
harbor of New York." It was added that in this respect the
case fell within the principle of Willson v. Blackbird Creek
.Marsk Co., Cooley v. Board of Wardens, Gilman v. Pkilade pia,Pound v. Turek, and other cases.
In 3fugler v. .Kansas,123 UT. S. 623, the court said: "In
the License Cases, 5 How. 504, the question was, whether
certain statutes of Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New
Hampshire, relating to the sale of spirituous liquors, were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. In determining that question, it became necessary to inquire whether
there was any conflict between the exercise by Congress of its
power toregulate commerce with foreign countries, or among
the several States, and the exercise by a State of what are
called polic.e powers. Although the members of the court did

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, 33.

not fully agree as to the, grounds upon which the 'decision.
should be placed, they were urnimous in 'holding that the
statutes then under examination were not inconsistent with
the Constitution of the United States, or with any apt. of
Congress." 123 U. S. 657, 658.
In Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway, 125 U. S.465, the point, and the only point decided, was that a'statute
of Iowa, which forbade common carriers to bring intoxicating
liquors into the State from any other State, without first obtaining a certificate from a county officer of Iowa, that the
consignee .was authorized by the laws of Iowa to sell. sucth
liquors, was an uhconstitutional regulation of interstate com-.
merce. While Mr. Justice. Field in his separate opinion (p.
507) intimated, and three .dissenting justices (pp. 514, 515)
feared, that the decision was in effect inconsistent with the
decision in the License Cases, Mr. Justice katthew s, who de
livered the judgmient of the majority of the court, not only
cautiously avoided committing the court to any such conclusion, but took great pains to mark the essential difference.
between the two decisions. On the one hand, after making
careful analysis of the opinions in the License Cases, he said.
"From this analysis it is apparent that the question presented,
in this case was not decided in the License Cases. The point
in judgment in them was strictly confined to the right of the
States to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor after it had
been brought within their territorial limits. The right tobring it within the States was not questioned." On the other
hand, in stating the reasons for holding the statute of Ioya,
prohibiting the transportation of liquors from another State;
not to be a legitimate exertion of the police power of the
State of Iowa, he said: "I t - is not an exercise of the jurisdiction of the State over persons and property within its limits.
On ,the contrary, it is an attempt to exert that jurisdiction
over persons and property within the limits of other States.
It seeks to prohibit and stop their passage and importation
into its own limits, and is designed as a regulation for the conduct of commerce before the merchandise is .brought to its
liorder." "but the'right to prohibit sales, so far as conced&d

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewei, JJ.

to the States, arises only after the. act of transportation has
terminated, because the sales which the State may forbid are
of things within its jurisdiction. Its power over them does
not begin to operate until they are brought within the territorial limits which circumscribe it." 125 U. S. 479, 498, 499.
In the opinion of the majority of the court in that case, it
was noted that the omission of Congress to legislate might
not so readily justify an inference of its intention to exclude
state legislation in matters affecting interstate commerce, 'as
.in those affecting foreign commerce; Mr. Justice Matthews
saying: "The organization of our state and federal system
of government is such that the people of the several States
can have no relations with foreign powers in respect to commerce or any other subject, except through the government of
the United States and its laws and treaties. The same necessity perhaps does not exist equally in reference *to commerce
among the States. The power conferred upon. Congress to
regulate commerce among the States is indeed contained in the
same clause of the Constitution which confers upon it power
to regulate commerce with foreign nations
The grant is conceived in the same terms, and the two powers are undoubtedly
of "thesame class and character and equally extensive. The
aotual exercise of its power over either subject is equally and
necessarily exclusive of that of the States, and paramount
over all the powers of the States; so that state legislation,
however legitimate in its origin or object, when it conflicts
with the positive legislation of Congress, or its intention reasonably implied from its silence, in respect to the subject of
commerce of both kinds, must fail. And yet, in respect to
commerce among the States, it may be, for the reason already
assigned, that the same, inference is. not always to be drawn
fron the absence of congressional legisiation as might be in
the case of commerce with foreign nations, The question,
therefore, may be still considered in each case as it arises,
whether the fact that Congress has failed in' the partioular instance to provide by law' a regulation of commerce amoiig the
States is conclusive of its intention that the subject shall be
free from all positive regulation, or that, until it positively.

LEISY v. HARDIN.

. 157

Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

interferes, such commerce may be left to be freely dealt with
by the respective States." 125 U. S. 482, 483.
In Xidd v. Pearson,128 U. S.1, a statute of Iowa, prohibiting the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, except
for mechanical, medicinal, culinary and sacramental purposes
only, and authorizing any building used for their unlawful
manufacture to be abated as a nuisance, was unanimously
held to be constitutional, as applied to a case in which the
liquors were manufactured for exportation and were sold outside the State; and the court, in showing how impracticable.
it would be for Oohgress to regulate the manufacture of goods
in one State to be sold in another, said: "The demands of
such a supervision would require, not uniform legislation generally applicable throughout the United States, but a swarm
of statutes only locally applicable and utterly inconsistent."
"A situation mqre paralyzing to the state governments, and
more provocative of conflicts between the general government
and the States, and less likely to have been what the framers
of the Constitution intended, it would be difficult to imagine."
128 U. S. 21, 22.
The language thus applied to congressional supervision of
the manufacture within one State of intoxicating liquors intended to be sold in other States appears to us to apply with
hardly less force to the regulation by Congress of the sale
within one State of intoxicating liquors brought from another
State. How far the protection of the public order, health and
morals demands the restriction or prohibition of the sale of
intoxicating liquors is a question peculiarly appertaining to
the legislatures of the several States, and to be determined by
them upon their own views of public policy, taking into consideration the needs, the education, the habits and the usages,
of people of various races and origin, and living in regions far
apart and widely differing in climate and in physical characteristics. The local option laws prevailing in many of the
States indicate the judgment of as many legislatures, that the
sale of intoxicating liquors does not admit of regulation by a
uniform rule over so large an- area as a single State, ,much less
over the area of a continent. It is manifest that the regulation

.158

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

of the sale, as of the manufacture, of such liquors manufactured in one State to be sold in another, is a subject .which, far
from requiring, hardly admits of a uniform system or plan
throughout the United States. It is, in its very nature, not
national, but local ; and must, in order to be either reasonable
or effective, conform to the local policy and legislation concerning the sale, or the manufacture, of intoxicating liquors
generally. Congress cannot regulate this subject under the
police power, be6ause that power has not been conceded to
Congress, but remains in the several States; nor under the
commercial power, without either prescribing .a general rule
unsuited to the nature and requirements of the subject, or else
departing from that uniformity of regulation which, as declared by this court in Eidd v. Pearson,above cited, it was
the object of the commercial clause of 'the Constitution to
secure.,
The above review of the judgments of this court since the
.decision in the License Cases appears to us to demonstrate that,
that decision, while often referred to, has never been overruled
or its authority impugned.
It only remains to sum up the reasons which have satisfied
us that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa in the
case at bar should be affirmed.
The protection of the safety, the health, the morals, the
good order and the general welfare of the people is the chief
end of government. _Salus pcpuli suprema lex. The police
power is inherent in the States, reserved to them by the Constitution, and necessary to their existence as organized governments. The Constitution of the United States and the laws
made in pursuance thereof being the supreme law of the land,
all statutes of a State must, of course, give way, so far as they
are repugnant to the national Constitution and laws. But an
intention is not lightly to be imputed to the framers of the Constitutipn, or to the Congress of the United States, to subordinate
the protection of the safety, health and morals of the people*
to the promotion of trade and commerce.
The police power extends to the control and regulation of
things which, when used in a lawful and proper manner, are

LEISY v. HARDIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Gtay, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

-

subjects of property and of commerce, and yet may be used so
as to be injurious or dangerous to the public safety, the public
health or the public morals. Common experience has shown,
that the general and unrestricted use of intoxicating liquors
tends to produce idleness, disorder, disease, pauperism and
crime.
The power of regulating or prohibiting the manufacture
and sale of intoxicating liquors appropriately belogs, as a
branch of the police power, to the legislatutes of the several
States, and can be judiciously and effectively exercised by them
alone, according to their views of public policy and local needs;
and cannot practically, if it can constitutionally, be wielded by
Congress as part of a national and uniform system.
The statutes in questibn were enacted by the State of Iowa
in the exercise of its undoubted power to protect its inhabitants against the evils, physical, moral and social, attending
the free use of intoxicating liquors. They are not aimed at
interstate commerce; they have no relation to the movement of
goods from one State to another, but operate only on intoxieating liquors within the territorial limits of the State; they
include all such liquors without discrimination, and do not
even mention where they are made or whence they come.
They affect commerce much more remotely and indirectly
than laws of a State, (the validity of which is unquestioned,)
authorizing the erection of bridges and dams across navigable
waters within its limits, which wholly obstruct the course of
commerce and navigation; or than quarantine laws, which
operate directly upon all ships and merchandise coming into
the ports of the State.
If the statutes of a State, restricting or prohibiting the sale
of intoxicating liquors within its territory, are to be held
inoperative and void as applied to liquors sent or brought
from another State and sold by the importer in what are
called original packages, the consequence must be that an in-.
habitant of any State may, under the pretext of interstate
commerce, and without license or supervision of any public
authority, carry or send into, and sell in, any or all of the other
States of the Union intoxicating liquors of whatever descrip-

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlin, Brewer, 33.

tion, in cases or kegs, or even in single bottles 6r flasks, despite
.any legislation of those States on the subject, and although his
own State should be the only one which had not enacted similar laws. It would require positive and explicit legislation on
the part of Congress, to convince us that it contemplated or
intended such a result.
The decision in the .License Cases, 5 How. 504, by which the
court, maintaining these views, unanimously adjudged that a
general statute of a State, prohibiting the sale of intoxicating
liquors without license from municipal authorities, included
liquors brought from another State and sold by the importer in
the original barrel or package, should be upheld and followed;
because it was made upon fall argument and great consideration; because it established a wise and just rule, regarding a
most delicate point in our complex system of government, a
point, always difficult of definition and adjustment, the contact between the paramount commercial power granted to
.Congress and the inherent police power reserved to the States ;
because it is in accordance with the usage and practice which
have prevailed during the century since the adoption of the
Constitution; because it has been accepted and acted on for
forty years by Congress, by the state legislatures, by the courts
and by the people; and because to hold otherwise would add
nothing to the dighity and supremacy of the powers of Congress, while it would cripple, not to say destroy, the whole
control of every State over the sale of intoxicating liquors
within its borders.
The silence and inaction of Congress upon the subject, during the long period since the decision in the License Ca8es,
appear to us to require the inference that Congress intended
that the law should remain as thereby declared by this court;
rather than to warrant the presumption that Congress intended that commerce among the States should be free from
the indirect effect of such an exercise of the police power for
the public safety, as had been adjudged by that decision to be
within the constitutional authority of the States.
For these reasons, we are compelled to dissent from the opinion and judgment of the majority of the court.

