IT RE BAIZ.
Syllabus.

reissue No. 8035. Claim I of reissue No. 8550 is entirely new,
and claim 7 of that reissue is the same as claim 3 of the application for reissue No. 8035, which claim was first amended
and then abandoned. It was not lawful to introduce claim -T
into reissue No. 8550, after such formal abandonment of it.
If either claim 1 or claim 7 of reissue No. 8550 covers a device
which would, not have been covered by claim 2 of the original
patent, or by any of the claims of reissue No. 8035, it is invalid; and even if claims 1 and 7 could properly be restricted
to the cam-wheels of the specification or their mechanical
equivalents, operating as described, as claim 2 of the original
patent was restricted, the lock of the defendants does not
infringe either claim 1 or claim T.
For these reasons, it must be held that the plaintiffs have
no cause of action against the defendants under claims 1 and
7 of reissue No. 8550.
It results that the decree of February 12, 1886, must be
affirmed so far as it relates to the Sargent reissue N7To.
7947, and reversed so far as it relates to the little reissue
7
o. 8550, and the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court
with a direction to dismiss t4e bill of complaint, with cost8
to the defendants. As the plaintiffsfazil in this court o24'
both appeals, they are to pay the costs of this court on both
,ppeals.

IN

RE BAIZ, Petitioner.
ORIGIN AL.

No.11.

Original. Argued March 31, April 1, 1890.--Oecded May 5, 18O.

The Consul General of Guatemala and Honduras in New York, being a citizen of and resident in the United States, was accredited by the government
of Honduras as its diplomatic Yepresentative here. The Secretary of
State declined to receive him as such, on the ground that the immunities
and privileges attaching to the office made it inconsistent and inconvenient that a citizen of the United States should "enjoy so anomalous a
position." The Consul General their inquired whether the Department
would regard him as chargi6 d'affaires "ad hoc of Hondura , without
relieving him(6)ds duties and iegpoibilities as a citizen; to which
the Department replied that it could-4ot' ' ognize his agency as con- .

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
ferring upon himn any diplomatic status. A' diplomatic representative
was then accredited to the United States from Guatemala, Honduras and
Salvador, and was received as such. Three years later, being about to
temporarily absent himself from his post, this representative requested
the Secretary of State "to allow that the Consul General of Guatemala
and Honduras in New York," the same person still holding that office,
"should communicate to the office of the Secretary of State any matter
whatever relating to the peace of Central America, which should without
delay be'presented to the knowledge of your Excellency." The reply of
the Secretary, directed'to " The Consul General of Guatemala and lionduras," stated that he would "have pleasure in receiving any communication in relation to Central America of which you may be the channel
as intimated;" and notes were subsequently interchanged between him
and the D~partment, and vice versa, until the arrival of an accred ited
diplomatic representative. Held, that the Consul General of Guatemala
and Honduras did not thereby become the diplomatic, representative of
Guatemala, Honduras and Salvador during the absence of the regularly
accredited representative, and that, in the absence of a certificate from
the Secretary of State that he was such representative, he was not
entitled to the immunity from suit except in this court which is granted
by the Constitution to such persons.
Onan application to this court, bya person claiming a diplomatic privilege, for
a writ of prohibition or a writ of mandamus, to restrain a district court
from the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction on the ground that the petitioner is a privileged person, the respondent is called upon to produce any
evidence that exists to countervail the petitioner's proof of his privilege.
When a person claims in this court the rights and privileges of a foreign
minister, the court has the right to accept the certificate of the Depart,
ment of State that he is, or is not, subh a privileged.person, and cannot
properly be asked to proceed upon argumentative or collateral proof.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

On the 29th day of June, 1889, an action was commenced
by one John Henry Hollander in- the District Court of the
United States for the Southern-District of New York against
Jacob Baiz, to recover damages for the publication of an
alleged libel upon the plaintiff, and a summons -was served
upon him on the 2d day of July of that year. The defendant
entered a general appearance in the action, which was filed
July 17, 1889. On the 25th day of September, 1889, the
defendant verified his answer, which contained a plea to the
-jurisdiction of the District Court in the following language:
- X" The defendant alleges that he-is now, and ever since the
month of July, 1887, has been, the Consul General of the Re-

IN RE BAIZ.
Statement of the Case.

public of Guatemala at the city of New York, and that in or
about the month of May, 1889, he received from the Republic
of Guatemala a duly authenticated copy of a decree in the
English language, dated at the National Palace in Guatemala,
ay 14, 1889, with instructions in writing from said government
to publish the same in the newspapers of the United States,
and which said decree had previously been published in the
official Gazette, or newspaper, published in said republic, and
that pursuant to such instructions; Which were sent to him
both by letter and by cable, and not otherwise, he did, on or
about the 9th day of June, 1889, send to the managers of the
Associated Press, in the city of New York, said authenticated
copy of said decree, stating that it was possible that said managers would find it of sufficient interest to publish. That prior
to the 16th day of January, 1889, one Sefior Dpn Francisco
Lainfiesta was envoy. extraordinary and ininister plenipotentiary of the Republic of Guatemala in the United States, and
on or about that day he departed from the United States upon
a temporary leave of absence, duly granted to him, and that
from on or about that day, down to on or about the 10th day of
July, 1889, this defendant became and was the acting minister
and sole representative of the said Republic of Guatemala in
the place, and during the absence, of the said envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary, and was exclusively in
charge of the diplomatic affairs of the said republic in the
United States.
"And by reason of the facts herein alleged this defendant
claims that this court has no jurisdiction of this action, and
that if any jurisdiction for said act in fact exists in any court,
it is vested solely in the Supreme Court of the United States,
pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution and the statutes
of the United States in such case made and proviced."
In January, 1890, a motion was made "for an order setting
aside the service of the summons and all subsequent proceed
ings in the action, and that the court dismiss the same, on the
ground that it has no jurisdiction of this action, and had -no
jurisdiction over the defendant- at the time of the commencement thereof." This motion was based- on the defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

affidavit and upon proofs consisting of original written communications from the State Departtnent to Baiz, and on dulycertified copies of papers on file in said department; and was
resisted by the plaintiff on certain affidavits, and an original
letter from the department. On the 17th day of February
the motion was denied, and an application was then made to
this court for a rule to show cause why a writ of prohibition
should not issue to the judge of the District Court, prohibiting
him from proceeding further in said action; or if a writ of
prohibition could not issue, then for a rule to show cause why
a wri of mandamus should not issue, commanding the judge'
to enter an order dismissing the cause, for the reason that the
jurisdiction of said action existed solely in the Supreme Court
under the Constitution and laws of the United States; or for
such other and further relief as might be proper in the premises. The application was made upon the petition of the
defendant in the action in the District Court, and annexed to
the petition and forming a part of it was a certified copy of
the entire record in the District Court, including every paper
used upon the motion, and the opinion of the court. A rule
having been issued, the judge of the District Court returned
thereto that the motion was denied upon the facts and considcrations appearing in the record and opinion, copies of which
were attached to the petition, and to the order to show cause, and
submitted to this court whether the District Court should take
further cognizance of the said cause or should dismiss the same.
- It appeared before the district judge, as it does here, that
Mr. Baiz was and is a citizen of the United States and a resident of ther city of New York, and that he has been since
1887 Consul General of Guatemala; that Senor Lainfiesta was,
on the 16th day of January, 1889, the minister of Guatemala,
of Salvador and of Honduras, in the United States, and that
on that day Sefior Lainfiesta addressed a note to the Secretary of State, advising him that he was compelled to go to
-eanwhile, I beg
Gaatemala for a short time, and saying: I"M
your Excellency to please allow that the Consul General of
Guatemala and Honduras in New York, Mr. Jacob Baiz,
should communicate to the office of the Secretary of State

IN RE BAIZ.

40T

Statement of the Case.

any matter whatever relating to the peace of Central America;
that should without delaj be presented to the knowledge of.
your Excellency."
The Secretary of State accordingly, on the 24th day of.
January, informed Seflor Baiz, " Consul General of Guatemala
and Honduras," that the note of MinisterLainfiesta had been
received and that he would "have pleasure in receiving any
communication, in relation to Central America, of which you'
may be made the channel, as intimaated by Sefior Lainfiesta."
On the 6th of March, 1889, Mr. Blaine having been appointed
Secretary of State, information of that fact was communicated by him to "Seflor Don Jacob Baiz, in charge of the
legations of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras," the receipt
of which was acknowledged by the latter under date of'
March 7,the note of reply being signed,." Jacob Baiz, Consul General." April 1, the Secretary of State addressed a
communication to "Se flor Don Jacob Baiz, in charge of the
business of the legations of Guatemala, Salvador and Hon,
duras," informing him of the appointment of Mr. Mizner as
envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the.
United States to the Republics of Guatemala, Salvador and.
Honduras, and asking him to "kindly apprise the govern.
meats of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras" of the appointment.
In the official circular issued by the Department of State,
"corrected to June 13, 1889," concerning the "foreign legations in the United States," under the heads of Guatemala
Salvador and Honduras, mention is made of the absence 6f
Mr. Lainfiesta, and a foot-note is referred to which reads
"Jaeob Baiz, Consul General, in charge of business of legation,
New York City." That circular shows that Russia, Austria
and Corea. were represented by ministers who were absent,
and had charges d'affaires ad interim, whose names are severally given, described as such, and the dates of their pre
sentation. Brazil and Venezuela had no ministers, but were
represented by a charg6 d'affaires or a chargg d'affaires ad
interim, the name of the incumbent and the date of his presentation being given in each of these instances. Portugal had

OCTOBER TERM, JW89.
Statement of the Case.

no minister, and the name appears of "Baron

d'Almeirim,

consul, and acting consul general, in charge of business of
legation," and the fact and date of his presentation. Consul
'General Baiz is alone referred to in a foot-note, and is not
shown to have been presented.
Sefior Lainfiesta did not return as minister, and on or about
the 10th day of July, 1889, Dr. Fernando Cruz arrived in this
country and was presented by the Secretary of State to the
President as the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the Republic of Guatemala to the United States.
Mr. Baiz answered in the action brought by Hollander
September 25, 1889.
On the 3d of October, 1889, counsel for the plaintiff addressed to the State Department a letter, in which he inquired
who was the minister of the State of Guatemala from January
to August, 1889; and received an answer under date of October 4, 1889, signed by the Second Assistant Secretary of State,
as follows:
"I have to ackhowledge the receipt of your letter of the 3d
inst., and to say in reply that Sefior Fernando Cruz presented
his credentials as the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of Guatemala here, July 11, 1889. "Prior to that Sefor Lainfiesta was the accredited and
recognized minister, but had been for some time absent from
the United States. During his absence the business of the
legation was conducted by Consul General Baiz, but without
diplomatic character."
On the 11th of January, 1890, Sefior Cruz sent the following
communication to the State Department:
"1Mr.Michael H. Cardozo, counsel for Don Jacobo Baiz, in
the suitwhich has been brought against the latter by Mr. J.
H. Hollander in New York, presented to your Excellency a
brief of the facts in the\case and made application to you to
be pleased to order that he be furnished with a certain certificate. in regard to the character of Mr. Baiz during the absence
of Don Francisco Lainfiesta, and until I arrived to take his
place.

"It being urgent to possess this document, since the day

IN RE BAIZ.

-4CO

Statement of the Case.

approaches to make use thereof, and the government of Guiatemala having instructed Mr. Baiz to make the publication upon
which the suit is brought, under the belief that he was its
representative in this country from the day of Sefior Lainfiesta's departure, I take the liberty of begging your Excellency
to be pleased to order that the certificate applied for by Mr.
Cardozo be issued as soon as possible, and sent to me in order
that I may forward it without loss of time."
The acting Secretary of State replied January 21, 1890,
acknowledging the receipt of Sefior Cruz's note of the 11th,
and continuing thus:
"The facts are, that on January 16, 1889, Mr. Lainfiesta
informed the Department of his proposed departure from the
United States for Guatemala on a leave of absence. In pon.
veying this information to the Secretary of State, Mr. Lainf!esta said: I In the meantime I beg your Excellency to permit
Mr. Jacob Baiz, Consul General of Guatemala and Honduras at
New York, to communicate to the Department of State any
information connected with the peace of Central America that
may be of sufficient importance to be brought without delay
to your Excellency's notice.' Referrini, to this note the Department, on January 24, 1889, wrote to Mr. Baiz, saying:
' The Secretary of State will have pleasure in receiving any
communication in relation to Central America, of which you
may be made the channel, as intimated by Sefior Lainfiesta.'
The next communication of the Department to Mr. Baiz bears
date March 6, 1889, in which he was informed of the accession
to office of the present Secretary of State, which Mr. Baiz
acknowledged on the following day.
"On April 1st, 1889, the Department addressed a communication to Mr. Baiz, 'in charge of the business of the legations
of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras,' in which he was informed of ihe recall of Mr. Henry C. Hall, as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States to
the Republics of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras, and of
the appointment by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, of Mr. Lansing B. Mizner to that post.
Mr. Baiz was requested to apprise the respective governments

OCTOBER TERM 1889.
Statement of the Case.

of this appointment. This communication Mr. Baiz acknowledged on April 2d, 1889. On' May 17th, 1889, Mr. Baiz
announced to the Department your appointment by the government of Guatemala as its minister plenipotentiary at this
capital in place of Mr. Lainfiesta, which was duly acknowledged by the Department on the 20th of the same month. Subsequently correspondence took place between the Department
and Mr. Baiz in relation to your entrance into the United
States and to your reception as minister. On June 14, 1889,
Mr. Baiz enclosed to the Department an autograph letter from
the President of Guatemala dated May 20, 1889, to the President of the United States, relative to the recall of Mr. Hall
as United States minister to the States of Central America.
Of this communication the Department acknowledged the
receipt, on June 25, 1889. This, it is believed, is a correct
rdsumd of the facts in regard to Mr. Baiz' action as the representative of Guatemala in the absence of her duly accredited
minister from the United States."
After the return to the rule, counsel appearing in .opposition to granting the writ moved for an order that the petiJioner show cause why certain papers presented by him should
not be submitted for tho consideration of the court in the
determination of the matter; and the petitioner, after objecting to the granting of the order and protesting agaihst the
receipt of the papers, submitted certain papers on his part.
These papers taken in chronological order are as follows: A
letter dated February 2, 1886, from the Minister of Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Honduras to Mr. Baiz, transmitting
an appointment as charg& d'affaires of the Republic of Honduras to the government of the United States, and hoping
that he will accept said appointment, "filling it to the best
interests of the country, endeavoring principally to prevent
filibustering expeditions," etc., etc. Accompanying it was a
communication addressed to the State Department under date
of February 1, 1886, and conveying information of the fact of
the appointment. This was presented to Mr. Bayard then
Secretary of State, who replied on the 22d of March, 1886, as
follows.

IN
N. RE BAIZ.
S"tment of the Case.

"Agreeably to the promise made to you in persoil recently
by Assistant Secretary Porter, I have considered the questions
involved in your nomination as charg6 d'affaires of Honduras
in the United States.
"A difficulty arises in the fact stated by you to Mr. Porter,
that you are a citizen of the United States. It has long been
the almost uniform practice of this government to decline to
recognize American citizens as the accredited diplomatic representatives of foreign powers. The statutory and jurisdictional immunities and the customary privileges of right
attaching to the office of a foreign minister make it not only
inconsistent, but at times even inconvenient, that a citizen of
this country should enjoy so anomalous a position. 'The very
few past exceptions to this rule have served to show its propriety, especially when, as in your case, it has been sought
to supplement the consular functions (which an American
citizen, may, if otherwise acceptable, hold with perfect propriety) by an added diplomatic rank and function.
"Were it merely a question of conducting public business
with you as the de facto chargd d'affaires ad interim during
the absence of a regularly accredited envoy of Honduras,
there would be little difficulty. In fact, you now stand on
that footing for all practical purposes, since the Department
of State corresponds with you as consul general, upon whatever diplomatic business may arise; but it is to be borne in
mind that this is done because the office of the envoy is for
the time being unfilled. Your substitutionary agency is cheerfully admitted, but this is different from recognizing you as
invested with the diplomatic character as the incumbent of
the mission.
"While this motive would alone constrain me, although
with regret, from acceding to the expressed desire of the government of Honduras and receiving you as its diplomatic
representative, I find another consideration in the phraseology
of your official letter of credence."
The Secretary then cohsiders the objection arising out QZ
the fact that that instrument "announces-that the office of
charg6 d'affaires is conferred upon you for the express purpose

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.'
Statement of the Case.

of negotiating with this government to prevent the organization in the United States of hostile expeditions against Honduras and causing certain persons named therein to be put
-under bonds, 'not to contrive in any way against the peace
of Honduras."'
The letter of credence and also the letter of the Honduranean. Minister of Foreign Relations were returned.
On the 24th day of March, 1886, Consul General Baiz
acknowledged the receipt of the dispatch of the 22d, and
said:
"I will lose no time to inform the government of Honduras
of our correspondence, and that Your Excellency has kindly
consented to admit my substitutionary agency in the absence
of a minister by virtue of my being the consul general.
"I thank you for this recognition, the extent of which I
appreciate, but in order to fully satisfy the government of
Honduras, which has conferred this honor on me, I take the
liberty to ask whether, in the absence of a minister, the State
Department will consider the consul general charg6 d'affaires
ad hoc, or as. diplomatic agent of Honduras, for all practical as
well as official purposes, without relieving me of duties and
responsibilities incumbent on a citizen of the United States?
"The declination of the State Department of my credentials
on the ground that they express a purpose of a negotiation
not admissible under the laws of the United States will, no
doubt, be satisfactory to the government of Honduras."
On the 3d day of April, 1886, the Secretary of State
answered the inquiry of Mr. Baiz in these words:
"I have received your letter of the 24th ultimo, in which,
after referring to the willingness expressed- in my letter to
you of the 22d March to admit, in .the absence of a minister
of Honduras, your substitutionary agency in virtue of. your
office as ponsul general, you enquire 'whether, in the absence
of a minister, the State Department will consider the consul
general charg6 d'affaires ad koc or as a diplomatic agent of
Honduras for all practical as well as official purposes, without
relieving' you "of duties and responsibilities incumbent on a
citizen of the United States.'

IN RE BAIZ.
Argument for Petitioner.

"In reply, I have to inform you that it is not the purpose of
the Department to regard the substitutionary agency, which it
cheerfully admits in your case, as conferring upon you personally any diplomatic status whatever. Your agency is admitted
to be such only as is compatible with the continued existence
of a vacancy in the diplomatic representation of Honduras in
the United States. To recognize you as charg4 d'affaires ad
hoo would be to announce that the vacancy no longer existed,
and that diplomatic representation was renewed in your person.
"It is a common thing to resort to a temporary agency,
such as yours, in the conduct of the business of a'mission.
A foreign minister, on quitting the country, often leaves the
affairs of his office in the friendly charge of the minister of
another country, but the latter does not thereby become the
diplomatic agent of the government in whose behalf he exerts
his good offices. The relation established is merely one of
courtesy and comity. The same thing occurs when the temporary good offices of a consul are resorted to. In neither
case is a formal credence, ad hoc or ad interim, necessary."
-Mr. Joseph, H. CMowate (with whom was
Cardozo) for the petitioner.

r. .Michael

.

I. The object of the constitutional and statutory provisions
respecting "ambassadors and other public ministers," (Const.
Art. III. § 2; Rev. Stat. § 687,) was to prevent such person from being sued in any court save the highest court of the
nation, trusting to it alone to determine whether the act complained of could be punished by any judicial tribunal "consistently with the law of nations."
II. This court has power to issue a writ of prohibition in
the case now before it.
If the jurisdiction is exclusive in this court to eniertain the
suit now pending against the petitioner in the United States
District Court, because of the position he occupied, then some
writ to assert that jurisdiction and to prevent another court
from exerdising it, is necessary to the maintenance of the exclusive jurisdiction of this court. The writ which is "agreeable to the usages and principles of law" is primarily the
writ of prohibition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Petitioner.

If there is any authority to issue it this is a fit case for the
exercise of that authority. Ex arte Phoenix Ins. Co., 118
U. S. 610, 625 ; Smith v. IVhitney, 116 U. S. 167, 173.
III. If this court has no power to issue a writ of prohibition under § 716, then it may issue a writ of mandamus under
§ 688, Rev. Stat. It is elementary that a writ of mandamus
is the proper remedy to require a court to assume jurisdiction
of a case which properly belongs to it, or to decide a matter
which is properly before it for judicial determination. loZlo
Parker, petitoiner, 131 U. S. 221; Chateaugay ron Co.,
petitioner, 128 U. S. 544; .Ex parte Parker, 120 U. S. 737;
.xEparte- Morgan, 114 U.- S. 174 ; E parte Burtis, 103 U. S.
238; Exparte Railway Co., 101 U. S. 711; Exparte 17iffin,
94 U. S. 348; 350.
Assuredly, if a writ of mandamus is the proper remedy and
will issue to compel a court to assume jurisdiction where it possesses it, it is also the proper remedy and should issue to compel a court to dismiss a c.ase and refrain from attempting to
exercise jurisdiction where it does not possess such jurisdiction.
At any rate, in this court, exercising its appropriate jurisdiction to entertain an application for a writ of prohibition or
mandamus, the respondent here is called upon to produce any
evidence that exists to countervail the petitioner's proof of his
privilege.
IV. The right of a foreign minister, temporarily leaving
this country, to designate som6 one to act as chargg d'affaires
for the government he represents during his absence, is universally conceded.
Mr. Lainfiesta being about to leave this country on a temporary leave of absence, exercised that right and designated
the petitioner to act in his place during such absence, and the
petitioner did so act down to the time of the receiving of the
new minister, Don Fernando Cruz, in July, 1889.
The State Department recognized the right of Mr. Lainfiesta, as exclusively it was vested with authority to do, to
make such designation, and treated the defendant in a diplomatic character, from the time of Mr. Lainfiesta's departure
to the time of the arrival of Dr. Cruz.

IN RE BAIZ.
Argument for Petitioner.

The State Department under date, March 6th, 1889, sent to
the defendant as "In charge of the Legations of Guatemala.,
Salvador and Honduras," notice of the appointment of Mr.
Blaine to his position as Secretary of State.
Such a communication is never made to those acting as consuls, but only to those exercising diplomatic functions.
The petitioner was not the Consul of Salvador, and yet he
was recognized by the Department as representing not alone
Guatemala and Honduras, of which he was consul, but also as
representing Salvador.
Clearly it was only by reason of the recognitioh of our
government of the fact that the petitioner was, by virtue of
the letter of Mr. Lainfiesta, exercising diplomatic functions,
that he was recogniz~d by our government as in any way
representing a country of which he was not even consul.
V. The authorities clearly and abundantly support the
position here contended for by the counsel for the petitioner
and show,, manifestly, that in cases where the facts are not
in any degree as strong as they are here indisputably shown
to be, the courts of the United States have recognized that
persons were acting in a diplomatic character. United States
v. Ortega, 4 Wash. C. C. 531; United States v. Liddle, 2
Wash. C. C. 205; U ited States v. Benner, Baldwin C. C. 234.
Vf. The authorities on International Law uniformly recognize the position which the petitioner occupied as one
clothed with diplomatic functions. Woolsey's Int. Law, 4th.
ed. (1876), 164; Wheaton's Int. Law, 8th. ed. (1866), § 215;
Kent's Comm., on Int. Law, by Abdy, 129, 130; Hall's Int.
Law, 2d. ed. (1884), 292, § 105; Davis' Int. Law, (1887),
144; Twiss' Law of Nations, (1884), 350, § 209; Levi's Int.
Law, 118; Pomeroy's Int. Law, % 331, 410;. Phillimore's I~t.
Law, 2d. ed. 2, § 220; Halleck's Int. Law, new ed. 274
Bouvier's Law Die.. Tit., "Chargd d'Affaires;" Heffter's
Droit International Public de l'Europe, 388; Martens' Guide
Diplomatique, 5th. ed. § 16, 61; Klilber, Droit des Gens
Mod., § 182; 3 Pradier-Foddr, Trait6 de Droit International
Public, 113, § 1284:; Ferd. De Cussy, Rlglements Consulaires,
97; De Cussy, Dictionnaire du Diplomat et du Consul, 129;

41I-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Petitioner.

1 De Clercq et De Vallat, Guide Pratique des Consulats, 4th.
ed. 93; 3 Pasquale Fiore, Nouveau Droit International Public, traduit de l'Italien par Antoine, p. 49, § 1106 ; Das Europdische V61kerrecht der Gegenwart auf den bisherigen Grundlagen, von Dr. August Wilhelin Heffter, 6th ed. 395.
It is true that nowhere in the correspondence between
the
Department of State and the petitioner is he addressed with
the technical title of "charge d'affaires," but it is also true
that the letter of Mr. Lainfiesta to the Department of State
under date January 16th, 1889, clearly shows that the minister
of the three Central American Republics, being about to leave
temporarily this country, presented the petitioner to the Department of State as the person who was to be the medium of
communication between the three Central American Republics and the United States during his absence; and the State
Department in its letter to the petitioner, under date of January 24th, 1889, acknowledged the receipt of Minister Lainfiesta's communication and assented to his corresponding with
our Department of State. Under all-the authorities it is clear
that the petitioner was, by this correspondence, made charg6
d'affaires ad interim,, of the three Central American Republics,
during the absence of Minister Lainfiesta.
Because the Department of State did not use vIe technical
French term of diplomacy, "charg6 d'affaires," in addressing
the petitioner, when informing him of the appointment of Mr.
Blaine as Secretary of State, but addressed him with the
English words "In charge of the Legations of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras," or because the Departnient of State
addressed the petitioner by the English phrase "In charge of
the business of the Legations of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras," .when requesting him to do the distinctively diplomatic
act of iiaforming the three Central American Republics of the
recall of Mr. Hall, our former minister, and of the appointmen t of '
Mr. Mizner, our new minister, can it be said that the
use of the literal English translation of the French title of
office deprived the petitioner of the position which, under all
the authorities, he occupied?
It is the office, the discharge of the duty, the performance -

IN RE BAIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

of a diplomatic function which produce the privilege, and if
the person claiming the privilege is shown to be duly invested
with the authority to discharge the diplomatic functions and
to be duly discharging the same, however the individual may
be called, does not the privilege attach to the person? It is
strictly because the person is authoritatively presented and
received as the official representative of the foreign sovereign,
and as the medium of its communication with ours that he has
the privilege.
VII. It will be clear to the court that as to the Republic
of Salvador, to which the petitioner bore no relation whatever
prior to his appointment by Mr. Lainfiesta, his functions during
Mr. Lainfiesta's absence could not possibly be anything but
diplomatic functions, and that, of itself, is enough for the purposes of the petitioner's present application.
VIII. The question as to the jurisdiction of the District
Court was properly raised by motion. The jurisdiction of the
United States Courts being limited, unless the facts required
to support the jurisdiction affirmatively appear, it is the duty
of these courts to forthwith suspend proceedings and dismiss
thp action. Indeed, the presumption in every stage of the
case is against their jurisdiction unless the contrary expressly
appears from the record itself. Chakpman v. Barney, 129
U. S.677 ; Birs v. Preston, 111 U. S.252 ; Grace'v. An. Central Ins. Co., 109 U. S.278; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.646.
Mr. Robert D. Benedict opposing.
MR_.CHIEF JUsTicE FuLLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.

The judicial power of the United States extends to "All
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls." Const. Art. III, see. 2.
By section 687 of the Revised Statutes, it is provided that
the Supreme Court "shall hate exclusively all such jurisdiction of suits or proceedings against ambassadors, or other
public ministers, or their domestics, or domestic servants, as a
court of law can have consistently with the law of nations;
VOL. cxxxv-27

OCTOBER TERM 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction of all suits brought
by ambassadors, or other public ministers, or in which a
consul or a vice-consul is a party." By section 563, it is provided that "the District Courts shall have jurisdiction as follows:
.
Seventeenth. Of all suits against consuls or
vice-consuls," except for certain offences. The petitioner has
been, since July, 1887, the consul general of the Republic of
Guatemala, and therefore the District Court had jurisdiction
of the action in question, unless he belonged to the class of
official personages subject to suits or proceedings only in this
court. This he insists was the fact, and avers in his petition,
as he did in his plea in the District Court, that at the time of
the commencement . of the action and until and ihcluding the
10th day of July, 1889, which was the eighth day after service of process upon him, he was "the acting minister and
sole representative of said .republic [of Guatemala] in the
United States," and for that reason came within the words
of section 687, "other public ministers."
The exemption asserted ceased on the 10th of July, 1889,
and on the 17th of July the petitioner gave a general notice'
of appearance in the action, but did not set up the want of
jurisdiction until the 25th of the following September.. Suit
could have been brought-in that court against him on the 11th
day of July, but as in his view this could not have been done
on the 29th of June or the 2d of July, he contends that the
District Court should be ordered to dismiss the suit, though
it could at once be recommenced therein. But it is said that
the appearance did not waive the right to be sued in this
court rather than in the District Court, because that was the
privilege of the country or government which he represented.
Without pausing to inquire how far this is a correct application of the international privilege of not being sued at all,
its assertion, even in this restricted form, serves to emphasize
petitioner's contention that he was at that time the minister
or diplomatic agent of the republics of Guatemala, Salvador
and Honduras in the United States, entrusted by virtue of his
office with authority to represent those republics in their
negotiations and to vindicate their prerogatives.

IN RiE BAIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

Under section 2, Art. II, of the Constitution, the President
is vested with power to "appoint ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls," and by section 3 it is provided that
fhe shall receive ambassadors and other public ministers."
These words are descriptive of a class existing by the law
of nations, and apply to diplomatic agents whether accredited
by the United States to a foreign power or by a foreign
power to the United States, and the words are so used'in section 2 of. Art. III. These agents may be called ambassadors,
envoys, ministers, commissioners, chargds d'affaires, agents, or
otherwise, but they possess in substance the same functions,
rights and privileges as agents of their respective governments
for the transaction of its diplomatic business abroad. Their
designations are chiefly significant in the relation of rank,
precedence or dignity. 7 Opinions Attys. Gen. (Cushing), 186.
Hence, when in subdivision fifth of section 1674 of the
Revised Statutes we find "diplomatic officer" defined as
including "ambassadors, envoys extraordinary, ministers plenipotentiary, minifters resident, commissioners, charg6s d'affaires, agents and secretaries of legation, and none others,"
we understand that to express the view of Congress as to what
are included within the term "public ministers," although the
section relates to diplomatic officers of the United States
But the scope of the words "public ministers" is defined in
the .legislation embodied in Title XLVIr, "Foreign Relations," Rev. Stat., 2d ed. 83. Section 4062 provides that
"tevery person who violates any safe conduct or passport duly
obtained and issued under authority of the United States; or
who assaults, strikes, wounds, imprisons or in any other manner offers violence to the person of a public minister, in
violation of the law of nations, shall be imprisoned for not
more than three ygars, and fined, at the discretion of the
court." Section 4063 enacts that whenever any writ or process is sued out or prosecuted by any person in any court of
the United States, or of a State, or by any judge or justice,
whereby the person of any public minister of any foreign
prince or state, authorized and received as such by the President, or any domestic or domestic servant of any such minis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ter, is arrested or imprisoned, or his goods or chattels are
distrained, seized or attached, such writ or process shall be
deemed void. Section 4064 imposes penalties for suing out
any writ oi process in violation of the preceding section; and
section 4065 says that the two preceding sections shall not
apply to any case where the person against whom the process
is issued is a citizen or inhabitant of the United States "in the
service of a public minister," and process is founded upon
a debt contracted before he entered upon such service; nor
shall the preceding section apply to any case where the person against whom the process is issued is a "domestic servant
of a public minister," unless the name of 'the servant has been
registered and posted as therein prescribed.
Section 4130,. which is the last section of the title, is as follows: "The word 'minister,' when used in this title, shall be
understood to mean the pef-son invested with, and exercising,
the principal diplomatic functions. The word 'consul' shall
be understood to mean any person invested by the United
States with, and exercising, the functions of consul general,
vice-consul general, consul or vice-consul."
Sections 4062, 4063, 4064 and 4065 were originally sections
25, 26, 27 and 28 of the Crimes Act of April 30, 1790, c. 9,
1 Stat. 118; and these were drawn from the statute 7 Anne, c.
12, which was declaratory simply of the law of nations, which
Lord Mansfield observed, in lleatfteld v. Chilton, 4 Burrow,
2015, 2016, the act did not intend to alter and could not alter.
In that case, involving the discharge of the defendant from
custody, as a domestic servant to the minister of the Prince
Bishop of Li(ge, Lord Mansfield said: "I should desire to know
in what manner this minister was accredited - certainly, he is
i&t an ambassador, which is the first rank- envoy, indeed, is
a second class; but he is not shown to be even an envoy. He
is called 'minister,' 'tis true; but minister (alone) is an equivocal term." The statute of Anne was passed in consequence
of the arrest of an ambassador of Peter the Great for debt,
and the demand by the Czar that the sheriff of Middlesex and
all others conceorned in the arrest should be punished with
instant death, 1 BI. Com. 254; and it was in reference to this

IN RE BAIZ.

42f

Opinion of the Court.

that Lord Ellenborough, in Viveash v. Be'evr, 3 M. & S. 284,
where it was held that a resident merchant of London, who is
appointed and acts as consul to a foreign prince, is not exempt
from arrest on mesne process, remarked: "I cannot help
thinking that the act of Parliament, which mentions only
ambassadors and public ministers,' and which was passed at
a time when it was an object studiously to comprehend all
kinds of public ministers entitled to these privileges, must be
considered as declaratory, not only of what the law of nations
is, but of the extent to which that law is to be carried."
Three cases are cited by counsel for petitioner arising under
or involving the act of 1790. In United States v. £ijdle, 2
Wash. 0. 0. 205, in the case of an indictment for an assault
and battery on a member of a foreign legation, it was held
that the certificate of the Secretary of State, dated subsequently to the assault and battery, is the best evidence to prove
the diplomatic character of a person accredited as a minister
by the government of the United States. The certificate from
the Secretary of State, Mr. Madison, stated that "when Mr.
Feronda produced to the President his credentials as charg4
des affaires of Spain, he also introduced De Lima, as a gentleman
attached to the legation and performing the duties of secretary
of legation," and the certificate was held to be the best evidence
to prove that Feronda was received and accredited, and that
at the same time De Lima was presented and received as
secretary attached to the legation. In United States v. Ortega,
4 Wash. C. 0. 531; there was produced in court an official'
letter from the Spanish minister to the Secretary of State,
informing him that he had appointed Mr. Salmon charg6
d'affaires; a letter from the minister to Mr. Salmon ; a letter
from the Secretary of State addressed to the Spanish minister,
recognizing the character of Mr. Salmon ; two letters from the
Secretary of State addressed to Mr. Salmon as charg6 d'affaires;
and the deposition of the chief clerk of the State Department
that Mr. Salmon was recognized by the President as charg6
d'affaires, and was accredited by the Secretary of State. Ii
United States v. Benner, Baldwin, 234, the court' was furnished with a certificate from the Secretary of State that thd

OCTOBER TERM, 188R
Opinion of the Court.

Danish minister had by letter informed the Department that
Mr. Brandis had arrived in this country in the character of
attach6 to the legation, and that said Brandis had accordingly,
since that date, been recognized by the Department as attached
to the legation in that character.
These cases clearly indicate the nature of the evidence
proper -to establish whether a person is a public minister
within the meaning of the Constitution and the laws, and that
the inquiry before us may be answered .by such evidence,
if adduced.
Was Consul General Baiz a person "invested with and exercising the principal diplomatic functions," within section 4130,
or. a "diplomatic officer," within section 1674? His counsel
claim in their motion that he was "the acting minister or
charg6 d'affaires of the Republics of Guatemala, Salvador and
Ionduras in the United States," and so recognized by the
State Department, and that he exercised diplomatic functions
as such, and therefore was a public minister, within the
statute.
By the Congresses of Vienna and Aix-la-Chapelle four distinct kinds of representation were recognized, of which the
fourth comprised charges d'affaires, who are appointed by the
minister of foreign affairs, and not as the others, nominally or
actually by the sovereign. Under the regulations of this
governfent the representatives of the United States have
heretofore been ranked in three grades, the third being cbargds
d'affaires. Secretaries of. legation act ex offcio as chargds
d'affaires ad interim, and in the absence of the secretary of
legation the Secretary of State may designate any competent
person to act ad interim, in which case he is specifically accredited by letter to the minister for foreign affairs.
Wheaton says: "Charg6s d'affaires, accredited to the ministers of foreign affairs of the court at which they reside, are
either charges d'affaires ad hoc, who are originally sent. and
accredited by their governments, or chargds d'affaires per
interim, substituted in the place of the minister of their respective nations during his absence." Elements Int. Law (8th
ed.), § 215.

IN RE BAIZ.
Opinion of th3 Court.

Ch.de Martens explains that "i charg6s d'affaires ad lwc on
permanent mission are accredited by letters transmitted to the
minister of foreign affairs. Charggs d'affaires ad interim are
presented as such by; the minister of the first or second class
when he is about to leave his position temporarily or perimanently." Guide Diplomatique, Vol. 1, p. 61, § 16.
"They," observes Twiss in his Law of Nations, § 192, "are
orally invested with the charge of the embassy or legation by
the ambassador or minister himself, to be exercised during his
absence from the seat of his *mission. They are accordingly
announced in this character by him before his departure to
the minister of foreign affairs of the court to, which he is
accredited."
Diplomatic duties are sometimes imposed upon consuls, but
only in virtue of the right of a government to designate those
who shall represent it.in the conduct of international affairs,
1 Calvo, Droit Int. 586, 2d ed. Paris 1870, and among the
numerous authorities on international laws, cited and quoted
from by petitioner's counsel, the attitude of -consuls, on whom
this function is occasionally conferred, is perhaps as well put
by De Olercq and De Vallat as by any, as follows:
2 ",
There remains a last consideration to notice, that of a consul who is charged for the time being with the management
of the affairs of the diplomatic post; he is accredited in this
case in his diplomatic capacity, either by a letter of the minister of foreign affairs of France to the iminister of foreign
affairs of the country where he is about to reside, or by a
letter of the diplomatic agent whose place he is about to fill,
or finally by a personal presentation of this agent to .the minister of foreign affairs of the country." Guide Pratique des
Consulats, Vol.1, p. 93.
I Les Charges d'affaires ad hoe, en mission permanente, sont acecr6dit~s
par des lettres remises an ministre des affaires ftrangres: Les charges
d'affaires ad interim sont pr~sent6s comme tels par 1 ministre de premiere
on 2de Classe lorsq il se dispose & quitter son poste temporaireme .,on.
d6finitivement.
" R reste une derni~re supposition Aprvoir: celle oji un consul est charg6
provisoirement de la gestion des affaires d'un poste diplomatique; 11est

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Cotirt.

That it may sometimes happen that consuls are so charged
is recognized by section 1738 of the Revised Statutes, which
provides:

"No consular officer shall exercise diplomatic functions,
or
hold any diplomatic correspondence or relation on the part of
the United States, in, with, or to the government or country
to whicl he is appointed, or any other country or government.
when there is in such country any officer of the United States
authorized to perform diplomatic functions therein; nor in
any case, unless expressly authorized by the President so to
do."
But in such case their consular character is necessarily subordinated to their superior -diplomatic character. "I consul,"
observed Mr. Justice Story, in The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, 445,
"though a public agent, is supposed to be clothed with authority only for commercial purposes. He has an undoubted
right to interpose claims for the restitution of property belonging to the subjects of his own country; but he is not considered
as a minister, or diplomatic agent of his sovereign, intrusted,
by .virtue of his office, with authority to represent him in
his negotiations with foreign states, or to vindicate his prerogatives. There is no doubt that his sovereign may specially
intrust him with such authority; but in such case his diplomatic
character is superadded to his ordinary powers, and ought to
be recognized by the government within whose dominions he
assumes to exercise it."
When a consul is appointed charg6 d'affaires, he has a
double political capacity; but though invested with full diplomatic privileges, he becomes so invested as charg6 d'affaires
and not as consul, and though authorized as consul to communicate directly with the government in which he resides,
he does not thereby obtain the diplomatic privileges of a minister. Atty. Gen. Cushing, 7 Opinions, 342, 345.
accreditS, dans ce cas, en sa qualit0 diplomatique, soit par une lettre du
ministre des affaires ftrang~res de France au ministre deg affaires 6trang~res du pays ofi il doit resider, soit par une lettre de l'agent diplomatiquQ,
qu'il dolt remplacer. soit enfln par la presentation personelle de cet agent
an ministre des affaires 6tranger s du pays.

IN RE BAIZ.

425

Opinion of the Court.

This is illustrated by the xuling of Mr. Secretary Blaine,
April 12, 1881, that the Consul General of a foreign government was not to be regarded as entitled to the immunities
accompanying the possession of diplomatic character, because
he was also accredited as the "political agent" so-called of
that government, since he was not recognized as performing
any acts as such, which he was not equally competent to perform as Consul General. 1 Whart. Dig. Int. Law, 2d ed. c. 4,
§ 88, p. 624.
We are of opinion that Mr. Baiz was not, at the time of
the commencement of the suit in question, charg6 d'affaires
ad interim of Guatemala, or invested with and exercising the
principal diplomatic functions, or in any view a "diplomatic
officer." He was not a public minister within the intent and
meaning of § 687; and the District Court had jurisdiction,
The letter of Sefior Lainfiesta of' January 16, 1889, was
neither an appointment of 'Mr.-Baiz as charg6 d'affaires ad
interim, nor equivalent to such an appointment. It was a
request in terms that the Secretary .of State would "please
allow that the Consul General of Guatemala and Honduras,
in New York, Mr. Jacob Baiz," should communicate to the
office of the Secretary of State any matters relating to the
peace of Central America of which that.department ought
to be informed without delay. This is not the language of
designation to a representative position, and is the language
designating a mere medium of -communication; and the reply
of Mr. Secretary Bayard so treats it, in declaring that the
department would be pleased to receive any communication
in relation to Central America of which Consul General Baiz
might be made the channel. This reply is addressed to Mr.
Baiz as "Consul General of Guatemala and Honduras," and
not as charg6 d'affaires ad interim. The mere fact that
the usual note conveying the information to the legations of
Mr. Secretary Blaine's accession chanced to be addressed to
"Sefior Don Jacob Baiz, in charge of the legations of Guate mala, Salvador and Honduras," was not a recognition that
he was charg6 d'affaires ad interim, or exercising diplomatic
functions; and Mr. Baiz in acknowledging the receipt of that

OCTOBER TERAf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court..

announcement properly signs his letter "Consul General."
It may be that such announcements are not sent to any but
those exercising diplomatic functions; but this courtesy could
not operate as in itself a deliberate recognition of the right to
exercise such functions, nor that the person, to whom the communication was addressed was in such exercise as a matter of
fact. It was entirely proper, since Consul General Baiz was
the channel of communication between Guatemala, Hondu:i.s
and Salvador and the State Department, that the notification
should be sent to him, and even if that course had not been
usual, the courtesy could not be availedof to impart a character which the recipient did not otherwise possess.
The proofs show that of ten letters from the State Department to Mr. Baiz, between January 16 and July 10, 1889, two
were addressed to him as in charge of the legations, .or the
business of the legations, of Guatemala, Salvador and Hon,
duras; two were addressed to him as Consul of Honduras;
and six as Consul General of Guatemala, or Guatemala and
Honduras. Of seven letters from Mr. Baiz to the department, one was signed Jacob Baiz, and six, Jacob Baiz, Consul
General. The acknowledgment. of notice of the. accession of
the Secretary of State, and of the appointment of Mr. Mizner,
and the transmission of a letter fiom the President of Guatemala, and the announcement of the appointment of Minister
Cruz, by the Consul General, can hardly be regarded as the
performance of diplomatic functions as such.
The official circular issued by the Department of State, corrected to June 13,4889, gives the names and description of
the charg6s d'affaires ad interim, in the case of countries represented by ministers who were absent and of countries having no minister, and the date of their presntation. In the
instance of Portugal, the name is given of "Consul and acting Consul General, in charge of business of legation," and
the fact of the presentation with the date appears in the list;
while in the instance of Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras,
the name of Mr. Baiz is referred to in a foot-note, with the title
of Consul General only; nor does it appear, nor is it claimed
to be the fact, that he was ever presented. As stated by

IN RE BAIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

counsel, Mr. Webster took the ground, in the case of M. tiilsemann, that as charg6 d'affaires he was not, as matter of strict
right, entitled to be presented to the President; and this is
in accordance with the regulations of the State Department.
Cons. Reg. 13. But such presentation is undeniably evidence
of the possession of diplomatic character, and so would be the
formal reception of a charg4 d'affaires ad interim by the Secretary of State. The inference is obvious, that if the Department of State had regarded Mr. Baiz as charg4 d'affaires ad
interim, or as "invested with and exercising the principal
diplomatic functions," his name would have been placed in
the list, with some indication of the fact, as the title of charg6,
or, if he had been presented, the date of his presentation.
Nor can a reason be suggested why the petitioner has not
produced in this case a certificate from the Secretary of State
that he had been recognized by the Department of State as
charg6 d'affaires ad interim of Guatemala, or as intrusted
with diplomatic functions, if there had been such recognition.
A eertificate of his status was requested, by the Guatemalan
minister, and if the State Department had understood that
Mr. Baiz was in any sense or in any way a "diplomatic represent'ative," no reason is perceived why the Department
would not have furnished a certificate to that effect; but instead of that, it contented itself with a courteons reply, giving
what was in its judgment a sufficient r~sum6 of the facts, the
letter being in effect a polite declination to give the particular certificate desired, because that could not properly be
done.
resident
Mr. Baiz was a citizen of the United States and EL
of the city*of New York. In many countries it is a state
maxim that one of its own subjects or citizens is not to be received as a foreign diplomatic agent, and a refusal to receive,
based on that objection, is always regarded as reasonable. The
expediency of avoiding a possible conflict between his privileges as such and his obligations as a subject or citizen, is considered reason enough in itself. Wheaton, 8th ed. § 210; 2
Twiss, Law of Nations, 276, § 186; 2 Phill. Int. Law, 171.
Even an appointment as consul of a native of the place where

OCTOBER TERM,; 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

consular service is required, is, according to' Phillimore "perhaps, rightfully pronounced, by a considerable authority, to,
be objectionable in principle." Vol. II. p. 291, citing De
Martens & De Cussey, Recueil des Traitgs, Index explicatif,
p. XXX, tit. "Consuls."
", Other powers," says Calvo, voL 1, p. 559, 2d ed., "admit
without difficulty their own citizens as representatives of for.
eign States, but imposing on them the obligation of amenability to the local laws as to their persons and property.
These conditions, which, nevertheless, ought never to go so
far as to modify or alter the representative character, ought
always to be defined before or at the time of receiving the
agent; for otherwise, the latter, might find it impossible to
claim the honors, rights and prerogatives attached to his employment." See also Heffter, 3d Fr. ed. 387.2
In the 'United States, the rule is expressed by Mr. Secretary
Evarts, under date of September 19, 1879, thus: "This government objects to receiving a citizen of the United States as
a diplomatic representative of a foreign power. Such citizens,
however, are frequently .recognized as consular- officers of
other nations, and this policy is not known to have hitherto
occasioned any inconvenience." And again, April 20, 1880,
while waiving the obstacle in the particular instance, he says:
"The .usage of diplomat 9 intercourse between nations is
averse to the acceptance, in the representative capacity, of a
person who, while native born in the country 'which sends
him, has yet acquired lawful status as a citizen'by naturalization of the country to -which he is sent." 1 Wharton Dig.
.Int.Law 2d ed. § 88a, p. 628. Of course the objection would
1 D'autres puissances admettent sans difficult6 leurs nationaux comme
repr~sentauts d'ttats 6trangers, mais, en leur imposant l'obligation de rester soumis aux lois territoriales pour leurs personnes et pour leurs biens. Ces
conditions, qui cependant ne sauralent jamais aller jusqu'A modifier on A
alt~rer le caract~re repr6sentatif, doivent toujours 6tre exprimdes avant
on an moment de regevoir 'agent; car autrement celui-ci se trouverait
dans l'impossibilit6 de revendiquer les honneurs, les droits, et les prerogatives attachds & son emploi.
2 En pareil cas le consentement du gouvernement 6tranger est indispeniable, et ce consenterient pent 6tre conditionel et limit6.

IN RE BAIZ.
Opinion 'of the Court.

not exist to the same extent in the case of designation for
special purposes or temporarily, but it is one purely for the
receiving government to insist upon or waive at its pleasure.
The presumption, therefore, would ordinarily be against Mr.
Baiz's contention, and, as matter of fact, we find that when
in 1886, he was- appointed charg6 d'affaires of the Republic
of Honduras to the government of the United States, Mr.
Secretary Bayard declined receiving. him as the diplomatic
•epresentative of the government of that country, because
of his being a citizen of the United States, and advised him
that : "It has long been the almost uniform practice of this
government to decline to recognize American citizens as the
accredited diplomatic representatives of foreign powers. The
statutory and jurisdictional immunities and the custowpary
privileges of right attaching to the office of a foreign minister
make it not only. inconsistent, but at times even inconvenient,
that a citizen of this country should enjoy so anomalous'.aposition." And in a subsequent 'communication rendered
necessary by a direct question of Mr. Baiz, the Secretary
informs him "that it is not the purpose of the department to
regard the substitutionary agency, which it cheerfully admits
in your case, as conferring upon you.j ersonally any diplomatic status whatever." This correspondence disposes of the
question before us. The objection which existed in 1886 to
the reception of Mr. Baiz as charg6 d'affaires ad hoc or ad interim, or according to him any diplomatic statuis whatever,.
whether temporary or otherwise, existed in 1880; and it. is
out of the question to assume that the State Department in-,
tended to concede the' diplomatic status between January 16
and July 10, 1889, upon the request of Sefior Lainfiesta-that
Consul General Baiz might be allowed to be a 'medium of
communication during his absence, which it had refused to
accord to the Republic of Honduras itself. It is evident that
the statementoif the Assistau Secretary, October 4, 1889, was
quite correct, that "the business of the legation [of Guatemala] was conducted by Consul General Baiz, but without
diplomatic character."
It is objected that we ought not to have allowed these

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

official papers to come before us, but should have prohibited
.the District Court from exercising jurisdiction, because the
evidence that established it had not all been before that court
when the question was raised; but the rule governing this
class of cases involves no such consequendes. The district
judge was of opinion that inasmuch as there were two kinds
of direct evidence which would show that the defendant was
a "public minister," to wit : (1) A certificate of the Secretary
of State that he was such, was received as such and was exercising such functions; or (2) proof of the exercise by the
defendant of "the principal diplomatic functions," under
some one d the titles of diplomatic office, as recognized by
our statutes and the law of nations; and as ;uch direct
evidence had not been furnished, and the plaintiff was not
required to produce his counter evidence on a motion like
that under consideration instead of at the trial, he was justified in retaining jurisdiction until the issue raised by the
pleadings was regularly determined. But to this latter
suggestion, counsel for petitioner answered in argument: "At
any rate, in this court, exercising its appropriate jurisdiction
to entertain an application for a writ of prohibition or mandamus, the respondent here is called upon to produce any
evidence that exists to countervail the petitioner's proof of
his privilege." This is undoubtedly the correct view. The
question here is whether the District Court had jurisdiction,
and not whether its order refusing to set aside the service of
summons and the subsequent proceedings in the action, and
dismissing the same, should be reversed.
. The practice in prohibition was formerly to file a suggestion,
an affidavit in support of which was required where the prohibition was moved for upon anything not appearing upon
the face of the proceedings. - Upon a rule to show cause, if it
appeared to the court, on cause shown, that the surmise was
not true, or not clearly sufficient to- ground the prohibition
upon it would be denied, otherwise the rule would be made absolute: or, if the nmatter were doubtful, the party was ordered
to declare, and issue joined on such dedlaration was regularly
tried, being in the nature of an issue .toinform the conscience

IN lRE BAIZ.
Opiniofi of the Court.

of the court. 2 Sellon's Practice, 313, 321, 325. And in mandamus, if the case were not governed by the return .to the
alternative writ, but a traverse of the return was allowed,
issues were made up and a trial had. If the matter can be
disposed of upon the rule to show cause, that course may be
pursued, but the applicable principles are the same. The
alleged want of jurisdiction depends upon questions of fact.
It was purely discretionary whether this evidence should be
admitted at the time it was presented; and in a proceeding
involving the inquiry under consideration, it was plainly our
duty to permit it to come in, the petitioner being afforded, as
he was, the opportunity for explanation and the introduction.
of such other evidence as he chose to produce.
In
exp rte litz, Petitioner, 111 U. S. '766, which was an
application for a writ of certiorari, commanding the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to certify to this court an
indictment and the proceedings thereunder, on the ground
that, when the indictment was filed and, when the offences
therein charged were committed, he was the diplomatic representative of the Swiss Confederation, the court directed a preliminary inquiry, and, in doing so, Mr. Chief Justice Waite
said: "As it is conceded that the petitioner is, not now in the
diplomatic service of Switzerland, and was not when all the
proceedings in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
subsequent to the indictment were had,, counsel are directed
to request the Secretary of State to certify whether John Hitz
was at any time accredited to and reco~gnized by the government of the United States as public or political agent or
charg6 d'affaires of the Republic of Switzerland, and if so,
for what period of time, and up to and including what aate;"
The counsel having complied with hat request, the court upon
receiving the information as to what the records of the department showed, dismissed the petition.
Regarding the matter in hand as:in its general nature, one
of delicacy and importance, we have not thought it desirable
to discuss the suggestions of counsel in relation t6the remedy,
but have preferred to examine into and pass upon the merits.
We ought to add that while we have not cared to dispose

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

of this case upon the mere absence of technical evidence, we
do not assume to sit in judgment upon the decision of the executive in reference to the public character of a person claiming
to be a foreign minister, and therefore have the right to accept
the certificate of the State Department that a party is* or is
not a privileged person, and cannot properly be asked to proceed upon argumentative or collateral proof.
Our conclusion is, as already stated, that the District Court
had jurisdiction, and we accordingly discharge the rule and
.Deny the writs.

NEW

YORK

ELEVATED RAILROAD COMPANY
v. FIFTH NATIONAL BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT
SOUTRERTI

COURT

OF THE UlNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

1No. 106. Argued lTovember 13, 1889.

Decided May 5, 1890.

A party cannot take exception to a ruling under which a trial has been
conducted by his procurement or with his acquiescence.
In an action by the owner of a building and land abutting on a street in the
city of New York, against a company which had constructed an elevated
railroad and station-house over and along the street, the plaintiff claimed
damages for tie injury to the use and enjoyment of his property by obstructing the passage of light and air and diminishing the rents, and also
for the permanent injury to the market and rental value of the property.
Evidence, offered by the plaintiff, of the value of the building, before and
after the construction of the railroad, was excluded by the court upon
the defendant's objection. The defendant contended that the plaintiff's
damages should be limited to the date of bringing the action. But the
court ruled that they might be recovered to the time of the trial; and
evidence was introduced in accordance with that ruling without objection or exception by the defendant to the admission of the evidence, or
to the ruling under which it came in. Held, that the defendant could not
except to a subsequent refusal of the court to admit evidence that the
value of the plaintiff's property had been increased by the construction of
the railroad ; nor to an instruction allowing damages to be 5ecovered to
the time of trial; nor to the refusal of an instruction, requested by the
defendant after the charge, that the recovery could be had only for the
permanent injury to the plaintiff's property.

