OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

HAINES v.

cLAUGHLIN.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 315. Argued May 1, 1890. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

The invention covered by the claim in letters patent No. 107,611, granted to
James W. Haines on the 20th September, 1870, for an improvement in
chutes for delivering timber, covers chutes, whether constructed with
lapped joints or abutted joints, and was anticipated by several constructions for similar purposes described im. tbt opinion; and the letters patent
thdrefor are void.
A claim in letters patent cannot be enlarged by construction beyond a fair
interpretation of its terms.
Several alleged errors of the court in its rulings and instructions examined.
and found to contain no error.

THIS was an action at law brought to recover damages for
an alleged infringement of letters patent No. 107,611, baring
date September 20, 1870, 'and granted to James W. Haines
'for an "improvement in chutes for delivering timbek." The
specification, claim and drawings are as follows:
"Be it kn6wn that I, James W. Haines, of Genoa, in the
county of Douglas and State of Nevada, have invented a new
and improved chute for delivering timber from high mountains; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full,
clear, and exact description thereof, which will enable others
skilled in. the art to make and use the same, reference being
had to the accompanying drawing forming part of this specification.
"Figure I represents a side view of my improved chute.
"Figure 2 is an end view of the same.
"Similar letters of reference indicate corresponding parts.
"This invention has for its object to furnish to the public
an improved chute for facilitating the transportation of timber of all kinds from the tops or sides of mountains or other.
elevations, and consists in. constructing a chute so as to present

RATiNES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Statement of the Case.

a V form in cross-section, the same being arranged on an
incline corresponding, more or less, to the surface, of the
ground over which it passes, and brought in connection with
a spring, or other water-supply, to receive the water there-

.Fig.2.

from, and thus form a smooth canal throughout its entire
length.
"Heretofore chutes for this purpose have been constructed
with flat, or nearly flat, bottoms, which, while sufficiently
objectionable as requiring a greater quantity of water. to
ensure equal rapidity in the transit of the timber, are far
more so for another reason, viz., the log or piece of timber, more especially at points where the inclinatioh of the
chute is slight, is liable to be checked in its descent by friction

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

against the bottom and one side of the chute, and, when
thus situated, others may pass it, thus leaving it to be again
,set in motion by manual assistance, or other logs striking it;
the-whole may become wedged together, so as to form a total
obstruction to the passage of succeeding logs, destroy the
chute at that point, or cause other serious injury, inconvenience, and, in any event, pecuniary loss.
"A in the drawing represents a wooden trough made of
two boards, a and b, which are joined at an angle of about
ninety degrees.
"This trough is supported by trestles or frames B B, of
suitable construction, and is built up on the side of a mountain, its upper end being connected with a brook, lake, stream,
or spring, to receive a supply of running water, which may, if
desiied, be regulated by means -of a suitable gate.
"The timber or wood to be transported downwardly is
thrown into the trough, and carried down by the water in
the same. A very rapid and convenient means of conveying
wood is thus provided.
"Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and
desire to secure by letters patent "The chute A, of V form, in cross-section, arranged on an
incline in whole or in part, and adapted to receive a flow of
water, for the conveyance of timber, as set forth."
The defendants denied-each and every allegation of the com-,
plaint separately and specifically, and set up other defences.
A jury trial was had, which occupied several days, and resulted
in a verdict in favor of the defendants, upon which judgment
was*entered.- A bill of exceptions was taken, and a writ of
error sued out from this court.
The plaintiff's evidence tended to show that, in the fall of
1867 .and the winter and spring .of 1868, he cut a large amount
of wood into lengths of four feet each on the eastern slope of
the Sierra Nevada, with the design of floating it out of the
mountains. These logs were rolled down the sides of the
cafion upon which the trees had grown, and plaintiff built a
*square or rectangular flume, having bottom boards two feet
wide and side boards eighteen inches wide. When he turned

]RAIIES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Statement of the Case.

the water into the flume and commenced putting in his wood,
he found that the wood would run faster than the water, and
that the lighter sticks would run faster than the heavier ones,
jamming and choking up the flume. He then spread the
upper edges of the side boards of the flume as far out as he
could without breaking the nails *atthe bottom of the boards,
and found that that afforded some relief. Then he took inch
boards, twelve inches wide, nailed them together at an angle
of 900, so as to make a V chute, and set that in the flume.
He lapped each length about three inches, by placing the
lower end of one length upon the upper end of the next
length below. This worked much better, but there was difficulty on account of the laps when the water was light. He
then chaned to the butted jointed flume, in which the ends
of the different sections abutted against each other, instead of
lapping. This was in September, 1868. It is admitted that
the patent was applied for August 6, .1870.
The evidence also tended to show that one A. C. Cleveland
built a flume a little over a mile in length, with lapped joints,
for the transportation of wood,' the contract for the construction of which he made on June 22, 1868, and which wa§ completed on the 21st of July, 1868, and used continuously until
the early part of August, 1868, when Cleveland disposed of it
to other parties. Cleveland described the mode and manner
in which it was constructed, of two boards nailed together in
V shape and put on trestles wherever necessary, and it was
conducted along the mountain a distance of 0700 feet in
length. Evidence was also given on behalf of the defendants
in respect to what the witnesses called a sluice at Case's tannery, at the town of Mariaville, Hancock County, in the State
of Maine, in 1858, and which was still in existence at the time
of the commencement of the suit. This sluice was described
in substance as follows:
"At -Case's tanery there was a mill-dam twelve feet high,
measuring tromwtne centreof the stream to the top of the dam.
It was the custom to float logs down that stream in the spring
of the year from points which lay several miles above Case's
tannery to other places below the tannery. In order to pass

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the logs over the mill-dam the said sluice was constructed.
'The sluice was about four feet across the top, and was built
with two inclined sides, the planks of which were butted and
the joints broken, which in cross-section stood at an angle of
forty-five degrees, and were joined together at the bottom,
and thus formed a trough in the form of a right-angled trian,gle, with the right angle at the bottom. This sluice or flume
was some three or four hundred feet long and was four feet
across the top. Its upper end was set into the mill-dam, so
that the water from the dam would flow into and fill it sufficiently to convey the logs. It was built at a regular incline
down the stream, and its lower end was a foot and a half or
two feet above the water in a stream below the dam. The
sluice or flume was built upon and sustained by suitable frame-work. The dam set the water back above it from a half to
three-quarters of a mile. When the logs reached the lower
end of the mill-pond each one as it floated was steered by the
use of poles to the upper end of the sluice, through which it
was carried by floating upon the water which raft through the
sluice. A million feet of logs (lumber measurement) could be
run through the sluice in a day, and two or three million feet
were usually so run through the sluice each year. The sluice
or flume was built on a regular incline. The water ran swiftly
through it at a depth of about three feet, varying from day
to day according to the supply in the dam."
Eight different witnesses testified to the existence of the
said Mariaville sluice, and each one of these witnesses said
that he had never seen a V chute for carrying wood or lumber
down a mountain side, such as described in the plaintiff's
patent. One of them, however, testified that he saw one of
these chutes used in transporting lumber down the mountain
side over uneven grades in California in 1873. Close, who
constructed this sluice in Maine, was called as a witness, and
produced a diagram, which he thus described:
"My exhibit represents a cross-section of my sluice orflume,
except as to stringers A A, which are not shown in crosssection. The flume itself, shown by the planking P P, is
composed of plank on'the inside of a frame and set at a con-

HAINES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Statement of the Case.

venient angle of about forty-five degrees, and is supported on
horses, one of which is shown in the part marked D D. The
feet of the horses rest on cross-sills, one of which is shown in
the parts marked B. From each end of the cross-sill B a
brace 0 extends to the upper ends of horse D and the whole
structure rests upon stringers A A. The planking is pinned
or nailed to the inside of the frame. The stringers extend
underneath the whole length of the flume, which can be extended to any desired length. The horse frames D D can be
set at any desired distance apart, say from four to five feet,
their only purpose being to support the planking P. This device gives a flume of V form in cross-section. The diamond
piece V was placed in the throat of the horses D D for the
purpose of saving water, and rested on the top of the planking.
Piers were built over falls and gulches and over land, as the
conformation of the ground required, and by the use of trestle
work or posts. In one case that I know of such a sluice has
been built on tops of trees, cut twenty feet from the ground.
My flume was built on an incline to give a current or draft of
water, and was used for the conveyance of logs or other lumber by means of the flow of the water. The way I happened
to build this sluice was a case of necessity, as I will describe.
The Messrs. Case, who owned the tannery at the place where
I built the sluice at Mariaville, had a long race-way or pen,stock some three hundred feet in length on one side and in the
bed of the stream below the dam for the purpose of carrying
water from the dam to the flume in the tannery,. and they
called on me to come and help them out of their trouble,
They said the log-driver wanted to cut a hole in their dam
twelve feet by twelve feet and build a gate, and if that was
done they said it would ruin them, as they had thirty thousand
hides in their vats, which would spoil for the reason that the
log-drivers would draw all the water from their pond and they
could not run their hide nor the bark mills, as they had a
limited supply of water to supply a gate of twelve feet by
twelve. I made a contract with them to build a sluice to sluice
by their tannery all the logs that were above their tannery or
that ever would be, and in my contract I was not 'to lower

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

their pond one inch. I built the sluice, as I have already described, and it was a perfect success, and people came from
distances to see this new and improved sluice. A part of this
sluice is now in existence, which can be seen by any one who
desires to see it.
"1The length of this sluice or flume was some three hundred
feet. The first logs that were put through the sluice were by
me, and four men of us put through six hundred and forty
logs in tbirty-five minutes, and this was in April, 1858, and,
as I have said before, millions of feet of logs have been put
through it ince that time.
"The side boards were of plank two and a half inches
thick, fourteen inches wide, and three plank on a side. There
was room on the horses to have planked up two or three plank
higher if desirable, but it never was called for, it being about
impossible for a log to gei out over the sluice or flume."
The defendants read in'evidence from a work called "Babbage on Economy of Machinety'and Manufactures," which
was published in London in 1841, a description of the slide at
Alpnach in Switzerland, of which the following is a copy:
"The slide of Alpnach is formed entirely of about 25,000
large pine trees, deprived of their bark, and united, toge.ther in
a very ingenious manner without the aid of iron. It occupied
about 160 workmen during eighteen months, and cost nearly
100,000 francs or £4250. It is about three leagues or 44,000
English feet long, and terminates in the lake of Lucerne. It
has the form of a trough, about six feet broad and from three
to six feet deep. Its bottom is formed of three trees, the middle one of which has a groove cut out iii the direction of its
length for recoiving small rills of water, which are conducted
into it from various places for the purpose of diminishing the
friction. The whole of the slide is sustained by 2006 supports,
and in many places it is attached in a very ingenious manner
to the rugged precipices of gtanite.
"The direction of the slide is sometimes straight and sometimes zigzag, with an inclination of from 100 to 180. It is
often carried along the sides of hills and the flanks of precipitous -rocks, and sometimes passes over their summits. . Occa-

HAINES v. McLAUGHLIN.

591

Opinion of the Court.

sionally it goes under ground, and at other times it is conducted
over the deep gorges by scaffolding 120 feet in height."
The bill of exceptions states:
"The plaintiff's counsel, during the trial, constantly claimed
that the plaintiff's invention was not a mere flume In -V form
nor a mere chute in V form, but he claimed that iA was a
combination of both, and he also claimed that the patentee
was entitled to his patent because he had discovered that a
chute made in V form in cross-section and built down a mountain's side of varying grades, so that its operation partook of
the nature of both a flume and a chute, would do work which
no other form of flume or chute would do. He also claimed
that, because the plaintiff kept on improving such combined
flume and chute until he found out by actual experiment and
use that such combined flume and chute, when made without
laps so as to fon asmooth canal throughout its entire length,
would do several times as much work as it would when it was
made in any of the methods which had been used in constrcting it prior to the month of September, 1868; that the invention was not to be considered, in law or fact, as a completed
invention until it was so constructed; that it formed a smopth
canal throughout its entire length, as mentioned in the specifications of the patent. All the way through the trial the
plaintiff's counsel claimed that a 'flume' and a 'chute': w ere
two different things. Plaintiff's counsel frequently,.during.the
trial, spoke of plaintiff's said alleged invention as a Iflume."'
Mr. X. A. Wheaton and Tr. Wihiam,
tiff in error.

. Stewart for plain-

.A&. Z. MAtontgomery for defendantjn error. The court declined to hear argument for defendant in error.
MR. CmEF JUsTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Nine exceptions were taken in the progress'of the trial, and
error is assigned in the giving of each one of the instructions
which are shown in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh and eighth exceptions, and also in the refusal of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

court to give an instruction asked for by the plaintiff, as shown
in the ninth exception. The first exception related to an observation by the court to the jury that counsel upon both sides
had.used the terms "flume" and "chute" synonymously, that
the words of the patent were "an improved chute," but that
in discussing it, the terms had been used as of the same signification. The bill of exceptions states that it was the fact that
the plaintiff's counsel had frequently during the trial spoken
of the alleged invention as a "flume." This is not only so
stated as a conclusion from the evidence, but we find quite a
number of questions put by plaintiff's counsel, which make
use of the word "flume" in that way, as for instance: "What
part of the flume does timber go fastest? " "As the chute is
steepest the timber goes faster?" "How was the body of
water in the lapped flume or chute, which you commenced
-using in 1868, as to quantity?" "To what extent has the V
chute or flume gone into use, made as you made it, since 1868?
since you made this in 1868 ?" '"Do you recollect what time
Mr. White finished that chute? " 1"What 'difficulties, if any,
did you encounter in using that flume after Mr. White left
it?" The remark of the court was fully justified and could
not have affected plaintiff injuriously -as his claim was that
his invention was a combination of' a " flume "7and a "chute,"
and the distinction contended for as existing between them
was insisted on in that connection and made entirely clear
the case. And in the fifth instruction asked for
by the plaintiff and given by the court, reference is made
to Haines' patent as "a combination of flume and. chute,"
although the patent does not cover any such combination.
The second exception was to the charge of the court in
relation to the Alpnach flume or slide, to the effect, at first,
that, if the jury believed, from the evidence, that that slide
substantially accomplished the object and purpose of the
patented article, and that a partJy skilled in the business, reading that description, could easily and readily build a flume
such as was patented here, then the description and publication would constitute a defence. But this part of the charge
was withdrawn upon the defendants' counsel disclaiming the

-throughout

HAINES v. McLAUGHLIT.
Opinion 'of the Court.

slide as a complete anticipation, and the court then said: "It
is not claimed by the' defendant that this Alpnach slide, an

account of which has been read to you, over in Switzerland, is
a complete anticipation. It is only submitted to you as a possible suggestion of the idea of' bringing timber down from the
mountain sides." This disposes of this exception.
In the course of the charge, the court went over the facts in
relation to the Cleveland flume, stating, among other things,
that it was successfully operated until the 15th of August,
1868, and performed its functions and ends satisfactorily.
Plaintiff's counsel specifically objected to the statement that
the flume worked successfully, and a colloquy ensued as to
what constituted successful operation, and the judge told the
jury that that was the way he understood the testimony, as
applicable to the issues, but said that he left the matter wholly
to them to determine. In this, as the question arose, there
was no error. Ti'ansportation Line v. Hope, 95 U. S. 297.
Counsel. for plaintiff objected to this part of the charge, also,
upon grounds treated of under subsequent exceptions. The
extract is quite long, and it is unnecessary to give it in full.
It'concluded as follows: "If, under all the evidence in the
case, then, you believe that this flume built by Cleveland was,
in all its substantial elements the same as that afterwards
patented by the plaintiff in this case, then your .verdict must
be for the defendants,' because it is a conceded fact that that
was a public use, or whether conceded or not, it was a public
use, and it was in use more than two years before the plaintiff applied for his patent." This is the third exception, and
may be considered with the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and
eighth exceptions to the following portions of the charge:
4. "You have heard a good deal in this case, gentlemen, in
regard to'this matter of abutted joints or lapped joints. Now,
I say to you, you may'dismiss that particular quality of this
flume from your consideration. There is nothing in the patent
covering this matter of joining sections of thfe flume, and a
party would be liable for infringement, I apprehend, if liable
at all, who should use this flume with a lapped joint as well as
if he used itwith an abutted joint. As a matter of fact, the
VOL. cXXXV-38

OCTOBER TERM 1889,
Opinion of the Court.

evidence in this case, I believe, without contradiction, shows
this in the Mariaville flume, made at Maine, a model of which
is before you. The joints there were what mechanics call
' broken; ' the boards ran over from one section half way over
on the other, and were abutted.
"That would undoubtedly give strength to the flurie,.and
where heavy materials were run through would probably be
an advantage.
1"On the other hand, where no very great strength is required, the ordinary abutted flume,, as made by the plaintiff
in this casp, might have an -advantage, and that perhaps for
cheapness, ind where other conditions obtained where it could
be used, perhaps a lapped flume would cover all the requirements needed and be cheaper than either one of the others;
but as a matter of law you may dismiss the whole matter of
joints from your consideration: one way or the other, because
specifically it is not cdvered by the patent."
form in crosssection,
5 "If a wooden trough of ''
aranged on an incline, in whole or in part, and adapted to
r6eive a flow of water for the conveyance of logs or timber
or wood when thrown into said trough, and to transport the
"same downwardly along said trough by means of water flow:
ing therein, was an old device at the time of plaintiff's alleged
invention, the mere fact, if such be the-fact, that plaintiff, first
applied this old device to the transportation of logs or timber
or wood down the side of the mountain or of such a cafion or
of an elevation, was no invention, and under such a state of
facts, if you find them to'exist, your verdict, should be for
defendants.'
6. "The invention which is covered by the claim of plaintiff's
patent is a chute of T form in cross-section, arranged on an
incline, in whole or.in part,;-and adapted to receive a flow of
water for the conveyance of timber thrown into said trough
and. carried down by the water in the s~me. According to
this description, the character of the incline is not stated, and
therefore is not material, except that it should be steep enough
to give the water strength of flow' sufficient to trausp6rf'the
timber thrown into the trough."

HAINES v.McLAUGHLIN.

95

Opinion'o.f the Court.

7. "If the Cleveland chute was a chute of Yr form in cressr
section, with its series of planks lapped at their'ends, arran egi
on an incline' In: whole or in part and adapted to receive aflow.
of water for the conveyance of timber thrown into said-chuteand carried dowil by means of water in the same, and. was
finished on the" 2d day of July, 1868, and was publicly ,and
successfully used by Cleveland for the transportation of. wood,
or timber in tiet manner aforesaid between the 22d'day,of
July, 1868, and the 5th of August, 1868, then this was a-public
use of plaintiffes Invention. in the United States for more than
two years befo' plaintiff's application for a patent, and constituted a constructive abandonment of plaintiff's inveuion
and under these ,fcts, if you find them to exist, your verdict
should be for defendants."
'8. "If you believe that the wooden flume testified toby
sever4of defendants' witnesses as having been constructed, at
Mariaville, Maine, 'was constructed and operated at that place
in the year 1858 and thereafter, and was of 'V' fprm inocrosssection, and was arranged from the top of a dam to a',point
300 feet beyond Said dam, and was adapted to receive a'flow.
of water for the transportation of logs from the upper to the.
lower end of said flume and along the whole length ,thereof,'
and 'was set upoin an incline steep enough to give the water in
said flume strength of flow sufficient to swiftly transport ,the
logs placed in the head of said flume to the lower end thereof
and along the whol6 length thereof, and that this fluwn was
.successfully operated hnd many thousands of logs transported
hrough it in the year 18 8 and theiafter, previous to 1868,,by
means of a flow of water througl haid- flume, then I instruct
you that this was an anticipation of the inyention claimed,, in
.plaintiffs: patent, and' that your verdict should be.for'the
defencauts."
, The argument of plaintiff's counsel is that the' lapped flume
did not include Haines' completedinvention; that itwas one
of Haines' experiments, which Cleveland saw and copied, but
this could not affect Iain~es' right to go on and.complete his
.invefition by making further experiments and discoveries .prodawing further' new and- useful results; that until it was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

completed invention the time had not arrived at which it was
his duty to apply for a patent; and, therefore, that he forfeited nothing by delay.
Various instructions guarding this point were given by the
court, and among them these:
"7. If an inventor applies for his patent within two years
from the time that he first exhibits his completed invention in
public no amount of public use within that two years either by
the inventor or others will work any forfeiture of his right to
a patent or constitute any evidence of abandonment."
"16. The jury will not consider any former flume *orchute
to be an anticipation unless they believe such former flume or
chute developed the same mode of operation as the flume
described in the plaintiff's patent."
Of course, if the patent for the completed chute described
nothing which could be recognized as a patentable improvement differing from the prior lapped chute, then the objection
has no basis to rest on.
-The evidence leaves no doubt that the lapped chute was in
public use with Haines' consent or allowance more than two
years prior to the application for the patent.
Counsel further insists that the flumes referred to in the fifth
and sixth exceptions did not include the plaintiff's invention
and were not covered by his patent, and that whether this
was so, and whether the "smooth canal" of the patent could
be anticipated by the lapped chute, were questions of fact
which the court should have left to the jury to decide.
A claim admitted by the Patent Office and acquiesced in by
the patentee should not be enlarged by construction beyond
the fair interpretation of its terms, and this patent says nothiqg about how the joints are constructed, nor whether the
chute contained any joints at all or not; afd this is admitted
in the brief of the plaintiff's counsel.
The specification says: "This invention has for its object to
furnish to the public an improved chute for facilitating the
transportation of timber of all kinds from the tops or sides of
mountains or other elevations, and consists in constructing a
chute so as to present a V form in cross-section, the ,same

RAINES v. :-McLAUGHLII.
Opinion of the Court.

being arranged on an incline corresponding, more or less, to
the surface of the ground over which it passes, and brought
in connection with a spring or other water supply, to receive
the water therefrom, and thus form a smooth canal throughout
its entire length." This smooth canal is the result obtained
by constructing the chute according to the description, and it
covers lapped joints just as much as it. does abutted joints.
The Mariaville sluice was' constructed on the same plan as the
Haines' chute, and both were rectangular flumes. Haines
himself testifies that his V chute *as "a rectangular flume at
an angle of 90°.,' It was intended to facilitate the transportation of timber of all kinds from other elevations as well as
mountains, and was necessarily arranged on an incline adapted
to the surface over which it passed; and the character of Lae
incline was not stated.
The parts of the charge presented by exceptions five or .six
were correct, and, as to the other instructions, they described
the working of the Haines flume as represented in the patent
and in Haines' testimony, and by them the c6urt charged the
jury that if they believed from the evidence that the Oleveland
and Mariaville chutes, or flumes, or sluices were constructed
and successfully operated on the plan and in the manner
described by the court, which was the plan and manner in
which the Haines chute was operated, then this was an anticipation of the invention claimed by.Haines. There was no
error in this, for such was the conclusion of law, if the jury
found the facts from the evidence to be as stated; and it is
to be noted in this connection that the court in conclusion
instructed the jury as follows:
"All questions of fact are exclusively for the jury to decide.
The court does not decide nor instruct you as to whaether the
Mariaville sluice or any other sluice or flume or chute was or
was not an anticipation of the plaintiff's patent. The question
of anticipation is purely a question of fact, and is exclusively
for the july to determine."
The ninth exception was taken to the refugal of the court
to give the following instruction : "The patent in this case is
not merely for a V-shaped trough or sluice. Neither does it

OCTOBER" TERM3

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

.oover a flume with a flat bottom aid flaring' sides.. lNether
does it cover a V-shaped flume, or sluice so constructed on an
-even or nearly even grade, that it will carry throughout its
length a full volume of water sufficient to float freely the
woodor other material that is transported through. it. None
of these things would constitute any anti~ipation of the
patented invention."
This instruction was open to serious
objection. It was not contended that either, the Cleveland
flume or the, Mariaville sluice had a flat bottoni, nor did the
description of the patent require the chute to be so constructed
as to-have a given anount of fall. It is not error to refuse to
'instruct as to an abstract question, and instructions should
never be given upon hypothetical statements of facti of which
thereis no evidence.' The charge of the court was as favorable to the plaintiff as he had any right to demand, and to
have given the foregoing would have tended to confuse and
mislead. It was properly refused. In fact, it appears to us
.that. the evidence of anticipation was so conclusive, that, as
contended by counsel for defendants in error, the Circuit
Court would have been warranted in directing the jury to find
for the'defendants, inasmuch as, if there had been a verdict
,against them, the court -would have been compelled to set it
aside.
77hejudgmemt i8 afflrnzed.

