OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

FECKLOFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 244.

Submitted March 27, 1890.-Decided April 28, 1890.

Under the act of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180, the commissioners of the
District of Columbia have the power to summarily remove and dismiss
from the police force of the District officers and members of that force.

AsuSSMPSIT against the District of Columbia, to recover
salary alleged to be due the plaintiff as an officer in its police
corps. Judgment for defendant, to which this writ of error
was sued out. The case is stated in the opinion.
Jb'. C. C. Cole and ,Ab'. IF. L. Cole for plaintiff in error.
AXh. George C. Hazleton for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On: March 31, 1883, the plaintiff in error, who had been for
years theretofore a lieutenant of the police force of the District
of Columbia, was removed from office by the commissioners of
the District. This removal was without any written charges
preferred against him, or any notice or hearing. Challenging
the validity of such removal, he brought his action for salary
subsequent thereto. At the trial of the case, at a special term
of the Supreme Court of the District, his summary removal
was adjudged unauthorized, and his claim for salary sustained.
This judgment was reversed by the court at its general term,
and the action dismissed at his cost. 4 Mackey, 572. To
reverse that judgment of the general term, this writ of error
isprosecuted.
The single question presented by the record is, as to the
power of the commissioners to remove a police officer without
charges, notice or hearing. The act of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat.
102, c. 180, by which the police force was placed under the
control of the commissioners of the District, empowers them,

ECKLOFF .v.DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion" of the Court.

(ยง 3,) "to abolish any office, to consolidate two or more offices,
reduce the number of employis, remove from office and make
appointments to any office under them authorized by law."
If this were all the legislation, there would be no question, for
the grant of a general power to remove -carries with it the
right to remove at any .time or in any manner deemed best,
with or without notice; but the contention of the plaintiff in
error is, that this unrestricted right of removal is limited by
the provisions of prior statutes.
In 1861 an act was passed creating a metropolitan police
system for the District of Columbia, and establishing a police
for such district. 19 Stat. 320, c. 62. By that act a board,
consisting of five commissioners, was created, to' whom was
given full control over the police force. This board was continued until the act of 1878, and its'power of removal was
limited by this provision: "No person shall be iemoved from
the police force except upon w'ritten charges preferred against
him to the board of, police, 6nd after an Iopportunity shall
have been afforded him of being heard in his defence; and no
person removed from the police force for cause shall be reappointed to any office in said force."
Sec. 8 of the act of 1861,
embodied in Rev. Stat. D. C. ยง 355. And the contention is
that the act of' 1878 simply changed the controb from *one
board to another; that this limitatioi on the power of removal was not expressly repealed by the act of 1878; that
repeals by implication are not favored; and therefore that;
construing the old law With the new, whatever power the new
board had over other subordinates, its power over the police
was subject to that limithtion. On thie other hand, it appears
that in 1871 an act was passed providing a gover.nment for the
District of Columbia. 16 Stat. 419, c. 62. This established a
territorial government, with a governor and legislative assembly, to which the general administration of the affairs of the
District was committed. It did not change the police department, which was left, as theretofore, under the charge of the
police commissioners. This territorial system .not proving.
satisfactory, Congress, in 1874, (18 Stat. 116,) abolished it, and
vested the affairs of the District in a commission. That act
VOL. CxxXV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

contained the provision we have heretofore quoted from the
act .of 1878; and gave to this commission large powers of
administration, but without. control of the police or the schools.
Evidently this scheme of administration was experimental, as
section 5 of the act provided for the appointment of a committee of Congress, to prepare a suitable frame of government
for the District and report the sarfie to the succeeding Congress.
The experiment was found to be satisfactory, and in 1878, four
years thereafter, the act from which we first quoted was passed,
which was entitled "An act providing a permanent form of
government for the District of Columbia." Following the
idea and ellarging the scope of the act of 1874, the general
administration of affairs was vested in a commission, and to
that commission was given control also over the police and
.schools; for by section 6 it was provided: "That from and
after the first day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight,
the board of metropolitan police and the board of school
trustees shall be abolished; and .all the powers and duties now
exercised by them shall be transferred to the' said commissioners of the District of Columbia, who shall have authority
to employ such officers and agents and to adopt such provisions as may be necessary to carry into execution the powqrs
and duties devolved upon them by this act. And the commissioners of the District of Columbia shall, from time to time,
appoint nineteen persons, actual residents 6f said Distict of
Columbia, to constitute the trustees of public schools of said
District, who shall serve without compensation and for such
terms as said commissioners-shall fix. Said trustees shall have
the powers and perform the duties in ielation to the care and
management of the public schools which are now authorized
by law."
Itwill be noticed that a= distinction is provided between-the
police 'and the schools. An intermediate board is to be appointed for the latter while the direct control of the police
is giveii to the commissioners; and they "are authorized to
adopt such provisions as may be necessary to carry into exebution the powers and duties devolved upon them by this act."
When to a board having general- administrative supervision of

ECKLOFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the .Court.

the affairs of a community, and with plenary power in the
matter of appointment and removal of subordinates, is added
the control of another department, and no express words of
limitation are found in the act, making the transfer, it is: to be
presumed that such board has the same plenary power in respect to this new Idepartment, and is not, hampered by limitations attached to the board which theretofore had control of
it. The presumption against implied repeal obtaining in the
construction of ordinary statutes yields io the inferences arising from the subject matter of legislation. Plenary powers
having been found by experience valuable ihthe management
of affairs already under the control of the board, the transfer
of another department to the same control carries with it a
strong implication that the added department is ubject to the
same plenary p6wers. The primary thought is not a mere
transfer of authority, but the bringing of the added depart
ment within the cont'ol of the general supervising board. It
is unity of administration and not change of commission.
But our conclusions are not controlled by this construction
alone. The court below placed its decision on what we conceive to be the true significance of the act of 1878. As said
by that court, it is to be regarded at an organic act, intended
to dispose of the whole question of a government for this
District. It is, as it were, a constitution for the District. It is
declared by its title to be an act to provide "a permanent
form of government for the District." The word permanent
is suggestive. It implies that prior systems had been temporary and provisional. As permanent it is complete in itself.
It is the system of gov nment. The powers which are conferred are organic powers. We look to the act itself for their
extent and limitations. It is not one act in a series of legisla-.
tion, and to be made to fit into the provisions of the prior
legislation, but is a single complete act, the outcome of
previous'experiments, and the final judgment of Congress as
to the system of government which should obtain. It is the
constitution of the District, and its grants of -power are to be
taken as new and independent grants, and expressing in themselves both their extent and limitations. Such was the view

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

taken by the court below; and such we believe is the true
view to be taken of. the statute. Regarded in this light, but
one interpretation can be placed upon the section quoted.
The power to remove is a power without limitations. The
power is granted in general terms, as well as the authority to
adopt such provisions as may be necessary to carry it into
execution. Full authority is given to the commission; and in
the absence of rules and regulations directing a different procedure, its act of summary dismissal cannot be challenged.
The jument is afflrmed.

BEATTY v. BENTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 279. Submitted April 18, 1890.-

Decided April 28,1890.

In this case, on a writ of error to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of a State, it was held that no federal question, was involved,
because the case was decided by the state court on a ground broad
enough to maintain the judgment independently of any federal question;
and the writ was dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Saem Dutcher for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 3d of May, 1854:, one Carrie executed and delivered
to Elijah D. Robertson, a white man, a warranty deed of a lot
of land in Augusta, Georgia, 82 feet 6 inches in widli by 200
feet in depth. The consideration expressed in the deed was
$600, and it conveyed to Robertson, his heirs and assigns, forever, the lot in question, in trust, nevertheless, to and for the
,nl. oau,hn6t
qncl ThPhnof of the followinar free persons of

