WEST v. CAMDEN.Syllabus.

the sureties on the administrator's bond, who held these claims,
were, by reason of their suretyship, under an equitable obligation to enforce their collection out of Mrs. Hall's estate. Butwe- do not understand that any such obligation was imposed
by their suretyship. They did not guarantee Hall's faithful
performance of his duty as executor, or become in any manher
responsible for what he did as executor. They assumed no
obligations in respect to their own claims against the estate of
King, either as to the time or manner of their payment.
They did not thereby bind themselves to pursue every other
joint debtor before asking payment from the King estate. If,
by reason of Hall's mismanagement as executor, nothing Was
left to Mrs. Hall's estate, their claims against the King estate,'
as one of two joint debtors, were in no manner impaired;
and the sale of the overflow lands belonging to the King
estate, in satisfaction of their claims, was neither illegal nor
improper; and that, in its worst aspect, is all that the testimony develops in respect to this branch of the case.
It should also be noticed that Hall's action in respect to
these sales was, in fact, compelled by the complainants themselves. They proceeded against him for contempt in not
closing up the estate, and it was only in response to such proceedings that he filed his petitions and' made the sales with a
view of paying the as yet unpaid debts of the King estate.
Further comment is unnecessary. The decree of the Circuit
Court is corrdct, and it is
Affirmed.

WEST

.

AM[DEN.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IA.RYLAND.
No. 278.

Argued April 17, 18, 1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

An agreement by a director of a corporation to keep another person permanently In place as an officer of the corporation, is void as against publie policy, even though there was not to be any direct private gain to the
promisor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
A judgment will not be reversed because of an 'erroneous instruction to
the jury, excepted to by the plaintiff, if the plaintiff could not recover In
any event.

Tm case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland, by William
C. West against Johnson N. Camden. The principal count of
the declaration alleges that, in December, 1877, the defendant
engaged the plaintiff to serve as vice-president of the Baltimore United Oil Company of Baltimore County, a Maryland
corporation, in which the defendant was largely interested,
and promised, in consideration of the plaintiff's agreement to
serve as such officer, and of the conveyance and transfer to
the company of the property used by the partnership firm of
C. West & Sons, (of which, at the time, the plaintiff was a
member,) in its business of refining petroleum and dealing in
the same and its products, and the consolidation of the business of that firm with the business of the company, which
was greatly beneficial to the company and the defendant,
that. the plaintiff should be retained permanently in his position as such officer, at the salary of at least $5000 per annum,
the expected fulfilment of such promise on the part of the
defendant being a material part of the consideration of such
transfer and consolidation, and additional to the money consideration for the same; that the transfer and consolidation
were carried out shortly thereafter by the plaintiff and the
other members of the firm, according to the terms of such
agreement; that the plaintiff faithfully discharged the duties
of such office, and was duly paid therefor, from the time
when his services were so engaged until the 15th of January,
1"383, when he was removed from his position, without any
sufficient reason, in violation of such promise of the defendant,
and notwithstanding he tendered himself to the company and
to the defendant as ready and willing to continue the performance of such duties. The damages claimed are $50,000. The
defendant pleaded nil debet and non assumpsit.
The plaintiff then amended his declaration, by averring that,

WEST v. CAXDEN.
Statement of the Case.

at the time of the making of such promise and of the acceptance of the sam~e, and of the performance by the plaintiff of
his part of the agreement, the defendant was able, and proposed and continued to be able, and represented and guaranteed to the plaintiff that he was and would continue to be
able, lawfully and properly to procure for, and continue to,
the plaintiff such office and employment in the service of the
company on the said terms, which office and employment it
was for the interest and benefit of the company the plaintiff
should have and continue to fill at said salary ; that the defendant, down to and at the time of the removal of the plaintiff
from said office, was, and always continued to be able, lawfully and properly, and to the interest and advantage of the
company, and with its consent and approval and that of its
stockholders, to retain the plaintiff, or cause to procure him to
be retained, at said salary, and in the employment of the company; but that the defendant refused so to do, and procured
the plaintiff to be removed from said office and from all employment in the service of the company, and to be deprived of
all salary and emolument therefrom.
The case was tried by a jury, which found a verdict for
the defendant, on which a judgment was entered for him,
with costs, to review which the plaintiff has brought a writ of
error.
The Baltimore United Oil Company was incorporated under
the general corporation law of the State of Maryland, on the
13th of December, 1877. The plaintiff and the defendant
were both of them incorporators of the company, and both of
them named as among the first directors, in the certificate of
incorporation. On the 15th of December, 1877, the members
of the firm of C. West & Sons, including the plaintiff, executed an instrument in writing, by which, for the expressed
consideration of $137,500,- they conveyed to the company
certain land in Canton, Baltimore County, Maryland, used and
occupied by them as a refinery, and all the property owned
and used by them in the business of refining petroleum, with
the good will of such business and the good will of their business at their store in the city of Baltimore. At a meeting of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Ca&e.

the board of directors of the company, the defendant, who, as
trustee, subscribed for 5059 shares out of the 6000 shares
whidlh constituted the capital stock, was elected president, and
the plaintiff, who subscribed for 468 shares, was elected vicepresident at a salary of $5000 a year. The subscription
made by the defendant for the 5059 shares, as trustee, was
made for the Standard Oil Company, which furnished the
money that was paid for such shares, and they were imimediately transferred to the Standard Oil Company by the
defendant. The plaintiff held the said office, his compensation having been gradually increased by the Standard Oil
Company to $15,000 a year, until January 15, 1883, when
that company which still held that amount of stock, having
decided to reduce the expenses and to change the management,
a new board of directors was chosen, not embracing the plaintiff, and another person, who agreed to serve without salary,
was elected vice-president in his place. At the stockholders'
meeting at which thle new board of directors was chosen the
stock belonging to the Standard Oil Company was voted
upon by trustees who then held it for that company, the
defendant not being one of them. To the consideration
of $137,500 expressed in the conveyance above mentioned,
Messrs. Archbold and Vilas, two of the officers of the Standard Oil Company, who took part in negotiating the arrangement with C. West & Sons, agreed, on behalf of their
company, to add $12,500, bringing up the consideration paid
to C. West & Sons to the sum of $150,000; which agreement
was carried out.
All the obligations ever entered into by the Baltimore
'United Oil Company, or by the Standard Oil Company, with
the plaintiff or with the firm of 0. West & Sons, have been
fully complied with. This suit is not brought against either
of those companies, nor is it brought by C. West & Sons, but
by the plaintiff individually against the defendant individually.
The instrument of conveyance says nothing about any office
or salary for the plaintiff in the Baltimore United Oil. Company. The plaintiff knew, prior to the consummation of the
,sale by C. West & Sons, that the defendant was acting in

'WEST v. CAMDEN

51
.511

Statement of the Case.

the negotiations as the agent of the Standard Oil Company,
and knew alto, prior to the organization of the Baltimore
and the disposition
United Oil Company, that the control of it,
of -its offices, rested with the Standard Oil Company, and
knew that the defendant represented that company, in subscribing, as trustee, for the 5059 shares of stock. He admits,
in his testimony, that he believed that the defendant was
acting for the Standard Oil Company in the transaction
which resulted in the purchase from C. West & Sons, and in
the agreement alleged to have been made. The case claimed
by the plaintiff is that, in addition to the money consideration
for the sale of the property, there was, unddr the circumstances above mentioned, a further consideration in the individual promise of the defendant to the effect alleged. The
defendant denies the existence in fact of any such agreement
on his part.
The plaintiff prayed the court to give to the jury the following instructions, each of which was refused, and the plaintiff
excepted: 1. "Although the jury may find, from the evidence, that, in negotiating with Messrs. C. West & Sons for
the transfer of their property and business to the Baltimore
United Oil Company of Baltimore County, the defendant
acted as the agent of the Standard Oil Company and was
known to the plaintiff to be so acting, yet if the jury believe
that the defendant was himself largely interested in the Standard Oil Company as a stockholder, and in the organization of
the Baltimore United Oil Company as a means of enlarging
its business and profits and promoting his own consequent interest, and believed it necessary or important to the successful
organization of the Baltimore United Oil Company and the promotion of his own interests, that Messrs. C. West & Sons
should sell to it their property and business and withdraw from
competition with said company, and, so believing and in order
to induce the plaintiff to consent to such sale and withdrawal,
the defendant made with the plaintiff, on his own individual
behalf, as the plaintiff has testified, the contract to which
likewise the plaintiff has testified, then the defendant's agency
of the Standard Oil Company and plaintiff's knowledge of it,

OOTOBER TER-M, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

as hereinbefore stated, are no bar to plaintiff's recovery in
this action." 2. "If the jury believe, from the evidence, that
the defendant was himself largely interested in the Standard
Oil Company, as a. stockholder, and in the organization of the
Baltimore United Oil Company of Baltimore County as a
means of enlarging its business and profits and promoting his
own consequent interests, and believed it necessary or important to the successful organization of the Baltimore United Oil
Company and the promotion of his own interests, that Messrs.
C. 'West & Sons should sell to it their property and business
and withdraw from competition with said company, and that
the plaintiff was unwilling to unite with his copartners in
the sale and transfer of their said property and business to
the said company,. and the defendant, to induce the plaintiff
to unite with his copartners in selling and transferring their
said business and property to the said company, contracted
and agreed with the plaintiff individually, that, if he would so
unite in said sale and transfer, he should have a permanent
position in said company, as testified to by the plaintiff, and
that, by reason of said contract and promise and relying
thereon, the plaintiff did, with the knowledge and consent of
his copartners as to said contract and agreement made with
the plaintiff individually, unite with his copartners in the sale
and transfer of the said property and business, and did withdraw said business from competition with the said company ;
and shall further find, that the defendant, in pursuance of said
contract with the plaintiff, procured the appointment of the
plaintiff to the position of vice-president of the said company,
and that the plaintiff accepted the same in accordance with
said contract, and entered upon his duties as such officer, and
continued in the discharge of the same for the term of five
years, and until he was removed therefrom, and that such
removal was made at the instance of or by the procurement of
the defendant, without cause; and shall further find, that the
plaintiff was willing, and tendered himself willing, to fulfil
the duties of the said office and to continue permanently to do
so, then their verdict must be for the plaintiff, for so much
as they may find he has been damaged by the failure of

WEST v. CATUDEN.
Statement of the Case.

the defendant to comply with his said promise and agreement."
The court instructed the jury as follows: "If they find that
the alleged contract between the plaintiff and the defendant,
that the said plaintiff should have permanent employment as
an officer of the Baltimore United Oil Company, at a salary
of not less than $5000 a year, or as much as any other officer
of said company received, was made in contemplation that the
defendant was to be an officer of said company and to control
a majority of its stock, and that, by the use of his official position and of the control of said ownership of stock, he was to
retain said plaintiff in office and fix his salary, as admitted by
the said plaintiff, then their verdict must be for the defendant
ipon the issues joined in this case." The plaintiff excepted to
such instruction.
That instruction was based upon the view that, on the facts
stated in it, the alleged contract was void as against public
policy. On this point the court said: "There is no allegation
or proof that there was at any time such a contract for permanent employment directly" with the company, or that the
existence of such a contract with defendant was known to all
the stockholders of the company; so that it resulted, if the
contract be upheld, that whenever the question of retaining
the plaintiff in the coihpany's service at $5000 a year came to
be voted on, the defendant's vote was to be influenced by the
fact that he was to be liable to the plaintiff in large damages
unless 'the company retained him. Either the company must
pay him $5000 a year, or the defendant must make it good to
him out of his own pocket. This state of facts serves cleayly
to bring the case within the principle of the ruling in 7;uler
v. Dame, 18 Pick. 472, and Guernsey v. Cook, 120 Mass. 50,
that is to say, it was a contract the purpose and effect df
which was to influence the defendant as a stockholder and
officer of the company, 'in the decision of a question affecting
the private rights of others, by considerations foreign to those
rights,' and the defendant, by the contract, was placed under
direct and very powerful 'inducement to disregard his duties
to other members of the corporation, who had a right to
VOL CXXvX-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

demand his disinterested action in the selection of suitable
officers.' He was to be in a relation of trust and confidence,
which would require him to look. only to the best interests of
the whole, uninfluenced, by private contracts. We think this
salutary rule is applicable in this case, notwithstanding the
alleged contract was not corruptly made for private gain on
the part of the defendant. There were other stockholders in
the company. The defendant and the Standard Oil Company, for whose benefit it is alleged the contract was made,
were not all the stockholders, and it seems to us that it was
certainly the right of those other stockholders to have the
defendant's judgment, as an officer of the company, exercised
with a sole regard to the interests of the company."
The court also instructed the jury as follows: "Even if
they find that the defendant 'verbally promised the plaintiff,
as part of the consideration for the execution by him of the
contract offered in evidence, dated December 15, 1877, that
plaintiff should have permanent employment as an officer of
the United Oil Company of Baltimore, at a salary of not less
than $5000 a year, or as much as any other officer of said
company, and that plaintiff agreed that he would accept such
employment and serve said company on those terms, the plaintiff cannot recover on such verbal contract and their verdict
must be for the defendant." The plaintiff excepted to that.
instruction.
The court also instructed the jury as follows: "The plaintiff has offered no evidence legally sufficient to sustain the
allegations contained in his amended declaration, and is not
entitled to recover in this action." The plaintiff excepted to
that instruction, the court having remarked in regard to it:
"The alleged contract being, for the reasons we have already
stated, presumably void on grounds of public policy, there
must be affirmative proof to sustain the allegation of the
amendment that the defendant ' was and continued able, lawfully and properly, and to the interest and advantage of said
company, and with and by its full consent and approval and
that of its stockholders, to retain the plaintiff in the employment of said company.' We do not find any evidence to this

WEST v. CMIEN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

,effect which, in our judgment, could be properly submitted to
the jury."
.31r. S. T. Walls and ir. E. Calvin Williams for plaintiff
inerror.
In its reasoning, sustaining the first prayer of the defendant in error, the court held that the alleged contract was
" presumably against public policy." "The prayer itself bases
the invalidity of the contract exclusively upon the hypothesis
that it was made in contemplation that the defendant "was
to be an officer of the Baltimore United Oil Company, and to
control a majority of its stock, and that by the use of his official position and of the control of said ownership he was to
retain the plaintiff in office and fix his salary." It will be
observed that the prayer does not require the jury to find
that the agreement was secret, corrupt or collusive, or that
the defendant was to exercise his control, or use his position,
in cai'rying out the contract, without the knowledge of his
co-stockholders, or against, or without reference to their interests, or those of the corporation. It is respectfully submitted
that the proposition thus stated annot be maintained. The
court rests its opinion in favor of the prayer, upon the two
cases of Fullerv. Dame, 18 Pick. 472, and Guernsey v. Coo7k,
120 Mass. 501, neither of which is believed to justify the conclusioan drawn from them.
In Fuller v. Dame, the plaintiff, Dame, who was the owner
of a large tract of waste land, was desirous to enhance the
value of his property, by having a principal place of deposit
of a certain railway located at a particular point. To this end
it was necessary to form an association, which would furnish
the railroad company with a quantity of land and pay it a
large sum of money to induce it to make the location desired,
and this new corporation was to purchase Dame's property as
joint stock. Dame accordingly agreed with Fuller, that the
latter should aid him in getting up the proposed company and
in causing the railroad corporation in question to fix its terminals and its principal place of deposit at the point where

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintif in Eiror.

Dame desired to have them. In consideration of this service
to be rendered to Dame, he executed to Fuller his note for
$9600 and placed it in "certain parties' hands" to be delivered
to Fuller so soon as the terms of the agreement hould be complied with as to the location -of the railroad depot. This was
consummated, and the note having been handed to Fuller, was
the cause of action sued on. Fuller, at the time of the contract, was a stockholder of the railroad company concerned
and was also a member of the legislature, and took stock in
the new coinpany on its incorporation. He was likewise himself largely interested in adjacent land, which was benefited
by the railroad location provided for, and sold it for a great
advance in consequence.
The court held the contract void, as a secret arrangement
by which a large sum of money was to be paid to a stockholder and influential citizen, for his own use, on condition
that he would use his influence to secure such action on the
part of his corporation as would promote the private interests
of a party who was to pay him, and his own, instead of the
interests of the public and the railroad company, which were
alone to be consulted in the location of the proposed depot.
The court held the transaction an attempt to create and exert
an "undue influence," with "all the injurious effects of a fraud
upon the public."
In Guernsey v. Coo7, two shareholders of a corporation, in
consideration of A's agreeing to purchase a part of their stock
at a price named, secretly contracted to procure for A the
treasurership of the corporation, and secure to him, also, a
sum named as his annual salary. In case of his removal, they
were to buy the stock back from him at par. The court held
the contract void,.as contrary to public policy and as a fraud
on the other stockholders, who were entitled to a disinterested
exercise of judgment by their associates in regard to the
selection of officers, "uninfluenced by private gain." In the
absence of proof that the transaction was not for the private
benefit of the contracting shareholders, or that it was consented to by the other members of the corporation, the con,
tract could not be enforced.

WEST v. CAMDEI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The propriety of these decisions is not, for a moment, questioned-their applicability to the case at bar is, however,
earnestly disputed.
The distinction between this case and Dame v. PZler is
believed to be manifest from the statement of the facts on
which the Massachusetts decision was predicated. The latter
belongs to a well-defined class of cases, in which a party
occupying a public, or fiduciary, -or quasi fiduciary position,
is not permitted to sell or -trade away the performance of
his dutiks, for money or other private and secret advantage
to himself. The case is rightly classified, -with others, by
Mfr. Greenhood, under the head of "Private Dishonesty" as
well as "Public Policy." Greenhood on Public Policy, 138,
139; lfoodstock Co. v. Richmond Co., 129 D. S. 643, 659,
662.
In Guernsey v.. Cook-, the transaction was simply the secret
sale of a corporate olhce and its emoluments by stockholders
in consideration of money to -be paid to them by the proper
officer for their stock. It was a secret sale of their votes,
pure and simple, and it is part of the case that. the corrupt
bargain was set forth in terms in the agreement.
In the case at bar there is no pretence of any such facts or
ciroumstances as are the basis of these decisions. There was
nothing secret, whatever, about the appointment of West or
the intention'to appoint him. On the contrary, it was the
declared purpose of -the Standard Oil Company, in the formation of the United Oil *Company,to give employment in the
service of that company to all the Baltimore refiners who sold
out to it and took stock in it, and all of them, as Camten. states,
Creceived positions of one kind or another as officers of the
company." . There'was no element in the contract, nor in the
circumstances surrounding and relating to it which brought
it within the widest reach of the principle of public policy
enforced in those cases.
It is scarcely necessary, though it-may be permitted to add,
that this court has alway*s adhered to the doctrine that when
a contract is capable of two constructions, the one lawful and
the other unlawful, the former must be adop~ted. Hobbs v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

_HbeLean, 117 U. S. 569-576; United States v. Central Paio
Railroad,118 U. S. 235, 240.
This rule, enfdrced in the case of Oregon Steam .Yav. Co. v.
Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 70, where a question of ptLblic policy
arose, is fully recognized by-the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Guernsey v. Cook. See, also, Greenhood on Public
Policy, Rule 99, p. 123, and cases cited.
,The defence of public policy set up by a party to a contract
which, as between the parties, is fair and honest, is characterized by the Master of the Rolls in a recent case, Swaine v.
Wilson, as a "mean defence," and Lord Justice Lindley
repeats that it is "not a creditable defence,", though, as he
adds, "the court must consider it, and, if well founded in point
of law, must give effect to it." This court, with all others, has
been compelled to enforce the latter rule, but never except
where there was no alternative. It has never departed from'
the principle laid down in Railroad Co. v. Ric mond, 19
Wall. 584, 590, where it classes among matters of "the
highest moment and importance to the public -welfare"?'
even where public policy is in question, "the observance
of good faith among parties and the upholding of private
contracts and enforcing their obligations." And see,. pointedly, to the same effect, the' striking language of the
late Sir George Jessel, in Printing Co. v. Sampson, L. R. 19
Eq., 462.
If we have shown that the court below erred in granting
defendant's first prayer, we submit that the theory on which
his seventh prayer was granted is equally unsound. Assuming that the contract set up was presumably void, the court
held that the case could not be maintained without "affirmative proof" of certain averments in the amendment of the
declaration, to remove that presumption. Their Honors then
went on to determine that they found no evidence to that
effect which could properly be submitted to the jury and they
consequently granted the prayer.
The prayer itself is manifestly bad, it is submitted, on its
face, because instead of assuming that there was no legally
sufficient evidence in the case to maintain the averments in

W5ST v. CAMDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

question, it confined itself exclusively to evidence ofered by
the 1 lvaintif, excluding altogether from the jury such deductions as they might legitimately draw from the defendant's
own testimony and his other proof on which the plaintiff
niight and would have relied with great confidence.
But even if the prayer was not thus fatally objectionable
it was- otherwise inadmissible. It will be observed that the
court's ruling involved the decision of two points7-1st, that
the contract was prima fadie void, and 2d, that because of
tis and only because of it, the averments of the amendment ivere.required to be. established by affirmative proof.
"Affirmative proof" is, in itself, a misleading phrase; for,
if it means to convey the idea that any legally competent
evidence whatsoever from which the jury might reasonably
find the truth of the averments in question would not suffice
to maintain them, it is believed to be inconsistent with the
fixed rules of evidence. But, be that as it may, the necessity
of proving those averments is made by the court to depend
upon the previous ruling, that the contract was at least prima
favie void, and the supposed necessity of the proof, of course,
falls to the ground .if the contract "presumably" labored
under no such infirmity.
It is submitted that there was legally competent evidence
to go to the jury, upon the issue of the amended declaration that the holders of stock other than that represented by
Camden would have consented to and approved the retention
of West, if Camden had urged, instead of opposing it, and
that the Standard Oil Company would have dore the same
thing.
.Mr.
Thomas TV. Tall and Mr. Charles .ffarshall for defendant in error.
YM. JusTicE BLA.TC oRD, having stated the-case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first instriction virtually took the case from the jury,
although it appears that, on a prayer by the defendant to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

court to instruct the jury that- the plaintiff had offered no
evidence legally sufficient to entitle him to recover, and that
their verdict must be for the defendant, the court refused to
grant that prayer.
We think that under no circumstances could the plaintiff
recover in this action, for the reason that the alleged contra~t
was void as against public policy, and that the first instruction
to the jury was. correct. From the plaifitiff's own testimony
it appears that his only reliance was on the uso of the defendant's influence as an officer of the Baltimore United Oil
Company, and on his' control over the stock in that company
held by the Standard Oil Company. The plaintiff says of
the defendant: "He was to be president of the company, and
I supposed he would remain there and continue me and keep
me in the position as vice-president and general manager. If
he was to be president and hold five-sixths of the stock and
continue to hold it, it was a surety that I should remain in
the position."
The agreement alleged to have been made was one on the
part of the defendant whereby he might be required to act
contrary to the duty which, as an officer of the Baltimore
United Oil Company, he owed to that company and to the
stockholders other than the plaintiff. The same rule which is
applicable to the case of a public office applies to the present
case, although it does not appear that the defendait was to
receive direct personal pecuniary compensation or gain for
what he was to do. The plaintiff, on his own showing, dealt
with the defendant in reference to the fiduciary relation which
the latter bore to the stockholders, both of the Standard Oil
Company and of the Baltimore United Oil Company. The
agreement alleged was an agreement which bound the defendant as to his future action as a director of the Baltimore
United Oil Company, and an agreement to keep the plaintiff
permanently in the position of vice-president of that company,
irrespective of its interests. It amounted to a stipulation on
the part of the defendant that no contingency should happen
which should require a change of management and a reddiction
of expenses.

NVEST v. CAMIDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

The principle involved is well settled in regard to public
employments. .eguire v. Corwine, 101 U. S. 108, 111; Oscanyan, v. Aims Co., 103 U. S. 261, 272, 273. The same doctrine has been applied to the directors of a private corporation, charged with duties of a fiduciary character, to private
parties, on the view that it is public policy to secure fidelity
in the discharge of such duties. TFardellv. Railroad Co., 103
U. S. 651, 658 ; Woodstock I'on Co. v. Extension Co., 129 U. S.
643, and cases there cited, especially Fuller v. Dame, 18 Pick.
472, 483. See, also, Guernsey v. Cook, 120 Mass. 501; and
IFoodruf v. lVentworth, 133 Mass. 309, 314.
We think this principle is equally applicable, on the ground
of public policy, although there was not to be any direct private gain to the defendant; for, as was said by the Circuit
Court in this case, it was the right of the other stockholders
in the lBaltimore United Oil Company "to have the defendant's judgment, as an officer of the company, exercised
%witha sole regard to the interests of the company." A personal liability. for damages on the part of the defendant, in
case the plaintiff should be removed after an agreement of
the character alleged, was calculated to be a strong incentive
to the defendant to act contrary to the true interests of the
company and of its other stockholders. Bliss v. -Matteson,45
N. Y. 2, ; 1 Morawetz Corp. ยง 516, 519.
These views cover also the last instruction to the jury;
and it becomes unnecessary to examine the question raised
as to the second instruction, which was to the effect that, as
the alleged contract was not iiL writing, the plaintiff could
not recover upon it, because it was invalid under- the fifth
clause of the fourth section of the statute of frauds of Maryland, as being an agreement not to be performed within the
space of one year from the making thereof; for, eve-d though
that might have been an erroneous instruction, it *did no
harm to the plaintiff, because he could not recover in any
event. .Dee2y v. Cray, 5 Wall 795, 807; The Schools v.
Risley, 10 Wall. 91, 115 ; .Deery v. Cray, 10 Wall. 263, 272;
Brobst v. Brock, 16 Wall. 619, 528 ;, Barth v. Clise, 12
Wall. 400, 403; Tweed's Oase, 16 Wall. 501, 517; lfabrun"

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

v.. Babbitt, 16 Wall. 577, 580, 581,; Decatur Bank v. St. Louis
Bank, 21 Wall. 294-301; -11elemore V. Louisiana State Bank,
91 U. S. 27, 28; XMobile c- -Montgomery PR'y. Co. v. Jurey, 111.
U. S. 584, 593 ; Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222, 22[, and
cabes there cited; Evans v. Pike, 118 U. S. 241, 250.
Judgment affirmed.

IROBINSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. THE UNTED' STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 324. Submitted May 1, 1890.-

Decided May 19, 1890.

A bill in equity was filed by the holder of second mortgage bonds of a railroad company, to rescind the safe of the road, made under a decree of
foreclosure, to a committee of the first mortgage bondholders, or to have
the sald declared to be in trust for both classes o'f bondholders, and for
other relief. The bill was demurred to. No actual fraud was alleged.
No offer was made to redeem. It was not averred that there was any
consideration'for an alleged, agreement that the secoid mortgage bondholders should share in the purchase; or that the property was sold for
less than its actual value. It appeared that the second mortgage bondholders had such notice of the foreclosure suit that they might have
intervened in it. A trust company was the trustee under both mortgages, but no collusion by, or unfaithfulness of, the trustee was alleged..
It did not appear that the second mortgage bondholders could have prevented the decree of foreclosure, and the suit was one to foreclose both
mortgages. The members of the committee of the first mortgage bondholders, who were alleged to have made the agreement, Were not made
parties to this suit; Held, that thb bill could not be sustained.

N

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. George IF. Morse for appellant.
.Mr. JTohn C. Coombs and -Mr.Oharles'H H~anson for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ]3LATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit'in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, by William

