ANDERSON v. CARKINS.
Syllabus.

the loan and pledge have all the appearance of an ordinary
business transaction, are conclusions which the testimony satisfactorily establishes. It is objected that after notice by the
action at law and sequestration he paid the notes wbich he
had given to Meyer; in. other words, that he upnecessarily
paid a-portion of this loan, after notice of the fraudulent character of the transactions by which Meyer acquired title, and
after, by suit, his own -rights under the pledge had been challenged. But the only attaek by. this litigation, up to the time
of payment, was upon the reality of the pledge, and of that
there was no question. *While doubtless the failure of Drey-:
fus, the suits commenced against him, and the facts concerning
Meyer's and Dreyfus' condition, as developed in litigation
and otherwise, disclosed that the property which he had in
pledge had come to him through a devious channel, yet, until
some assertion of personal wrong was made against him, he
was.under no obligations to let his own paper go to protest,
and thereby tacitly, at least, admit that his own conduct and
good faith were objects of suspicion and inquiry.
We think that the conclusion of the Circuit Court on the
question of bona Fdes was correct, and the decree is

Affl rmd.

ANDERSOIN v. CARKINS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF .NEBRASKA.
No. 322. Argued May 1, 2, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

In decreeing specific performance of a contract for the conveyanice of a
tract of land in a suit where the defence was that the contract was
against public policy and void under the homestead laws of the United
States, a state court necessarily passes upon a federal question, although
it may put its decision upon other grounds.
A: contract by a homesteader to convey a portion of the tract when he shall
acquire title from the United States is against public policy and void;! anl
it cannot be enforced, although a valuable consideration may have passed
to the homesteader from the other party.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.John A. Caste (with whom was Mr. James A. Woolworth on the brief) cited to the merits: -.Mellison v. Allen, 30
Kansas, 382; Brake v. Ballow, 19 Kansas, 397; Dawson v.
-ferrille, 2 Nebraska, 119; Oaks v. Ieaton, 44 Iowa, 116;
2Tichols v. Council, 9 S. W. Rep. 305; Cox v. Donnely, 34
Arkansas, 762; Sorrels v. Self, 43 Arkansas, 451; Sherman v.
Eakin, 47 Arkansas, 351; Xarshall v. Cowles, 48 Arkansas,
362; Coppell v. Blall, 7 Wall. 542; -3farshallv. Baltimore dO1do Railroad,16 How. 314; Soudder v. Andrews, 2 MclLean,
464; Leavitt v. Palmer,3 N. Y. (3 Comstock) 19; S. C.51
Am. Dec. 333; Aldrich v. Anderson, 2 Land Dec. 71.
Mr. A. H Bowen (with whom was -Mr.C. Toe2pner on
the brief) for defendant in error cited to the merits: Smith v.
Bromley, 2 Doug. 696 n; Jaques v. Golightly, 2 Wm.B1. 1073;
Browning v. Morris, 2 Cowp. 790; Williams v. Ileadly, 8
East; 378; Wforcester v. Eaton, 11 Mass. 368; Lowell v. BosBank,
ton & Lowell Railroad,23 Pick. 24; WIte v. -Franklin.
22 Pick. 181; Schermerhorn v. Tolman, 14 N. Y. 93; Blanch,rd v. Jamison., 14 Nebraska, 244; .XofBlair v. Cribbes, 17
How. 232, 237; Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wall. 70; Planters'Bank
v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483; WVann v. Kelly, 2 McOrary,
628; Simmons v. Yurann, 11 Nebraska, 516.
MR.

SUSTIcE

BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

On December 16, 1876, the parties hereto entered into the
following contract:
"This agreement made and entered into on this 16th day
of December, by and between Joseph Anderson and Hannah
Anderson, his wife, of the county of Adams and the State of
Nebraska parties of the first part, and Levi Carkins of Adams
County, Nebraska, party of the second part, 'witnessetb:
"That the said parties of the first part have this day sold,
for and in consideration of the sum of one hundred dollars,
to them in hand paid by the said Levi Carkins, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, the following real estate, to

AN-DERSON v. CARKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

wit: The south one half of southeast corner of section ten
(10), in town eight (8), range ten (10) west in Adams Cbunty,
Nebraska.
"And the parties of the first part further agree with the
party of the second part that they will make and execute to
him on or before the 1st day of May, 1881, a good and sufficient warranty deed of said premises, clear of all incumbrance.
and for the faithful performance of this contract they hereby
bind themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns.
"In witness whereof they have hereunto, set their hands
and seals, this 16th day of December, 1876.
(Signed)
"JOSEPH ANDERSON,
'

ANNAH

M.

ANDERSON,

"Partiesof the First Part.
"LEvi CA.RxINs,

"-Party of the Second Part.
"In presence of L. 1.

AwLEY."

In October, 1885, the defendant in error commenced his
action in the District Court of Adams County, Nebraska, for a
specific performance of this contract. The plaintiffs in error
answered, pleading distinctly that the contract was against
public policy and void, for the reason that at the time of its
execution the land belonged to the general government; that
it was made in contemplation of Joseph Anderson's taking the
land as a homestead; that on the th day of March, 1877, he
did enter the land as a homestead; and that he continued to
reside upon and cultivate it until the 31st day of March, 1884,
at which time he made final proof under the homestead law,
and thus only obtained title. The case, after trial in the District Court, passed to the Supreme Court of the State, by
which a final decree was entered for a specific performance.
To reverse such decree this proceeding in error has been
brought. Two questions are presented -one of jurisdiction,
the other of error.
First, with respect to jurisdiction: It will be observed that
the contract is prima facie good. The land is described, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration stated and its receipt acknowledged, a sale af.
firmed, an agreement to convey recited, and the time for the
conveyance specifically named. To a bill for the specific performance of this contract the defendants answered that the
contract was void under the homestead laws of the United
States.- Notwithstanding this defence, so expressly stated, a
decree for specific performance was entered against them.
Obviously, this could not be so entered without adjudging
such defence insufficient, and denying to them the protection
claimed under the homestead laws. It is true that the Supreme Court of Nebraska,.in its opinion, relied principally on
two sections of the statutes of Nebraska; but it also, and as
plainly, ruled that the defence that the contract Was against
public policy and void was not sustainable, and that the homestead laws carry with them no protection against such a contract. If under their provisions such a contract is void, then
obviously no state statute can vitalize the contract, or deprive
a party thereto of the protection afforded by the federal
statutes. Inasmuch, therefore, as no decree could pass against
the defendants without denying the protection asserted by
them under the. homestead laws, and as the Supreme Court of
Nebraska expressly declared that this invalidity under the
homestead laws was not sustainable, it follows that the case
is one in which a right was specifically set up and claimed
under the statutes of the United States, and the decision and
judgment ot the state court were against that right. Hence
the jurisdiction of this court cannot be doubted. Murdock v.
.Memp,is, 20 Wall. 590. It is immaterial that the state court
considered the case to be within the provisions of certain state
statutes. The grasp of.the federal statute must first be released. The construction and scope of that, are federal questioris, in respect to which the party who claims under such*
statute, and whose claim is denied, has. a right to invoke the
judgment of this court.
Passing now to the question of error: It appears that prior
to the date of the contract, Carkins had been in possession of
the whole quarter section; that he had held it as a timber
claim from 1873 to the time of the contract; that he had

ANDERSON v. CARKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

broken and cultivated forty acres, and planted twenty acres of
timber; that the improvements he had thus made were of the
value of one thousand dollars; that Anderson was unable to
pay cash for these improvements, and so the arrangement was
made by which Carkins relinquished his possession to Anderson, and the latter was to enter into possession, to acquire
title under the homestead act, and to convey one-half the land
in payment for these improvements. The "cohsideration was
ample, and the only question is as to. the validity of the contract to convey. The theory of the homestead law is, that
the homestead shall be for the exclusive benefit of the homesteader. Section 2290 of the Revised Statutes provides that a
person applying for the entry of a homestead claim shall make
affidavit that, among other things, "such application is made
for his exclusive use and benefit, and that his entry is made
for the purpose of actual settlement* and cultivation, and not
either directly or indirectly for the use or benefit of any other
person." And section 2291, which prescribes the time and
manner of final proof, requires that the applicant make "affi'davit that no part of such land has been~alienatedi except as
provided in section twenty-two hundred and eighty-eight,"
which section provides for alienation for "church, cemetery, or
school purposes, or for the right of way of railroads." The
law contemplates 'five years' continuous occupation by the
homesteader, with no alienation except for the named pur*poses. It is true that the sections contain no express prohibition of alienation, and no forfeiture in case of alienation; yet,
under them the homestead right cannot be perfected in case
of alienation, or contract for. alienation, without perjury by
the homesteader. Section 2304: makes provisions for homesteading by soldieis and officers who served in the army of
the United States during the recent war; but that section
makes no substantial change, except in respect to the time of
occupation. Under this section Anderson perfected his homestead right; but the question of the length of occupation
required to perfect such right in no manner affects the controversy. The same affidavits in respect to alienation are required from federal soldiers as in other cases of homesteads.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This precise question was before the Supreme Court of Kansas,
when the writer of this opinion was a member of that court;
and speaking for that court he thus stated the arguments and
conclusions: "Now, it is argued on the one hand that it is
a matter of course for a court of equity to decree a specific
performance of a contract for the conveyance of real estate,
except in cases where it is shown to be unjust and inequitable
to do so, Faynclc v. Richmond, 11 Kansas, 488;- that there is
no express prohibition on alienation by a homesteader, or a
forfeiture for such alienation; that the only thing which
stands in the way of such an alienation is the perjury imposed
upon the homesteader; that no man should be permitted to
plead -his own wrong in avoidance of his contract;. that in this
case there was no direct alienation, but only a contract to
alienate in the future; that whatever of wrong the homesteader might be guilty of, the government alone could take
advantage of, while he himself was estopped to plead it; and
further, that the homestead is for the benefit of the homesteader, and that he should be permitted, by contract or
otherwise, to'make all the profit he can out of it. On the
other hand, it is contended that the homestead is a gift from
the government to the homesteader, conditioned upon his
occupation for five years, and upon his making no disposition
or alienation during such term; that the affidavit of nonalienation is as clear an expression of the legislative intent as
a direct prohibition; that the whole policy of government in
this respect would be thwarted if the, homesteader were permitted to alienate prior to the expiration of the five years; that
a successful alienation could be accomplished only by perjury,
and an attempted alienation would only offer a constant
inducement to the homesteader to abandon his occupation,
and thus deprive the purchaser of any possibility of acquiring
title to the land; that a contract whose consummation necessarily rests on perjury is illegal; that both purchaser and
vendor are parties to the wrong, and that courts refuse to
enforce such a contract, not from any regard to the vendor,
but from motives of public policy; and finally, that courts.
of equity have always exercised a discretion in enforcing the

ANTDERSOI

v. CARKINS.

Opinion of the Court.

specific performance of contracts to convey, and that it would
be strange indeed if a court of equity lent its aid to enforce
the performance of a contract founded upon perjury and
entered info in defiance of a clearly expressed will of the
government. We think the latter reasoning correct, and that,
whether the contract be absolutely void or not, it is so clearly
against the will and policy of the government, and so necessarily resting upon perjury, that a court of equity will have
nothing to do with it." MAelison v.Allen, 30 Kansas, 382,
384.
Similar views were expressed by the Supreme Couft of
Nebraska, in the case of Dawson v. .lferrille,2 Neb. 119, in
which it was .held that "the policy of the act of Congress
granting homesteads on the public lands, as disclosed by its
requirement of affidavit and other provisions, is adverse'to the
right of the party availing himself of it to convey, or agree
to convey, the land, before he receives the patent therefor,"
and that "the court will not lend its aid to the enforcement of
a contract which is against public policy." And the judgment
of the trial court, denying specific performance of a contract
for the sale of lands, made by the homesteader before he had
acquired the' legal title to the premises, was affirmed. See
also Oaksa v. HUeaton, 44 Iowa, 116; Nichols v. Council,decided
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, October 20, 1888, 9 S. W.
Rep. 305. This very contract was before the Department of
the Interior, and its invalidity adjudged by the Secretary, in
the case of Aldrich v. Anderson, 2 Land D4o. 71.
There can be 'no question that this contract contemplated
perjury on the part of Anderson, and was designed to thwart
the policy*of the government in the homestead laws, to secure
for the benefit of the homesteader the exclusive benefit of his
homestead right. Such a contract is against public policy,
and will not be enforced in a court of equity. Such being the
scope and purpose of the federal statutes, it is not within the
power of a State directly or indirectly, to nullify or set them
at naught. Suppose the State of Nebraska had passed an act,
declaring that, notwithstanding the provisions of the federal
statute, a homesteader might, before his homestead right was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

perfected, make a contract to convey, could it be doubted that
such an act would be void, as in conflict with paramount provisions of the federal statute? Can the policy of Congress,
with respect to the disposition of public lands, be thwarted
by any State? The question suggests its own answer. The
law of Congress is paramount; it cannot be nullified by direct
act of any State, nor the scope and effect of its provisions set
at naught indirectly. But we do not think that the sections
of the Nebraska statutes, cited by the Supreme, Court, were
intended to nullify the provisions of the acts of Congress, or
have any such effect. Those sections, Nos. 1 and 2, Compiled
Statutes of Nebraska, c. 38, 376, read: "All contracts, promises, assumpsits, or undertakings, either written or verbal,
which shall be made hereafter in good faith and without
fraud, collusion, or circumvention, for sale, purchase, or pay-.
ment of improvements made on the lands owned by the government of the United States, shall be deemed valid in law or
equity, and may be sued for and recovered, as in other contracts." "All deeds of quitclaim or other conveyance of all
improvements made upon public lands, shall be as binding
and as effectual in law and equity between the parties for conveying of the title of the grantor in and to the same, as in
cases when the grantor has the fee simple to the premises."
But these refer simply to contracts for the sale and conveyances of improvements upon public lands. They are in terms
limited to the matter of improvements, and do nobt touch in
anyway the land itself, whether in respect to conveyance or
contract to conivey. They may, if valid, establish the sufficiency of the consideration paid by Carkins, but they do not
affect at all the question of the validity of Anderson's contract
to sell the land. Suppose Carkins' transfer of possession and
improvements on the land is, as affirmed under these sections,
a good consideration, it is no better consideration than so
1mu4ch money; and Carkins' right to compel a convgyance by
Andeison would have been no weaker if he had paid him
a thousand dollars in m6ney,' than it is now when he simply
transfers to him improvements on the land of the value of one
thousand dollars.

ANDERSON v. CAR__NS.

491

Opinion of the Court.

We may agree'with the Supreme Court of Nebraska, that
the consideration passing from Carkins to Anderson was a
good and valuable one; and yet that brings us no nearer the
question of the validity of Anderson's contract to convey.
The fact that Anderson has received full payment for the land
only makes stronger the fact that perjury on his part was
essential to his obtaining the title, for clearly it was not then
to be obtained for him but for Carkins; and does not in the
least militate against the public policy, disclosed in the federal
statutes, that the acquisition- of title must be for the exclusive
benefit of -the homesteader. It may be that 'arkins-can recover from Anderson the value of these improvements, on the.
ground that Anderson has. received that for which he has paid.
nothing; for in such an action Cdrkins will not be seeking
to enforce an illegal contract. To that effect are the. cases
of Simmons v. Yurann, 11 'Nebraska, 516, 51 8; -Batemanv.
.Robinson,12 Nebraska, 509, 511; but that is very different
from the enforcement of a contract which is illegal, because
against public policy. The Supreme Court of. Nebraska,
recognizing the general rule as to the invalidity of contracts
against public policy, seemed -to think that the parties were
not inpar'idelicto; but we are unable to see any distiiction in
moral status between the man who contracts for the perjury
of another and the one who contracts to commit such perjury.
The fact that the former party may have parted with mPney
or valuable property does not change the quality of his action,
or give him highex claim to the consideration of a court of
equity. So it results that the federal question in this case was
not rightly decided by the state court; and no other question
appears, which, rightly decided, upholds its decree. The case,
therefore, must be
Reversed,and remanded to the Supreme-Court of the State of
NArebraskafor furtherproceedings in accordance with thi8
opinion; and it is so ordered.

