ST. GERMAIN v. BRUNSWICK.
Syllabus.

ered evidence, and no leave was given to file them. They are
clearly bills for the review of the orders of December 22, 1883,
for errors apparent of record. Such bills must ordinarily be
brought within the time limited by statute for taking an appeal from the decree sought to be reviewed. Ylhon'as v. Earvel's Heirs, 10 Wheat. 146 ; Ensminger v. Powers, 108 U. S.
292, 302. Over five years had elapsed, but it is insisted that
the time between the 10th of April, 1881, and the 11th of
June, 1887, when the orders of April 10, 1884, were declared
void, ought not to be considered in passing upon this question,
because of appellant's belief in the validity of and reliance
upon those orders and the acquiescence of appellees therein.
It seems to us that appellant was not justified in such. belief
and reliance, and that, at all events, after the orders of June 11,
1887, it should have moved promptly by way of appeal or bill
of review. These bills attack the orders of December 22, 1883,
merely, and not the decrees of June 11, 1887, reinstating the
former as in full force and effect.
The rule laid down in Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs is based
upon the principle of discountenancing laches and neglect.
Under all the circumstances, we cannot concede that appellant
acted in apt time, and must therefore affirm the orders of the
Circuit Court striking the bills from the files.
The appeals in _Vos. 1278 and 1280 are disnissed and the
decrees i 2os. 1277, 1279, 1281 and 1282 are afli rmed.

ST. GERMAIN v. BRUNSWICK.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES F45R

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 257.

Argued aud submitted April 11, 1890.-Decided April 28, 1890.

The application of an old process, or machine or apparatus to a similar or
analogous subject, with no change in the manner of application, and no
result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
although the new form of result may not have before been contemplated.
Letters'patent No 72,969, granted to Emanuel Brunswick, January 7, 1868,
for a revolving cue-rack, are void for want of novelty.

TuxS was a bill filed by Emanuel Brunswick against Ferdinand de St. Germain in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of California, October 25, 1880, for an alleged
infringement of letters patent No. 72,969, granted to Brunswick, January 'T,1868, for a revolving cue-rack.
The defendant demurred to the bill February 16, 1881, and
auong other causes of demurrer assigned that "the said complaint does not describe or set forth any new or useful inventi6. or discovery, or any invention or discovery patentable
under, the patent laws of the United States, but, on the contrary, the descriptions of the alleged inventions contained in
said complaint show that the same is not patentable." The
demurrer was overruled, whereupon the defendant answered,
denying, among other things, that the alleged invention was
of apy utility or value. Replication having been filed, proofs
were taken, and an interlocutory decree was entered on the
12th of May, 1884, in favor of the complainant, sustaining-the
patent, finding that there had been infringement, and referring
the case to a master to take and state an account of the gains
and &rofits, and also the damages. The master subsequently
reported that the defendant had realized $1176 profits from
the manufacture and sale of the cue-rack, but that no damages
had been sustained by complainant, by reason of respondent's
sales, over and above the pr6fits. Exceptions were filed by
both complainant and defendant and were overruled by the
court, and on the 27th of May, 1886, a final decree in complainant's favor was entered in the case, for the amount
reported by the master, with interest and costs, and an appeal
duly taken to this court by the defendant.
The first error assigned is "that the court erred in holding
that the said letters patent were valid." The specification,
drawings and claim are as follows:
"Be it known that I, E. Brunswick, of the city of Chicago,
in the county of Cook,'State of Illinois, have invented new

ST. GERMAIN v. B'ftUNSWICK.
Counsel for Parties.

and useful improvements in billiard cue-racks, and I do hereby
declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof;
reference being had to the accompanying drawings, making
part of this specification, in which"Drawing No. 1 represents the plain revolving cue-rack;
and
"Drawing No. 2-represents the lock-up rack for private use.
"The nature of my invention consists in making the billiard
cue-rack so arranged that it may revolve and be detached from
the wall.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my
invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation.
"Two circular plates, A dnd B, (drawing No. 15) are firmly
secured to a vertical shaft, C. The lower plate A is pr6vided
with a rim, a, at its outer edge to prevent the butt ends of the
cues from slipping off the plate, and the upper plate B is provided with several openings through -which the points of the
cues ate passed. Each plate is provided with a metallic pin,
D, which enters a metallic socket, E, inlaid in the stationary
brackets, F F, and revolve in it. "The brackets are secured to
a wall, a pillar, or any other object, and support the rack.
"I make private cue-racks (drawing No. 2,)in which-the
lower plate A forms a bottom to a round box, B, open on top,
and divided into compartments, 0 C,by partitions, pp, each
compartment having a door, D, hung on hinges and provided
with a lock and key. The upper plate E forms a bottom to'
the box B, and is provided with several holes. The rack,
being revolving, is very convenient for handling the cues.
"What I'claim as my invention and desire to secilre byletters patent is "The revolving billiard cue-rack constructed and operating
substantially as -and in the 'manner herein described and
specified."
Mr. -H. A. W7featon i for appellant, submitted on his brief.
X. WillardZ Parkey-Butler, (with whom was
Boone on the brief,) for appellee.

fr. Joh X.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

M]. CumrF JUsTioE FuLLEn, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
This case falls within the familiar rule that the application
of an old process, or machine or apparatus to a similar or

YX1

j.7

analogous subject, with no change in the manner of application,
and no result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sus
tain a patent, although the new form 6f result may not have
before been contemplated.
The ordinary cue-rack was made with the upper part perforated with holes to receive the small ends of the cues when
put in the rack, aid with a ledge or moulding along the front
of the lower part, on which the cues stood, so as to prevent
them from slipping off. The horizontal and straight upper
and lower parts 'of the ordinary cue-rack were changed by
complainant into two circular disks, called " plates" in the
specification, having the perforations and the rim secured to

ST. GERMAIN v. BRUNSWICK.
Opinion of the Court.

a vertical shaft, and each provided with a metallic pivot, entering into"and revolving in a metallic socket, inserted in ordinary
brackets attached to the wall, or pillar or any other object,
for the support of the rack.
As the revolving rack held the cues -in the same way and
by the same means as the ordinary rack, if patentable novelty
existed at all it must be found in making the racks revolve,
when constructed and operating in the manner stated.
But revolving contrivances, such as table casters and the
like, for the reception and carriage of articles, so as to bring
them easily within reach, were well known, and the application of such a contrivance to the holding and carrying of cues
was but the application of an old device to a new and analogous use, with such changes only as would naturally be
made to adapt it thereto.
The making of the old cue-rack circular, putting in the
revolving apparatus, and suspending it on brackets, a common
use of the latter, involved mechanical skill simply, and not
the exercise of invention, in the creation of 'a novel, substantive result.
The state of the art, as shown by the prior patents for revolving dining tables and bottle casters, introduced on behalf
of defendant, illustrates the correctness of this conclusion.
These tables and casters were so arranged as to revolve
about a common centre and bring around dishes and deQanters
in that way, as desired. The office performed was the same
in respect to dishes, and decanters as that performed by complainant's contrivance in respect to cues. The difference between revolving and stationary tables and casters and. between
revolving and stationary cue-racks is the same. Those revolve and these do not. We think that competent knowledge
and skill in his calling on the part of an intelligent mechanic
would have enabled him, on request, to construct the revolving billiard cue-rack in question, without calling the inventive
faculty into play.
The patent was void for want of novelty, and
The decree is ,eversed and the causem.'emanded, with a directior to dismiss the bill.

