UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Syllabus.

allowed by the legislature of such state for such purposes; afad
the expenses attendant upon the execution of such sentence
shall be paid by the United States." The words "state jail"
in section 5541, and "state prison" in the act of 1865 mean
the same thing.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the detention
of the petitioner by the respondent, the Warden of the Penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio, is in violation of the laws of the
United States. The rule is, therefore, made absolute. The
petitioner is entitled to the writ of habeas corpus.
Writ granted.

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN .
SANBORN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 224, 225.

Argued March 21, 1890.-Decided Apill 28, 1890.

The payment made by the United States to Sanborn, which is the subject of
this action, was made in consequence of'a misrepresentation by the
defendant to the Secretary of the Treasury, which created a misapprehension, on his part, of the nature of the defendant's services; and the
amount so paid ought, in equity and good conscience, to be returned to
the United States.
When the United States makes a long delay in the assertion of its right
to recover back money which it is entitled to recover back, without
showing some reason or excuse for the delay, interest before the commencement of the action for such recovery is not recoverable; and this
is especially true when it does not appear that the defendant has earned
interest upon the money improperly received by him.
When the United States are successful in a suit where one of their clerks
or officers of the class described in Rev. Stat. § 850 is sent away from
his place of business to be a witnesifor the government, the, necessary
expenses of such witness, audited by or under the direction of the
court upon which he attends na a witness, takes the-place, iuthe bill of
costs, of the per diemi -and mileage which, but for that section, would
have been taxed and allowed in titeir favor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

TEms case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Benjamin F. Butler and -Mr. 0.
born:

. Barrett for San-

-Mr. Alphonso RaRt, Solicitor of Internal Revenue, for the
United States.
'MR.
TUSTicE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are writs of error from the same judgment. The
action wasibrought by the United States, October 15, 1883, to
recover from J6hn ID.Sanborn the sum of $7334, on account
of moneys alleged to have been received by him fron the
government without authority of law and without right
thereto,. with interest on that sum from August 16, 1873. A
jury was waived by the written stipulation of the parties and
the case was tried by the court, which made a special finding
of facts and of law.
It was provided by an act of Congress, approved May 8,
1872, making appropriations for the legislative, executive and
judicial expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1873, that "the Secretary of the Treasury shall have
power to employ not more than three persons to assist the
proper officers of the government in discovering and collecting
any money belonging to the United States, whenever the same
shall be withheld by any person or corporation, upon such
terms and conditions as he shall deem best for the interests of
the United States: but no compensation shall be paid to such
persons except out of the money lind property so secured;
and no person shall be employed under the provisions of this
clause who shall not have fully set forth in a written statement, under oath, addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury,
the character of the claim out of which he proposes to recover,
or assist in recovering moneys for the United States, the laws
by the violation of which the saire had been withheld, and the
name of the-person, firm or corporation having thug withheld
such moneys." 17 Stat. 69, c. 140.

UNITED STATES v. SAN-BORN.
Opinion of the Court:

On the 15th day of July, 1872, Sanborn sent to the Secretary of the Treasury a communication, verified by his oath,
submitting a statement under the above act, and proposing to
recover, or assist in recovering, moneys due the United States
for evasions of, and frauds upon, the laws for the collection of
internal revenue tax on spirituous andfermented liquors, as
well in making false returns of the amounts manufactured- as
in evading the payment of taxes upon those returned; and
asking to be allowed, in the form of a percentage, such
amount from the collections as in the judgment of the Secretary was fit and meet.
This letter was followed by a written conractbetween Sanborn and the Acting Secretary of the Treasury under date of
August 13, 1872, in which it was agreed that the former might
proceed to collect the taxes so alleged to be due to the United'
States by the persons named; that legal proceedings in the
premises should be conducted by the proper United States
attorneys, the written consent of the Secretary of the Treasury
being first obtained; that no settlement of such claims should
be made except under the provisions of section 10 of the act of
M arch 3, 1863; that the costs and expenses incurred by him in
investigating and prosecuting said claims, of every nature,
should be borne by him, and no part thereof paid out of the
*portion retained by the United States;: that whenever required,
by the Secretary he \should make a full report in. writing of
his acts and proceedings under the contract; that .the money.
collected, either by legal proceedings or "by settlement as
compromise," should be placed to the credit of the Secretary
of the Treasury, and out of the same there should be paid to
Sanborn, in full for his services and for all the costs and,
expenses of collection, a sum equal to b0 per cent of the gross:
.
amount collected and received, which should be paid to himw
as fast as collected an4 placed to the credit of the Secretary
of the Treasury, the b alance to :be paid into the Treasury of
the United States; and that the contract might be revoked at
any time at the pleasure' of the Secretary.
On the 25th of October, 1872, Sanb~orn sent to the Secretary
another letter-accompanied by a statement verified by his oath,
VOL.

cxxxv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

asking that his employment be extended and made to relate
to claims against the persons whose names were set forth in a
schedule annexed to his letter, for moneys illegally withheld
by them from the government. "I desire, also," he said, "to
state that the foregoing claims, out of which I propose to
recover, or assist in recovering, moneys for the United States,
arise under the taxes imposed upon legacies and successions
and income under the act of July 30, 1864, and subsequent
amendatory acts, providing for the collection of taxes for
internal revenue. And I further request that the foregoing
cases may be brought under my contract with the Secretary of
the Treasury, bearing date August 13, 1872."
In the statement referred to in that letter is the following:
" District Waldenham.

.

.

.

James A. Burtis

John E. Wool."
Pursuant to this request, the Acting Secretary of the Treasury on the 30th of October, 1872, entered into another contract with Sanborn, containing, among other provisions, the
following:
"Whereas John D'. Sanborn, of the city of Boston, has fully
set forth in a written statement signed by hirii, under oath,
and has filed the same in the office of the Secretary of the
Treasury', wherein he proposes to recover, or assist the proper
officers of the government in recovering, for the United States
from the following persons, to wit: . . . John E. Wool
estate, . . . large sum of money, that is to say, the sum

of fifty thousand dollars, which the said Sanborn claims to be
due to the United States, as and for -internal revenue taxes
which have been withheld by said persons, under and by force
of the act of June 30, 1864, and other acts amendatory
thereof, imposing taxes upon legacies, successions, and incomes; it is hereby agreed by and between W. A. Richardson,
Acting Secretary of the Treasury, of the first part, and the
said John D. Sanborn, of the second part, that the contract
or agreement entered into by and between the said parties,
bearing date August 13, 1872, relating to the proposed recovery of certain moneys alleged to be due to the United
States, is hereby extended and enlarged, so as to embrace and

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Opinion of the Court..

relate to the persons herein specifically enumerated; and all
the provisions, conditions and terms of the said contract of '
August 13, 187, shall be held to apply to. and control this
agreement."
The Secretary, under date of February 3, 1873, issdeda
paper addressed "To supervisors and collectors of internal
revenue," in which he requested them to assist Sanborn "in
the examination of official records in reference to such cases of
alleged violation of the internal revnue la-ws as he may ask
for your coperation," stating that he was acting under his
appointment, and "may ned some inforination from the
offices of .collectors and assessors for the purpose of verifying
his claims." Subsequehtly, on the 15th of October, 1873, the
Secretary issued a sinilar circular, and asked supervisors and
collectors to render Sanborn such. assistance s he required.
General John I. Wool died at Troy,'Xev York, November
10, 1869, leaving a large estate, Mrs. Wool surviving him.
His will having been duly probated on the 8th of February,
1870, letters testamentary were issued to John A. Griswold
and Asher R. Morgan. Subsequently, October 31,' 1872,
Griswold died, leaving forgan as sole execuitor. Mrs. Wool
died May 7, 1873.
On the first day of August, 1873, Morgan delivered- to
Lucien Hawley, a supervisor of internal revenue, in payment
of taxes due from .the estate of Wool, his draft, as executor,
upon the United States Trust Company of New York,.payab]e
to the order of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the sum of
$14,668. Hawley delivered it to Sanborn on or about its
date, and on the 3d of August, 1873, the latter enclosed it-to
the Secretary of the Treasury, in a letter of which-the following is a copy: .-"Referring to the contract made by me with
the Hon. George S. Boutwell, late Secretary of the Treasury, bearing date August 13, 1872, and as amended by the
agreement October 30, 1872, I have the honor to report that
Asher R. Morgan, executor of the estate of General John -E.
Wool, deceased, late of Troy, N. Y., and one of the parties
named in my schedule accompanying said contract has l aid
to me the sum of $14,668, being the'full amount of taxes due

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the government by him arising from the legal assessment on
legacies and successions of said trust, and which has never
before been paid. I herewith enclose said sum and respectfully request that one half of- the same shall be paid into the
Treasury to the credit of the Secretary of the Treasury and
that the remaining half thereof shall be paid to me in accordance with the terms of my said contract. Please. transmit
receipt to Mr. Morgan, No. '7 Beekman Street, New York."
The Secretary of the Treasury on the 9th of August, 1873,
endorsed this draft to the order of the Treasurer of the United
States, and directed the .latter to deposit it to the special
credit of the Secretary on account of -moneys received and
paid under the first section of the legislative, executive and
judicial appropriation act, approved May 8, 1872. The draft,
having been endorsed by the Treasurer of the United States
to the Assistant Treasurer of the United States at New York,
was paid by the United States Trust Company, and the proceeds were placed to the special. credit of 'the Secretary of the
Treasury.
On the 16th of August, 1873, the Secretary delivered to
'Sanborn a draft on the Treasurer of the United States for
$16,001.34, on account of moneys collected in various cases
specified in his contract, and of that sum, the above $7334
Were on account of collections from the estate of General'
Wool. That draft on its face directed the Treasurer to charge
its amount to the Secretary's special deposit account of
moneys received nd paid under the first section of the legislative, executive and judicial appropriation act, approved
May 8, 1872. Under date of August 16, 1873, the Secretary
enclosed to Morgan a writing, acknowledging "the receipt,
through John D. Sanborn, special agent, of the sum of fourteen thousand six hundred and sixty-eight dollars ($14,668),
being the amount of taxes on legacies and successions due the
government from the estate of the late General John' E.
Wool, of Troy, N. Y."
It was found as a fact that the United States has never refunded any part of the sum collected from the estate of General Wool; that no demand to have the same refunded has

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Opinion of the Court.

ever been made; and tnat the taxes were paid without -protest. And it was found, as matter of law, that the United
States was entitled to recover the said sum of $7334, with
interest at the rate-of six per cent per annum from August 16,
.1873, to the date when judgment should be entered. Judgment was accordingly entered August 14, 1886, in favor of
the United States against the defendant for . the . sum of
$13,052.08 damages, and for its costs, which, under. the order
of the court, were taxed at $83.30.
As by section 125 of.the act of June 30, 1864, amended by
that of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 140, c. 184, a legacy tax was
due and payable whenever the party interested was entitled
to the enjoyment of the legacy, or to the beneficial interest
in the profits accruing therefrom, there was some discussion
at the bar in respect to the time when the legacies in question
vested in possession and enjoyment; whether immediately
upon the death of the testator, as claimed by the defendant,
or at the death of the widow, as claimed by the government.
The Solicitor of Internal Revenue contends that although the
tax was not collectible until Mrs. Wool died, liability therefor
arose immediately upon the death of the testator, and that
such liability was not discharged, but was saved, by the act of
July 14, 1870, abrogating all legacy taxes. .16Stat. 256. He
also contends that these taxes, not being payable until Mrs.
Wool died, were not, within the meaning of the act of May 8,
1872, under which this contract of October 30, 1872, with
Sanborn purports to have been made, ."withheld" from the
United States at the time that contract was made. On this
last ground he questions the authority of the Secretary of the
Treasury to have allowed Sanborn any part of the sum collected from Wool's estate on account of legacies.
It is unnecessary in the present case to examine any of these
questions; for both of the parties to the present suitinsist
:hat these taxes were, when collected, legally due from Wool'9
estate to the government. The defendant insists that they
were collected under a valid contract between him and the
Secretary of the Treasury. If we assume, for the purposes:of
this case, that such contract was in all respects valid, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

broad enough to embrace the collection of legacy taxes from
Wool's estate, whether due upon the death of the testator or
upon the death of the widow, nevertheless, the judgment
below, so far as it-recognized the right of the United States-to
recover the amount paid to the defendant out of' the sums
received from that estate, must be affirmed. It must be
affirmed because the payment-was made in the belief, superinduced by Sanborn's representations to the Secretary of the
Treasury, that the collection from Wool's estate was made by
him. What are the facts, disclosed by the finding of the court
below, which justify this conclusion?
Within a few weeks after the death of the widow, Morgan
-upon his own motion, without having known Sanborn,
and without having the matter brought to his attention by
Sanborn, or by any one representiong him - wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury asking that the question of a succession
and legacy tax from the estate of General Wool be referred to
some person having authority to pass upon his liability to pay it.
This was followed by a communication, under date of the
12th of July, 1873, by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
addressed to Collector Masters, in which the former said:
"T. J. Cram, of 1817 De Lancey Place, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writes: ' Major General Wool, U. S. A., died November
10, 1869, (in Troy, N. Y., his residence,) leaving legacies of
$4000 each to my wife and myself. But there was a condition
in the will forbidding his executors from paying any legacies
until after the death of his wife.

.

.

.

Mrs. Wool died

6th May last. The executors propose to retain from the
legacies U. S. tax of 6 per cent on payment .18th inst. of the
legacies, etc.' There is nothing, in the statements above to
show that the said legacies are not subject to tax, but the same
would appear to be liable, as indicated in Circular 86. (See
p. 30J Series 6, No. 1.)"
At the date of General WooPs death Masters was Collector
of Internal Revenue, his district including the city of Troy.
He and his deputy knew of his death at or about the time it
occurred, and knew that he left a large estate. They, also,
knew, whdt Were the provisions of his will and talked together,

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.

.279

Opinion of the Court.

both before and after Mrs. Wool died, in reference to the claim
that a legacy tax would be due after her death. Prior to July
31, 1873, Morgan received from the Secretary of the Treasury
a letter referring all questions relating to these taxes to Lucien
Hawley, supervisor of internal revenue, with whom he had
several conversations upon this subject. The collector, Masters, under date of July 31, 1873, addressed a letter to Morgan,
as executor, in which he said: "No return has been made to
me of the legacies and distributive shares of the estate of the
late General John E. Wool, of whose will I am informed you
are the only surviving executor who has qualified as such.
Inclosed herewith is the 'collector's notice for legacy and
succession taxes' and the proper form upon which to make a
return of all the legacies and distributive shares arising from
personal property, etc., being in your charge and trust as executor as aforesaid. Please make a return to me at your earliest
convenience of all such legacies and distributive shares or
successions, and all other facts and information as required
by law to be made by you as executor." In that letter he
enclosed a collector's notice for legacy and succession taxes and
the proper blank upon which to make the required return.
It is stated in the finding that about one month after the
death of Mrs. Wool the defendant called on Hawley "for aid
in the matter of collecting the tax due from the estate of said
John E. Wool."
In view of the findings, which, upon this writ of error, we
must assume to be true, it is clear that the representation of
the defendant to the Secretary of the Treasury, in his letter of
August 31, 1873, that the executor of Wool had paid to him
the sum of $14,668 for taxes due the government on legacies
and successions, was not in accordance with the facts. The
draft covering the taxes was delivered by the executor of
Wool to Hawley, a supervisor of internal revenue, who, instead of sending it directly to the Secretary of the Treasury,
as he might properly have done, and as, perhaps, he ought
to have done, delivered it to Sanborn, who-so far as the
record shows- performed no services in this business, except
to call upon Hawley about one month after the death of Mrs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
.Opinion of the Court

Wool, and ask his aid in the matter of collecting the taxes
claimed from Wool's estate.
It is, however, contended that the court below erred in
excluding certain evidence offered by the defendant, which
would have disclosed more fully the nature of the services
rendered. It is only necessary to say upon this point that the
evidence so offered and excluded relates to efforts made by
Hawley and his employgs to secure the payment of the taxes
claimed from Wool's estate. That evidence, if admitted,
would have strengthened the case for the government, for it
tended to show that what Hawley did was done under his own
responsibility and duty as an officer, and not in aid of Sanborn
under his contract for the collection of taxes from Wool's
estate. The defendant, it is true, communicated to the Secretary of the Treasury, in October, 1872, the fact that the
governnent had a claim against that estate for taxes. But
that fact was known long before that time to the collector of
the district in which the testator resided at his death, who
intended to enforce the rights of the government when the
widow died. The defendant is not shown to have performed
any services whatever in the matter; except to request the aid
of Supervisor Hawley. That, however, did not justify him in
representing to the Secretary of the Treasury that he had collected those taxes from Wool's estate. In fact, there was no
effort upon the part of the executor to evade payment of them.
H6 brought the matter himself to the attention of the Secretary, and sought a decision by competent authority of the
question of his liability. As soon as it was determined adversely to him he paid the taxes through the officer to whom
the matter was referred by the Secretary and not to Sanborn,
of whom he bad no knowledge.
The suggestion that Sanborn was entitled to fifty per cent
of all collections from the persdns named in his contract, by
whomsoever, or in whatever mode, such collections were made,
is wholly inadmissible. The contract, upon its face, contemplat;d, as a coixdition of his receiving compensation, that he
should do something of a substantial character in collecting
the taxes alleged to be withheld.

UNITED STATES v. SA UBORN.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the payment of the $7334 to the;
defendant was due to a misapprehension, upon the part of the
Secretary of the Treasury, as to the nature of his services ---a
misapprehension resulting from his representations to that
officer-and that the amount so paid ought, in 'equity and
good conscience, to be returned to the United States.
But we are of opinion that the court below erred in allowing
interest for any time prior to the institutiodi of this action.
More than ten years elapsed after'the payment to Sanborn
before his right to retain the money was questioned by suit or
otherwise. When the "facts, disclosed by the evidence, were
first discovered by the officers of the governiment whose duty
it was to institute legal proceedings against the defendant,
dqes not appear. It is entirely consistent with the record that
the long delay which occurred is without excuse. In RedSetd
v. Ystalyfera 1>on Co., 110 U. S. 174i the question was
whether the plaintiff was entitled, under the circumstances of
that case, to recover interest, the action being against a collector, to recover damages for an illegal exaction of customs
dues. The court, after observing that interest is recoverable
as of right, when reserved expressly in the contract, or .when
implied by the nature of the promise, said: "But where interest is recoverable not as a part of. the contract, but by way of
damages, if the plaintiff has been guilty of laches in unreasonably delaying the prosecution of his claim, it may be properly
withheld." We think that the same rule should be applied
against the government when, in a case like the present one, it
has long delayed an assertion of its rights, without showing
some reason or excuse for the delay, especially when it does
not appear that the defendant has earned interest upon the
money improperly received by him.
The writ of error on behalf of the government presents a
question of costs that must be determined. After judgment
was ordered in .the court below for the United Statek its
attorney submitted a bill of costs, which included, among
other items, duly certified, the sums paid for the actual and
necessary expenses of four clerks, two in the War Department
and two in the Internal revenue Office at Washington, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

going to and returning from Boston, and in attending the
court there, by direction of the government, as witnesses in its
behalf. These sums amounted to $212.20. The defendant
objected to any allowance whatever in the taxation for costs
for the travelling or other expenses of witnesses in the employment of the United States. The question having been
submitted to the court, this objection was sustained. United
State v. Sanborn, 28 Fed. Rep. 299.
The whole subject of fees in the courts of the United States
is regulated by chapter 16, title "Judiciary" of the Revised
Statutes. By section 823 it is provided that the fees allowed
in that chapter and no other "compensation" shall be taxed
and allowed in the courts of the United States, to the officers
therein named and to witnesses, except in cases otherwise expressly provided by law; leaving attorneys, solicitors, and
proctors to charge and receive from their clients, other than
the government, such reasonable compensation for their services, in addition to the taxable costs, as may be in accordance
with general usage in their respective States, or as may be
agreed upon between the two parties. Sections 824 to 827,
inclusive, relate to the fees of -attorneys, solicitors, and proctors, and section 828 to the fees of clerks. Section 829 allows
a marshal two per centum "for disbursing money to jurors
and witnesges and for other expenses," and provides that "in
all cases where mileage is allowed to the marshal he may elect
to receive the same or his actual travelling expenses to be
proved on his oath to the satisfaction of the court." Section
846 provides: "The accounts of district attorneys, clerks,
marshals, and commissioners of Circuit Courts shall be examined and certified by the District Judge of the district for
which they are appointed before they are presented to the
accounting.officers of the Treasury Department for settlement.
They shall then be subject t6 revision upon their merits by
said accounting officers, as in ease of other public accounts:
Provided, That no accounts of fees or costs paid to any witness or, juror, upon the order -of any judge or commissioner,
shall be so regxamined as to charge any marshal for an erroneous taxation of such fees or c-ests." Other sections of the

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Opinion of the Court.

statute bearing more or less upon the question before us are
as follows, under the head of "Witnesses' Fees:"
"SEC. 848. For each day's attendance in court, or before
any officer pursuant to law, one dollar and fifty cents, and
five cents a mile for going from his place of residence to the
place of trial or hearing, and five cents a mile for returning.
When a witness is subpcenaed in more than one cause between
the same parties, at the same court, only one travel fee and
one per diem compensation shall be allowed for attendance.
Both shall be taxed in the case first disposed of, after which the
per diem attendance fee alone shall be taxed in the other cases
in the order in which they are disposed of. When a witness
is detained in prison for want of security for his appearance,
he'shall be entitled, in addition to his subsistence, to a compensation of one dollar a day.
"SEC. 849. No officer of the United States Courts, in any
State or Territory, or in the District of Columbia, shall be
entitled to witness fees for attending before any court or commissioner whire-he is officiating.
"SEC. 850. When any clerk or other officer of the United
States is sent away from his place of business as a witness for
the government, his necessary expenses, stated in items and
swotn to, in going, returning, and attendance on the court,
shall be audited and paid; but no mileage or other compensation in addition to his salary shall in any case be allowed."
"SEC. 855. In cases where the United States are parties, the
marshal shall, on the order of the court, to be entered on its
minutes, pay to the jurors and witnesses all fees to which they
appear by such order to 16 entitled, which sum shall be allowed him at the Treasury in his accounts."
"SEC. 983. The bill of fees of the clerk, marshal and attorney, and the amount paid printers and witnesses, and lawful
fees for exemplifications and copies of papers necessarily obtained for use on trials in cases where by law costs are iecoverable in favor of the prevailing party, shall be taxed by a
judge or clerk of the court, and be included in and form a
portion of a judgment or decree against the losing party.
Such taxed bills shall be filed with the papers in the cause.

OCTOBER TERAIT, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon full consideration of all the provisions of the statute,
and in view of the settled practice in different circuits, we are
all of opinion that the court below erred in holding that the
word "audit" in section 850 means that the necessary expenses
of the witnesses, therein provided, are to be audited by the
proper executive department or officer, and that nothing was
to be taxed for the travel or attendance of the clerks named
in the government's bill of costs. The'word "audit," in that
section, does not necessarily imply that these expenses must be
audited, in the first instance, by an executive department or
officer. The bill for such expenses is unlike the ordinary
claim for per diemi and mileage. The statute fixes the amount
to be allowed for attendance and mileage to witnesses entitled
to claim therefor, and no auditing in respect to such claims is
required;. whereas, the items that enter into the account of a
clerk or other officer, sent away from his place of business as
a witness for the government, for his necessary expenses "in
going, returning, and attendance on the court," cannot well
be known to the court or its clerk, and must be furnished by
the witness himself. Those items are to be examined, looked
over and adjusted; in other words, they must be audited.
The auditing contemplated by section 850 must be done, primarily, in the court in which the case is pending, and where it
can be best determined what expenses have been necessarily
incurred by the witness. This construction of the section is
supported by section 983, which provides that the amount
paid, that is, properly paid, to witnesses shall be t6xed by a
judge or clerk of the court, and be included in and form a
portion of the judgment or decree against the losing party;
by section 855, providing that in cases where the United
States are parties the marshal shall, on the order of the
court, to be entered in its minutes, pay to the witnesses all
fees to which they appear by such order to be entitled, which
sum shall be allowed him at the treasury in his accounts; and
by section 846, providing that the accounts of a marshal for
fees or costs paid to witnesses, upon the order of any judge or
commissioner, shall not be so reexamined at the treasury as
to charge him for an erroneous taxation of such fees or costs.

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not disputed that the United States, if successful in a
suit, is entitled to have included in the judgment the statutory
fees for per diem and mileage for its witnesses, other than its
officers who may be sent away from their places of business
to attend upon a court. And we cannot think. it was intended
by section 856 to deny to the government the right, when successful in a suit, to have even the necessary expenses of witnesses of the class described in that section included in the
judgment for costs; or that the United States intended to
remit to its defeated adversary not only witness fees for per
diem and mileage, but the necessary expenses of witnesses
who happened to be in its employment, and whom it sent
away from their places of business to testify in its behalf. As
a person of that class receives, while absent, his stipulated
salary, and is paid in that way, for his time, it is not deemed
just that he should also receive mileage and per diem. But,
instead thereof, he is allowed his necessary expenses, which
being audited, by or under the direction of the court upon
which he attends as a witness, he is entitled to have paid to
him; and the government, being under an obligation to pay
them, is entitled to have the amount so audited included in its
bill of costs, and in any judgment rendered in its favor. In
other words, when the government is successful in a suit, the
"necessary expenses" of its witnesses, of the class described
in section 850, take the place, in its bill of costs, of the per
diem and mileage which, but for that section, would have
been taxed and allowed in its favor, just as a marshal may
elect to take his actual travelling expenses instead of mileage
where mileage is allowed to him.
These views find additional support in section 851, which
allows the court, subject to certain restrictions, to fix the
compensation to be allowed to a seaman or other person sent
to this country by a United States minister, charg6 d'affaires,
consul, captain or commander, to give testimony in a criminal case pending in a court of the United States. This section, as well as section 850, is brought forward from the third
section of an act passed in 1853 to regulate "fees and costs"
in the Circuit and District Courts of the United .States, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

which act both sections appear under the head of "Witnesses
Fees." 10 Stat. 167, 168, c. 80. As the court was to fix the
compensation to be allowed to witnesses under section 851, it
is a reasonable interpretation of section 850 to hold that the
auditing therein Drovided for was also to be, primarily, under
its direction.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the court
below erred in disallowing the item in the bill of costs of

$212.20.
The judgment is reversed with directions to enter a judgment
in favor of the United States for the sum of $7334, with
interest at the rate of sio per cent per annum? from
October 15, 1883, the date of the commencement of this

action, andfor its costs in the court below, as indicated in
this opinion.

IRON SILVER MINING COMPANY v. CAMPBELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 22. Argued March 25, 26, 1890.-Decided April 28, 1890.
A lode patent, issued subsequently to the issue of a placer patent of a tract
within whose metes and bounds the lode patent is located, is not conclusive evidence that the lode was so known at the time of the issue of the
placer patent as to authorize the issue of the lode patent.
Where two parties have patents for the same tract of land, and the question in a judicial proceeding is as to the superiority of title under those
patents, and the decision depends upon extrinsic facts not shown by the
patenti, it is competent to establish it by proof of those facts.
The provisions in Rev. Stat. §§ 2325, 2326, as to adverse claims to a lode,
for which a patent is asked, do not apply to a person who, before the
publication first required, had himself gone through all the regular proceedings required to obtain a patent for mineral land from the United
States; had established his right to the land claimed by him; and had
received his patent therefor.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

