OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

DETROIT v. OSBORNE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 295. Argued April 28, 29, 1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

It is settled law in Michigan that the failure of a municipal corporation to
keep in repair a sidewalk in a public street, when the duty to do so is
imposed upon it by statute, does not confer upon a person injured by
reason of a defect in such sidewalk caused by neglect of the corporation
to perform that duty, a right of action against the corporation to recover
for the injury caused thereby.
The local law of a State concerning the right to recover from a municipal
corporation for injuries caused by defects in its highways and streets is
binding upon courts of the United States within the State.

THIs was an action commenced in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, against
the city of Detroit, to recover for injuries suffered by the
plaintiff by reason of a defect in a sidewalk within the city
limits. The defendant pleaded a general demurrer. This being
overruled the general issue was pleaded, and a trial was had
which resulted in a verdicf for the plaintiff for $10,000, and
judgment on the verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of
error. The case came here with exceptions to the rulings of
ihe court upon questions of evidence and exceptions to the
charge; but, in the view taken by this court it is unnecessary
to refer to them. The issues raised by the demurrer and argued
by counsel were: (1) Whether the city was, by the local
law of Michigan, answerable in damages for such injuries:
(2) Whether the Circuit Court of the United States was
bound by the local law, if the general law was to the contrary.
.r.

fenwry M...Dtffeld for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. F. H. Ca'nfteldfor defendant in error.
The rule that municipal corporations in a case like this are
liable for injuries resulting from defective streets or sidewalks,

DETROIT v. OSBORNE.
Argument for Defendant in Error

has been firmly established both by the dcisions of this
court, and by decisions of the courts of most of the States
of the Union. 3Veightman v. Washington, -1 Black, 39; Chieago v. R obbins, 2 Black, 418; Nebraska v. Campbell, 2 Black,
590 ; Robbins v. Chicago, 4 Wall. 657; Evanston v. Gann, 99
U. S. 660, 667; -Mayor v. Sheffleld, 4 Wall. 189, 194; ManeMester v. Ericsson, 105 U. S. 347; Barnes v. -Districtof Columbia, 91 U. S. 540.
I submit that this court is not, in .this case, obliged to depart
from its own rulings, or to repudiate a doctrine which it has
declared to be settled law upon this subject, because of the decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan in Detroit v. Blac7eb,
21 Michigan, 84, upon which plaintiff in error may rely.
(1) The point is not presented by the record. If the defendant wished to raise the question of the common law liabiity of the city the point should havo been presented to the
court below.
(2) The plaintiff in errorcannot now in this court claim the,
benefit of the demurrer to the declaration which was overruled
by the Circuit Court.
By pleading over issuably the defendant waived the benefit
of the demurrer. Cicotte v. Wayne Chunty, 44 Michigan, 173,
174; Males v. Lyon, 2 Michigan, 276; Delahay v. 07ement, 2
Scammon, 575; Early v. Patterson, 4 Blackford, 449; Funk
v. The State, 6 Arkansas, 141, 146. At. all events, if the defendant wished to preserve the point, or the benefit of the
demurrer, its counsel should have done so either by a proper
objection to testimony at the trial or by a proper request to
charge the jury.
(3) The decision in the Blackeby Case is not binding upon
the federal courts, because it is not, nor does it profess to be
based upon any statute of the State, or any local law of the
State. It does not construe any statute or any clause of-the
state constitution, nor is it a rule of property. The case simply holds as a matter of general law, and upon principles of
general jurisprudence, that incorporated cities are not liable
for accidents resulting from a neglect to keep the streets in
proper and safe repair. The result. arrived at was simply.a

49,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

determination of private rights, "by the application of common law rules alone." Cicago v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418, 428.
That decision could have been made as well in any, other
State of the Union, and the reasoning of the court applies as
well to the cities in New York, or Illinois, or Alabama, as to
the city of Detroit. The decision, therefore, does not constitute the local law ofthe State, within the true meaning of the
term "local" law, nor is it conclusive evidence of what the
local law of the State is; and therefore this court is not
bound to follow it. Town of Venice v. .Murdock, 92 U. S.
494-, 501 ; royce v. Tabb, 18 Wall. 546; Burgess v. 2eligman,
107 U. S. 20, 33; Delmas v. Ins. Co., 14 Wall. 661, 668; Pana
v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529, 540; Oliver v. Rumford Chemical
W0rA, 109 U. S. 175, 83 ; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1 ; Hough v.
Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226; Railroad Co. v. National
Bank, 102 U. S. 14.
And in the Blakeby Case, Judge Cooley, dissenting, said,
"The decisions which are in pbint are numerous; they have
been made in many different jurisdictions, and by many able
jurists, and there has been a general concurrence in declaring
the law to be in fact what we have already said in point of
policy it ought to be. We are asked, nevertheless, to
dmregard these decisions, and to establish for this State a rule
of law different from that which prevails elsewhere, and different from that which, I think, has been understood and
accepted as sound law in this State prior to the present litigation."
The- Circuit Court in iichigan has uniformly refused to
follow the Blackeby Case.
What is a matter of local law, upon which the courts will
follow the state decisions, and what are matters of general
law in regard to which' the federal courts will exercise their
own independent judgment, is always to be considered.
A statute or a constitutional provision of course is to be
regarded as local law. And so where decisions of state courts
have become rules of property, they will be adopted as a part
of the local law. But where a deeision has not become a rule
of property, where it is based wholly upon general principles,

-ound

DETROIT v. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the Court.

where the result is arrived at by reasoning upon general
propositions, without regard to any statute, or established
rule, or custom, or usage, peculiar to the State, such a decision
cannot be regarded as an announcement of the local law of
the State. A decision based upon general legal principles,
and upon general rules of jurisprudence, can only be *regarded
as an announcement of what the court making the decision
considers the general' law to be.
When a case involving only general principles and general
rules comes before the federal court, whether it be one of contract or tort, the federal court must decide it according to its
own judgment, and is not bound to follow a state decision, if
such decision is contrary to well-settled law.
M

. JusTICE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

On.November 19, 1888, the defendant in error, while Iwalking on Church Street, in the city of Detroit, was thrown"to the
ground and received severe personal injuries in consequence of
a defect in the sidewalk. For these injuries she, as a citizen of
Ohio, brought her action in the Cirbuit Court of the United
States against the city, and recovered a verdict and judgment
for ten thousand dollars. '32 Fed. Rep. 37. The city alleges
error, and its principal contention is that under the rulings of
the Supreme Court of Michigan municipal corporations are not
liable in damages for personal injuries of this nature, and that
such beinfg the'settled law of the State, it is binding upon the
federal courts.
This contention suggests two inquiries: First, What is the
settled law of Michigan? and second, If it be as claimed, is
it binding upon the federal courts? Th6 answer to the first
inquiry is easy and clear. !Theprecise question was presented
in 1870, to the Supreme Court of Michigan, in the case' of -Detroit v. Blackeby, 21. Michigan, 81. In that case the injury
resulted from a defect in the streets, and from failure to keep
them in proper repair. Under the laws then in force, both the
power and the duty of keeping streets in repair were vested in,
the city; but the Supreme Court held that this dutywas to,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889i
Opinion of the Court.

the public, and not to private individuals, the mere neglect of
which was a non-feasance only, for which no private action
in damages arose. The power of the legislature to create a
liability to private suit was conceded; but it was decided that,
in the absence of express action of the legislature creating such
liability, the mere grant of the power. and the imposition of
the duty to keep streets in repair were not sufficient to sustain a private action for injuries resulting from a failure to
keep such streets in repair. This doctrine has never been
departed from by the Supreme Court of that State; and no
action had ever been taken by the legislature up to tle time
of this accident, to change the rule of liability thus announced.
In 1879 an act of the legislature was passed, Laws of 1879, c.
244, p. 223, for the collection of damages sustained by reason
of defective public highways, streets, bridges, cross-walks and
culverts. That statute came before the Supreme Court for
examination in the case of Detroit v. Putnam, 45 Michigan,
263 ; and it was held, first, that "a statutory liability preated
in derogation to common law cannot be enlarged by construction;" and, secondly, that the act, omitting sidewalks, left
the law in respect to sidewalks not in repair as it was before;
and that no private action against the city, for damages
springing from a defective sidewalk, could be maintained. In
Church v. Detroit, 61 Michigan, 571, an act purporting to
extend the liability of municipal corporations to the base of
damages resulting from defective sidewalks was declared unconstitutional. Thus, by the concurrent action and judgment
of the iegislature and the Supreme Court of the State of
Michigan there was, up to and beyond the time of the injury
complained of in this action, no liability on the part of a municipality for such injuries. The case of Detroit v. C'Iaifee, 70
Michigan, 80, in no manner conflicts with this established rule.
In that case a judgment had been obtained against the city
in the United States Circuit Court for personal injuries
caused by a defective sidewalk in front of a lot - ownect by
Chaffee. The city had no right of appeal to this court - the
judgment being under five thousand dollars - and brought its
action against Chaffee, the owner of the'lot, under section 57,

DETROIT v. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the Court.

page 614, Stat. Mich. 1883, which provides that "the common
council shall have power to provide and ordain by ordinance
that whenever any sidewalk requires to be built or repaired
the said council may direct the board of public works to
notify the owner, agent, or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land in front of or adjacent to which such -walk is required to be
built or repaired to build or repair the same, and that if such
agent, owner, or occupant shall neglect, for a time to be specified in the ordinance, to do such building or repairing, it shall
be the duty of the said board to at once do or cause* the
same to be done, and insuch case the expense thereof .shallbe
assessed upon such lot or parcel of land, and shall be a lien
thereon until collected and paid in a manner to be prescribed
in such ordinance; and the owner so neglecting to build or
repair shall be lia6le to the city for all damages which shall
be recovered against the city for any accident or injuries occurring by reason of such neglect, and also to prosecution in
the recorder's court, and, on conviction, to be fined not to
exceed five hundred dollars and the penalties in the city
charter elsewhere provided." A judgment in favor of the
city was ordered. But this section of the statute was similar
to one in force at the time of the decision in '.Detroit v.
Blackeby, Laws of Michigan,.1865, p. 679, c. 325, ยง ]. There
being, no change in the statute in this respect, it cannot be
held that any change 'was contemplated in the rule of liability'
by the legislation of, 1883; and the decision in Detroit v.
Cafee was simply the enforcement of a right given by both
the statutes of 1865 and 1883, springing out of a judgment
not subject to the supervising control of the Supreme Court
of the State. In answer to the first inquiry~t must therefore be affirmed that the law of Michigan is against any
liability on the part of the city for injuries like thbse in this
action.
*The second inquiry. must be answered in th6 affirmative.
If it is a matter of local law, that law is obligatory upon the
federal courts. It~must be conceded that this' adjudication as
to the liability of a city fpr injuries caused by a defect in the
sidewalkl, the repair of which it ,has both the power and duty
VOL. cxxxv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to provide for, is not in harmony with the general rule in
this country, 2 Dillon on 'Mun. Corp. 3d ed.

ยง 1017, 1018 ; nor

in accord with the views expressed by this court. In Barnes
v. The Dis8rict of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540, this court, after referring to the case from 21 'Michigan, 8upraj and the doctrine
stated therein, observed that "the authorities establishing the
contrary doctrine, that a city is responsible for its mere negligence, are so numerous and so well considered that the law
must be deemed to be settled in accordance- with them," citing
in support a long list of authorities. The authorities which
support a different view are collected in fill.v. Bostou, 122.
Mass. 344.,' But even if it were a fact that the universal voice
of the other authorities was against the doctrine announced
by the Supreme Court of Michigan, the fact remains that the
decision of that court, undisturbed by legislative action, is the
law of that State. Whatever our views may be as to the reasoning or conclusion of'that court, is immaterial. It does not
change the fact that its decision is the law of the State of
Michigan, binding upon all its courts, and all its citizens, and
all others who may come within the limits of the State. The
question presented by it is not one of general commercial.
law; it is purely local in its -significanice and extent. It involves simply a consideration" of the powers and liabilities
granted and imposed by legislative action upon cities within
-the State. While this court has been strenuous to uphold the
supremacy of federal law, and the interpretation placed upon
it by the federal courts, it has been equally strenuous to uphold the decisions by state courts of questions of purely local
law. There should be, in all matters of a local nature, but
one law within the State; and that law is not what this court
might determine, but what the Supreme Court of the State
has determined. A citizen of another State going into Michigan may be"entitled under the federal Constitution to all the
prvileges and immunities of citizens of that State; but'under
that Constitution he can claim no more. He walks the streets
and highways in that State, entitled to the same righlts and
protection, but none 'other, than . those accorded by its laws
to its own citizens.

DETROIT v. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the Court.

This question is not a new one in this court. In the case of
Claiborne County v. Brooer, 111 U. S. 400, 410,-it was held
that, "when the settled decisions of the highest court of a
State have determined the extent and character of the powers
which its political and municipal organizations may possess,
the decisions are authoritative upon the 'courts of the United
States;." and in the opinion it was observed: "It is undoubtedly a question of local policy with each State, what shall be
the extent and character of the powers which its various political and municipal organizations shall possess; and the settled
decisions of its highest courts on this subject will be regarded
as authoritative by the courts of the United States;, for it is a
question that relates to the internal constitution of the body
politic of the State."
What was there decided in reference to the powers is equally
true as to the liabilities of a municipal corporation. The city
of Detroit, in the discharge of its public duty in respect to
keeping tha streets and sidewalks in repair, is'
under no higher
or different obligation to a citizen of Ohio than. to one of the
State of Michigan, and the measure of its liability under the
statutes, as stated, is to be determined by the judgment of
the Supreme Court of that State, and not by what our opinions
might be as to the proper construction of those statutes. Reference may also be iade to the recent 'case of Bucher v. Railroad Company, 125 )[. S. 555, 584, in which this court followed, against its own judgment of the law, the rulings of the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, and held that a party travel:
ling on Sunday, and not for necessity or charity, in the cars of
,a railroad company, could not recover for injuries sustained by
the negligence of the company, because he was himself thus
violting the law of the State. Concluding the opinion of the
court in that case, it is observed: "It may be said generally
that whenever the decisions of the state courts relate to some
law of a local character, which may have become established by
those courts, or has always been a part of the law of thz State,
that the decisions upon the subject are usually conclusive, and
always entitled to the highest respect of the federal courts.
The whole of this subject has recently been very ablyyeviewed

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel. for Parties.

'in the case of Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20. Where such
lobal law or custom has been established by repeated decisions
of the highest courts of a State, it becomes also the law governing the courts of the United States sitting in that State."
Nothing more need be added to express the views of this
co-irt on the question here presented. The judgment of the
Circuit Court must be
" Revdrsed and the case remanded,with instruction8 to su8tam the demurrer to the amended declaration.

NORMAN v. BUCKNER.
APPEAL F)ROX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 275. Argued April 16, 17, 1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

In Louisiana, *here the heirs of. an intestate may take the property and pay
the debts, such an heir cannot, after taking a.part of the property, hold
the administrator and his sureties responsible for loss in respect to it
resulting subsequently thereto; and this rule is not affected by the fact
that the administrator,. in his individual capacity, afterwards obtained
title to and possession of the property thus removed from his custody.
The proceedings attacked in this case were conducted in good faith, and
without fraud or collusion.
The.fapts that the same person was administrator of one estate, and executor of another, and that the testate and the intestate were partnerg in
business, do not affect the right of the creditor of the intestate to have
his separate estate applied to the payment of his individual debts, and
do not.make the sureties on the administrator's bond answerable for
waste committed by the executor.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.; Wade R. Young for appellants.
Mfr. C. J. J. S. Boatner for Montgomery, appellee.
.f. Jolin T. Ludeling, for Buckner, appellee, submitted on
his brief.

