RANDOLPH v. QUIDNICK CO.

457

Syllabus.

RANDOLPH'S EXECUTOR v. QUIDIlOK COMPANY.
APPEAL

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.

FROM THE oIRUtn

No. 213. Argued March 13, 14,1890. -Decided April 14, 1890.

A court of equity will not lend its aid to enforce a sale of property under
execution where the disproportion between the value of the property
sold and the sum paid for it is so great as to shock the conscience.
Where a debtor, having large and scattered properties and being much
embarrassed, transfers his property for the benefit of his creditors
equally, equity requires that any creditor who is not satisfied with the
provisions of such transfer should act promptly in challenge thereof,
or else be adjudged to have waived any right of challenge.
When the highest courts of two States arrive at different conclusions
respecting the validity of an assignment by an insolvent debtor of all
his property for the benefit of creditors, this court is inclined in matters
of doubt, to give the preference to the ruling of the court of the State
in which the insolvent resided, where the conveyance was executed, and
where the bulk of the property is situated.
S., a citizen of Rhode Island engaged inbusiness there, with large properties in that State and with property in Connecticut, being embarrassed,
made an assignment in 1873 of all his property for the benefit of his
creditors; which assignment, being assailed in the courts of each State,
was upheld by the Supreme Court of Rhode Island as to the property
there, and invalidated by the Supreme Court of Connecticut as to the
property there. Meanwhile in the execution of its provisions, large
transactions took place and extensive rights were created, In 1875 a
creditor commenced suit against S., and in 1882, attached in that action
property of the value of $500,000 which had belonged to S. before the
assignment, and having obtained execution, levied upon it and sold it
under execution for the sum of $275. The purchaser filed a bill in
equity to enforce the purchase; Held,
(1) That the disproportion between the sum paid and the value of the
property purchased was too great to warrant a court of equity
in enforcing the purchase;
(2) That the long delay in attacking a transfer under which great rights
had been acquired by other creditors, justified a court of equity
in refusing to lend its aid to the attack;
(3) That if it were necessary, (which it was not,) to decide whether the
assignment was or was not valid beyond challenge, the court
would incline to give preference in matter of doubt to the ruling
of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, where S. resided, when
the conveyance was executed, and where the bulk of the property
was situated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQurrY. Decree dismissing the bill.
pealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

The plaintiff ap-

Mr.Benjamin -F. Butler and Mr. 0. -D. Barrett(with whom
was Mr.A. B. Patton on the brief) for appellants.
Mr. William L. Putnam and 21r. Joseph C. MLy (with whom
were .Mr.C. ]2rank Parkhurst, Air. Arthur L. Brown and
2r.Augustus S. .Milleron the brief) for appellees.
Mz. JusTIcE Enn.FwER delivered the opinion of the court.

On August 2, 1883, Evan Randolph, the testator of complainants, filed his bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Rhode Island, for the purpose
of establishing his title to 4022 shares of the capital stock of
the Quidnick Company, claiming to have purchased these
shares on execution sales in March, 1883, for $275. The
Quidnick Company was a corporation organized under the
laws of Rhode 'Island, in May, 1862, with a capital stock of
$500,000, divided into 5000 shares. Prior to December 1,
1873, the corporation had purchased some of its own stock, so
that there was then outstanding only 4349 shares, of which 327
were held by the estate of Edward Hoyt, deceased; and the
remainder, being the 4022 shares in controversy, by Amasa,
William, Fanny and Mary Sprague, and the A. & W. Sprague
Manufacturing Company. At this time the Spragues, who
were largely engaged in manufacturing and . other business,
became embarrassed, and executed the transfers hereinafter
referred to, and which have become the source -of much litigation. Notwithstanding the embarrassments of the Spragues,
the Quidnick Company was entirely solvent, out of debt, and
the owner of large properties. Its stock was valued, by a
committee of the creditors of the Spragues at the time, at $374
a share; and the dividends which, in the winter after the filing
of this bill, the stock was entitled to as the proceeds of the sale
of property and otherwise, amounting to over half a million of
dollars. In other words, these complainants are asking the

RANDOLPH v. QUIDNICK CO.
Opinion, of the Court.

interposition of a court of equity to establish their title to
property worth over half a million of dollars, obtained by
purchase at execution sales for $275. The immense disproportion between the value and the cost shocks the conscience of
a chancellor and forbids the supporting action of a court of
equity. Some rights must have suffered and some wrong must
have been done by such a transaction, and a court of equity
properly says that it will not lend its aid to further such an
unconscionable speculation. The case of Missis& Ti & .Missouri Railroadv. Cromwell, '91 U. S. 643, forcibly illustrates
this rule. In that case, Harrison recovered a judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Iowa,
against Muscatine County for $6500. Under an execution on
that -judgment, the marshal assumed to levy on seventeen
hundred and fourteen shares of the capital stock of the :Miississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, belonging to Muscatine County, and sold the same at public auction to Cromwell, for the sum of $50. The latter filed his bill against the
railroad company and the county t6 compel a transfer of this
stock. The case was, presented to this court in two aspects:
By one, the stock in te company was worthless, and in reference to that the court observed: "The property of the company was gone; its franchises were gone; the amount which
the stockholders had arranged to realize was gone; and consequently the stock could have been nothing but an empty
name, and the attempt to kqep it afloat for speculative purposes is not such as should recommend it to a court of equity.
The parties to such a transaction ought at least to be left to
their remedies at law. A court of equity should .have no
sympathy with any such contrivances to gain a contingent
or speBulative advantage, if any such is to be gained.". By,
the other, it' appeared that through certain arrangements
between this railroad company and another there was a possibility of realizing sixteen per cent on the par value of the stock,
which, with interest to the time of the bringing of the suit,
amounted to over $32,000. And with reference to that, the
court said: "He comes into c6urt with a very bad grace when
he asks to use its extraordinary powers to put him in posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sion of thirty thousand dollars' worth of stock for which he
paid only fifty dollars. - The court is'not bound to shut its
eyes to the evident character of the transaction. It vill never
lend its aid to carry out an unconscionable bargain, but will
leave the party to his remedy at law." No language could be
more appropriate to the case before us. Either this stock had
been so appropriated by prior transfers and transactions as to
be absolutely worthless in the hands of the Spragues, or else it
represented more than half a million of dollars.
It is doubtless true that property of large value, both reid
and personal, may be incumbered with mortgages or other
liens to an amount something like its value, so that there reinains in the owner but an equity of redemption of trifling
value; and a creditor may, at execution sale, or otherwise,
buy at a small price such equity, with a view to redemption
from the liens; and a court of equity will then lend its aid to
put him in a position where he may safely redeem. But, as
will appear from facts to be narrated subsequently, this is not
such a case. The purchase 'was purely speculative. If the
transfers theretofore made by the Spragues for the benefit of
their creditors are sustained, the purchaser takes nothing. If
they are not to be sustained they fail in toto, and the entire
value of the property belongs to this purchaser. So his purchase is one simply to speculate upon the chances of successfully attacking transfers of large property, made for the
benefit of creditors, and with the view of depriving them of
the benefits of such transfers. It is a case where equity, true
to its ideas of substantial justice, refuses to be bound by the
letter of legal procedure, or to lend its aid to a mere speculative purchase which threatens injury and ruin to a large body
of honest creditors, who have trusted for the payment of their
debts to the legal validity of proceedings theretofore taken.
Again, beyond the question of amount, is the matter of
time. The transfers by the Spragues were in. 1873. These
execution purchases were in 1883. The transfeis in 1873 were
not made hastily, upon the judgment of the debtors alone, or
without consultation with creditors. On the contrary, all
creditors were invited, committees were appointed by them,

RANDOLPH v. QUIDNIOK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

conferences had, and after weeks of examination and deliberation the substantial features of the arrangements were agreed
upon between the creditors and debtors. The interests involved were immense. The committee of creditors appointed
to examine into the assets and liabilities reported the former
at $19,495,247, and the latter at $11,475,443. These assets
were various in character - manufacturing stocks, real estate,
stock in banks and other corporations, bonds, etc. They were
widely scattered-in Rhode Island, Maine, Connecticut and
other States and Territories. These various properties were
placed iu the hands of a trustee, to be managed and disposed
of for the benefit of creditors; and the provisions of the arrangeunents were accepted -bynearly all the creditors. By
these arrangements it--was provided that the trustee might
continue the manufacturing -business; and, in pursuance of
the authority thus conferred,, he did continue it, and before
August, 1881, the amount of manufacturing business done by
him was $29,802,286.10.
The executions under which the stock was purchased, as
alleged, were issued upon two judgments - one in favor of
Evan Randolph, and the other in favor of Horatio N. Waterman, -each a creditor at the time of the trausfers n 187.
Randolph commenced his action in October, 1875, as a personal action against the Spragues. After service of summons,
nothing seems to have been done until the 14th of August,
1882, at which time an attachment was issued, and an attempted levy made upon the stock. Judgment was rendered
March 7, 1883. Waterman commenced his action in October,
1882, and immediately thereafter placed an attachment on the
stock. It will thus be perceived that these creditors made
no attack upon the validity of the transfers until 1882, nearly
nine years after they had been execut.when nearly all of the
creditors had accepted the- provisions"-f the transfers; and
the trustee, in consequence-of the duties imposed upon him by
the transfers, had done nearly $30,000,000 of manufacturing
business, besides managing and disposing of other properties
transferred. The transfers contemplated no preference between creditors, and were for the benefit of all alike who

462

"OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

assented to its provisions.

Indeed, if preferences had been

contemplated, the bankrupt law of the United States was then'
in force, and might have been invoked to prevent any inequality between creditors. In fact, in the spring of 1874 bankrupt
proceedings were commenced, but were withdrawn on the
execution by the Spragues- of additional conveyances, deemed
necessary to perfect full title in the trustee. Under the circumstances, the long delay is sufficient to justify a court of equity
in refusing any assistance to this attack upon the validity or
sufficiency of the transfers. True, Randolph"and Waterman did
not become parties to the proceedings by which the property'
of the Spragues was placed in the hands of the trustee, and
therefore are not estopped by any affirmative action in support thereof; but their inaction for such a length of time equitably forbids their present attack. They knew of the transfers
at the time th.ey were made; that they contemplated equality
between the creditors; that nearly all the creditors assented
thereto; that the tr u stee, relying thereon, was barrying on a
vast and extensive business; that the doors of the bankrupt
court were open; and that, if they were dissatisfied with the
arrangements, they could invoke the aid of that court, whose
rulings and proceedings would assure absolute equality between
all creditors, and the appropriation of all the property of the
Spragues for the equal benefit of such creditors. Yet they did
nothing; they waited until the bankrupt law was repealed,
until the result of the arrangements between the Spragues and
their creditors, voluntarily entered into, was fully developed;
and then, at the end of nine years, attempt to place a legal
levy on a part of the transferred property, and say that, the
arrangements were illegal and wrong, and now invoke the aid
of a court of equity to give them, for a trifling amount, a valuable portion of the property. If they were not .satisfied with
the legality and equity of the proceedings, they should have
antagonized them sooner. Equity loves equality; and if they
did, not believe that these proceedings were legal and equitable,
they should promptly have invoked the aid of the bankrupt
court or made other assertion of legal rights. They might not
equitably wait the outcome of the proceedings, expecting to

RANDOLPH v. QUIDNICK CO.
Opinion of the Court

approve if they worked out full payment of all creditors, and
ready to attack if the scheme proved a failure. Good faith to
other creditors required that they act promptly. We do not
rest this upon any mere statute of limitations. Equity, administering its remedies in accordance with its own rules,
affirms that the best of rights may be lost by unreasonable
delay in their assertion, and, when coupled with long delay
is a scheme for great. personal gain at the expense of
equally deserving creditors, it refuses to lend its aid to the
accomplishment thereof.
But we need not rest upon these considerations alone. The
Circuit Court dismissed the bill, on the ground that the Supreme,Court of the State of Rhode Island had decided that the
first and principal conveyance by the Spragues to their trustee
was valid under the state statute. Austin v. S2prague anufacturing Co., 14 Rhode Island, 464. This ruling it had
followed in an earlier case, MAoulton v. Chafee, 22 Fed. Rep.
26. Unquestionably, if that conveyance and the transfers
immediately following were valid, the complainant's testator
took nothing by his purchase.
It is unnecessary to place our judgment solely upon the
decision of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, in the case
cited;' and yet it is worthy of most respectful consideration,
both because it is a decision of the highest court of the State
in which the transactions took place,'and also because it reviews all the objections made to the conveyance with clearness
and ability. As to the construction of a state statute, we
generally follow the rulings of the highest court of the State,
-Bacon v. _Northwestern, Life .nsurance Co., 131 U. S. 258,
qnd cases cited in opinion ; and as to other matters, We lean
towardsan agoeement of views with the state courts, Burgess
v. Seligrnan, 107 U. S.20, 34. So, -when the highest court
of a State affirms that a conveyance, made by a debtor to a,
trustee for the benefit of creditors, is valid under the statutes
of that State, we should ordinarily, ifi any case involving the
validity of such conveyance, follow. that 'ruling, even though
that statute was common to many States, and in others a
different-ruling had obtained.

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, in 1873, as heretofore stated, the Spragues became
embarrassed, all creditors were invited to a consultation, a
committee was appointed by them, frequent consultations
were had, this committee reported" the assets and liabilities,
and a plan to meet the emergency was devised and agreed
upon. -This contemplated a conveyance by the Spragues to
three trustees selected ; the creditors were to grant .an exten§ion, taking notes -due in three years; and the debtors were
tWconvey to .the trustees all their property, except shares of
•apital stock in corporatiohs. These the trustees were unwilling to accept, for fear of personal liability consequent upon
such acceptance; but a provision was inserted by which these
shares were to be transferred to the trustees upon a request
by them, by way of pledge or collateral security. After all
this had been arranged, and the conveyance signed and executed, the trustees named before delivery of the instrument
dbclined to act; and Zechariah Chafee was, without" consultation with the creditors, named, as trustee, and the instrument
delivered. -The committee representing the creditors,'however,
subsequently app'rqved his selection. Chafee assumed the
trust and thereafter extension notes were issued to the various
creditors and accepted by'449, these being all except the holders of about "114,000 of direct indebtedness. A, question is
made here as to whether this conveyance was re-executed by
the grantors, after the substitution of Chafee as trustee in
place of the three selected by the creditors. Upon -this question the testimony is contradictory., The disinterested testimony, and therefore the most reliable, is in favor of the reexecution; and this testimony is strongly supported by the
issue and acceptance of the notes, and by-the fact that many
years passed without challenge by debtor or creditor of the
validity of the conveyance, or the rights and powers of the
trustee. If the case turned upon this question of fact, we
should have little hesitation in finding that there was a due
re-execution of the conveyance. A due execution being established, another question is as to the validity of the conveyance
under the statute of -frauds. Here we turn to the decision of
the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, cited 8upra; and that

RANDOLPH v. QUIDNICK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

decision is very'persuasive. It would be unfortunate, to say
the least, to have this conveyance sustained as to home creditors, and avoided as to foreign. So that, if this case stood
alone upon the question of the validity of, that conveyance
under the laws of the State of Rhode Island, we should be
reluctant to depart from the rulings of the Supreme Court of
that State; and should do so only upon a clear conviction
that the decision of. that court was wrong, and that thereby
the rights of foreign creditors were sacrificed. While this
conveyance has received a differeni constructi on, and its invalidity been declared, by the Supreme Court of the State of
Connecticut, .DeWoyf v. 8prague .ManufacturingCompany, 49

Connecticut, 282, so that it must be conceded that its validity is
a matter of doubt, yet preference should be given in matter of'
doubt to the ruling of the Supreme Court of the State in which
the parties resided, where the conveyance was' executed, and,in which was the bulk of the property. We do not feel called
upon to decide, as a qvestion of absolute law, whether the
conveyance was or was not valid and beyond challenge. "It
is enough for the purposes of this case, that it was with the
general acquiescence of the creditors; that its purpose was
equality between them; that it was not challenged for many
years; that the trustee, on the faith of its validity, carried on
business to an enormous extent and assumed large liabilities;
and that the creditors accepted 'pay'ments made out of the
proceeds of that business, and the trust created by this -conveyance. Equity will not reach out its hand to disturb that
which all parties have considered settled for so many years.
Another matter requires notice: The conveyance excepted
shares of stock belonging 'to the grantors; but gave to the
trustee a right to insist upon the 'transfer thereof, by way of
,pledge and collateral security. This exception was introduced
into the instrument for fear that the trustees by accepting the
stock would assume personal liability for the debts of the
various corporations. Immediately after acceptin'g this trust
the trustee.demanded a transfer of the stock in the Quidnick
Company; and on December 2, 1873, the various grantors in
this conveyance transferred on the stock transfer book of the
VOL. CXXXV-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Quidnick Company, to the trustee, their shares of stock.
These transfers, as expressed, were "by way of pledge and
collateral security, to secure the performance of the conditions
of the trust mortgage."
Some question is made as to the
meaning of these transfers; but Qbviously they were all collateral security for the payment of the debts of the transferrers, as provided for in the trust deed. Such was the conclusion
reached by the Supreme Court of Rhode Island in the case
cited; for they say, "with reference to the stock in question,
it was transferred to be applied to creditors, according to the
terms of the mortgage." So that we have the validity of the
original conveyance by the Spragues, and the immediately
ubsequent transfers of the stock in question, affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State in which the grantors and transferrers resided, and where the corporation was situate whose
stock was thus transferred. This affirmance of the legal
validity stands behind, and gives large support to the views
which we have hitherto expressed. The law as declared by
that court harmonizes with and endorses the equitable considerations which in this case impress us.
We deem it unnecessary to proceed further, or to consider
the effect of the equitable suit instituted by the trustee, in the
state courts, prior to these attachments, and the possession
taken by those courts of the property of the Quidnick coiporations, or the sales of that property in pursuance of proceedings had therein. Indeed, we have referred to all these
proceedings in the state courts as in support of the equitable
considerations upon which we affirm the ruling of the Circuit
Court. In conclusion, it may be said that, generally, where
a' debtor, having large and scattered properties, and being
much embarrassed, transfers his property: for the benefit of
his creditors equally, equity requires that any creditor who is
not satisfied with the provisions of such transfer shall act
promptly in challenge thereof, or else be adjudged to have
waived any right of challenge.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
4ffirned.
lfMu. JusricE BIATCHFORD did not take any part in the decision of this case..

