RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
Statement of the Case.

merged in it. The contract had ceased to be executory, and
while fraud, if clearly made out, might still justify relief,
Boyce's Exaro. v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, the deed cannot be
brushed away as the result of the evidence in this record.
Upon the whole case, we see no reason for doubting the
correctness of thd conclusions at which the District Judge
arrived.
The cross-appeal is dismissed and-td
decree is aJfrmed.

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UMTED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 314. Submitted May 1,1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

The right of one partner to have the affairs of the firm wound up at once,
upon the assignment by the other partner before the expiration of the
term of all his property for the benefit of his creditors, is subject to

modification according to circumstances.
When one of two partners purchases real estate with partnership funds,

but takes title in his own name, and takes possession, his possession is
the possession of both, and a trust results in favor of his partner.
Statutes of limitation do not run against a cestui que trust where the trust
is express and clearly established; but whe the trusfbe openly disavows
it, and sets up adverse title in himself, time begins to run.
Where partnership affairs are being wound up in due course, without antagonism between the parties, or cause for judicial interference; assets are
being realized and debts extinguished; and no settlement has been made
between the partners; the statute of limitations has not begun to run.:
When the right of action accrues between partners after a dissolution of
the partnership, so as to set the statute of limitations in motion, depends
upon the circumstances of each case, and cannot be held as matter of law
to alise at the date of the dissolution, or to be carried back by'relation
to -thatdate.
ON the 10th day of Aarch, 1885, George'R. Riddle and w"'
son S. Packer as trustee for Electra Packer, filed their' bill of
complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dist 't of Arkansas -gainst Joseph M. Whitehill, alleging
that on the 7tb day of March,. 1870, and for more than twenty

• 622

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

years prior thereto, the complainants and one T. J. Coleman,
deceased, were partners in business under the firm style of
Riddle, Coleman & Co., with their principal office at the city
of Pittsburgh, in the State of Pennsylvania, engaged in dealing
in coal, purchasing and transporting the same to the markets
on the lower Mvississippi River and elsewhere, and selling the
same for a profit; that on said 7th day of March, 1870, said
firm, of Riddle, Coleman & Co. entered into an agreement
with the defendant, Joseph M. Whitehill, as follows:
"1Memorarfdum of articles of agreement between J. M.
Whitehill, df the first part, and Riddle, Coleman =nd Co., of
the second part, as follows:
"They agree to start a coal depot at Island Eighty-two in
copartnership, and the said Whitehill agrees on his part to
give his whole attention to the management at the coal yard,
and the said Riddle, Coleman and Co. on their part are to
furnish coal, capital, or credit t6 start the yard and charge no
interest for the extra capital, in lieu of the said Whitehill's
services at the depot. The said -hitehill is entitled to onehalf the profits or losses, and the said Riddle, Coleman and Co.
the other half, to be allowed about Vicksburg and. iNew
Orleans prices for the coal delivered at the island. It is also
agreed that the business shall be carried on under the name
and style of J. Mt. Whitehill and Co., and the partnership is
exclusively for the purpose of selling coal by retail and no
other, and to continue for five years, providing the firm of
Riddle, Coleman and Co. wish to continue in the coal business,
but if they want to stop the coal business or wish to draw
out of the business at Eighty-two, the firm of J. Mt. Whitehill
and Co. is to wind up their affairs and sell the stock to the
best advantage for all parties concerned.
"This the 7th day of March, A.D. 1870.
" J.

kt. WHITEHILL,

"RiDDLE, COLEMAN & CO."

That in accordance with said agreement, Riddle, Coleman
& Co. furnished to said firm of J. M. Whitehill & Co. a corn-

RI:DDLE v. WEITE]ILL.
Statement of the Case.

plete plant and outfit with which to start a coal yard and
depot for the retailing of coal at Island Eighty-two, consisting,
in part, of a wharf boat, with rooms for office, for residence of
Whitehill's family, quarters for the crew and employ4s of the
firm; box boats or fiats for measuring out and selling, coal
from boxes; shovels, chains, lines, barrows, anchors, etc., and
also coal in barges and coal boats; insured the same, and also
furnished additional plant and stock from time to time, as
needed for said business; and Whitehill & Co. established a
depot and coal fleet at Island Eighty-two, and carried on the
business of a retail dealer in coal for about the space of two
years at that point, and with the knowledge and consent of
Riddle, Coleman & Co. started a retail store there, partly for
the purpose of supplying their labor and partly for profit,
carried on with the capital of Riddle, Coleman & Co., and for
the profit of J. M. Whitehill & Co.; that in the latter part of
the year 1871, or early in 1872, to induce the firm of J. :M.
Whitehill & Co. to change and remove their place of business,
depot and coal fleet from Island Eighty-two to Arkansas City,
the proprietors of the last-mentioned place leased to that firm,
free of rent, the landing and coaling privileges at Arkansas
City for a term of years, and donated to them certain townlots in said town; and, with the knowledge and approbation
of Riddle, Coleman & Co., the firm of j. L. Whitehill & Co.
changed, during the year 1872, the location of their business
from Island Eighty-two to Arkansas City, and their fleet,
barges, boats, and all their outfit were moved by one of the
tow-boats of iRiddle, Coleman & Co. from Island Eighty-two
to Arkansas City; and from that time until Octpber, 15"7.
and afterwards, J. M. Whitehill & Co. carried on the busine..
as dealers in coal at Arkansas City, and also kept a gener4.1
store, and did'a general merchandising business at that place;
that in addition to the-landing and coaling privilege and the
lots donated to said firm by thd proprietors of said town, as an
inducement to said firm to locate their businessbat thiat point,
the said J. M. Whitehill, for the use of the firm, purchased a
large number of *other town lots in the town and paid for the
same with the money of the firm,- and in like manner acquired

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and purchased an undivided half interest in the entire river
front of the town for a distance of about three thousand feet,
and leased the other half interest in the river front for a
period of twenty-five years from the 1st day of May, 1872,
and paid for the same out of the money and with the property
of the firm, and expended large sums of the money of the firm in
building residence houses, store-houses, warehouses, high water'
platform, a large and expensive ice-house, a hotel, and other
valuable improvements on the lots and lands so donated to and
purchased with the money and property of said firm, and certain lots axe enumerated as having been conveyed as an inducement io locate at said town.
The bill further averred that the river front was leased to
the firm on the 1st day of May, 1872, for five years, and this
was subsequently extended for the additional term of twenty
years from the 1st day of May, 18711; that on the 21st of July,
1875, an undivided half of the river front was sold and conveyed to the firm; that the dbeds to some of the land and
town lots were taken in the name of J. M. Whitehill & Co.,
and the deeds to other parts of the land and town lots were
takeAi in the name of J. M. Whitehill, but complainants charge
that all the land and town lots not donated to the firm were
purchased with its money and for its benefit and held as partnership assets of the firm; that the business of the firm of
J. M. Whitehill & Co. was very profitable, and large profits
were realized therefrom, all of which, and much of the capital
furnished by Riddle, Coleman & Co., were used in the purchase and improvement of the lots and river front, and J. M.
Whitehill & Co. became largely indebted to said Riddle, Coleman & Co. for plant and stock furnished by them.
It was further alleged that Riddle, Coleman & Co. became
embarrassed and were forced to suspend, business, and on the
15th day of October, 1877, made an assignment to James
Lynn, as assignee, under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania,
of all their real and personal property, including the indebtedness to them from J. M. Whitehill & Co., and all their interest
in the business, profits and property of said J. M. Whitehill &
Co., of every description, to be collected or sold -and disposed

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
Statemefit of the Case.

of for the benefit of their creditors; that T. J. Coleman, a
member of the firm of Riddle, Coleman & Co., died in the
year 1878; that the surviving members of that firm, to wit,
the complainants in this cause, devoted themselves, with the
aid of the assignee, to realize on the assets of the firm, and
after several years' attention to that object, and the application of their individual means to the payment of the debts of
the firm, they succeeded in settling up and discharging the
debts, and upon a public sale, made in virtue of the powers
contained in the deed of assignment, with the express assent
of their creditors, all the uficollected assets of the firm, including the indebtedness of the defendant, J. iM. Whitehill, and
the firm of J. -M. Whitehill & Co., were assigned and conveyed
by said assignee to W. S. Packer, as trusted for Electra Packer,
and George Riddle, by deed dated the 3d day of January,
1885, a copy of which was attached.
Complainants averred that no part of the indebtedness of
J. M. Whitehill or J. iM. Whitehill & Co., and no part ofthe
assets of said J. iM. Whitehill & Co., was ever paid to or collected by the said assignee, and the game and the right to sue for
and collect the same is now vested in the complainants, who
are also the sole surviving partners of said firm of Riddle,
Coleman & Co.; that at the time of the assignment, the 15th
day of October, 1877, the firm of J. 1. Whitehill & Co. was
indebted to the firm bf Riddle, Coleman & Co. in the sum of
$10,000 for plant, stock, boats, barges, fiats, ferry-boats, tugs,
anchors, etc., etc., and for doal furnished and supplied to J. M.
Whitehill & Co. by Riddle, Coleman & Co.; that Riddle
Coleman & Co. were entitled to one-half of the profits realized
by said firm, and also entitled to one-half of the assets of the
firm of J. iM.Whitehill & Co., which amounted in part to over
$65,000, given in various items; that defendant Whitehill
published a dissolution of the firm, and took and retained poasession of all its assets, and' on the 10th day of March, 1881,
sold and delivered to Brown, Jones & Co. a part of the prop-.
erty of the firm of J. ]M. Whitehill & .Co. for the sum of
$16,000, and also leased to Brown, Jones & Co. the coal privi-,
lege at the landing for a term of ten years, at the price and
vo- cxxxv-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

sum of $800 per annum, and has collected and received the
same for three or four years, and is now in receipt of the
same; that there is on said river front a large and valuable
ice-house, warehouses, and other large and valuable improvements erected thereon with the money and for the benefit of
J. M. Whitehill & Co., from which defendant Whitehill has
collected rents and received the profits since the date of the
assignment of Riddle, Coleman & Co.; that Whitehill has
carried on the business of a receiving and forwarding merchant and ferryman, by reason of holding the river front, and
derived la-ge profits; that he has received annually large
sums of money for the rent of houses and a hotel, built with
the money of *the firm of J. M. Whitehill & Co. and Riddle,
Coleman & Co. are entitled to one-half of all these receipts;
that defendant Whitehill has sold some of the lots embraced
in the, conveyances aforesaid and received the money therefor,
and has exchanged some of the lots for other property situated in the town, and, as the title was in some instances taken
in his own name, the purchasers or grantees of some of the
lots may have taken the same for a valuable consideration
without notice of the rights of Riddle, Coleman & Co., but
defendant Whitehill should be held to account for the proceeds of such lots, to one-half of which complainants are entitled; and that, as complainants charge on information and
belief, Whitehill purchased with the money of Whitehill &
Co. a plantation,, and took the title thereto in the name of
his wife and his brother, and ought to be iequired to account
for the same. The bill then prayed that an account be taken
of the partnership business of the firm of J. Mxi. Whitehill &
Co. ; that that firm may be dissolved; that a master may be
appointed to state an account of the business a~nd prbperty,
ind the liabilities of the firm; the indebtedness of'J. M.
Whitehill & Co. to Riddle, Coleman & Co.; the' interest of
Riddle, Coleman & Co. in the assets of the business, of J. IM.
Whitehill & Co.; the profits realized by Whitehill from the
property and privileges of J. M. Whitehill & Co., etc., etc.;
and that at the final hearing complainants may have a decree
for the amount due from the defendant, and that the lots and

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.

627

Statement of the Case.

real estate purcnaseci with the assets of the firm, remaining
undisposed of to bona !de holders without notice, be appropriated to the satisfaction of the decree, and a judgment be
rendered against the defendant for any balance due complainants on the business of said partnership; and that a receiver
be appointed; and -for general relief. The bill was verified
by one of the complainants.
The defendant Whitehill demurred, and assigned for causes
of demurrer:
"First. That said bill, in case the same were true, contains
no matter of equity whereon this court can ground any decree
or give complainants any relief as against this defendant.
"Second.
That it appears by the bill that said James Lynn
is a necessary party, inasmuch as it is stated that said Riddle,
Coleman & Co. assigned to him all the real and personal
property of said firm, and it does not appear that he has
disposed of the same, and the bill seeks action' in relation
thereto.
"Third. That the right of action, if any existed, to sue for
the settlement of the partnership matters, accrued at the time
of the dissolution -of said firm of J. M. Whitehill & Co., on
October 15, 1877, and more than seven years next before the
institution of this suit, and that the demand is stale and is
barred as a cause of action against this-defendant.
' Fourth. That it appears from the bill that the creditors
of said Riddle, Coleman & Co. were paid before the pretended
sale to complainants by said James Lynn, as assignee, on Jabuary 3, 1885, and that there is no privity between complainants and this defendant to enable them to call on' him for a'
settlement of said partnership matters."
On the 14th of April, 1886, the court sustain ed the demurrer,
and ordered the bill to be dismissed for *ant of equity, and
complainants prayed an appeal to this court, which was al-"
lowed. On the 7th of October, 1886, one of the days of the
same term, the complainant moved to set aside the decree dismissing the bill, and for leave to amend the same by inseYting
therein: That the defendant continued in the possession and
control of the assets belonging to the firm of J. M. Whitehill

628"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

& Co. for the professed purpose of paying the debts of the firm,
representing to the assignee, Lynn, that J. M. Whitehill & Co.
were indebted in the sum of $20,000; that he, the defendant,
had, in 1879, made arrangements to pay said indebtedness by
instalments.of $6000 per year, and that he was using the assets
of-the firm for that purpose; that defendant did not make any
adverse claim to the assets belonging to J. M. Whitehill & Co.,
until long after the sale hereinbefore stated, in 1881; and
that, after paying all the debts of J. Mf. Whitehill & Co., the
defendant is indebted to the firm of Riddle, Coleman & Co., and
subject to account, as hereinbefore stated. This motion to set
aside the decree and for leave to amend was continued on the
.23d day of October, 1886, to the next term, at which term the
motion was overruled. The transcript of record was filed in
this court on the 2d day of A15ril, 1887.
The sections of the statute of limitations of Arkansas referred to are as follows:
"Sec. 4471. No person or persons, or their heirs, shall have,
sue or maintain any action or suit, either in law or equity, for
.any lands, tenements or hereditaments but-within seven years
next after his, her or their right to commence, have or main'tain such suit, shall.have come, fallen or accrued; and all suits,
.either in law or equity, for the recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments shall be had and sued within seven
years next after title or cause of action accrued, and no time
after said seven years shall have passed.
"Sec. 4478. The following actions shall be commenced
within three years after the cause of action shall accrue, and
3ot after:
. "First. All actions founded upon any contract
or liability,
express or implied, not in writing. . . "'
"Sec. 4483. Actions-onpromissory notes, and other instruments in writing not under seal, shall be commenced withi,.
-five years after the cause of action shall accrue, and not afterward."
"Sec. 4488. All actions not included in the foregoing provisions shall be commenced within five years after th6 cause of
action shall have accrued." Dig. Stat. Ark. 1881, p. 886.

RIDDLE v. WHITERILL.
Argument for Appellee.

Mr. John Dalzell for appellants.
Mr. D. EI. Reynolds for appellee.
The effect of the assignment was to dissolve the partnership
of J. M. Whitehill & Co. Jonrs v. Fletcher, 42 Arkansas, 462;
Ogden.v. Arnot, 29 Hun, 146; Bank v. Carrollton R ilroad,
11 Wall. 624.
The allegation in the bill that the business was continued,is in plain contradictioti of the legal effect of the assignment,
and of the statement of the bill that notice of dissolution was
published by Whitehill, and the continuance was impossible
from the nature of the business, as the failure of Riddle, Coleman & Co. to supply coal to sell closed the business, and the
allegation of continuance must be treated as surplusage, and
as not admitted by the demurrer. The contract exhibited
with the bill must therefore be held to govern and limit anystatement in the bill inconsistent therewith. Dillon v. Barnard,21 Wall. 430, 437; Bonnell v. Griswold, 68 N. Y. 294.
By the assignment of Riddle, Coleman & Co., the assignee
acquired only the right of Riddle, Coleman & Co. in the partnership of J. M. Whitehill & Co., that is to say, the right to
a share of what might remain after payment of the debts of
the firm and the settlement of its accounts. Bank v. Carrollton Railroad,11 Wall. 624,628; Case v. Beauregard,99 U. S.
119.
After the assignment of Riddle, Coleman & Co. it was the
duty of the assignee to act promptly and take charge of and
gather up the assets and reduce the same to money and pay
the debts of the assignors and turn over to the assignors any
surplus, after saving any sum necessary to pay off the debts
of J. M. Whitehill & Co., over and above the assets of said
rifflth, 37 Arkansas, 150;
firm duly applied. Raleigh v.
Teah v. Roth, 39 Arkansas, 66.
The laws of Arkansas and the laws of Pennsylvania contemplate that the assignee shall, within a year after the assignment, convert the assets into money to pay the debts of the,
assignor, and immediately after the expiration of the year, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

file in court an account current of his business as assignee for

settlement. It was the duty of the assignee, if there was
anything that might go to Riddle, Coleman & Co. upon
settlement of the partnership of Whitehill & Co., to sue for a
settlement; and this suit should have beefd brought within
the time given for such assignee to close his trust, viz.: one
year.
If any one could maintain this kind of suit, it must be the
issignee, as he was invested by the assignment .with the rights
of the assignors, and it does not appear that he has parted
with these rights; for, if as alleged, the debts of Riddle, Coleman & Co. were paid before the pretended sale 6f January 3,
1885, the assignee had no power to sell, and complainants as
purchasers, acquired no rights by the sale and transfer that
will authorize them to sue for a settlement of the partnership
matters of J. M. Whitehill & Co. without joining with the
assignee, and with the legal representatives of T. J. Coleman,
deceased.
And if all the right of action in the assignee was barred in
January, 1885, he could transfer no right to any one by deed,
sale or otherwise. The statute bar destroys the right that
once existed, and confers title on claimant in possession.
Meeks v. Opherts, 100 U. S. 564; Ty-inible v. Woodhead, 102
U. S. 647.
It seems to be well settled, that in regard to real estate, the
undisturbed possession of the wrong-doer for the time necessary to bar the action vests of itself a good title in the party
holding such possession. It would be a curious application of
this principle in the present case, which concerns real estate,
to hold that this same lapse of time, instead of making good
the defendant's title, or acting as a bar to the right to bring
suit, transfers that right to another unimpaired by the lapse
of time.
The right of action, if any existed, to sue for the settlement
of the partnership matters of J. M. Whitehill & Co. accrued
at the time of the dissolution of said firm on October 15, 1877,
and more than seven years next before the institution of this
suit, and therefore the demand is stale and is barred as a cause

RI)DLE v. WIHITEHILL.
Argument for Appellee.

of action against the defendant Whitehill, by the statute of
limitations of three years, of five years and of seven years.
Constructive trusts and all trusts, save purely equitable or
express trusts, are in equity subject -to the statute of limita
tions. A clear distinction is made, recognized aud-acted on,
between parties ,who are actual trustees of express trusts, and.
those who are placed in relations of trust and confidence between actual trustees created by deed, and whose relations
can only be established by the deed creating the trust, and
such persons as are constructively trustees, and whose relations
as trustees may be established -by parol proof. As to the
actual trustees the statute does not run, and as to constructive
trustees it does run. Adams v. Taylor,14: Ark. 62; Baxter v.Jfoses, 77 Maine, 465; -Ynox v. Gye, 4 English Rep. L. R.
5 H. L. 656; Noye8 v. Crawley, 10 Ch. Div. 81; ikSpeidel v.
Ilerrici, 120 U. S. 377.
Between partners there is not such implied trust as will
exclude the operations of the statute of limitations. Adams
v. Taylor, 14 Arkansas, 62; .Mclung v. Capehart, 1 1N. W.
Rep. 123; Enox v. Gye, ubi supra; Toyes v. Crawley, ubi.
suzpra; Clay v. reeman, 118 U. S. 97.
Courts of law and courts of equity have concurrent jurisdiction in the matter of accounts, and of accounting in the
matters of partnership. Cochrane v. Allen, 58 N. ]1. 250;
KCnox v. Gye, ubi supra; -Noyes v. Crawley, ubi supra.
The statute of limitations applies with equal force in courts
of law and courts of equity in cases of concurrent jurisdiction
(as in this case), courts of equity acting in obedience rather
than in analogy to the statutes. Adams v. Taylor, 14 Arkansas, 62; Wilson v. Anthony, 19 Arkansas, 16; Faulkner v.
Thomapson, 14 Arkansas, 478; Sullivan v. Hadley, 16 Arkmnsas, 129; Ringo v. ]Woodi'uf, 43 Arkansas, 469; Bank of
U. S. v. Dasniel, 12 Pet. 30, 56; Godd6ek v. Zimmel, 99 U. S.
201; Speidel v. Henrici, ubi supra;.Rhode Island . J1as~'ehusetts, 15 Pet. 233; .anscdlae v. SmitA, 106 U. S. 391;
.Noyes v. Crawley, ubi supra.
It is submitted that the authorities in Arkansas, in-this
country and in England, maintain the proposition that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Opinion of the Court.

statute of limitations may be relied on as a defence in a suit
between partners or their representatives, for a settlement of
the partnership business; and that the Circuit Court did not
err in sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bill for-want
of equity.
MR. CE JusTIcE FuLLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the face of the bill, of which the transfer to the complainants formed a .part, we think the latter could maintain
the suit if a cause of action existed, and we assume that the
demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed as the result of
the application of the statute of limitations or the doctrine of
laches. Should this conclusion have been reached upon the
facts admitted? By the terms of the agreement in question,
the partnership was to continue for five years, provided Riddle, Coleman & Co. wished to remain in the coal biusiness;
but, if not, or if they desired to terminate this particular
connection, J. Mv. Whitehill & Co. were "to wind tip, their
affairs and sell the stock to the best advantage for all parties
concerned." ' The five years ran out on the 7th day of March,
1875, but the firm went on in business. Many of the lots in'
question had been conveyed to Whitehill & Co. prior to 1875,
and the term of the lease of the river front did not expire until
May, 1877, when it was renewed for twenty years, an indication that the firm had then no intention of bringing its business to an end. The management at Arkansas City was
confided tb Wbitehill, while Riddle, Coleman & Co. furnished
the capital invested in the plant, and the coal from year to
year, dealing in which was the specific object of the enterprise.
On the 15th day of October, 1877, the firm of Riddle, Coleman & Co., which had then been carrying on business at
,Pittsburg for more than twenty-seven years, was compelled to
make an assignment. If a member of an ordinary partnership
assigns,.where the partnership is at will, the assignment dissolves it, and if it is not at will, the assignment may be treated
by the otl.er members of the concern as a cause for dissolu-

RIDDLE v. WRITEIIILL.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. The assignee of one partner cannot be made a member
but the
of a partnership against the will of the otber partners,
absolute right to have the affairs of the firm at once wound
up, when the specified duration of the partnership has not
expired, may be subject to modification according to circumstances. Taft v. Buffum, 14 Pick. 322; Buford v. .Neeley, 2
Devereaux Eq. 48; -Monroe v. Hamilton, 60 Alabama, 226;
Lindley on Part. *364; flelmore v. Smith, 35 Ch. Div. 436.
In the case at bar J. M. Whitehill & Co. continued in business
after October, 1877, although the bill does not state for how
long a time. The failure of Riddle, Coleman & Co. presumably prevented their furnishing coal, yet the averments of the
bill show that the business of ,Whitehill & Co. had expanded
far beyond the traffic to which it had been originally confined. But assuming that by the assignment the partnership
of J. M. Whitehill & Co. was dissolved, it was the duty of
Whitehill to proceed at once to wind up the business and sell
the stock to the best advantage, not only for himself, but for
Riddle, Coleman & Co., and this was in compliance with the
express provisions of the agreement. It appears that a portiodi of the stock, to the amount of $16,000, was not sold until
the 10th day of March, 1881, at which time the coal privilege
at the landing was leased for ten years; and while some of
the real estate had been disposed of, a large part remained
yet to be divided, when the bill was filed. The proposed
amendment showed that the firm's liabilities were not liquidated until 1883.
According to the allegations of the bill, on the 15th day of
October, 1877, when Riddle, Coleman & Co. assigned, the firm
of J. N. Whitehill & Co. was the owner of town lots, of river
front, residences, store-houses, and a hotel, bought and paid
for with the partnership funds. The title stood in the nange
either of J. 11. Whitehill or of J. M. Whitehill & Co.; and part
of the property was in use for partnership purposes -nd so
employed, while a part was not, but represented the investment of partnership gains. A partnership, as such, could not
hold the legal title to real estate, as it is not a person in fact
or in law, and the situation in this case is' well described in

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Percifall v. Prat4 36 Arkansas, 464, where it was held: "If
the title be made to all the partners by name, they hold the
legal title as tenants in common, without survivorship. If to
one partner alone, the whole legal title vests in him, which is
the case, also, where the title is to a partnership name, which,
as in this case, expresses the nam of one party only, with the
addition of ' and company.' If the deed be to a name adopted
as the firm style, which includes the name of no party, it
passes nothing in iaw. The same occurs where the deed is to
one alreidy dead."
As to this real estate, whether the deeds ran to J. M. Whitehill & Co. or to J. T. Whitehill the latter held the title in
trust, and it was so ruled in M3Guire v. Ramsey, 9 Arkansas,
518. It is there said that "where real estate is purchased and
paid for with partnership funds, but conveyed to one of the
partners alone, a trust results in favor of the other partners ;"
and that lapse of time" cannot be allowed in favor of one partner in possession of real estate against the other, for the possession of one is the possession of both."
Lord Redesdale in Hovenden v. Lord Annesley, 2 Sch. &
Lef. 607, 633, laid down the rule, that if the trust be constituted
by act of the parties, the possession of the trustee is the possession of the cestui que trust, and no length of such possession
will bar; but if a party is to be constituted a trustee by the
decree of a court of equity, founded on fraud or the like, his
possession is adverse, and the statute of limitations will nn
from the time that the circumstances of the fraud were discovered.
"1Asa general rule, doubtless," said Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion of the court in Speidel v. lenrici, 120 U. S.
377, 386, "length of time is no bar to a trust clearly established, and express trusts are not within the statute of limitations, because the possession of the trustee is presumed to be
the possession of his cestui que trust. But this rule is, in accordchich
it is founded, and as has been
ance with the reason on
clearly pointed out by Chancellor Kent and Mir. Justice Story,
.sb'ect to this qualification, that time begins to run against a
trust .as soon as it ii openly disavowed'by the trustee, insisting

RIDDLE v. WIHITEHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

upon an adverse right and interest which is clearly and unequivocally made known to the cestui que trzist; as when, for
instance, such transactions take place between the trustee and
the cestati que trust as would in case of tenants in common
amount to an ouster of one of them by the other.

.

.

.

In

the case of an implied or constructive trust, unless there has
been a fraudulent concealment of the cause of action, lapse of
time is as complete a bar in equity as at law." Courts of
equity souietimes act in obedience -to the statute, and sometimes apply it by way of analogy. Where the cause of
action is legal and the statute ha- barred the remedy at law,
the defence is as complete in equity as at law, but where the
case falls within the proper, peculiar and exclusive jurisdiction
of a court of equity the statute is not necessarily applied.
Real estate purchased with partnership funds for partnership uses, though the title be taken in, the'name of one partner, is in equity treated as personal property, so far as is
necessary to pay the debts of the partnership and to adjust
the equities of the partners; but the principle of equitable conversion has no further application. Olagett v. _YilbouPne," 1
Black, U. S. 346, 349; Shanks v. Ilein, 104: U. S. 18; Allen
v. Withrow, 110 U. S. 119; Buchan v. Sumner, 2 Barb. Oh.
165; Collumb v. Read, 24 N. Y. 505. Whitehill here was in
possession for the benefit of the parties lawfully entitled, and
apparently occupied no position adverse to them.
In Anox v. Gye, L. R. 5 H. L. 656, the effect of the statute
of limitations, 21 Jac. 1, c. 16, providing that all actions of
account and upon the case should be commenced and sued
within six years next after the cause of such action or suit, and
not after, as repeated in the 9th section ?f the 19th & 20th
Vict. c. 97, with this additional provision, namely, that "no
claim in respect of a matter which arose more than six years
before the commencement of such action or suit shall be enforceable by action or suit by reason only of some other matter or claim comprised in the same account having arisen
within six years next before the commencement of such action
or suit," upon a bill for an account brought by the executor
of a deceased partner against the survivor, more than six

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

years after the death, was considered. It was held that the
matter, namely, the dissolution of the partnership, and, consequently, the possession of the partnership property by the
surviving partner, arose more than six years before the commencement of the suit and was barred; that the right of
action arose upon the death of the deceased partner, and the
cause of action was the possession of the partnership estate by
the surviving partner; that where, in the matter of the enforce-ment of a legal right, a court of common law would, under
the provisions of the statute of limitations, refuse the enforcemenf after the lapse of six years from the accruing of the
right of action, a court of equity would, where its power to
grant relief was asked for under similar circumstances, adopt
the principle of the statute, and decline to grant such relief.
Lords Westbury, Colonsay and Chelmsford concurred in the
result, while the Lord Chancellor (Lord Hatherley) dissented.
It was held by Lord Westbury that "there is no fiduciary
relation between a surviving partner and the representatives
of his deceased partner there are legal obligations between
them equally binding on both;" but the Lord Chanicellor
insisted with emphasis that "there is a fiduciary relation between them. The surviving partner alone having the legal
interest in the partnership property, and being alone able to
collect it, there arises a right in the representatives of the
deceased partner to insist on the surviving parther holding the
property, whenever .received, subject to the rights of the
deceased partner, and he cannot make use of the partnership
assets without being liable to an account for them."
We are not prepared to decide that there is a definite rule
of law that statutes of limitation commence to run immediately upon the dissolution of a partnership, irrespecti e of the
circumstances of the particular case. 'Mr. Justice Lindley, in
his excellent work on Partnership, says: "So long, indeed, as
b partnership is subsisting, and each partner is exercising his
rights and enjoying his own propert , the statute of limitations has, it is conceived, no application at all; but as soon as
the partnership is dissolved, or there is any exclusion of one
partner by.the others, the case is very different, and the stat-

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

uite begins to run." American ed. 1888, 510. The learned
author in his last edition cites knox v. Gye, supra, and NAroyes
v. Crawley, 10 Ch. Div. 31, in which Vice Chancellor Malins
quotes the above language with commendation, and dissents
from .Mitler v. .Miller, L. R. 8 Eq. 499. Where, however,
partnership affairs are being wound up in due course, without
antagonism between the parties, or cause for judicial interference; where assets are being realized upon and liabilities
extinguished, and no settlement has been made, the cause of
action has not accrued, and the statute has not begun to run.
Of course, where the partnership expires in accordance with
its terms, or is dissolved by agreement, each partner as a
general rule has an equal right to the possession of the partnership property, and if they cannot agree as to the disposition and division of it, a court of equity will appoint a
receiver to collect and apply ,the effects. Each partner has
a right to have the partnership assets applied in liquidation of the partnership debts, and to have the surplus assets
divided, and each may insist on a sale, and that nothing
shall be done except with a view to wind up the concern.
But in case of dissolution by death, surviving partners are invested with the exclusive right of possession and management
of the whole partnership property and business, for the purpose of paying the partnership debts and disposing of the
effects of the concern for the benefit of themselves and the
estatd of the deceased. Emerson v. Senter, 118 U. S. 1. If
they go on with the business under the credit, and risking the
effects of 'the firm, and profits result, they will be bound to
account for those profits as belonging to the firm, and they
are liable to be charged with interest on the funds they use,
though no profit,' or even a loss, is made. And so, upon diss6lution by an assignment, the solvent partners are in equiti
entitled to hold the effects and property in the way that surviving partners do, and if they continue the business it is at
their own peril, in the absence of special provision.
When the right of action accrues, so as to set the statute of
limitations in motion, depends, as we have said, upon circumstances, and cannot be held as matter of law to arise at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinin of the Court.

date of the dissolution, or to be carried back by relation to
that date. Todd v. Raferty's Administrator, 30 N. J. Eq.
(3 Stewart) 254; Partridge v. WFells, 30 N. J. Eq. 176; Prentice v. ]lliott, 72 Georgia, 154; Htammond v. Hammond, 20
Georgia, 556; .Massey v. Tingle, 29 Missouri, 437; .MeC/iyg
v. Capehart, 24 M innesota, 17; ilendy v. .March,75 California, 566; Foster v. ]?ison, 17 Grattan, 321;. Boggs v. Johnson,
26 W. Va. 821; Atwater v. Fowler, 1 Edw. Ch. 417. In Cam,ler v. Tlaarton, 62 Alabama, 358, the court hela that where
one partner, by a written agreement with the other, left the
,partnership assets with him to dispose of, whenever he could
do so at a fair price, a continuing trust was thereby created,
and the bar of the statute of limitations would not begin to
run against the right to an account of the partnership dealings, so long as the party to whom the assets were delivered
acted under the trust or admitted that it was still continuing.
Under the agreement here, it is obvious that it was Whitehill
-ho was to cl6se up the business at Arkansas City, which had
been under his management; and under the averments of this
bill such a trust was created as would not be barred by the
statute of" limitations until it was repudiated by Whitehi]l,
which attitude on his part there is nothing here to disclose
unless his defence to the bill may be construed as such.
In Adams v. Taylor, 14 Arkansas, 62, it was held that "the
relation between copartners does not create such a trust as
will exempt a bill for a mere account and settlement from ihe
operation of the statute of limitations, or the analogous bar
by lapse of time, or staleness of the demand." That was a
case where a partner came into chancery eight years after the
dissolution of the partnership, for an account and settlement,
and no circumstances of fraud, accident or concealment were
alleged to have prevented the settlement after the partnership
affairs had been wound up. The question of when the right of
action accrued did not arise, nor was that anything more than,
as stated by the court, a bill for a mere account and settlement; whereas we have in this case the state of affairs which
existed -in .MoGuirev. Ramsey, 9 Arkansas, 518, where, with
respect to real estate paid for with partnership funds, it was

RIDDLE v. WHITEHL.
Opinion of the Court.

held that the plea of the statute could not be allowed in favor
of one partner in possession of such real estate as against the
other.
The case of Chouteauv. Barlow, 110 U. S. 238, is very much
in point. Sanford, Chouteau, Sarpy and Sire were copartners
in business in St. Louis. During its existence the partnership
purchased and paid for with the partnership funds, acre la~ids
and town lots in Wisconsin and Minnesota, and held the same
for the benefit of the copartnership. The firm was dissolved in
1852 by the retirement of Sanford, and some twenty-four
years thereafter his executor and trustee filed a bill against the
representatives of the other members of the firm, who had all
died, to compel an accounting touching the property of the
partnership and the proceeds of such property. The dispute
between the parties was as to the terms of the agreement of
dissolution of the partnership in 1852. The complainants
alleged that Sanford released to dhouteau all his interest in
the estate of the firm, except its lands and town lots in Minnesota, and that Ohouteau agreed to relieve Sanford from the
debts of the firm and assure to him his proportion of the lands
and town lots free from any debt or liability growing out of
the copartnership affairs. The answer alleged that Chouteau
agreed to relieve Sanford from the debts of the firm, and that
Sanford released to Chouteau all his interest in the assets of
the firm, including his interest in any of the lands and town
lots-in Minnesota; and further averred, by way of defence, that
more than six years had elapsed since the accruing of any of
the alleged causes of action set out in the bill. The opinion of
the court thus concludes: " On the whole case, we are of opinion, that, after the dissolution of the St. Louis firm, the mmhers other than Sanford were entitled to collect and dispose of
all its assets, including the Minnesota ' outfit' and the Minnesota lands, to liquidate its affairs, without the interference of
Sanford; that all claim on their part against Sanford individually was relinquished, leaving recourse only to those assets;
and that, if there should be any surplus of those assets, after
paying the debts of the firm and the advances of any of the
other partners therefor, Sanford's executors would be entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Opinion of the Court..

to his proper proportion of such surplus.

No judicial account-

ing has been had on the basis of the rights of the parties as
we have defined them. The bill prays that the defendants
may account touching the affairs and property of the copartnership and touching the proceeds of any such property. We
think the plaintiffs are entitled to such an accounting, and
are not barred from it by laches or by the operation of any

statute of limitations."
In the case at bar, the business of Riddle, Coleman & Co.
was finally wound up by the payment of its debts in full, to
do which, as we understand the bill, coupled with the terms
of the deed to the complainants, a public sale was had with
the consent of the creditors, and the complainants purchased
the interest in and the rights and claims against certain companies and individuals in the South, along the Mississippi River,
including the interest and claims against Whitehill and the
late firm of J. M. Whitehill & Co. This was within four
years after Whitehill had disposed of the enumerated assets,
and made the lease of the coaling privilege, and within three
years after the payment of the outstanding indebtedness,
acoording to the amendment. Certainly Whitehill ought not
to be allowed to complain that he was permitted to take his
time in selling the stock of the concern to the best advantage;
and it is clear, as the case stands at present, that the statute
did not run as against the trust in the real estate conveyed to
him or to X. M. Whitehill & Co., and purchased with the
money of the firm.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded with directions
to allow the comjoplinacnts to amend their bill, andfor further proceedings in conformity with this opinion..

