FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Counsel for Parties.

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Dakota by Church, J.,
will be found reported in 30 IN. W. Rep. 159, and deals with
the facts in more detail than we have been at liberty to do.
We agree with the results arrived at by that court and its
judgment is therefore
.Armed.

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
CHURCHILL v. FARRAR.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
NoS. 266, 603. Argued April 16, 1890.

Decded May 19, 1890.

Cross-appeals in equity must be prosecuted like other appeals; and although
they may be taken and allowed after removal of the cause, on appeal, to
this court, yet that cannot be done after the lapse of two years from the
date of the decree.
The court takes notice of the facts that in this case no assignment of errors
was annexed to the transcript of the record as required by law, and that
no specification of errors was made in the brief of .counsel, as required
by the rule, and expresses the hope that there will be no recurrence of
such omissions.
If a purchaser of real estate, to whom representations of the character and
value of the property are made by the vendor, visits the property itself
prior to the sale, and makes a personal examination of it touching those
representations, he will be presumed to rely on his own examination, in
making the purchase, and not upon the representations of the vendor
and in the absence of fraud or concealment, cannot have the sale set
aside: applying this rule to the present case, the bill must be dismissed.

IN EQUITY.

Decrees dismissing the bill and the cross-bill.

Each party appealed.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey (with whom was .Mr. George
X. -Davieon the brief) for Farrar, administrator.
-Mr. iV.Hallett Pxillips on behalf of Churchill submitted a
motion to dismiss the cross-appeal on his brief. .Mr. IF.Hallett Phillipson behalf of Mr. William L. -Nugent for Churchill
and another, on the merits submitted on Mr. Nugent's brief.
VOL. CXXXV-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
John Churchill held title to certain lands in Mississippi, as
trustee for Mary M. Clark, whose husband, M. L. Clark, in
1881, employed J. H. D. Bowmar, of Vicksburg, to sell the
property, which he did, to A. B. Pittman, also a resident of
that city, and on the 16th of March, 1882, Churchill as trustee,
and Mr. and Mrs. Clark, all residing in Louisville, Kentucky,
conveyed the lands and "the mules, implements and cattle on
the plantation, save two horses, reserved by said two parties,"
to Pittman. This conveyance recites that it is "made this 9th
day of January, 1882," but the attestation clause is that the
signatures are appended the 16th day of March, 1882,, "the
date of the sale being of 9th January, 1882," and the acknowledgment by the grantors is March 16. The consideration of
the conveyance was $5000 in cash, and four notes of Pittman
for $5000 each, bearing interest at eight per cent and payable
at one, two, three and four years from date.
In the latfer part of January, 1882, certain other personalty
on the premises was sold by Clark to Pittman for $1000 cash
and three acceptances, one for $1000, due April 1, one for
$1000, due May 1, and one for $1133.10, due June 1, 1889,
with grace. Two of these acceptances were transferred by
Clark to the trustee, who, when they matured, brought a separate suit upon each of them. The other acceptance passed
into the hands of a bona fide holder without notice. When
the first of the notes given as consideration for the conveyance
became due, suit was brought upon it, and on the 7th of November, 1883, Pittman filed his bill in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi
,against John Churchill, trustee, and Mr. and Mrs. Clark, alleging that fraudulent representations had been made to him in
the sale of the plantation and accompanying personal property,
and also in the matter of the personalty subsequently purchased from Clark, and asking that the three suits above
mentioned be enjoined; for an account of damages suffered,
and their application by way of recoupment, offering to pay

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

whatever might be found due on a proper accounting; and
fo general relief. It is admitted by counsel for appellants
that the controversy over the latter purchase has been satisfactorily adjusted, and that so much of the transaction is
only incidentally referred to in connection with the other
fraud, circumvention and deceit alleged to have been practised.
The bill claimed failure.of title as to part of the land, but this
was fully met by the answer, was not pressed below, and i ay
be regarded as out of the case. The oath to the answers was
not waived, and accordingly the answer of Mary M. Clark and
John Churchill; trustee, was duly verified. Clark was not
served and filed no answer, but his deposition in one of the law
suits was put in evidence.
A cross-bill was subsequently filed by Churchill and Mrs.
Clark, praying that an account be had and stated between. the
parties; that whatever was found to be due from Pittman on
the notes for the purchase-money of the plantation should
be decreed to be a lien thereon and the land sold to pay the
same; that cross-complainants might have judgment for the
amount~found due.on the two notes given for the personalty;
and that . a receiver be appointed,' etc. It was, ordered by the
court that thg cross-bill be treated and held as for a receiver
only, and the complainant's bill as the answer thereto, as well
upon the motion for a receiver as at the hearing; and that,
the cause be referred to an examiner and commissioner to
take-proof upon the issues set out in the bill, and "of the
damages claimed by the complainant, and state an account
between the parties, recouping against the purchase-money
due the defendant the damages suffered and sustained by .he
complainant, if any, because of the alleged frauds and misrep:
resentations set out in the bill, should they be established 'to
his satisfaction." Proofs were accordingly taken and a report
made by the special commissioner, and a final decree rend.lred.
November 5,1885, in favor of Churchill, trustee, for the recovery from the complainant of the sum of $19,129.50, to bear
interest at the rate of .eight per cent per annum from the second day of September, 1885, until paid; and that said sum of
money with interest and costs should be a first and prior lien

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

on the lands in question, which should be sold, in satisfaction,
in default of payment, as provided. From this decree an
appeal was prayed by the complainant, an appeal bond duly
given and approved December 1, 1885, with Thomas iRigby as
surety, and the record was filed in this court November 13,
1886. The opinion of the District Judge holding the Circuit
Court was filed September 2, 1885, and appears in the record.
On October 31, 1887, the defendants Churchill and Clark
presented a petition for a cross-appeal to a Justice of this
court, and obtained an allowance thereof, an appeal bond
being approved, and a citation issued'on that day. This petition was filed in the Circuit Court on the 7th day of November, 1887. The citation bears this endorsement: "On this 5th
-lay of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
tundred and eighty-seven, I, as administrator of the estate of
\ifred B. Pittman, accept service of the within citation, and
ereby enter my appearance as such administrator herein,
Walton Farrar, Adm'r." This citation accompanied the transcript of the petition, order and bond on cross-appeal filed in
this court November 21, 1887. It appeared from the petition
that since the original appeal was taken, Alfred B. Fittman
had died, and the cause had been revived in the name of Walton Farrar, as administrator.
No decree in any action in equity can be reviewed by this
court on appeal, unless the appeal is taken within two years
after the entry of such decree. Rev. Stat. ยง 1008. And appeals are subject to the same rules, regulations and restrictions as are or may be prescribed in law in cases of writs
of error. Rev. Stat. ยง 1012. As it is the filing of the writ of
error in the court which rendered the judgment that removes
the record, the writ of error is not brought in the legal meaning of. the term until it is so filed, Brooks v. Norris, 11 How.
204; nor is an appeal "taken" until it is in some way presented to the court which made the decree appealed from.
Credit Company v. Ark. Central Railway Company, 128 U; S.
258.
Cross-appeals must be prosecuted like other appeals, and
therefore the cross-appeal is not taken until brought to the

. FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

attention of the court whose decree it questions. Although.
the record may have been removed to this court upon appeal,
yet the court below may allow a cross-appeal, sign a citation,
and approve a bond, within the two years prescribed. And so;
when a cross-appeal is allowed by a justice of this court, the
petition -and order of allowance must be filed in the court
below, in order to the due taking of the cross-appeal under the
statute. As in this case, the petition, order and bond were not
filed in the Circuit Court until -after two years had elapsed
from the date of the entry of the decree, the cross-appeal must
be dismissed.
The amount due to Churchill, trustee, upon the notes and
acceptances, does not appear to have been questioned, and
with interest from January 9, 1882, to the 2d day of September, 1885, reached the sum of $28,541.70. The court passed
upon exceptions embracing the items of damages claimed by
way of recoupment set forth in the commissioner's report, and
allowed the sum of $7451, which, with interest to September
2, 1885, made an aggregate of $9412.20, and that amount being
deducted from the $28,541.70, left a balance of $19,129.50 in
favor of the defendant Churchill, trustee, for which the decree
was rendered. The dismissal of the cross-appeal dispenseswith any inquiry into these allowances so far as the crosscomplainants are concerned.
By section 997 of the "Revised Statutes, an assignment oferrors is required to .be annexed to and returned with a writ
of error, and the rules, regulations and restrictions are, as
remarked before, the same as to appeals as in cases, of writs
of error. By the twenty-first rule of this court, it is, among:
other things, provided that the brief of counsel for plaintiff in:
error or appellant shall contain "a specification of the errors
relied upon, which,.in cases brought up by writ of 'error, shall
set out separately and particularly each error asserted and
intended to be urged; and in cases brought up by appeal the
specification shall state, as particularly as may be, in what the
decree is .alleged to be erroneous.

.

.

.

When the error

alleged is to a ruling upon the report of a master, the specification shall state the exception to the report and the action of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

When there is no assignment of
Athe court upon it.
errors, as required by section 997 of the Revised Statutes,
counsel will not be heard, except at the request of the court;
and errors. not specified according to this rule wil be disregarded ; but the court, at its option, may notice a plain error
,not assigned or specified. When, according to this rule, A
plaintiff in error or an appellant is in default, the case may be
dismissed on motion."
There is no assignment of errors annexed to the 1transcript of
the'record in this case, nor does the brief of counsel contain
any specification of errors, such as is required by our rule.
We shall not in this instance decline to consider what we suppose to be the errors relied on, but we call attention to this
disregard of the statute and the rule, in the hope that nothine
more is needed to prevent its recurrence hereafter.
Appellants insist that the Circuit Court erred in not allowing
complainants for the difference in value of eight hundred -acres
of the land in question, alleged by them to have been warranted to be above overflow, but to be subject to it; for
rebuilding 'fences and cleaning ditches, and replacing foundations to houses, in' consequence of overflow; and for 16ss occasioned by deficiency in cleared land. The charge is of fraudulent representations, by the defendants or their agent, as to the
freedom of the lands from liability to overflow from the Mississip pL River, and also as to the number of acres of cleared
land in the tract conveyed.
It was held in Andrus v. St. Louis Smeltfn and Refjnin
Company, 130 U. S. 643, 648, that "false and fraudulent representations upon the sale of real property may unddubtedly
be ground for an action for damages, when the representations
relate to some matter collateral to the title of*'he property
and the right of possession which follows its a6quisition, such
as the location, quantity, quality and condition of the land,
the privileges connected with it,"or the rents and profits
deiived therefrom."
in _fyer8 v. EFtelI, 47 Mississippi, 4, 21, the Supreme Court
of Mississippi said: "In an action for the price of land sold,
the purchaser may set up in defence the fact that the vendor

FARRAR -v. CHURCHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

defrauded him by false representations as to the quantity,
quality, condition or boundaries of the land. An offer tQ
rescind the contract is not necessary in order to entitle the
purchaser tomaintain an action for damages for the fraudi
nor to entitle him to defend to the extent that he has
suffered by the fraud, that is, to the extent that he would he'
entitled to recpovek in an action for damages founded on the
fraud. The question may as well be tried in an action for the
price, and the rights of the parties be settled in one suit, as to
allow the plaintiff to recover the whole stipulated price, and
then permit the other party to recover back the whole or a
part in an action for the fraud. It is the policy of the law to.
avoid a multiplicity of suits." In .stell v. Myers, 54 Mississippi, 174, and 56 Mississippi, 800, the vendor having filed his
bill for the

-foreclosure

'of his mortgage for the purchase

money, the defence of false representations was set up, and it
was held that the vendee might recoup in damages (1) the
difference in the value of the land, either party being at liberty to show that the actual value was more or less than the
land would have been worth if it had answered the representations, the contract price to be taken as the value of the
thing as represented, unless a higher or lower value was clearly.
established; (2) for the deficit or loss of crop. by reason of
overflow; (3) 'for the drowning of ,battle and animals ; and
(4) for the expense of replacing fences, etc.
The general principles applicable to gases of fraudulent representation are well settled. Fraud is never presumed; and
where it is alleged the facts sustaining it must be clearly
made out. The representation must be in regard to a material
fact, must be false and must be acted upon by the otherparty in ignorance of its falsity and with a reasonable belief'
that it was true. It must be the: very ground on which the
transaction took place, although it is not necessary that it
should have been the sple cause, if it were proximate,
immediate and material. If the purchaser investigates for
himself and nothing is done to prevent his investigation from
being -as full as he chooses, he cannot say that he relied on
the vendor's representations. Southernz Development Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of thp Court.

zpany v. Silvq, 125 U. S. 247. "If the party to whom the
representations were made," remarked Lord Langdale, in
Clapkan v. Shillito, 7 Beavan, 146, 149, "himself resorted to
the proper means of verification, before he entered into the
contract, it may appear that he relied on the result of his
own investigation and inquiry, and not upon the representations made to him by the other party; or if the means of
investigation and verification be at hand, and the attention
of the party receiving the representations be draivn to them,
the circumstances of the case may be such, as to make it
incumbent on a court of justice to impute to him a knowledge
of the result, which, upon due inquiry, he ought to have
obtained, and thus the hotion of reliance on the representations made to him may be excluded."
In Hall v. Tliompson, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 443, it was held
that where T. sold a tract of land to H., and represented that
it contained only fifty or sixty untillable acres, whereas, about
three hundred acres were unfit for cultivation, but, prior to
the sale H. examined all the land more than once, H. was not
entitled to rescind the contract on the ground of misrepresentation ; sed aliter, if fraud had been employed to coneeal the
defects. And the court ruled, Sharkey, 0. J., delivering the
opinion, that misrepresentation entitling to relief must be in
reference to some material thing unknown to the purchaser,
either from not having examined, or from want of opportunity
to be informed, or from entire confidence reposed in the vendor; that a concealment of material facts known to the
vendor and unknown to the vendee, which are calculated to
iufluence the action or operate to the prejudice of the vendee,
is fraudulent, but that where the facts lie equally open to both
vendor and vendee, with equal opportunities of examination,
and the vendee undertakes to examine for himself, without
relying on the statements of the vendor, it is no evidence of
fraud in such case that the vendor knows facts not known to
the vendee and conceals them from him. Cleaveland v. Rich,ardson,'132 U. S. 318, 329.
At the same time, silence may be under some circumstances
equivalent to false representation, Stewart v. Wyoming Rance]L

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, 128 U. S. 383, 388, where it is stated: "In an action
of deceit, it is true that silence as to a material fact is not necessarily, as matter of law, equivalent to a false representation.
But mere silence is quite different from concealment; aliud
est tace'e, aliud celare; a suppression of the truth may amount
to a suggestion of falsehood; and if, with intent to deceive,
either party to a contract of sale conceals or suppresses a
material fact, which he is in good faith bound to disclose, this
is evidence of and equivalent to a false representation, because
the concealment or suppression is in effect a representation
that what is disclosed is the whole truth." Applying these
rules to the case in hand, we find no adequate ground for disturbing the decree.
Mr. and Mrs. Clark and the trustee, Churchill, -resided in
Louisville, in the State of Kentucky. The land was situated
in the State of Mississippi, of which the complainant was a
citizen, residing at Vicksburg. The bill states that the defendants' agent was "one J. H. D. Bowmar, a real estate agent
in Vicksburg, said district, of undoubted integrity and of the
most excellent standing and reputation, who was well known
to your orator and possessed his fullest confidence, as indeed
he does that of the whole community;" and that Bowmar
delivered to complainant a written memorandum in respect to
the plantation he proposed to sell as follows:
"First-class plantation in Bolivar County, on Miss. River;
1550 acres in tract, 1060 acres under cultivation; dwelling,
with 6 rooms, halls and galleries, and suitable outbuildings;
stables for 70 mules; 2-story barn, withcribs to hold 7000
bushels of corn; clover and millet lots; new fencifig; place
well ditched and drained; 14 cabins, 4 rooms each; 11 cabins,
2 rooms each, all new; a fine garden attached to the dwelling; 26 acres of the above cleared land detached, but only
half a mile away; 4 cabins; 40 mules; full supply of farming
implements; price, $25,000. Have written for terms.
'Kr. H. D. B.
"Owner of the property says 800 acres above overflow; the
levee engineer says 500, and all high lands opposite Arkansas
City, on Miss. River."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Complainant testifies that he purchased the property on the
faith of this statement, and informed Bowmar that he relied
"on all of these representations therein contained as material
inducements." He says he visited the plantation in the latter
part of December, after he "had closed the purchase. I was
there about the 30th or 31st of December, 1881, but was not
able to judge to what extent the particulars in Dr. Bowmar's
mem. were accurate, except of course as to the buildings and
fences." In his bill, Mr. Pittman puts the acceptance bf the
proposition as after his return from visiting the plantation,
and this is confirmed by the evidence of Taylor, Clark's manager, that when Pittman came there he "stated that he wanted
to buy the place, and thought that hq would, in case he bought
the place, need all the supplies." The letter of acceptance is
as follows:
"Dr. JAs. H. D. BowxA&R.
"DEA-R

Miss., Dec. 29, 1881.
"VmESBUO,
N

Sin: I accept your offer made in behalf of the

owners of the Timberlake plantation, based on the representations made as to the amount, character, etc., of the lands and
personal property.
A.B.
Mr. Bowmar testifies that he was employed by Mr. Clark
to sell the place, and for that purpose delivered the memorandum to complainant, "which memorandum was based on information received from Mr. Clark and Captain Anderson, the
engineer of levees for the district in which said land is located;
I knew nothing personally of the property, as I, at the time
.of delivering the memorandum, informed the complainant.
My recollection is that we agreed that he should make a personal examination of the property before purchasing, so as to
satisfy. himself as to the correctness or incorrectness of the statements contained in said memorandum. I was especially solicitons on this point, as I myself knew.nothing of the place and
-did not wish the compl.ainant to be misled by any representations coming from me." This is not specifically denied by
Pittman.
Taylor states that in the last of December, 1881, Pittman

FARRAR v. CHURCHILL.
Opinion of the Court.

and Gayle, "both strangers to me, came to the plantation and.
introduced themselves to me, and said they wanted to look at
the plantation with a view to buying it. I had horses saddled and took them all over the plantation, from one end to
the other, all around it and through it, and. brought them
back to the house." We can find nothing in the evidence of
Gayle to thp contrary. After complainant's acceptance, he
gave bond for the cash payment and received an order from
Dr. Bowmar for the possession, which was dated January 23,
1882, and is set out in the bill. The deed was executed on
the 16th of Marcl, 1882,'and conveys by description eight'
hundred and twenty-seven and fifty-five hundredths acres of"
cleared land, and one thousand and 'seven and sixty-nine hundredths acres of wood land.
Gayle, Pittman's manager, says that there was5 an overflow
in 1882, by which they were delayed until the latter part of
March before they could begin to plough, and it made them
very late. Dr. Bo~wmar testifies that he saw the front of the
plantation under water in 1844, when it was owned by Martin of Louisville; that he had been told that it overflowed in
1862, and that he heard it was overflowed in'1882; that
the overflow of 1882 was more general and disastrous in its
effect thin any previous one within his knowledge or information, and he had lived in the valley of the Mississippi for
about fifty years, his occupation prior to the war being that
of a planter; that lands previously recognized-as being above
overflow were generally inundated by the overflow of 1882;
and that the words "above overflow" are usually understood
to mean above any overflow previously known to persons
familiar with the valley.
There isno -evidence in the record to show that Clark knew
that the place had ever overflowed. The defendants, Churchill
and Mrs. Clark, in their answer state that they have always
understood that the greater part of the cleared land was
above the ordinary overflows of the Migsissippi River. They
deny that said lands were overflowed several times or at all
before said complainant purchased the same; and say that
if the lands or the greater part of them were ever overflowed,

โข620"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

they did not and do not now know it; and that they have
been informed and believe that even in the extraordinary
overflow of 1882 a considerable part of said lands was not
overflowed; they deny making any representations to the
plaintiff to induce him to purchase the plantation, or that
they made any representations at all in regard to it; they
deny that Bowmar was authorized in any manner to make
any representations to the complainant; they specifically deny
that they made any representations in regard to tle quantity
of cleared land or the number of acres exempt from overflow,
or that any one acting for them was authorized to make, or
did make, any such representations; and they deny that they
represented that there was one thousand and sixty acres of
cleared land on the tract, but say that they believe the tract
did and does contain that number. Inasmuch as an answer
under oath was not waived, the rule that these denials must
be disproved by .evidence of greater weight than that of one
witness, or that of one witness with corroborating circumstances, applies; and, taking this evidence together, it falls
far short of establishing such a case as would entitle complainant to recover for false representations, as claimed. The
memorandum refers to one thousand and sixty acres under
cultivation; but Mr. Bowmrar's testimony (and his ufidoubted
integrity is conceded by complainant) is that he told the complainant that he was personally unacquainted with the land,
and that he was solicitous that complainant should make a
personal examinatibn so as to satisfy himself as to the correctness or incorrectness of the statements in the memorandum;
and it appears that complainant went personally upon the
ground, which ought to have enabled him to determine -substantially how many acres were in fact under cultivation.
Turning to the deed, it only purports to convey, and that
by speoific description, eight hundred and twenty-seven and
fifty-five hundredths acres of cleared land. This deed was
given in the middle of March, 1882, and it would be entirely
unwarranted for us to hold the contents of that instrument to
be overthrown by the proof before us, particularly in view of
the rule that all preliminary negotiations or agreements were

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
Statement of the Case.

merged in it. The contract had ceased to be executory, and
while fraud, if clearly made out, might still justify relief,
Boyce's Exaro. v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, the deed cannot be
brushed away as the result of the evidence in this record.
Upon the whole case, we see no reason for doubting the
correctness of thd conclusions at which the District Judge
arrived.
The cross-appeal is dismissed and-td
decree is aJfrmed.

RIDDLE v. WHITEHILL.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UMTED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 314. Submitted May 1,1890.- Decided May 19, 1890.

The right of one partner to have the affairs of the firm wound up at once,
upon the assignment by the other partner before the expiration of the
term of all his property for the benefit of his creditors, is subject to

modification according to circumstances.
When one of two partners purchases real estate with partnership funds,

but takes title in his own name, and takes possession, his possession is
the possession of both, and a trust results in favor of his partner.
Statutes of limitation do not run against a cestui que trust where the trust
is express and clearly established; but whe the trusfbe openly disavows
it, and sets up adverse title in himself, time begins to run.
Where partnership affairs are being wound up in due course, without antagonism between the parties, or cause for judicial interference; assets are
being realized and debts extinguished; and no settlement has been made
between the partners; the statute of limitations has not begun to run.:
When the right of action accrues between partners after a dissolution of
the partnership, so as to set the statute of limitations in motion, depends
upon the circumstances of each case, and cannot be held as matter of law
to alise at the date of the dissolution, or to be carried back by'relation
to -thatdate.
ON the 10th day of Aarch, 1885, George'R. Riddle and w"'
son S. Packer as trustee for Electra Packer, filed their' bill of
complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dist 't of Arkansas -gainst Joseph M. Whitehill, alleging
that on the 7tb day of March,. 1870, and for more than twenty

