HASSAIL v. WILCOX.
Syllabus.

to permit the appellant, representing those who purchased the
property under the decree of the Circuit Court, now to raise
any question as to the validity of the receiver's certificates,
which it agreed might be issued to the appellee. It remained
quiet for nearly two years, and until after the property had
been sold, and after the sale had been confirmed to those it
represented, before making an issue as to the propriety or
validity of the order of December 8, 1883. The bondholders
are concluded, under the circumstances disclosed in the record,
by what their representative did, or assented to being done, in
order to induce the appellee to surrender the rights secured by
the judgment of the state court.

The &doree
of the Circuit Court is aflrmed.

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 68.

Argued April 2, 3,1889.-Decided April 22, 1889.

A statute of Texas, passed in 1879, gave a lien for wages to mechanics and
laborers, on a railroad, prior to all other liens, and authorized its enforcement, in a suit, by a judgment for the sale of the railroad, and provided
that it should not be necessary to make other lien-holders defendants,
but that they might intervene and become parties. It did not provide
for any notice by publication. In 1882, a railroad in Texas was mortgaged to secure bonds. In 1884, a creditor of the railroad company holding such labor claims, in a suit against it alone, in a court of the State,
obtained a judgment for his claim and lien, and for the sale of the railroad. In a suit afterwards brought by a bondholder, in the Circuit Court
of the United States, to have the rights of the creditors of the company
ascertained, and a receiver appointed, it was referred to a master to report on the priority of claims. The creditor by judgment presented his
claim; it was objected to by the bondholder as fraudulent and embracing amounts not covered by the statutory lien. The master reported that
the claim included amounts which were not a lien, as well as amounts
which were, but did not separate them; that the claim was a valid one
against the company, but that it was not a lien entitled to priority. The

494n

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court, on exceptions, awarded priority of lien to the claim, for the full
amount of the judgment: Held,
(1) The bondholders were not bound by the judgment rendered in a suit
to which they were not made parties;
(2) As the claims of the creditor originated after the mortgage was
made, he was bound to prove affirmatively, before the master, the
existence and priority of his lien;
(3) The evidence before the master did not sustain the lien for the whole
amount;
(4) The proceeding in the state court could not be sustained as one in
rem, because the adverse claimants did not have even constructive
notice of it;
(5) The claim was founded wholly on the statute of Texas;
(6) It was proper that the claim should be reexamined before a master.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

r.Silas 7. Pettit,for appellant, cited: Hassall v. Wilcox,
115 U. S. 598; Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; Brooks v.
Railway Company, 101 U. S. 443.
-Mr. 17 Hfallett Phillips,for appellee, cited: Hassallv. Wilcox, 115 U. S. 599; Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235 ; Jeff y v.
-Moran,101 U. S.285; Union Trust Co. v. Southier, 107 U. S.
591; Union Trust Co. v. Valker, 107 U. S. 596; Burnham v.
Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Union Trust Co. v. iMorrison, 125
U. S. 591, 607.
M u.

JUsTIcE BLATOHFO RD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 18th of February, 1879, an act was passed by the
State of Texas, (General Laws of 1879, c. 12,) entitled "An
act to protect mechanics, laborers and operatives on railroads
against the failure of owners, contractors and sub-contractors
or agents to pay their wages when due, and provide a lien for
such wages," which provided as follows:
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the -Tegislatureof the State of
Texas, That all mechanics, laborers and operatives who may
have performed labor in the construction or repair of any railroad, locomotive, car, or other equipment to a railroad, or who
may have performed labor in the operating of a railroad, and

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

to whom wages are due or owing, shall hereafter have a lien
prior to all others upon such railroad and its equipment for
such wages as are unpaid.
"SEc. 2. In all suits for wages due by a railroad company
for such labor as heretofore mentioned, upon proof being satisfactorily made that such labor had been performed, either at
the instance of said company, a contractor, or sub-contractor,
or agent of said company, and that such wages are due, and
the lien given by this act is sought to be- enforced, it shall be
the duty of the court having jurisdiction to try the same, to
render judgment for the amount of wages found to be due,
and to adjudge and order said railroad and equipments, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, to be sold to satisfy said
judgment. In all suits of this kind it shall not be necessary
for the plaintiff to make other lien-holders defendants thereto,
but such lien-holders may intervene and become parties thereto
and have their respective rights adjusted and determined by
the court.
"Suc. 3. Suits by mechanics, laborers, and operatives, for
their wages due by railroad companies, may be instituted and
prosecuted in any county in this state where such labor was
performed, or in which the cause of action or part thereof accrued, or in the county in which the principal office of such
railroad company is situated, and in all such suits service of
process may be made in the manner now required by law.
"SEc. 4. The lien created by this act shall cease to be operative in twelve months after the creation of the lien, if no step
be sooner taken to enforce it."
On the 15th of May, 1882, the Rio Grande and Pecos Railway Company, a Texas corporation, made a mortgage to the
Mercantile Trust Company of the State of New York, a New
York corporation, covering all the property, real and personal,
of the Texas corporation, including its franchises, lands, railways, and other property, to secure $600,000 of coupon bonds
issued by it, dated June 1, 1882, payable in thirty years and
bearing semi-annual interest at the rate of 6 per cent per
annum.
On or prior to the 27th of March, 1884, A. W. Wilcox pre-

OCTOBER TERAM, 188&.
Opinion of the Court.

sented a petition to the District Court of the county of Webb,
in the State of Texas, subscribed and sworn to by him before
the clerk of that court, in the words following:
"THE STATE OF TEXAS, County of Webb.
"To the hon. the district court of Webb county:
"The petition of A. W. Wilcox, who resides in the county
of Webb, and State of Texas, complaining of the Rio Grande
and Pecos R. R. Co., a corporation duly incorporated under
the laws of the State of Texas, and operating its lines through
the county of Webb, where it has its principal offices, represents that heretofore, to wit, on the 12th day of January, 1884,
the said defendant, in consideration of the payment of claims
for labor on said defendant's R. R., executed and delivered to
your petitioner a certain promissory note (see note) for the
sum of fifty-five hundred and twenty-six -, dollars, with interest, 10 per cent, whereby defendant promised and became
liable to pay your petitioner the said note, with interest, according to the tenor thereof. Your petitioner represents that he
is the owner and holder of said note, and that defendant has
failed and refused to pay the said note, though thereto requested, to petitioner's damage. Wherefore he prays for judgment for bis debt and interest, and damages, and foreclosure
of his lien on defendant's railroad and equipments."

The promissory note referred to in said petition was as
follows:
January 12th, 1884.
"The Rio Grande and Pecos Railway Company, for value
received, hereby promises to pay A. W. Wilcox, or bearer, on demand, the sum of fifty-five hundred and twenty-six 78 dollars
for services, and for amounts advanced on claims for labor performed in the construction and maintenance of the Rio Grande
and Pecos Railroad, with interest at ten per cent per annum
until paid, and upon default in payment A. S. McLane is
hereby authorized, in the name of the said Rio Grande and
I-ecos Railroad Company, to confess judgment in any court
"LAREDo,

TEXAS,

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

of competent jurisdiction, hereby waiving citation and service
thereof.
"THE IRio GRANDE AND PEcos
RAiLWAY

ComTPAINY,

"By A. C. HuNr, The President.

"[Corporate Seal of The Rio Grande
and Pecos Railway Company.]"
On the 27th of March, 1884, the District Court rendered
the following judgment:
"A. W. Wimcox
v.
"THE

)
435.

Rio GRANDE & PEcos R'Y Co.)

"This day came plaintiff, and the defendant, by attorney-infact, A. S. McLane, comes and says that he cannot deny the
action of the said A. W. Wilcox, and that he is justly indebted
to plaintiff in the sum of fifty-five hundred and twenty-six
and - dollars, with ten per cent interest thereon from the
12th day of January, 1884, and it appearing to the court that
a sufficient power of attorney has been filed in this cause
authorizing A. S. McLane, in default of payment, to confess
judgment before any court of competent jurisdiction, and
waiving citation and service, it is therefore ordered, adjudged
and decreed, that the plaintiff A. W. Wilcox, have and recover
of the defendant, The Rio Grande and Pecos Railroad Company, the sum of fifty-five hundred and twenty-six - dollars,
with ten per cent interest thereon from the 12th day of January, 1884, for which execution may issue. It is further
ordered by the court that the plaintiff have a lien on the said
Rio Grande and Pecos Railroad Company and its equipments to
secure the payment of this judgment, and that said railroad
and its equipments, or so much thereof as may be necessary,
be sold to satisfy this judgment."
On the 14th of April, 1881, C. B. Wright, a citizen of Pennsylvania and a holder of $121,000 of the bonds, the interest on
which, due December 1, 1883, had not been paid, -filed a bill
VOL. cx-x--32

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

inequity in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
Western District of Texas, against the railway company and
the Mercantile Trust Company, setting forth that the railway
company was the owner of valuable coal lands in the county
of Webb, and had recently constructed a railroad from Santo
'Tomas to Laredo; that the business of the railway was that of
a railway and transportation company and of a miner of coal;
that recently there had been expended a large amount of
money in opening the coal-beds, and erecting appliances for
mining the coal and transporting it to market; that the principal business of the railroad was the transportation of the
coal thus mined; that the value of the assets of the company
consisted largely in the fact that the coal mines and the railroad were owned by the same corporation; and that any
separation of the two properties would be disastrous to the
creditors of the company, and would lessen materially the
aggregate value of the two properties.
'The bill then set forth the making of the bonds and the
mortgage, and the interest of the plaintiff in the bonds; that
the company had recently incurred a debt of between $20,000
and $40,000, in constructing and equipping the railroad; that,
under the laws of Texas, such debt was entitled to a first lien
on the road and its franchises and property, in preference to
the first-mortgage bondholders, for a period of twelve months
after its completion; that long before the expiration of twelve
months from such completion, suits were brought upon many,
if not upon all, "of the labor and material claims above mentioned," and judgment in some instances had been had thereon,
on which executions had been issued which were then pending
against the company, and under which, unless some relief was
afforded by the court in which the bill was filed, a large portion of the property of the company would be diverted by
sales by the sheriff, and the property be thus separated and
its aggregate value impaired; that, in addition to such indebtedness, there was outstanding a large unsecured indebtedness, on
which suit would shortly be brought, unless the property were
put into the hands of a receiver; that the company was insolvent and unable to meet the interest on its fixed charges or its

RASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinary debts and obligations; and that there was urgent
necessity for the interference of the court, to protect the property from suits and executions, and to preserve it as a whole,
so that its business might continue to be carried on, and its
income and assets be applied to the payment of its debts in
due order, for the general advantage of all its creditors, and
more especially to enable provision to be made by the firstmortgage bondholders for the payment of the obligations held
by laborers, material-men, and others, who, under the laws of
Texas, were entitled to a lien upon the property, prior to that
of the first-mortgage bondholders.
The prayer of the bill was, that the rights of 'the creditors
of the company might be ascertained and declared; that, as
it was doubtful whether the Mercantile Trust Company could,
under the laws of Texas, take possession of the mortgaged
property, the court would appoint a receiver to take possession
of it, with such power and authority in regard to the preservation and use of it as should seem best adapted to protect the
interests of all the persons concerned; and for general relief.
The bill was not sworn to.
On the same 14th of April, 1884, the railroad company filed
an answer, signed by its president, and which had been sworn
to by him on the 9th of April, 1884, which stated that there
were outstanding a large number of claims for work and labor
done in and about the construction of the railroad of the company, and judgments had been obtained on some of the claims,
on which executions had been issued, and, although sales under
them had been put off from time to time, portions of the property would be exposed to sale under the executions, unless prevented by the decree of the court; and that the property of
the company would be irreparably injured by any separation
of its coal and railway properties, the two being both necessary for the transaction of its business of mining coal and
transporting it to market. The company submitted itself to
the decree of the court.
On the same 14th of April, 1884, an order, signed by the
circuit judge, entitled in the cause, was filed, which stated
that on the 9th of April, 1884, the case was heard on a motion

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

for the appointment of a receiver, on bill and affidavits, the
plaintiff and the company appearing. By the order, one Smith
was appointed receiver of the company and of its franchises
and all its property. The order authorized the receiver to run
and operate the railway, to preserve the property, to continue
the mining operations and sell the coal already mined or to be
mined, and out of the proceeds to pay wages, current expenses,
and interest. It also directed the receiver to ascertain and
report the condition of the property and of the debts charged
thereon or owing by the company, and directed that, upon
presenting such report, he be authorized to borrow money to
pay the running expenses of the company, and to settle' and
pay off liens prior to the first-mortgage bonds, and all other
expenses incurred by him, including his own compensation as
receiver, and to issue receiver's certificates for the same, in such
form and amounts as should be from time to time authorized
by the court.
On the 11th of June, 1884, the court made an order directing the receiver to prepare certificates in a form given in the
order, to an amount not exceeding $25,000, which certificates,
together with such further like certificates as might be thereafter authorized by the court, the order stated should be a
first and exclusive lien upon all the property of the company,
prior to any other liens thereupon, each certificate to be for
$1000, with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum,
and payable out of any surplus money in the hands of the
receiver after paying the running expenses of the company;
that he might dispose of the certificates at not more than one
per cent discount, and that, after exhausting the receipts of
the railroad, he should pay out of the proceeds of the certificates (1) the running expenses of the company which had accrued since his appointment as receiver, including the expenses
of the first-mortgage bondholders in obtaining his appointment;
and (2) out of the balance remaining, pay so much of the debts
of the company as might be reported by the master and approved by the judge, taking an assignment of the claims to
himself as receiver.
That order also appointed a master to report upon all claims

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

which should be presented to him after the publication by him
of a notic6 calling on all persons having or asserting any claims,
by judgment or otherwise, prior to the first-mortgage bonds,
or entitled to a preference in payment out of the proceeds of
the road, to present and file the same with him.
On the 24th of June, 1884, under that order, the said A. W.
Wilcox filed with the master the following claim: "A judgment of the District Court of Webb County, Texas, rendered
March 27th, 1884, in cause :No. 435, in favor of the said A. W.
Wilcox against the said Rio Grande and Pecos Railway Company, for $5526.78, with ten per cent interest thereon from
January 12, 1884, and declaring and establishing a lien on said
Rio Grande and Pecos Railway and its equipments, to secure
the payment of said judgment, and directing the said railway
and its equipments, or so much thereof as may be necessary,
to be sold to satisfy the said judgment, as will more fully
appear by a duly certified copy of said judgment hereto
annexed, marked 'Exhibit A,' and made a part hereof. The
lien declared in said judgment is based upon money due by the
said Rio Grande and Pecos Railway Company to mechanics,
laborers and operatives who performed labor in the constructing and repairing and operating said railway, and thereby
under the laws of Texas acquired a lien prior to all others, and
that said claims so constituting a prior lien were bought by the
said A. W. Wilcox, and the said Rio Grande and Pecos Railway Company acknowledged the existence thereof, and promised to pay the same by its obligation and note of date January
12, 1884, upon which obligation and note the said judgment
was rendered. The said judgment is unreversed and remains
in full force. And the said A. W. Wilcox claims that his said
lien, established by said judgment before the institution of this
suit or the appointment of a receiver, is prior to the first-mortgage bonds, and is entitled to preference of payment out of
the earnings and proceeds of said railway, and will apply to
this court for such appropriate orders as will, secure prompt
payment." The claim was sworn to by Wilcox on the 23d of
June, 1884.
The master filed his report upon the claims, and among them

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the claim of Wilcox, on the 27th of September, 1884. By that
report it appears that Wright, the plaintiff in this*suit, filed
objections before the master to the allowance of the claim of
Wilcox, on these grounds: (1) that the judgment in favor of
Wilcox in the District Court of the county of Webb was
obtained by fraud and collusion between Wilcox and the president of the company; (2) that the note was without consideration and fraudulent; (3) that, for the purpose of defeating the
lien of the mortgage, Wilcox falsely represented to the District
Court that the note was for services and for amounts advanced
on claims for labor performed in the construction and maintenance of the railroad, and that it was entitled to a lien prior
to all others to secure its payment; that he was not entitled
to any lien; that he performed no services and owned no claims
which entitled him to such lien; that any lien was barred by
the limitation of one year; that the act of the president of the
company in making the note and in authorizing the confession
of the judgment was ultra vireq; and that the company was
not indebted to Wilcox by reason of the note, and it was without consideration. The paper containing the objections also
stated that Wright had, on the 19th of July, 1884, filed his suit
against Wilcox, in the District Court of the county of Webb,
to set aside and annul the said judgment on account of the acts
of collusion and fraud in procuring the same, and that such suit
was still pending.
It also appears by the report of the master, that Wilcox
introduced before the master, as evidence in support of his
claim, a copy of his petition to the District Court of the
county of Webb, a copy of the promissory note, and a copy of
the judgment of MAarch 27, 1884, and that other evidence was
put in by the respective parties, Wilcox and Wright.
The master reported that the note included amounts which
-were not secured by a lien under the state act of 1879, as well
as amounts which were. The conclusion of the master was
that Wilcox had a valid claim against the company for
$5526.78, with 10 per cent interest from January 12, 1884;
but that he had no lien prior to that of the first-mortgage
bondholders. On the 6th of October, 1884, Wilcox filed exceptions to the report.

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 7th of October, 1884, the Mercantile Trust Company
was duly removed from. its office as trustee under the mortgage, and William S. Hassall, of Philadelphia, was appointed
trustee in its place. By an order of the court, the bill was
dismissed as to the Mercantile Trust Company, and Hassall, as
trustee, was joined as plaintiff with Wright; and a decree was
entered by consent, on the 20th of October, 1884, providing
for a sale of the property at auction by the trustee, which was
modified by a further decree made December 10, 1884, directing the sale of the property free from all liens, for a sum not
less than $100,000, which sum, it was stated, would cover the
amount of the receiver's certificates and of the claims reported
by the master. The sale was made, and the property was"
purchased by Wright and for the sum of $100,000. On the
19th of May, 1885, a decree was made confirming the sale and
allowing certain claims as liens prior to the lien of the mortgage, and among them the claim of A. W. Wilcox, for the
sum of $5526.78, with interest at 8 per cent per annum from
the day of the contracting of the lien, such amount to be
paid after the payment of the receiver's certificates and before
any payment to the bondholders. On the 18th of June, 1885,
Hassall, as trustee, appealed to this court from such decree,
but the appeal was dismissed as to all the claimants but Wilcox. Hassallv. Wilcox, 115 U. S. 598.
Although the statute of Texas under which the superior lien
of Wilcox is claimed was passed in 1879, prior to the making
of the mortgage in 1882, and although Wilcox brought his
suit and obtained his judgment in the state court prior to the
filing of the present bill, we do not think it can be held that
the trustee under the mortgage or the bondholders were bound
by that judgment rendered in a suit to which they were not
made parties. Although they had a right to intervene in that
suit, they were not obliged to do so, nor was Wright obliged
to prosecute the suit which he brought in the state court.
They had a right to come into the Circuit Court of the United
States to contest the priority of Wilcox's lien,. and, as his
claim originated after the mortgage was made, compel him
to prove affirmatively in that court the existence and priority

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of his lien, under the statute of Texas. He undertook to do
so, but the master reported that he fQund, from the evidence,
that the note on which the judgment was predicated included
amounts not secured by a lien under the act of 1879, as well
as amounts for which a lien was given under that act; and
that Wilcox had no lien prior to the first mortgage bondholders. On exceptions by Wilcox, the Circuit Court sustained his
exceptions, and awarded him a lien with the priority he
claimed, for the full amount of $5526.78, with interest. We
do not think the evidence before the master sustained the lien
for the whole of that amount.
One of the exceptions taken by Wilcox to the master's report was, that the master had, by his finding, nullified the
legal force and effect of the judgment of the state court.
The Circuit Court may have proceeded on that ground, in its
decree. But we do not think that the proceeding in the state
court can be sustained as one in rem. It is essential to such a
proceeding that there should at least be constructive notice, by
some form of publication or advertisement, to adverse claimants, to appear and maintain their rights before a judgment in
such a proceeding can operate even as prima facie evidence.
Windsor v. .Ml eigAh, 93 U. S. 274, 278, 279. In the present
case, no notice, either personal or constructive, was provided
for by the Texas statute, or was given to the other lienholders.
The claim of Wilcox was presented before the master and
the Circuit Court as a claim founded wholly on his judgment
-and on the statute of Texas and not as a claim arising on
the principle adjudged in Union Trusi Co. v. -Morrison,125
U. S. 591, or that acted on in the case of Fosdick v. Schall, 99
U. S. 235, and the cases which followed it; and no facts are
shown to sustain it as a claim founded on anything but the
statute of Texas.
The appellant claims that the evidence before the master
shows that only $382.21 of Wilcox's claim consists of items
for which the statute of Texas gives a lien. But, as the master, though saying that the note included amounts for which a

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Statement of the Case.

lien was given under the act, did not attempt to state what
was the total of such amounts, it is proper that
The decree should be reversed, and the case be remanded to
the Circuit Court, with a direction to allow a re~xamination, of the claim of Wilcox, before a master, on the same
andfurtherproofs, if desired; and it is so ordered.

ILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
SU-NDERLAND v. KILBOURN.
SUNDERLAND v. KILBOURN.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Hos. 188, 261, 262. Argued March 7, 8, 3889.-Decided April 22,1889.

Where it is competent for a court of equity to grant the relief asked for,
and it has jurisdiction of the subject matter, the objection that the
complainant has an adequate remedy at law should be taken at the
earliest opportunity, and before the defendants enter upon a full defence.
Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, followed.
Equity jurisdiction may be invoked, although there is also a remedy at law,
unless the remedy at law, both in respect of the final relief and the mode
of obtaining it is as efficient as the remedy which equity could confer
under the same circumstances.
When a charge of fraud involves the consideration of principles applicable
to fiduciary and trust relations, equity has jurisdiction over it, as "fraud"
has a more extensive signification in equity than it has at law.
When a party injured by fraud is in ignorance of its existence, the duty to
commence proceedings arises only upon its discovery; and mere submission to any injury after the act inflicting it is completed cannot generally,
and in the absence of other circumstances, take away a right of action,
unless such acquiescence continues for the period limited by the statute
for the enforcement of the right.
On the facts it is held that Stewart was not an indispensable party to
this suit, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to a portion of the relief
prayed for.

THE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:

In 1872, Thomas Sunderland, Curtis J. Hillyer and William
M. Stewart associated themselves for the purchase and sale of

