662

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1347.

Submitted January 2,1889.-Decided May 13,1889.

The constitution of Colorado of 1876 provided that no county should contract any debt by loan in any form except for certain purposes therein
named; that such indebtedness contracted in any one year should not
exceed the rate therein named; and that "the aggregate amount of indebtedness of any county for all purposes . .,.
shall not at any time
exceed twice the amount above herein limited," etc. Held, that this
limitation was an absolute limitation upon the power of the county to
contract any and all indebtedness, not only for the purposes named in
the constitution, but for every other purpose whatever, including county
warrants issued for ordinary county expenses, such as witnesses' and
jurors' fees. election costs, charges for board of prisoners, county treasurer's commissions, etc.

Tim case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This action was instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado. It is a suit against the
county of Lake, in that State, and is based on a large number
of county warrants issued for the ordinary county expenses,
such as witnesses' and jurors' fees, election costs, charges for
the board of prisoners, county treasurer's commissions, etc.
The county has offered several defences; but the view we
take of the case renders it unnecessary to notice any save one.
The fifth defence offered is, that of want. of authority on
the part of the county commissioners to issue the warrants in
question or any of them. It is claimed that section six, article
eleven, of the state constitution of 1876, fixes a maximum
limit, beyond which no county can contract any indebtedness,
and that the warrants sued on were all issued after that limit
had been reached, and even exceeded; and that they are all,
for that reason, void.
IThe docket-title of this case is " The Board of County Commissioners of
the County of Lake v. Frank' W. Rollins."

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.
Statement of the Case.

The constitutional provision in question is as follows:
"No county shall contract any debt by loan in any form,
except for the purpose of erecting necessary public buildings,
making or repairing public roads and bridges ; and such indebtedness contracted in any one year shall not exceed the rates
upon the taxable property in such county following, to wit:
counties in which the assessed valuation of taxable property shall
exceed five millions of dollars, one dollar and fifty cents on
each thousand dollars thereof; counties in which such valuation
shall be less than five millions of dollars, three dollars on each
thousand dollars thereof; and the aggregate amount of indebtedness of any county, for all purposes, exclusive of debts
contracted before the adoption of the constitution, shall not
at any time exceed twice the amount above herein limited,
unless when, in manner provided by law, the question of increasing such debt shall, at a general election, be submitted to
such of the qualified electors of such county as in the year last
preceding such election shall have paid a tax upon property
assessed to them in such county, and a majority of those voting thereon shall vote in favor of increasing the debt: but the
bonds, if any be issued therefor, shall not run less than ten
years; and the aggregate amount of debt so contracted shall
not at any time exceed twice the rate upon the valuation last
herein mentioned: P'ovided, That this section shall not apply to counties having a valuation of less than one million of
dollars."
To this defence, the plaintiff below responded to the effect
that the provision quoted was not applicable to the warrants
in question; that it is properly applicable only to debts created
by loan, for the purpose of erecting necessary public buildings
or making or repairing public roads and bridges; and that as to
debts so created by loan for the purposes designated, and as to
them alone, a limitation of amount is fixed, first, as to the sum
that may be incurred in any one year, and secondly, as to the
aggregate sum that may be incurred by the accumulating
debts of more than one year; and that these objects and restrictions exhaust the scope of the provision.
The cause was tried below on an agreed state of facts, before

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the court, on the written waiver of a jury. In the agreement
is found the following stipulation:
"It is further stipulated and agreed that if section six (6), of
article eleven (11), of the constitution of the State of Colorado,
be construed to be a limitation upon the power of defendant
county to contract any and all indebtedness, including all such
as that sued upon in this action, then it is admitted that the
claimed indebtedness sued on herein was incurred after the
limitation prescribed by said constitution had been reached and
exceeded by the said defendant, the county of Lake, and in the
event of such a construction by this court, or the Supreme
Court of the United States, then and in that case, and for the
purposes of this action, it is hereby also admitted that all the
allegations of the fifth separate defence to this action of
the answer of the defendant are true and correct, and the
defendant entitled to judgment thereon."
The court below held, 3 Fed. IRep. 845: First, that the said
section six, in all of its sentences, does not refer exclusively to
debts contracted by loan, but there are two independent declarations in it, the second declaration beginning with the words,
"and the aggregate amount of indebtedness of any county, for
all purposes, etc.;" secondly, that in determining whether the
limit of county indebtedness, fixed by the second declaration,
had been reached, it is immaterial how any particular portion
of the indebtedness arose; but that, thirdly, when such limit
had been reached, while the power of the county to incur
further debt by contract was suspended, the liability for further
amounts in the shape of fees and salaries, and other "compulsory obligations" imposed by the will of the legislature, remained and was enforcible. Proceeding on this idea, the
Circuit Court rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiff
below; whereupon the county brought the case here by writ
of error.
Mr. D
in error.

iel E. Park&and.Mr. E. B. Johnson for plaintiff

.Mi. Willard Yeller for defendant in error.

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Section 6 of article 11 of the constitution of Colorado is a
limitation, first, to debts incurred "by loan" ; and, second and
further, such debts by loan are limited to debts contracted for
two purposes only, viz., erecting public buildings and making
and repairing roads and bridges; and, third, the limitation
is to debts contracted in any one year; and, fourth, to an
aggregate indebtedness for any number of years.
State constitutions are not grants of power but a limitation
upon pre-existing power; and to these general propositions we
need cite no authority. From this it follows that all bodies
recognized by the constitution as having plenary powers in
any direction will be limited as to those powers only by express
or implied constitutional limitations, and to authorize an
implied limitation, the implication must be a necessary one.
People v. Rucker, 5 Colorado, 455; People v. WTigAt, 6 Colorado, 92; Alexander v. People, 7 Colorado, 155.
In construing this section, courts must construe it to be a
limitation of the powers of the legislature and counties, only
when the limitation is expressed or implied, since both these
bodies are constituent parts of the state government and are
especially referred to and recognized in the constitution itself
as existing before the constitution. And, since the counties
are constituent parts of the state government, necessary to
effectuate the political organization and administration of the
state government, neither the laws of the State nor its constitution should be interpreted so as to impair, much less to
deprive them of power to effectuate the ends of county being.
Hamilton County v. _Migwls, 7 Ohio St. 109; Talbot County
v. Queen Anne County, 50 Maryland, 245 ; State v. St. Iouis,
34 Missouri, 546; Bay County v. Bentley, 49 Missouri, 236.
It is a settled rule of construction, that in construing such
a section, we must presume that no superfluous words were
used, and that meaning must be given to every word used;
and if possible it must be so construed as to make every word
significant of something, so as, if possible, to make every word
operative; and, above all, as the section is one of many in one
instrument it must be so construed as to be consistent with the
objects of the whole instrument and to secure effectiveness to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

all parts of it. United States v. Bassett, 2 Story, 389; DerT
v. .Dubois, 16 N. Y. 285; People v. Osborne, 7 Colorado, 605;
Opinion of Judges, 22 Pick. 571; Commonwealth v. -McCaughy,
9 Gray, 297. And since the various counties of the State are
recognized by the constitution itself as having plenary powers
in some directions, such powers can be limited only by express,
or implied constitutional restrictions, and to authorize an implied limitation the implication must be a necessary one. People v. Rucker, 5 Colorado, 455; People v. Wight, 6 Colorado,
92; Alexander v. People, '7 Colorado, 155.
Proceeding then to construe, we say: (1) The first three
lines are plainly declaratory of the scope and intent of the section, viz., to restrain the contracting of debts by loan, and to
restrain that class of debts to the purpose of building roads
and bridges and the repair thereof; (2) to limit the amount
that could be contracted in any one year; (3) to limit the
amount of the aggregate of such debts in any number of years;
(4) to provide for a contingency by allowing the people by
vote to exceed the first limits named; (5) the words "by loan
in any form" are used in the same article in the same way to
restrict incurment of debt by loan; (1) sections 3 and 4 as to
the State; (2) section 7 as to school districts; (3) section 8 as to
towns and cities. These sections, being in pari materia with
section 6, must all be considered in construing it. It is clear
that the restriction in section 3 is confined to debts for four
purposes.
But if we interpolate the word "such" before the word "indebtedness," in the tenth line, and after the words "aggregate
amount," we shall have precisely the same limitations in the
same words as in section 3, and we shall leave unlimited those
debts, the incurment of which are had without a loan, but which
are essential to county government and county life, and the
interpolation of the word is warranted by the rule.
The construction of a statute should always be such as, if
possible, not to lead to injustice or absurd consequences, and
infringe as little as possible on the existing rights of individuals. Or, as the rule was expressed by this court in United
States v. Jibiy, 7 Wall. 486: "All laws should receive a sensi-

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ble construction. General terms should be so limited in their
application as not to lead to injustice, oppression or an absurd
consequence. It will always be presumed that the legislature
included exceptions to its language which would avoid 'results
of this character." United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358;
Chinese Merchant Case, 13 Fed. Rep. 605; Southern Pacific
Railroadv. Orton, 32 Fed. Rep. 457, 477;
ringfield v. Edwards, 84 Illinois, 626.
The construction of this statute contended for by the plaintiff in error leads to many and manifest absurdities, making
municipal government impracticable.
The convention, in adopting the language and opinions of
this section, were acting, to some extent at least, as other States
that have already adopted similar provisions. Prior to 1876
seven States had adopted a similar provision in their constitutions, to wit: Iowa in 1846, Oregon in 1857, Illinois in 1870,
Pennsylvania in 1873, West Virginia in 1872, Wisconsin in
1874, Missouri in 1875. The language, in all these States, is
plain and more imperative than that of Colorado. ,Yet in
Missouri, the only State in which the question has been raised,
it has been held that necessary county expenses are not included in the limitations.
Since then, counties, county officers and the powers of county
officers are especially recognized in the constitution, and the
salaries and fees are by it to be fixed by legislative enactment,
and since by the schedule of the constitution, all laws relating
to these officers and persons were left in force, it follows that
as to all powers formed before the constitution the same was
possessed afterwards, except by limitation, and that limitation,
like limitation on legislative powers, must be strictly construed.
Southern PacificRailroadv. Orton, 32 Fed. Rep. 451, and cases
cited.
A state constitution, establishing the fundamental law of
the State, must be in harmony with itself. If two constructions of any part of it be possible, that construction must be
adopted which will not only best harmonize with other sections,
but give compensation when compensation is due, and make
effective every agency provided in it to make the state gov-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ernment effective. Since the organization of administrative
power of counties is recognized, and is necessary to state government, neither any part of the constitution or the statutes
should be construed so as to render them less suitable to effectuate their ends. Neither the machinery of elections, the
collection of the taxes, or the prosecution of criminals, can be
carried on except through the county officers. Hence, not
only must the counties be preserved, but provision made for
payment of county officers. People v. Wright, 6 Colorado, 92;
People v. Draper,15 N. Y. 532; People v. Fancher, 50 N. Y.
291.
In Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131, this court
held that where the law attaches a fixed compensation to a
public office, a person filling the office is entitled to the couXpensation, as by an implied contract which could not be impaired by legislation. So in the case at bar, the power to fix
compensation having been expressly conferred on the legislature, and it having been fixed by it in accordance with the
constitutional power thus given, the compensation can by no
known rules of construction be taken away from such office,
since the law and the constitution in all parts must stand
together if possible, and the construction is clearly possible,
and, as we have seen, imperatively required to effectuate the
end of both the constitution and the laws, and county government. And such has been the holdings of the Supreme
Court of California in the case of Tfelsh v. Strothe, 16 Pac.
Rep. 22, where the court held that the salaries of county
officers fixed by statute were not included within the terms of
a law which provided that the county authorities could not
contract for or pay, in any one month, any demand against
the treasury exceeding one twelfth that allowed by law to be
expended for the fiscal year. So, too, in smith v. Town of
Dedham, 144 -Mass. 177, it was held that a statute which provided that "cities and towns may, by ordinary vote, incur
debts for temporary loan in anticipation of the taxis," etc.,
and by another section provided that "other debts than those
mentioned in the preceding section shall be incurred only by
a vote of two thirds of the voters present and voting at a town

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

meeting," could not be held to include all debts, and could not
be held to inhibit contraction of debts necessary and convenient
to the exercise of the corporate powers of such towns.
MuR. JUsTIcE LAzun, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to assent either to the conclusions of the
court below, or to the positions of defendant in error. The
language of the sixth section seems to be neither complicated
nor doubtful; and we think it plain that what is meant is
exactly what is said; no more and no less. It deals with the
subject of county debts; and to begin with, assumes a unit of
measurement which is one and one half dollars in the thousand of assessed values; that is, one and one half mills on the
dollar. This is about equal to the average amount of taxes
levied for county purposes per annum under normal conditions. The provision then proceeds as follows:
First. It provides that no county shall borrow money in
any way ;
Secondly. Exception is then made in favor of the erection
of necessary public buildings, and the making or repairing of
public roads and bridges ; and,
Thirdly. The loans allowed by the foregoing exception to
be taken in any one year are limited to the amount of one
and one half mills on assessed values in one class of counties,
and three mills in another class.
Here the matter of indebtedness by loan is completed; and
the section passes to a broader subject. Manifestly, the purpose of the collocation of the two passages in one section is
not that by a wrested reading the latter may yet further limit
and complicate the power of borrowing; but that the meaning of the latter passage may be more sharply and clearly
defined and emphasized by an antithesis. It is an example
not of inadvertence, but of good rhetoric, as if special attention had been by discussion and care given to the wording of
the section.
The next provisions are:

OCTOBER TERMf, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Fourthly. That the aggregate debt of any county for all
purposes (exclusive of debts contracted before the adoption of
the constitution) shall not at any time exceed the sum of three
mills (or six, as the class might be) on assessed values; unless
the taxpayers vote in favor of such excess, at some general
election; and
Ffthly. That even when an election has been held, the
aggregate debt so contracted shall not exceed, at any one
time, the sum of six mills (or twelve, as the case might be) on
the assessed -values.
We are unable to adopt the constructive interpolations ingeniously offered by counsel for defendant in error. Why not
assume that the framers of the constitution, and the people
who voted it into existence, meant exactly what it says? At
the first glance, its reading produces no impression of doubt
as to the meaning. It seems all sufficiently plain; and in
such case there is a well-settled rule which we must observe.
The object of construction, applied to a constitution, is to give
effect to the intent of its framers, 'and of the people in adopting it. This intent is to be found in the instrument itself;
and when the text of a constitutional provision is not ambiguous, the courts, in giving construction thereto, are not at liberty
to search for its meaning beyond the instrument.
To get at the thought or meaning expressed in a statute, a
contract or a constitution, the first resort, in all cases, is to the
natural signification of the words, in the order of grammatical
arrangement in which the framers of the instrument have
placed them. If the words convey a definite meaning which
involves no absurdity, nor any contradiction of other parts of
the instrument, then that meaning, apparent on the face of
the instrument, must be accepted, and neither the courts nor
the legislature have the right to add to it or take from it.
-Newell v. People, 7 N. Y. 9, 97; hills v. Chicago, 60 Illinois,
86; .Denn v. Reid, 10 Pet. 524; Leonard v. Viseman, 31
Maryland, 201, 204; Peofle v. Potter, 47 N. Y. 375; Cooley,
Const. Lim. 57; Story on Const. ยง 400; Beardstown v. irginia,
76 Illinois, 34. So, also, where a law is expressed in plain and
unambiguous terms, whether those terms are general or lim-

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.

โข671

Opinion of the Court.

ited, the legislature should be intended to mean what they
have plainly expressed, and consequently no room is left for
construction. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 399;
Doggett v. TY lorida Railroad,99 U. S. 72.
There is even stronger reason for adhering to this rule in
the case of a constitution than in that of a statute, since the
latter is passed by a deliberative body of small numbers, a
large proportion of whose members are more or less conversant with the niceties of construction and discrimination and
fuller opportunity exists for attention and revision of such a
character, while constitutions, although framed by conventions, are yet created by the votes of the entire body of electors in a State, the most of whom are little disposed, even if
they were able, to engage in such refinements. The simplest
and most obvious interpretation of a constitution, if in itself
sensible, is the most likely to be that meant by the people in
its adoption.
Such considerations give weight to that line of remark of
which The People v. Purdy, 2 Hill, 31, 36, affords an example. There, Bronson, J., commenting upon the danger of departing from the import and meaning of the language used to
express the intent, and hunting after probable meanings not
clearly embraced in that language, says: "In this way
the constitution is made to mean one thing by
one man and something else by another, until in the end it is
in danger of being rendered a mere dead letter, and that, too,
where the language is so plain and explicit that it is impossible to make it mean more than one thing, unless we lose sight
of the instrument itself and roam at large in the boundless
fields of speculation."
Words are the common signs that mankind make use of to
declare their intention to one another; and when the words
of a man express his meaning plainly, distinctly and perfectly, we have no occasion to have recourse to any other
means of interpretation.
Defendant in error insists that the interpretation contended
for by the county leads to certain absurd consequences, viz.,
that it is senseless to limit the power of a county to incur

672'

OCTOBER TER-11M,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

debt generally, since its exercise of such a power may, by
sudden exigencies, become imperatively necessary to the discharge of its functions; that it would be to require the county
to provide in advance, by taxation or otherwise, for the payment of expenses, which, from their nature, can only be
guessed at; that it would be to enable any county in two years,
by a vote and a loan, to exhaust the whole possible indebtedness
in the way of buildings, roads and bridges, leaving no margin
for other necessities; that it would be to destroy the county
governments, since the county officials and others will not
work for nothing, and the margin of possible debt is, in nearly
all the counties, already reached; and that it would be to avoid
nearly all the tax payments heretofore made in warrants.
All of these objections could well be answered from the facts
as disclosed by the bill of exceptions; but it is not necessary.
We cannot say, as a matter of law, that it was absurd for
the framers of the constitution for this new State to plan for
the establishment of its financial system on a basis that should
closely approximate the basis of cash. It was a scheme favored
by some of the ablest of the earlier American statesmen. Nor
can the fact disclosed in the bill of exceptions, that, after
the adoption of the state constitution the county officials, and
many of the people, designedly or undesignedly, disregarded
the constitutional rule, render the plan absurd. If it was a
mistaken scheme, if its operation has proved or shall prove to
be more inconvenient than beneficial, the remedy is with the
people, not with the courts.
In WTisconsin CentralRailroad v. Taylor, 52 Wisconsin, 31,
58, the court says: "We have been urged with great ability
to give the section such construction as to forever prevent unjust discrimination by the legislature; and grave consequences
have been assumed as the result of a different construction.
On the other hand, we have been urged with equal ability that
such a decision would unseat many titles, stop revenue, necessitate an immediate revision of the laws of taxation, and possibly the calling of a constitutional convention. The answer to
all this is obvious. It is no part of the duty of the court to
make or unmake, but simply to construe this provision of the

LAKE COUNTY v. ROLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

constitution. All questions of policy; all questions of restriction and unjust discrimination ; all questions of flexibility and
adjustability to meet the varied wants and necessities of the
people - must be regarded as having been fully considered and
conclusively determined by the adoption of the constitution.
The oath of all is to support it as it is, and not as it might
have been. To do so may, in some cases, lead to individual
hardships; but to do otherwise would be most portentous with
evil." In Law v. People, 87 Illinois, 385, 395, the court said:
"But should it work hardship to individuals, that by no means
warrants the violation of a plain and emphatic provision of
the constitution. The liberty of the citizen, and his security
in all his rights, in a large degree depend upon the rigid adherence to the provisions of the constitution and the laws, and
their faithful performance. If courts, to avoid hardships, may
disregard and refuse to enforce their provisions, then the security of the citizen is imperilled. Then the will, it may be the
unbridled will, of the judge, would usurp the place of the constitution and the laws, and the violation of one provision is liable to speedily become a precedent for another, perhaps more
flagrant, until all constitutional and legal barriers are destroyed,
and none are secure in their rights. Nor are we justified in
resorting to strained construction or astute interpretation, to
avoid the intention of the framers of the constitution, or the
statutes adopted under it, even to relieve against individual or
local hardships. If unwise or hard in their operation, the
power that adopted can repeal or amend, and remove the inconvenience. The power to do so has been wisely withheld from
the courts, their functions only being to enforce the laws as
they find them enacted."
" In the light of these principles, expressed in the authorities quoted and in many others, we must decline to read
the expression in section six, "and the aggregate amount
of indebtedness of any county, for all purposes," etc., as if
it were written "and the aggregate amount of such indebtedness," etc. This the defendant in error concedes to be
necessary to his case. We see no admissible reason for the
voL. cxxx-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

introduction of this restrictive word " such," except to alter
radically the plain meaning of the sentence.
Neither can we assent to the position of the court below
that there is, as to this case, a difference between indebtedness incurred by contracts of the county and that form of
debt denominated "compulsory obligations." The compulsion
was imposed by the legislature of the State, even if it- can
be said correctly that the compulsion was to incur debt; and
the legislature could no more impose it than the county
could voluntarily assume it, as against the disability of a
constitutional prohibition. Nor does the fact that the constitution provided for certain county officers, and authorized
the legislature to fix their compensation and that of other
officials, affect the question. There is no necessary inability
to give both of the provisions their exact and literal fulfilment.
In short, we conclude that article six aforesaid is "a limitation upon the power of the county to contract any and
all indebtedness, including all such as that sued upon in
this action;" and therefore, under the stipulation already
set forth, the county is entitled to judgment.
Wherefore the judgment of the court below is reversed,
and the case is remanded to that court, with a direction
to enterjudgment for the defendant.

LAKE COUNTY v. GRAHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1265. Submitted January 2, 1889.- Decided May 13, 1889.

Lake County v. Rollins, ante 662, affirmed and applied to the bonds in controversy in this action.
1 The docket title of this case is The Board of County Commissioners of
the County of Lake v. Graham.

