DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CORNELL.
Statement of the Case.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CORNELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 55. Submitted November 1, 1888. - Decided May 13, 1889.
Negotiable certificates, issued by the Board of Public Works of the District
of Columbia, redeemed according to law, and cancelled by the proper
officers by stamping in ink across the face words stating such cancellation, are thereby extinguished; and if a clerk, who has no duty or
authority connected with their redemption or care, afterwards steals
them, fraudulently effaces the marks of cancellation, and puts them in
circulation, the District of Columbia is not liable to a purchaser in good
faith, for value and before maturity.

Tins was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
against the District of Columbia for $7750 and interest on
certificates of indebtedness, commonly called sewer certificates,

issued by the Board of Public Works of the District, in the
following form, with coupons attached:
DISTRICT OF CoLmnBIA.

No. 1380.
Washington, July 1st, 1873.
This certifies, that for work done under direction of 1
4
the Board of Public Works, and chargeable to the e
o private property adjoining and benefited thereby, there F
0 is due to the bearer Five Hundred Dollars, payable July
1st, 1876, with eight per centum interest, payable semiannually, as per coupons attached. Issued in accordance
with act of Legislative Assembly; secured by pledge to
the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund of assessments
_

made in accordance with act approved June 26, 1873,
against private property benefited by improvements,
and receivable in payment of such assessments.
Board of Public Works,
By James A. Magruder, Treasurer.
'0 Countersigned:
Horace J. Frost,
For Commissioners of Sinking Fund.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The material facts, as found by the Court of Claims, were
as follows:
On July 1, 1873, such certificates to the amount of about
$2,000,000 were issued by the Board of Public Works, under
an act of the legislative assembly of the District of Columbia,
approved June 26, 1873, and were paid out to contractors,
jobbers and laborers, and soon became greatly depreciated in
value, and were bought and sold by brokers and speculators.
After the creation of the board of audit by the act of Congress of June 20, 1874, c. 337, ยง 6, most of these certificates,
including those in question, were presented to that board and
redeemed as provided in that act. 18 Stat. 119.
. The certificates so redeemed were cancelled by stamping
across the face in ink with a ribbon stamp the words "Cancelled by the Board of Audit." They were then inclosed in
jackets, tied up in bundles of fifty in numerical order, and
placed on a shelf under the counter in a room in the Treasury
Department, occupied by several clerks employed by the
board. The fact of redemption was entered in a registry
book.
After the redemption and cancellation of the certificates,
and while they were in the custody of the board of audit, as
above stated, they were stolen, in February or March, 1876,
by one George H. Farnham, who was then a clerk in the
employ of the board, and occupying a desk behind the counter
under which the certificates were deposited, but whose duties
were not connected with the redemption or care of the certificates.
By the use of detersive soap Farnham entirely removed
from a large portion of the certificates the marks of cancellation. From other certificates, on which some ink-marks still
appeared, he cut off the coupons and pasted them over the
partially effaced marks. In this condition no signs or marks
of cancellation or redemption were visible on the certificates,
but some of them still had a soiled or stained appearance.
The stolen certificates were sold by Farnham to brokers in
Washington, and by them to one Ritchie, and by him to the
claimant, and all the purchasers bought them for value, in

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CORNELL.
Argument for Appellee.

good faith, and without notice that they had been redeemed
or cancelled; and the certificates were then in the same condition, in respect of their appearance as to indicating signs or
evidences of cancellation or redemption, as they were at the
time they were first negotiated by Farnham, and as they are
now.
The judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of the claimant
was for the amount of such certificates as were shown to have
been so purchased by him before their maturity. 20 0. C1. 229.
.Mt. Attorney General, Mfr. Assistant Attorney General
Howard and -Mr. IV. . Hill for appellant.
.Mr. Samuel Shellabargerand Xlr. J. f. Wilson for appellee.
When a municipality becomes party to a negotiable instrument, by authority of law, it is bound by all the rules of commercial law applicable to such securities. Cooke v. United
States, 91 U. S. 389; United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30.
Purchasers of municipal securities are entitled to the full
benefit of their purchase, unaffected by the consideration of
the hardship involved in requiring the municipality to repay
obligations once redeemed, and also unaffected by any circumstances merely tending to excite suspicion regarding the purchased obligation. Cromwell v. Sao County, 96 U. S. 51;
Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110. And when a trusted agent
of the municipality has been guilty of culpable negligence or
fraud, whereby an injury is done to a purchaser of its securities, the acts of negligence or fraud are in law those of the
corporation. Atlantic Bank v. ferchants' Bank, 10 Gray,
532; United States v. State Bank, 90 U. S. 30.
Since it is true, as a matter of law, that the obligations in
suit could be lawfully issued and in circulation, and in fact
were lawfully issued and in circulation, then the fact that such
circulation, as to the particular bonds in suit, was continued,
and the bonds came into the hands of claimant as a bona jide
purchaser, before due, by means of the fraud and wrong-doing
of the agent of the District of Columbia, constitutes no
VOL. cxxx-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

defence. Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389; California
v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 15 California, 336. These decisions are
based upon one of the settled and most familiar rules of the
law of commercial paper that where the maker of commercial negotiable paper so deals with it as that it is stolen from
his possession and put into circulation, through the act of the
thief, and, before maturity, passes into the hands of a bonacfde
holder, without notice of the wrong, there the 3onaftde holder
takes a complete title, and the maker of the note cannot set
up the larceny as a defence. Wheeler v. Guild,20 Pick. 545 ;
S. C. 32 Am. Dec. 231; .Murray v. Lacrdner, 2 Wall. 110;
Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 676; Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101
U. S. 557; Collins v. Gilbert, 94 U. S. 753; Welsh v. Sage,
47 N. Y. 143.
If such a criminally culpable taking up of negotiable papers,
before due, shall, by this court, be held to be a withdrawal
from circulation, and a destruction of the instrument, then it
will be a new experience in the judicial history of commercial
paper. It is a settled rule of the law merchant, which is expressed by Lord Ellenborough in Burbridge v. Manners, 3
Camp. 193, that payment of bills before due does no more
extinguish them than if the note were merely "discounted."
"It is the duty of bankers to make some memorandum on
bills and notes which have been paid, and if they do not the
holders of such securities cannot be affected by any payment
made before they were due."
MA. JUSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

When the maker of a negotiable instrument lawfully cancels it before maturity, his liability upon it is extinguished,
and cannot be revived without his consent. It is immaterial
whether the cancellation is by destroying the instrument, or
by writing or stamping words or lines in ink upon its face,
provided the instrument, in the condition in which he puts it,
unequivocally shows that it has been cancelled. Scholey v.
Ram/sbottom, 2 Camp. 485; Burbridge v. Manners, 3 Camp.

DISTRICT OF COLUXIBIA v. CORNELL.
Opinion of the Court.

193; Ingham v. Primose,7 C. B. (N. S.) 82, 86; Yglesi v.
Mercantile Bank, 3 C. P. D. 60.
In Bwurbridge v. -Manners,Lord Ellenborough said, "It is
the duty of bankers to make some memorandum on bills and
notes which have been paid," clearly indicating his opinion
that the making of such a memorandum upon the securities
would be sufficient to protect the bankers from being afterwards held liable to any holder thereof.
The decision in Ingham v. Primrose,holding the acceptor of
a bill of exchange, who had torn it in halves and thrown the
pieces into the street, liable to one who afterwards took it, in
good faith and for value, from one who had picked it up and
pasted the pieces together, proceeded upon the ground that
the tearing of the bill into two pieces, as manifest on its face,
"was at least as consistent with its having been divided into
two for the purpose of safer transmission by the post, as with
its having been torn for the purpose of annulling it." And
the decision can be maintained, if at all, on that ground only.
Baxendale v. Ben/nett, 3 Q. B. D. 525, 532.
In Baxendale v. Bennett, one who had given his blank acceptance on stamped paper to another, and authorized him to
fill in his own name as drawer, and received it back from him
unfilled, and put it in the unlocked drawer of his desk, from
which it was afterwards stolen, and filled up, without his
authority, by inserting the name of another person as drawer,
was held not liable to an indorsee for value.
In State v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 15 California, 336, cited by
the claimant, treasury warrants of the State of California had
been once lawfully issued, presented and paid, but never cancelled in any way before they were stolen and again put in
circulation; and the suit was not upon the warrants, but was
brought by the State against bona fide holders who had presented them a second time, and to recover back the value of
bonds which the State bad delivered to them in exchange for
the warrants, and which they, in good faith, had since parted
with.
'Much reliance was placed by the claimant upon the case of
Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389, in which. the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

States were held by a majority of this court to be liable to a
bona&
fide holder of interest-bearing treasury notes, printed by
the Treasury Department from genuine plates, and perfect in
form, complete and ready for issue, and never issued by any
authorized officer, but fraudulently or surreptitiously put in
circulation. In the opinion, much stress was laid upon the
considerations, that the notes were perfect and complete as
soon as printed, and did not require the signature of any officer, but, as soon as they had received the impression of all the
plates and dies necessary to perfect their form, were ready for
circulation and use; that in this respect they did not differ
from coins of the mint when fully stamped and prepared for
issue; and that these notes were intended to circulate and
take the place of money, to some extent, for commercial purposes; were made a legal tender for their face value, exclusive
of interest, as between the government and its creditors, and
passed readily from hand to hand as, or in lieu of, money. 91
U. S. 404.
We are not prepared to extend the scope of that decision,
and the facts of this case, as found by the Court of Claims,
are quite different.
The certificates in suit, after they had been redeemed according to law, were cancelled by the proper officers, by distinctly
stamping in ink across the face words stating that fact, and in
that condition were made up in bundles and put away on a
shelf, whence they were afterwards stolen by a clerk, who had
no duty or authority connected with their redemption or care,
and who afterwards fraudulently effaced the marks of cancellation, by the use of detersive soap, and by pasting coupons over
them, and then put the certificates in circulation.
The provision of the act of Congress of March 3, 1875, c.
162, ยง 16, by which certain officers of the District of Columbia
are required to destroy by burning all redeemed certificates,
is in terms and effect merely directory, and does not make
the District liable on such certificates fraudulently put in
circulation, after they have been otherwise unmistakably
cancelled. 18 Stat. 505.
These certificates having been lawfully extinguished by

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 'v. CORNELL.
Opinion of the Court.

stamping across their face marks of cancellation as clear and
permanent as the original signatures, the liability of the
District upon them as negotiable paper could not be revived
by its omission to take additional precautions against their
being stolen and fraudulently restored to their original condition by such means as ingenious wickedness might devise.
Moreover, these certificates were in no sense money, or
the equivalent of money. Though negotiable instruments,
they belonged to a peculiar class of such instruments, being
made by a municipal corporation, and having no validity
unless issued for a purpose authorized by law, and as to
which this court has repeatedly laid down and acted on the
following rule: "Vouchers for money due, certificates of
indebtedness for services rendered, or for property furnished
for the use of the city, orders or drafts drawn by one city
officer upon another, or any other device of the kind, used
for liquidating the amounts legitimately due to public creditors, are of course necessary instruments for carrying on
the machinery of municipal administration, and for anticipating the collection of taxes. But to invest such documents
with the character and incidents of commercial paper, so
as to render them in the hands of bona fije holders absolute
obligations to pay, however irregularly or fraudulently issued,
is an abuse of their true character and purpose." .fayor v.
Ray, 19 Wall. 468, 477; WIall v. -Monroe County, 103 U. S. 74,
78; 67aiborne County v. BrooN, 111 U. S. 400, 408.
Considering the nature of these certificates, the method
in which they had been cancelled, and the means by which
they were afterwards put in circulation, we are of opinion
that there is no ground for holding the District of Columbia
liable to this claimant.
Judgment reversed.

