NEW YORK &c. M11INING CO. v. FRASER.
*

Statement of the Case.

zeal and ability. It is enough, however, to say that it is
entirely different from the act before us, and the validity of
its provisions was never brought to the test of judicial decision
in the courts of the United States.
Order cfflrmed.

NEW

YORK AND COLORADO MINING SYNDICATE AND COMPANY v. FRASER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 204. Argued March 14, 1889.- Decided April 15, 1889.
Unless the fact upon which a reversal of a judgment is claimed appears in
the record sufficiently to be passed upon, the judgment will not be reversed.
In an action to recover for goods sold and delivered, a copy of an itemized
account of them may be handed to a witness to refresh his memory in
regard to the matters contained in it.
Evidence that a witness is familiar enough with gold mills to know what
they can perform and what they can earn, but that he has only seen one
silver mill, being the one in controversy, lays no foundation for his testimony as to the fair rental value of that silver mill.
In the absence of other and better evidence, the rental value of a silver mill
may be shown by proof of the amount of ore delivered and milled.
The declarations of the defendant's agent as to matters within the scope of
his authority were properly admitted in evidence.
When the exception to the refusal of a request to instruct the jury shows
no evidence tending to prove the facts which the request assumes to
exist, there is nothing before the court for consideration.
The legal rate of interest upon the cost of a silver mill may be taken by a
jury as its fair rental value, in the absence of other evidence concerning
that value.
In estimating damages resulting from the stoppage of a mill, the jury may
take into consideration the wages of the men thrown out of work while
the mill was idle.

Tins writ of error was brought to review a judgment entered upon a verdict for $10,500 in favor of the defendants in
error. The case originated in five different suits, brought by
them against the plaintiff in error in the Circuit Court of the

OCTOBER- TER-I, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

United States for the District of Colorado, the first on a promissory note made by it for $1000, and also for $2531.78 for the
price of goods, wares and merchandise sold and delivered by
them to it. The other four were suits on promissory notes
given by the defendant to the plaintiffs for $1500, $2000,
$1500 and $4000, respectively. Afterwards, upon motion of
the defendant, these several suits, by order of the court, were
consolidated into one. In obedience, to this order, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint setting forth these causes
of action, the first five being the promissory notes just mentioned, and the sixth being for the goods, wares and merchandise stated as the second cause of action in the first of the
afore-mentioned suits.
The defendant in its answers, original and amended, denied
the alleged sale and delivery of the goods as set forth in the
sixth cause of action, admitted that it had made the promissorv notes sued on and that they were unpaid, but denied its
liability thereon. The other defence consisted in the allegation of a special contract between the parties, plaintiffs and
defendant, previous to the execution of the notes, and as consideration therefor, whereby the former agreed to manufacture and to sell to the defendant, for and at the price agreed,
a roasting cylinder and the necessary apparatus connected
therewith, described in the plea, and also to manufacture for
and deliver to the defendant a twenty-stamp dry-crushing silver mill and its connected apparatus; and to erect and put the
same in their places so as to be run and operated at the mine
owned by the defendant in the county of
, State of
Colorado, known as the
- mine; all of which (cylinder,
mill and connections) the plaintiffs warranted, when put in
their proper places, under the directions of one Angus McKay, would properly and satisfactorily and in all ways subserve the purposes for which they were purchased by the
defendant. The plea further alleged that the cylinder, mill
and apparatus, when erected and put in their places, were defective in many particulars, so as to be unfit for the uses for
which they were designed, and that by reason of these defects
the consideration of the notes failed; and, that to remedy the

NEW YORK &c.
oMINING CO. v. FRASER.
Statement of the Case.

same and make the mill operate with efficiency, the company
was put to large expense for material and new machinery,.
and was subjected to great loss and damage by the long
period of delay in the operations of the mill. The expenses
and the special damage thus sustained were pleaded as a failure of consideration, set-off, counter-claim and recoupment.
On the trial the plaintiff introduced as a witness William J.
Chalmers, who testified as to the execution by the defendant
of the promissory notes sued on, and further testified in
answer to questions asked as follows:
"Q. Has the firm [meaning the plaintiffs] now any account,
not including these notes, against the defendant?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. [Paper shown witness.] Look at that account and see
whether this is a copy of the account?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. State whether the articles mentioned in that account
were ordered by the defendant. And if so, when ?"
To which question counsel for defendant objected on the
ground that the items could not be proved wholesale by the
list, but the objection was overruled by the court; to which
ruling of the court defendant then and there excepted.
And thereupon the witness proceeded:
"A. They were ordered at various times, by letter and verbally, between the 25th day of July and December 30, 1882."
The witness then proceeded to read the paper handed
him, showing an itemized statement of account aggregating
$2531.78. Said witness further testified as follows:
"Q. You may reckon the interest [on said account] from
January 1, 1883, up to this time, at six per cent.
"A. $233.59."
To which question and answer the defendant objected on
the ground that it was immaterial, but the objection was overruled by'the court; to which ruling defendant then and there
excepted.
The defendant introduced as a witness one George K. Sabin,
who testified that his occupation for the past twenty years had
been mining, and that he was in the employ of the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

as superintendent at the time of the erection of the mill in
.controversy, and so continued until the mill was shut down.
lHe further testified inter alia,as follows:
"I have been engaged in mining twenty years, and am acquainted with stamp mills, quartz mills and mining machinery.
"Q. What was the fair rental value of this mill and its
attachments? And in giving your answer you can give it at so
much per month, year or such other division of time as may
be most convenient and intelligible."
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected on the ground
that it was not the proper measure of damages, and further,
because the witness had not shown himself competent to speak
on the subject; and the objection was sustained on the lastmentioned ground by the court; to which ruling and decision
of the court the defendant then and there excepted.
"Q. Have you been engaged about mills enough to know
what work they perform - what they can do - what they
can earn?
"A. I have of gold mills. This was the first silver mill I
was connected with.
"Q. Do you know their cost?
"A. I think I do know something of their cost; have been
engaged in their construction. The cost of this mill was about
$'75,000, inclusive of the machinery and everything connected
with it.
"Q. What was the fair rental value per month of this mill
and its attachments ?"
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected on the ground
that the witness- had not shown himself competent, and the
objection was sustained by the court; to which ruling the
defendant then and there excepted.
The said witness further testified that the defendant company operated a mine near this mill from which the ore was
procured to run through said mill.
"Q. Was there sufficient quantity of ore in this mine accessible to-employ the mill and keep it running to its full
capacity?
"A. Yes, sir.

NEW YO1RK &e. MINING CO. 9. FRASER.
Statement of the Case.

"Q. How long have you been mining and been acquainted
with ores?
"A. I have been mining since 1860.
"Q. Have you, during the same time, been acquainted with
the milling of ores?
"A. Yes, sir. This mill at Columbus was the first silver
mill I had been with; had been engaged in gold ores.
"Q. You have been acquainted to some extent with silver
ores and silver mills?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. What was the value of these ores delivered at the Columbus mill in this raw state, as taken from the mine ready to be
melted; what was the value for milling purposes?"
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected, and the
objection was sustained by the court; to which ruling the
defendant then and there at the time duly excepted.
"Q. Do you know of any silver mills of the same kind in
that neighborhood?
"A. No, sir; there are none in that immediate neighborhood.
"Q. At what distance away do you know of any?
"A. Up in Leadville. I do not know of any in operation
now. There was one in operation the other side of Leadville
a year ago, in Soda Creek.
"Q. Do you know of any silver mills being rented at
Leadville?
"A. I do not know of any being rented in the State
anywhere."
The defendant also introduced as a witness A. E. Smith,
who, being duly sworn, testified that for twelve years he had
been running stamp-mill works and quartz mills, and manufacturing assayers' supplies; that he had been in the employ of
defendant, as foreman of the mill at Columbus, Colorado, from
March, 1882, to December, 1883, and that he had aided in the
erection of the mill in controversy. -He also testified, in
answer to questions as to the capacity and work of said mill,
as follows, to wit:
"A. In the month of September (1882) we milled '721 cars of
ore, which averaged 1200 pounds each, which makes an aver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

age of 13 tons a day. In October we run 977 cars, which
averaged 1200 pounds each, averaging 19 tons a day and a
fraction, and in November 117 cars, 22 tons per day; in December 902 cars, 18 tons a day.
"Q. Can you state the amount of ore that was milled
during the months of MKarch and April following ?"
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected on the ground
that it was immaterial, irrelevant and incompetent, and the
objection was sustained by the court; to which ruling and
decision defendant excepted.
"Q. Can you give the amount of ore that was milled during
the month of January? "
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected on the ground
last above given, and the court sustained the objection; to
which ruling and decision of the court the defendant then and
there excepted.
"Q. What was the capacity of that mill per day upon that
ore from September 4 to December 31, 1882, but for the defects
in the cylinder and conveyers which have been described?
"A. We run 30 tons a day afterward.
"Q. With the mill in good working order, what would have
been its capacity?
"A. 30 tons per day.
"Q. What was the worth of milling that ore per ton?"
Plaintiffs' counsel objected to this question on the ground
that it was immaterial and not the proper measure of damages.
By the court (to the witness):
"What was the cost?
"A. About six dollars per ton and a few cents."
The witness further testified as to the expense of opefating
the mill, the number and wages of the men, and cost of fuel,
the number of days the mill was idle, wholly or partially, by
reason of the defects complained of, the saving of wages by
diminution of the working force when the mill was idle, and
the extent to which employvs were turned to other labor while
the mill was not running, and was then further interrogated
by counsel for defendant:
"Q. What wages would you have been compelled to pay to

NEW YORK &c. AINING CO. v. FRASER.
Statement of the Case.

other men had you employed them to do that same work for
which you paid these men, during the time the mill was
stopped? "
To this question counsel for plaintiffs objected, and the objection was sustained by the court; to which ruling and decision of the court defendant then and there excepted.
The defendant also introduced as a witness one H. A. Hurlbut, who testified that he was a managing director of the
defendant company in 1881 and 1882, and also testified, among
other things, that one Riotti was a mining expert and a metallurgist, upon whom the defendant relied as to the best nmethod
of extracting silver from the ore; that upon his recommendation the white roasting furnace had been selected, and that
defendant had employed the plaintiffs as machinists to erect
it; that the defendant relied on said Riotti as to the proper
process for the separation of the ores, but relied solely on the
plaintiffs for the mechanical construction and erection of the
machinery; and further, in answer to questions, testified:
"Q. What was IRiotti directed or authorized to do about the
specifications?
"A. He was authorized to give the draughtsman the incline
of the hill -the room there was into the base of the retaining
wall- the relative positions of where the stamps and the roasting cylinder were to be and where the furnace should be placed
in position, and to give relative positions and distances.
"Q. Had he anything to do with the mechanical construction of the mill?
"A. No, sir."
The plaintiffs recalled, in rebuttal, the witness William J.
Chalmers, who further testified:
"Hurlbut said that Riotti had been engaged by the New
York parties as consulting engineer, as they wanted to hold
some one responsible for the working of the ores. We were
notified to comply with Riotti's directions. In looking over
the original plan of the furnace the conveyors were shown in
the plan, but Riotti said he preferred .
.
desired us to
follow the drawing in making the furnace. This drawing
showed the conveyors, as afterwards put in the mill. We

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

changed the original specifications; they were never accepted
by the company, they refusing to accept them. We had the
acceptance of Riotti of the plans."
At the conclusion of the testimony the defendant requested
the. court in writing to give to the jury the following instructions on the right of defendant to recoup damages in said
cause:
"If the plaintiffs undertook to supply and put up, so it
should be complete and in good running order, the mill or
machinery mentioned in defendant's second defence, and
entered upon the performance of such agreement, and if the
machinery supplied proved defective and mechanically inadequate for the purpose intended, or was not complete nor
executed in proper manner, or if the work was uskilfully
performed, then, in this action, the defendant would be entitled
to recover from the plaintiffs the damages actually sustained
by reason of such failure of the plaintiffs to perform their
agreement; and, in measuring the damages, if any, sustained
by defendant, you may consider the loss of the use of the mill
and machinery, either wholly or partially, resulting from such
defects and unskilful performance; and any sums paid out by
defendant in remedying defects and making repairs in such
mill and machinery in consequence of such defects."
Which instructions the court refused to give, and to such
decision and refusal the defendant then and there at the time
duly excepted.
"In estimating defendant's damages in consequence of plaintiffs' breach of their undertaking, if you find there was such
a breach, you may also consider the necessary and immediate loss of profits incurred by the defendant during the
period when the said defendant was, by reason of the alleged
defects, deprived of the use of such mill and machinery."
Which instructions the court refused to give, and the defendant excepted.
After the conclusion of the evidence and the argument of
counsel in said cause the court, of its own motion, instructed
the jury as to the law of said cause, and on the question of
the measure of defendant's damages, the court gave certain in-

NEW YORK &c. ]LNING CO. v. FRASER.
Opinion of the Court.-

structions, to the giving of which, and to each several proposition therein contained, defendant at the time duly excepted.
.fXr. Henry Edwin Tremain, (with whom were Mi'. .f!ason
If. Tyler and .I3fr. James C. Spencer on the brief,) for plaintiff
in error, cited: Jiellogg Bridge Co. v. Hlamilton, 110 U. S. 108;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Hall, 124 U. S. 444, and
authorities cited; Booth v. Spuyten Duyvil Rolling Mills,
60 N. Y. 487; Hadley v. Baxendae, 9 Exch. 341; Horne v.
Midland Railway Co., L. R. 8 C. P. 131; Cutting v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 13 Allen, 381; Simpson v. London & Northwestern Railway, 1 Q. B. D. 274; Pickford v. GrandJunction
Railway, 12 M. & W. 766; Wilson v. Lancashire & Yorkshire Railway, 9 C. B. (N. S.) 632; Hinckley v. Pittsburg
Steel Co., 121 U. S. 264, and cases cited; United States v.
Behan, 110 U. S. 338, and cases cited; .Fletcher v. Tayleur,
17 0. B. 21; Terra Haute &c. Railroad v. Struble, 109 U. S.
381; Rhodes v. Baird, 16 Ohio St. 573; 8chile v. Brokhaus,
80 N. Y. 614; Hlinckley v. Beckwith, 13 Wisconsin, 31; Davis
v. Taleott, 4 Barb. 600.
No appearance for defendants in error.
JusTicE LAY-A delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
MR.

The first and second assignments of error rest upon the
same ground, and may be considered together. They are,
first, that it was error for the court, upon the examination of
the witness Chalmers, (who was also one of the plaintiffs,) to
admit in evidence the paper handed him showing an itemized
statement of account aggregating $2531.78. It is contended
that evidence of this character, "an unproved copy of an unproved account," was inadmissible to show the alleged sale
and delivery of merchandise; and, second, that the court erred
in holding such inadmissible testimony to be sufficient evidence
of an indebtedness to permit interest on it to be recovered, as
testified to. The assumption of fact involved in these assignmients, that the paper was admitted in evidence, is not sufficiently supported by the statement in the bill of exceptions.

OCTOBER TERTA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

To obtain a reversal of a judgment it is necessary that the
fact, upon which such reversal is claimed, should appear, from
the record, sufficiently to be passed upon.
This bill of exceptions falls far short of a distinct statement
that the paper was admitted in evidence; on the contrary, we
think the import of the language is that it was not admitted,
but that it was handed to witness and read and used by him
as a memorandum with which to refresh his recollection of the
articles mentioned in the account of plaintiffs. We do not
think the court erred in allowing this to be done, and permitting his testimony to go to the jury for what it was worth.
The third assignment of error is, that the court erred in
refusing to allow the witness Sabin, introduced in behalf of
the defendant, to answer the question, "What was the fair
rental value per month of this mill and its attachments ?"
This ruling of the court was manifestly proper. It appears
from the testimony of the witness himself that he knew of no
other silver mill in the neighborhood of Columbus; that he
knew of none whatever at that time in operation; that he
knew of no silver mill that had been rented in Leadville or in
the State anywhere; and that this was the first silver mill he
had ever been connected with, though he had been engaged
in mining for twenty years, and was acquainted with gold
mills enough to know what work they can perform and what
they can earn. He evidently had no such knowledge of the
marketable condition or rental value of such property as would
render his opinion of any use to the jury beyond the merest
guess or conjecture. His knowledge and experience of mining
mills was such as to render him competent to testify as to the
cost of construction, the value of machinery and the expense
of putting it up; and upon these points his testimony was
admitted, and was to the effect, among other things, that the
mill cost $75,000.
The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh assignments of error are
based upon the rulings of the court on the objections of the
plaintiff to the other questions propounded by the defendant
to the witnesses Sabin and Smith.
It does not appear clearly from the bill of exceptions for

NEW YORK &c. AMING CO. v. FRASER.
Opinion of the Court.

what purpose these questions were propounded. Evidence to
show that the capacity of the mill was thirty tons a day had
been offered and received to prove the rental value of the mill,
and perhaps very properly, as that might be a necessary preliminary fact leading up to the determination of its value for
the rental. But after the defendant utterly failed to show, by
any admissible evidence, that there was any rental value for a
mill of that kind, we think the court did not err in holding
that such rental value could be shown by proving the value or
the amount of ore delivered and milled. If, however, the object of these questions (as counsel contends in his brief) was to
prove the actual loss of use of the machinery during the period
of stoppage, or the loss of the profits that would have accrued
but for the defective machinery, the answers most favorable
to defendant could only have tended to show losses too undefined to be subject to computation, and profits too remote and
speculative to be capable of ascertainment. The ingenious
argument of counsel fails to convince us that the court erred
in sustaining the plaintiffs' objections to the questions.
The ninth assignment of error is, that the court admitted
the evidence of the declarations of one Riotti, with regard to
the placing of the machinery of the mill, to go to the jury.
The introduction of this evidence was objected to upon the
ground that Riotti was not an agent of the defendant in
respect to the matters covered by these alleged declarations.
The objection does not seem to be valid. The witness testified that Riotti was authorized by defendant, in respect of the
specifications in the contract between the parties, to give the
draughtsman the incline of the hill, the room there was into
the base of the retaining wall, the relative positions of where
the furnace should be placed in position, and to give relative
positions and distances. The witness Chalmers, being recalled,
testified that "we were notified to comply with Riotti's directions. In looking over the original plan of the furnace the
conveyors were shown in the plan. But Riotti said he preferred

.

.

.

desired us to follow the drawing in making

the furnace. This drawing showed the conveyors, as afterwards put in the mill."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

We think this direction or declaration of Riotti was made
with reference to the very matters which, according to the
testimony of Hurlbut and Chalmers, were directly within the
scope of his authority and duty.
We do not deem it necessary to consider the questions
whether the instructions requested by the defendant, as above
set forth, and refused, ara correct, as abstract propositions of
law, with regard to the general principles governing the right
of recoupment of damages. The bill of exceptions does not
show any evidence tending to prove all the facts which these
instructions assume to exist. The counsel for plaiflitiff in error
presses the argument that the effect of' the exclusion of the
questions above mentioned shut out all evidence of the necessary and immediate loss of profits during the time when, by
reason of the alleged breaches of the agreement, the use of
the mill and machinery was lost to it. It would, in our opinion, have been error to give instructions applicable to evidence
not admitted. The legal principles in those instructions, as
requested, were, so far as they were founded on the evidence,
substantially put before the jury in the general charge of the
court.
The bill of exceptions states only so much of the charge as
relates to the question of damages in the cause. The learned
judge having, as we are authorized to assume, fairly left to the
jury the facts as to the alleged breaches of the contract, instructed them that, if they found the defendant entitled to
deduct from the plaintiffs' claim its damages resulting from
the delay in the operations of the mill caused by the defective
machinery, it was undoubtedly entitled to deduct therefrom.
the rental value of the mill. Recapitulating the evidence
on this point, he then instructed the jury that, in the absence
of all evidence as to the rental value, they were at liberty to
allow interest on the investment; and that it was shown in
evidence that the mill cost $75,000; so that, if they found
that the defendant was entitled to damages for delay in running the mill, they would properly allow interest at ten per
cent per annum (which was the statutory rate in Colorado,
Gen. Stat. Col. 1883, ยง 1706) for the time 6f the delay as

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

proven. He instructed them further, that there was more in
the way of damages shown in the wages of the men employed
in the mill whose time was lost while the mill was idle, and
that for this loss of time, during which they were receiving
wages from the defendant, the amount so paid could be added
as an element of damages to be deducted from the plaintiffs'
demand.
We think the law of the case was fully disclosed to the
jury, and that fuller or more specific instructions were not
required.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is

Afflrmed.

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 247. Submitted April 15, 189.

Decided May 13,1889.

Where the certificate to the transcript of a record, on a writ of error, did
not comply with subdivision 1 of Rule 8, and the record was not complete, not containing the pleadings, so that, under subdivision 3 of Rule
8, this court could not hear the case, it was not dismissed, because it
had been submitted on both sides, on the merits, and the defendant in
error had not moved to dismiss it for non-compliance with the rules,
although morelthan three years had elapsed since the filing of the transcript, but leave was given to the plaintiff in error to sue out a writ of
certiorari,to bring up the omitted papers.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. F. Olark for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Daniel T. Jones for defendants in error.
AiR. JUSTIcE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, in an ejectment

