BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

which by imprisonment for life at hard labor will suffice to
meet the ends of public justice. Its object could only have
been met through a recommendation by the jury that the
lesser punishment be inflicted, and it is not to be presumed
that they were aware of their right to make such recommendation. The failure of the court to instruct them upon this
point prevented it from imposing the punishment of imprisonment for life, even if, in its judgment, the circumstances of the
case rendered such a course proper. It was well said in the
dissenting opinion of iMr. Justice Henderson, in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, that by the action of the District
Court "the prisoner was deprived of a substantial right. The
determination of the question as to whether he should suffer
death or imprisonment was one of vital consequence to him.
The jury to whom the statute commits the determination
of that question, at least in part, were not informed of their
duty and responsibility in the matter so as to require them to
exercise their judgment and discretion in relation to it, and by
the verdict they rendered the court had none." These views
are in accordance with the fundamental rules obtaining in the
trial of criminal cases involving life.
Other questions were discussed at the bar, but as the instructions relating to them are somewhat obscure, and as they
may not arise upon another trial in the form in which they
are now presented, we forbear a determination of them.
For the errorindicated the judgment is reversed, with directions for a new trial, and for such furtherproceedings "as
may not be inconsistentwith this opinion.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COL-MHBIk.
IWo.137. Argued January 8,9,1889. -Decided

March 11, 1889.

In view of the state of the art at the time of their issue, letters patent No.
101,590, granted to Turner Cowing, April 5, 1870, for "a wood pavement

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
composed of blocks, each side having a single plain surface and one or
more of the sides being inclined, and the blocks being so laid on their
larger ends as to form wedge-shaped grooves or spaces to receive concrete or other suitable filling, substantially as set forth," are void for
want of novelty.
The substitution of blocks of wood of a given shape for blocks of stone of
the same shape in the construction of a pavement neither involves a new
mode of construction, nor develops anything substantially new in the
resulting pavement, and is therefore not patentable as an invention.
Letters patent No. 94,062 to William W. Ballard and Buren B. Waddell,
dated April 24, 1869, for improvements in street pavements, were granted
for novelty in the method of making the blocks, and not for novelty in
the blocks themselves, or in a wooden pavement constructed of them;
and it required no invention, but only mechanical skill to produce this
method, so far as it varies from other methods for a like purpose previously kifown.
Letters patent No. 94,063 to William W. Ballard and Buren B. Waddell for
"an improved mode of cutting blocks for street pavements" are void
because the thing patented required only mechanical skill, and involved
no invention, and was not patentable.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as
follows:
Tallmadge E. Brown filed his bill in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia on the 14th day of April, 1880,
counting upon three patents alleged to have been infringed by
the respondent, namely: Patent No. 101,590, issued to Turner
Cowing, April 5, 1870, for "a new mode of constructing wood
pavements for streets."
The specification and claim are as
follows:
" The nature of my invention consists in providing and
arranging blocks of a peculiar shape in manner to form wedgeshaped crevices for the reception of earth or gravel, and
wherein such earth or gravel will be retained to act as a
key to bind and confine the blocks in their place.
"Figure I represents a section of road paved with the blocks,
complete. Figure 2 represents the straight side of a block,
with the inclined side at E. Fig. 3 represents the top of a
block, and also the section of the base D. Fig. 4 represen (s
the straight side of a block, which is set next to the inclin I
side of the adjoining block.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

"In Fig. I letter A represents the top of the block, B the
side, and E the crevice and gravel. The blocks should, of
course, be placed so that the gravel spaces may extend lengthwise across the direction of the street or road, so that, besides
wedging and holding the blocks securely, they may furnish a
better foothold for animals drawing heavy loads.
"In the drawing the front edge of the pavement, as shown,
represents the side next the curb or a section parallel to the
curb.
"It is obvious that the wedge-shaped crevices may also be
formed by setting the above-described blocks so that two vertical sides and two inclined sides come together alternately, as
shown in Fig. 5 ; and it is equally obvious that two blocks having their vertical sides together may be replaced by a single
block having two inclined faces, as shown in Fig. 6, without
any material change of plan, and with a considerable saving
of labor and expense in the construction.
"To construct my pavement, prepare the roadway by grading it to the proper form and ramming solid; then set the blocks
as shown in Fig. 1, confining them permanently between the
curbs of walks; then fill and ram the crevices with earth and
gravel.
"I do not claim a wood pavement composed of wedgeshaped blocks, when the blocks are laid alternately on larger
and smaller ends, so as to form a continuous surface of wood,
but what I do claim, and desire to secure by letters patent of
the United States, is:
"A wood pavement composed of blocks, each side having a
single plain surface and one or more of the sides being inclined,
and the blocks being so laid on their larger ends as to form
wedge-shaped grooves or spaces to receive concrete or other
suitable filling, substantially as set forth."
-Patent No. 94,062, issued to William W. Ballard and Buren
B. Waddell, August 24, 1869, for "improvements in street
pavements," of which the following are the specification and
claims:
"Figure 1 is a perspective view of a section of pavement
embracing our improvement. Fig. 2 is a perspective view of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

a piece of timber from which the block is cut and showing the
cuts made by the saw; and Fig. 3 is a perspective view of two
of the blocks laid alongside of each other.
"To more clearly illustrate our invention we will proceed
to describe the construction, etc., referring by letters to the
drawings.
"A represents the bed of the street, which is made slightly
arched, the ends of the arch resting against the curbs B B.
Strips 0 are laid upon said arch at right angles to the curb and
at convenient distances apart. Upon said strips is laid a flooring, composed of boards of any desired dimensions, and the
blocks are then laid on this flooring in rows, and so as to break
joints. These blocks are of a wedge shape, and are so laid as
'hat their bases shall touch, forming a continuous arch across
the street, and leaving V-shaped spaces between the rows.
These spaces are filled with concrete or its equivalent, and the
whole surface tarred over, if thought necessary. The gutters
are formed by inclining the bed slightly upward at the curb
and splitting the ends of the blocks off to fit against the curb
and the last one of the street blocks.
"The peculiarity of the blocks used in this pavement is that
they are wedge shaped and having both sides at acute angles
with the base and the grain running parallel with one and
oblique to the other of these sides.
"A more perfect description of these blocks and the manner
of producing them is given in another pending application,
now on file in the United States Patent Office, entitled 'A
method of cutting blocks for street pavements,' prepared and
executed by us on the 29th day of September, 1868.
"The advantages of blocks having both sides bevelled, with
the grain running, as described, over the ordinary wedgeshaped block, are first and most important -that only one
corner of the base is at all likely to become broken off by
transportation and rough, handling, whereas in the ordinary
block both corners are liable to such accidents. Another
advantage of the relation of grain to the sides of the block is
that the V-shaped spaces have one perfectly smooth side, and
consequently less opportunity is afforded to the gravel in the

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

filling to jam and leave the lower portion of the space loosely
or entirely unfilled. This is believed to be a difficulty in
pavements constructed of wedge-shaped blocks having the
grain running vertically, and thereby exposing the fibre on
both the bevelled sides of the blocks.
"A pavement constructed of our improved blocks can be
laid at a less cost than any other wedge-shaped pavement,
owing to the cheapness of the blocks.
"It has always been desirable to build pavements of wedgeshaped blocks, as they make a stronger and more durable.
pavement and are more easily laid, but so far it has been
impracticable owing to the expense of producing the blocks
caused by the waste in material and extra sawing.
"Having described the construction and advantage of our
improved pavement, what we claim as new and desire to secure
by letters patent is "1. As an article of manufacture, wedge-shaped blocks
having the grain running parallel to one and oblique to the
other of their bevelled sides, and produced substantially in the
manner referred to.
"2. A wooden street pavement constructed, substantially
as hereinbefore described, of wedge-shaped blocks with the
grain running and produced in the manner and for the
purpose set forth."
Patent No. 94,063, issued to said Ballard and Waddell,
AugustV 24, 1869, for "an improved mode of cutting blocks
for street pavement," of which the specification and claim are
as follows:
"Figure 1 represents the lumber as the blocks are being cut
off in order to give the ends of the blocks the proper angle or
bevel.
"Fig. 2 represents the blocks after being cut off as above
described before splitting. Fig. 3 represents the blocks in the
act of being split on a saw-table, showing the rest or guide
necessary to cut them in the proper direction. Fig. 4 represents the blocks finished and placed in the pavement.
"Our invention consists in a novel method of cutting and
splitting blocks for wood pavement in such a manner that two

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

cuts, or rather one cut and one splitting, will produce two
finished blocks with level top and bottom and two sides bevelled, one being with the grain and the other slightly oblique
to the grain, without more waste of timber than is occasioned
by the saws.
"We take'a piece of lumber four and a half feet long, twelve
inches wide and seven inches thick. This is placed under the
saws, as shown in Fig. 1,' in an inclined position, so that the
first cut will produce blocks with two sides inclined, the top
and bottom level or in parallel planes. The first cut produces
nine blocks, such as shown in Fig. 2, out of a piece of lumber,
as described above. Each such block will then be twelve inches
long, six inches high with the fibre and seven inches wide
across the fibre. These blocks are then split, as indicated in
dotted lines, Fig. 2, slightly oblique to the fibre, as seen also
in Fig. 3, being brought toward the splitting-saw in an inclined
position, inclined in contradistinction to a position level at top
and bottom, in such a manner that the line of the cut will form
the other two bevelled sides of two blocks, each of which has
the top and bottom level, or in parallel planes, and the sides
bevelled as shown in Fig. 4, and, moreover, has the grain running in the direction of one of the bevelled sides, as clearly
shown in Figs. 2 and 3. These blocks will then be twelve
inches long, six inches high, three inches wide at top and four
inches wide at the base.
"The figures of feet and inches we have, of course, used only
as an illustration, as different dimensions of lumber may be
used, but those given will do fbr an ordinary street block.
"The two great advantages of this method are economy of
lumber and of labor and time, the only loss of lumber being
the small pieces cut off at each end to start the bevel. Each
two cuts, or rather one cut and one splitting, produces two
complete blocks ready for use.
"iHaving thus described our invention, what we desire to
secure by letters patent is "The herein-described method of cutting blocks for wooden
pavement, so as to form by two cuts, or one cut and one splitting, two finished blocks with top and bottom level, or in

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

parallel planes, and the sides bevelled, one side being inclined
with the fibre, and without waste of material, substantially as
set forth."
The defendant pleaded the Statute of Limitations, whereupon
the complainant amended, and the defendant subsequently
demurred, and the demurrer being overruled, the defendant,
after interposing another plea of want of notice, answered,
denying that it had, in any way, violated the rights of the
complainant, and, among other things, averring that all the substantial claims of complainant's alleged patents were covered
by previous patents granted to Nicholson, De Golyer, Miller
and Mason, Stone, Cranford and others; and that wooden
pavements, in all substantial particulars identical with those
claimed by complainant, had been laid and used for more than
two years before the patents were applied for, in Chicago,
New York, Boston, etc., and that the alleged patents are null
and void because the alleged invention is neither new nor
useful.
Replication was filed and proofs taken. It appeared that
patent No. 101,590 was originally granted to Cowing, whose
first application was made in November, 1865, and rejected
December 27 of that year, whereupon it was amended and
renewed in 1869, but the decision was that the application
had been abandoned. It was afterwards entertained, and was
twice amended in 1870, and the patent was finally issued
April 5, 1870. In the o.riginal application Cowing said as in
the patent as issued:
"The nature of my invention consists in providing and
arranging blocks of a peculiar shape in manner to form
wedge-shaped crevices for the reception of earth or gravel,
and wherein such earth or gravel will be retained to act as a
key to bind and confine the blocks in their place."
The amended claim of May, 1869, was:
"The above-described wood pavement, constructed of rectangular blocks, having each a wedge-shaped piece cut from
one of its four vertical sides to form a corresponding space for
filling, and placed and filled in, substantially as set forth."
The amended claims of February 22, 1870, were:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"1st. A wood pavement consisting of blocks having one or
more inclined sides, forming between them wedge-shaped
spaces or crevices, which are filled with earth, gravel, or other
suitable material, substantially as herein described. 2d. In
wood pavement, wedge-shaped spaces or crevices for the
reception of earth, gravel or other filling to act as a key to
bind and confine the blocks in their places, substantially as
described. 3d. A wood-pavement block having one or more
oblique or inclined sides, so as to form, when set, ivedgeshaped spaces or crevices to receive earth, gravel or other filling, substantially as set forth. 4th. In wood pavement, in
combination with wedge-shaped crevices above, formed by the
peculiar shape of the blocks, for receiving gravel or other filling, a continuous base beneath, formed by the complete fitting
together of the same blocks at the bottom, substantially as
specified."
On the 31st of March, 1868, a patent was issued to Miller
and Mason, of Chicago, Illinois, for "certain new and useful
improvements in wood pavements," in which the claim is:
"A pavement constructed of wedge-shaped blocks A, when
laid so as to break joints with those of the opposite rows, in
combination with a concrete filling, and. in further combination with a continuous wood foundation, and so laid as to
form continuous rows across the street."
It is said in the specification of thit patent:
"The blocks A are to be cut from plank, and are of the
usual size, having the fibre vertical. The blocks of our pavement, however, differ from all other blocks in use for pavements, in having both sides bevelled from top to bottom, as
shown by the end view of the blocks in the drawings. The
blocks thus prepared are placed in the board or plank foundation B in transverse rows. Each block may be secured to the
foundation by a nail or spike, as shown at a. It will be observed that in consequence of the peculiar shape of the blocks
those in the several rows touch each other at the bottom, but
are some distance apart at the top, forming between the rows
wedge-shaped channels. These channels are to be filled with
concrete, or gravel and coal-tar, or other suitable substance,
furnishing the necessary foot-hold for horses.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

"The blocks can be cut with less waste of material by cutting them from timber and splitting the timber blocks with
the proper bevel. This makes a strong pavement, and as the
blocks have a broad base they will not cut or break the foundation when very heavily loaded teams are driven over it."
August 20, 186[, letters patent were reissued to Samuel
Nicholson, of Boston, for "a new and useful improved wooden
pavement," the original letters having been issued August 8,
1854, and new letters issued dated December 1, 1863. The
claims of the second reissue are:
"1. Placing a continuous foundation or support, as above
described, directly upon the roadway, then arranging thereon
a series of blocks having parallel sides endwise in rows so as
to leave a continuous narrow groove or channel-way between
each row, and then filling said grooves or channel-ways with
broken stone, gravel and tar, or other like materials. 2. The
formation of a pavement by laying a foundation directly upon
the roadway, substantially as described, and then employing
two sets of blocks; one, a principal set of blocks that shall
form the wooden surface of the pavement when completed,
and an auxiliary set of blocks or strips of board which shall
form no part of the surface of the pavement, but determine
the width of the groove between the principal blocks, and also
the filling of said groove, when so formed, between the principal blocks, with broken stone, gravel and tar, or other like
material. 3. Placing a continuous foundation or support, as
above described, directly upon the roadway, and -then arranging thereon a series of blocks having parallel sides endwise in
a checkered manner, so as to leave a series of checkered spaces
or cavities between said blocks, and then filling said checkered
cavities with broken stone, gravel and tar, or other like material. 4. The formation of a pavement by laying a foundation
directly upon the roadway, substantially as above described,
and then employing two sets of blocks, viz., one a principal set
of blocks that shall form the wooden surface of the pavement,
and an auxiliary set of blocks that shall form no part of the
wooden surface of the pavement, but determine the dimen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

sions of the tessellated cavities between the principal blocks,
and then filling said tessellated cavities with broken stone,
gravel and tar, or other light material."
February 28, 1824, English letters patent were granted to
A. H. Chambers for "improvements in preparing and paving
horse and carriage-ways," in which the nature of the invention
is said to
"Consist in an arrangement of conical-formed stones, or
other hard mineral or silicious substances of the said form,
placed on their natural bases, cemented together at their
lower extremities, and having their remaining interstices filled
with loose materials insoluble in water."
He describes pyramidal stones, "out in the form represented
in the drawing, and placed with their large end or natural
base downward," to be grouted at their bases by a good
strong cement; the upper part of the interstices that will then
be left vacant to be filled "with finely broken flints, patent
English pozzolana powdered, or any other similar substance,
not soluble in water."
"Fig. 3 represents the stones in that form which I consider
the best calculated to effect the required resistance to downward pressure, the size of which should be eight inches square
at the apex, twelve inches square at the base, and ten inches
high."
He explains that while stones of the shape described are
the best adapted for the purpose of the pavement or carriageway, yet to save expense use may be made for all ordinary
pavements of stones as usually prepared for paviors, but
taking care "always to lay their natural bases or largest end
downwards which is the exact reverse of the mode adopted
by paviors;" "the upper part of the intermediate spaces or
interstices aforesaid filled with powdered or finely broken
matter not soluble in water, as aforesaid."
June 14, 1825, English letters patent were granted to John
Lindsay for " certain improvements in the construction or
formation of the horse and carriage-ways of streets, turnpike
and other roads, and an improvement or addition to wheels
to be used thereon."

BROWN v. DITRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

He says, referring to a pavement "with the common or
usual sized paving stones," that
"The method of arranging or laying them is as follows:
Instead of laying them with their broadest ends upwards, I
lay them with the broadest ends downwards, and, as each
stone is made of a wedge form, this leaves a considerable'
,pace open between the stones. These I close with smaller
stones of a wedge form, which, being carefully placed and
well rammed down, after a sufficient quantity of fine gravel
or grout has been worked between them, will make a pavement nearly as substantial as a solid sheet of granite."
In 1839, English letters patent were issued to Richard Hodgson for "improvements in the forms or shapes of materials
and substances used for building and paving and in their combinations for such purposes," in which he describes an invention consisting in forming and shaping materials and sub6tances according to a new section of the cube obtained by
dividing the cube into eight equal prisms or parts, etc., the
shapes and forms described, with their combinations, being
"applicable generally to materials and substances employed in
building and paving, whether of stone, iron, bricks, or wood."
The shapes in the case of stone, marble, etc., are "to be formed
by sawing or cutting the same out of the full size of the cube
and leaving them entire in their relative dimensions, so as to
be ready to be placed together either horizontally, vertically,
or obliquely, as the case may require," while for "wood paving
a peculiar disposition of the materials or blocks thus shaped,
and, if necessary, pegged or dowelled, will be required," etc.
The blocks may be packed up together in the workshop in
masses, so as to be laid down more speedily on the ground,
where they must be fastened together with pegs or with any
bituminous compound usually employed for similar purposes.
They must be placed nearly vertically, as the tree grows, and
according to the traffic, the depth or substance of the wood
pavement must be increased or diminished. They may in
most cases be laid across the street from side to side, but,
when necessary, in a diagonal line.
Defendant introduced various letters patent, to wit: For imVOL. C=xx-7

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

provement in "the machine for re-sawing boards and other
timber," (issued to Crosby, 1841 ;) for "improvements in sawmills, for curved and bevel sawing, but which may also be used
for rectilinear sawing," (issued to Normand, 1854;) for "a new
and improved mode of sawing stone or marble into tapering
and other forms," (issued to McBird, 1856;) for "an adjustable
table for reciprocating saws," "whereby the proper bevel may
.be imparted to the ribs of vessels and other objects with
accuracy and facility," (issued to lInchman, 1863;) for "improvement in the manufacture of siding," (issued to Millengar,
1864;) for "an improved sawmill," "so as to cut ship-timbers
and other irregular forms," (issued to Wright & Molyneux,
1865;) and also extracts from a volume entitled "Turning and
Mechanical Manipulation," by Charles Holtzapffel, London,
1847.
These extracts treat of cutting, by means of guides, rectangular pieces from the end of a long bar, and rhomboidal pieces

of any angle and magnitude; the sawing of small pieces into
regular and irregular polygons of any particular angles and
numbers of sides; the cutting of mitres, etc.; the sawing bevelled edges and oblique prisms or those in which the angular
variations are in the vertical plane, rhomboids, or squares.
"When the pieces are parallel in one direction and bevelled
in the other, they may be cut out without any waste beyond
that arising from the passage of the saw."
Figure 743 shows a method of cutting blocks at one cut for
each piece, into rhombuses; which are shown separately at a,
which blocks can be afterwards divided into two, so as to make
triangular-shaped blocks such as are shown at c.
At the hearing in special term the bill was dismissed, and
the decree being affirmed in general term, the complainant has
prosecuted his appeal to this court.
The opinion of Judge Cox at special term was adopted by
the court in general term, (Cartter, C. J., Hagner and James,
JJ.,) and from it it appears that it was held that no case of
actionable infringement was made out as to No. 94,063, and
that Nos. 94,062 and 101,590 were void for want of patentable
novelty. Brown v. Districtof Columbia, 3 Mackey, 502.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMIBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

.Ar. C. C. Cole and .Xr.
A. S. IMorthington for appellant.
jM'. Henry E. Davis for appellee.
MR.CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLEH delivered

the opinion of the court:

Was a wood pavement "composed of blocks, each side having a single plain surface and one or more of the sides being
inclined, and the blocks being so laid on their larger ends as
to form wedge-shaped grooves or spaces to receive concrete or
other suitable filling," patentable April 5, 1870, in view of the
state of the art?
Chambers had, in 1824, described a pavement of pyramidal
stones, twelve inches square at the base, eight inches square at
the apex, and ten inches high, placed with their larger end
downward, and the interstices filled with loose materials insoluble in water.
Lindsay's invention, in 1825, comprised stones made of a
wedge-shaped form, laid with their broadest ends lown wards,
leaving a considerable space between them to be closed with
smaller wedge-formed stones, with fine gravel or grout worked
between them.
Nicholson's pavement was composed of blocks of wood laid
in rows across the stret, with spaces obtained by interposing
narrow wooden strips between the blocks, to be filled with
concrete or other suitable filling.
Cowing disclaimed "a wood pavement composed of wedgeshaped blocks when the blocks are laid alternately on larger
and smaller ends, so as to form a continuous surface of wood,"
but claimed the arrangement of the blocks so as to leave wedgeshaped spaces to receive filling to act as a key to bind the
blocks together. But reference to these prior patents clearly
shows that the formation of wedge-shaped spaces to receive
concrete or other filling by laying blocks with one or more inclined sides with their larger ends downwards, the filling acting as a key, and the use of wooden blocks in that way, were
well known at the time of the alleged invention under consideration.
The blocks of the Lindsay patent are of the same shape as
those of Cowing, but are of stone, while the latter are' of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

wood, but this was nothing more than the substitution of one
material for another without involving a new mode of construction, or developing anything substantially new in the resulting
pavement. Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248; [hids v.
Kelsey, 18 Wall. 670; Smith v. Goodyear Dental Vulcanite
Co., 93 U. S. 486; Phillipsv. Detroit, Ill U. S. 604.
The filling under Lindsay's patent was with small stones,
fine gravel, or grout, while Cowing names a filling of earth,
gravel, or some other similar substance, but Nicholson used
broken stones, gravel and tar, or other like material, being
the same filling for the same purpose and .with substantially
the same result, while the material of the Nicholson block
was the same as that of Cowing.
It is argued that gravel and similar substances cannot be
forced into the stone blocks of the Chambers and Lindsay
patents, and that in ramming gravel between wooden blocks
it of necessity indents the blocks, and the filling must adhere
much more firmly than would be the case if they were stone.
.There is nothing said about this by Cowing in his specification,
but he is entitled, if this is an advantage directly following
from the alleged invention as described, to the benefit of it,
whether he perceived it or not. Stow v. chicago, 104 U. S. 547,
550. The same effect, however, would be obtained in ramming
filling between the blocks of any wooden pavement, and the
same liability of the filling "to extend laterally into the fibre
of the wood and seat itself therein" is found in the Nicholson
pavement.
In the-Chambers patent the blocks had four inclined sides,
which would make the filled space run lengthwise as well as
crosswise. In the Cowing patent the crevices run lengthwise
"across the direction of the street or road:"
As Cowing's combination simply embraces blocks of the
same shape and material, and similar filling, applied in substantially the same way and producing substantially the same
results as in the prior patents referred to, it cannot be regarded
as possessing patentable novelty.
The first claim of patent No. 94,062 covers, as an article of
manufacture, "wedge-shaped blocks having the grain runnin

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUJMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

parallel to one and oblique to the other of their bevelled sides,
and produced substantially in the manner referred to."
The second is "a wooden street pavement constructed substantially as hereinbefore described, of wedged-shaped blocks
with the grain running and produced in the manner and for
the purposes set forth."
The original application of Ballard was filed June 15, 1869,
and rejected by Examiner Spear upon the ground that the
claim was essentially the same as that in No. 94,063, which
was for a mode of cutting blocks. It was then amended and
again rejected, the examiner saying: "It is admitted that
there is no difference between the blocks of applicant and
those of Miller and Mason in configuration, nor is any difference claimed of functions. These blocks and those of the patent referred to, once laid, would be indistinguishable, serving,
under the same conditions, precisely the same purposes and
wearing equally as long. The difference lies in the mode of
cutting, by which not a different block is produced, but the
same block is cut with a minimum of waste of material."
From this decision an appeal was taken to the examiners in
chief, who affirmed the ruling, holding that "the trouble with
the present application appears to be that the specification and
claim merely set forth and embrace a paving block and the use
thereof, having a certain form and being so cut that the grain
will run in certain angles with the sides, or parallel thereto,
and without any reference to the mode and manner of manufacturing. Blocks having all the peculiarities set forth may
be manufactured without resorting to the method by which it
seems the ones described in the application were made; and it
does not follow, therefore, that the block described and claimed
is the new article of manufacture produced by the new invention, nor is it at all material whether the grain runs as set
forth or the blocks have the precise form described. Therefore these peculiarities are not the patentable features of the
invention; they merely result from the invention."
The application was then renewed by Ballard and Waddell
with the result before us, but it is plain that the patent was
granted for novelty in the method of making the block and

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

not in the block itself, nor in a wooden street pavement sO
constructed. It is not denied that the Ballard block is identical in shape with those set forth in the Cowing, Chambers,
Lindsay and Miller and Mason patents, but it is claimed that
a difference exists between it and that of Miller and Mason in
the arrangement of the grain, namely, running parallel with
one and oblique to the other of its bevelled sides.
We can discover nothing materially different in the practical
result of having the grain run in this way, and no material difference is disclosed by the evidence.
The specification asserts that the gravel in. the filling is not
so liable to jam and leave the lower portion of the space loosely
or entirely unfilled, where the blocks have one perfectly smooth
side, and that "only one corner of the base is at all likely to
become broken off by transportation and rough handling,
whereas in the ordinary block both corners are liable to such
accidents;" but, as appears from the evidence, "if the blocks
are cut with the grain in the manner described in said patent,
although one side is not so likely to break off as the other, yet
the side that has the grain oblique to it is twice as likely to be
broken off as the blocks made in the ordinary way, that is,
with the grain vertical," and "the effect of the smooth side of
one block, if there were such an alleged advantage in said side,
would be fully recompensed by the additional roughness of the
other side ;" and it would seem that the durability of the block
is less where the grain is inclined than where it is vertical. It
is fully shown in an elaborate report upon wood paving, quoted
from in the evidence, and which, it is testified, agrees with
general experience, that vertical fibre blocks have far greater
power of resistance than blocks with fibres horizontal, and with
fibres at various degrees of inclination.
The manner of laying the blocks is substantially -he same
as in prior pavements.
The process of making the block is given in patent 94,063,
the claim of which is "the herein-described method of cutting
blocks for wooden pavement, so as to form by two cuts, or one
cut and one splitting, two finished blocks with top and bottom
level, or in parallel planes, and the sides bevelled, one side being

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

inclined with the fibre, and without waste of material, substantially as set forth."
From what we have said it will be perceived that this claim
and the first claim of patent No. 94,062 must be considered
together. The manner of producing these blocks is described
as cutting them from lumber by means of guides so as to cut
the blocks of certain bevels, by which a block is produced
having two of its sides inclined and with the grain running
parallel to one and oblique to the other of the bevelled sides;
but the essential features of the apparatus described in this
patent appear in many of the defendant's exhibits. Instead of
having a table parallel with the shaft of the saw or at right
angles with the saw itself, the patent in question uses a rest or
guide in presenting the material to the saws, but the use of
such guides is shown in Holtzapffel's "Turning and Mechanical
Manipulation," and Crosby's patent and others.
The prior existence of the method of cutting blocks without
waste by severing a large block by a cross-cut from a long
stick and then dividing that block into two similar blocks by
a splitting cut is satisfactorily established, as also the same result reached in the same way in the treatment of stone. In the
case of the Ballard block, the splitting cut is made in a direction parallel with the grain; but that is because the object of
having the grain run in a particular way controls the action of
the mechanic, who makes the cut as he desires the fibre to run.
Complainant's expert admits that the patentee in the McBird
patent, by the first cut he makes, produces a block of rhomboidal form, and, by a second oblique cut, divides his block
into two equal wedge-shaped blocks, produced without waste of
material; and the difference he points out between that and the
Ballard and Waddell patent is, so far as the cutting operation is
concerned, that in the former the cut which divides the rhomboid
into two wedge-shaped blocks is made across the grain, while
in the latter it is made in the general direction of the grain.
To cut the block so as to get the grain in a particular way,
and so as to avoid waste, requires simple mechanical skill,
without involving invention.
The result is that none of these claims can be sustained, and
the decree of the court below is
Ajjirmed.

