CAPTAIN JACK, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

The distinctions incident to this mode of trial have already
been indicated. They are important, relating to the 'jurisdiction, and concerning the life and the liberty of the party,
against whom a crime is charged. Whether a man shall be
tried in the county where the offence was committed, or carried to some other county, perhaps hundreds of miles distant,
is a matter of much consequence; it is of the venue of the
trial. Whether he shall be tried by a jury summoned by the
marshal of the United States from the whole Territory, or
from a section of it, amounting possibly to one-third of its
extent, or by a jury of the county in which the act was done
by the sheriff of the county, is of much moment to him; so
also as to whether he shall be indicted by a grand jury summoned to serve for the county, and residents of the county, or
by such a body summoned from the whole Territory.
It is of consequence that in this new departure which Congress has made, of subjecting the Indians, in this limited class
of cases, to the same laws which govern the whites within the
Territories where they both reside, the Indian shall at least
have all the advantages which may accrue from that change,
which transfers him, as to the punishment for these crimes,
from the jurisdiction of his own tribe to the jurisdiction of the
government of the territory in which he lives.
We are of opinion that the writ of habeas corpus should
issue asprayedfor in this case; and it is so ordered.

CAPTAIN JACK, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8.

Original.

Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

The facts that the petitioner in this case was sentenced to imprisonment in
Ohio, and that the offence was committed within a judicial district instead of an Indian reservation, do not take this case out of the decision
in Gon-shay-ee's Case just decided, ante, 343.
VOL. xy-x-23

OCTOBER TERTA, 1888.
Syllabus.

PETITioN for writ of habeas corpus.

The case is stated in

the opiiion.
Mr. W. H Zamar for petitioner. Mr. S. F. Phillips and
Mr. J. G. Zachry were with him on the brief.
Mr. Solicitor General opposing.
MRi.

JUSTICE

ILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The only distinctions between this case and that of Gonshay-ee, in which the opinion has just been delivered, are:
First. That Captain Jack was sentenced to imprisonment
at hard labor in the penitentiary of Ohio for thirty years, and
the writ must, therefore, be directed to the keeper of that
institution at Columbus in that State.
Second. That it appears by the record that in the former
case the offence was committed on an Indian reservation,
'while in the case of Captain Jack the act was done within the
judicial district, but not upon such a reservation.
We do not consider that these differences have any influence
in the decision of the question as to the jurisdiction of the
.court which tried them both, and that therefore in this case,
as in the former, the writ of habeas corpus should issue.
Wriit granted.

REYNES v. DUMONT.
DUMON T v. FRY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 174,175.

Argued January 23, 24,1889. -Decided

April 8, 1889.

The controversy in this case involves the allowance in favor of the trustee
in bankruptcy of S. of liens upon certain bonds, owned in fact by C. and
D., though ostensibly belonging to C. only, as pledged to secure, by express agreement, the general balance of account of a New Orleans bank,

