REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

proven. He instructed them further, that there was more in
the way of damages shown in the wages of the men employed
in the mill whose time was lost while the mill was idle, and
that for this loss of time, during which they were receiving
wages from the defendant, the amount so paid could be added
as an element of damages to be deducted from the plaintiffs'
demand.
We think the law of the case was fully disclosed to the
jury, and that fuller or more specific instructions were not
required.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is

Afflrmed.

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 247. Submitted April 15, 189.

Decided May 13,1889.

Where the certificate to the transcript of a record, on a writ of error, did
not comply with subdivision 1 of Rule 8, and the record was not complete, not containing the pleadings, so that, under subdivision 3 of Rule
8, this court could not hear the case, it was not dismissed, because it
had been submitted on both sides, on the merits, and the defendant in
error had not moved to dismiss it for non-compliance with the rules,
although morelthan three years had elapsed since the filing of the transcript, but leave was given to the plaintiff in error to sue out a writ of
certiorari,to bring up the omitted papers.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. F. Olark for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Daniel T. Jones for defendants in error.
AiR. JUSTIcE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, in an ejectment

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

suit brought in that court by Jared E. Redfield against
William P. Parks and other defendants, in which a judgment
was rendered on the 28th of April, 1885, dismissing the complaint on the merits. The plaintiff has brought the writ of
error.
The suit appears to have been commenced on April 11,
1882. It appears from the transcript of the record filed in
this court that a complaint and several answers were filed, and
sundry exceptions, and that the case was tried by the court on
the written waiver of a jury, and that the court, having heard
the evidence of both parties, found the issues for the defendants. There is a bill of exceptions, which finds certain facts
specially and certain conclusions of law in favor of the defendants, and contains exceptions by the plaintiff to those conclusions, and prayers to the court by the plaintiff to find certain
conclusions of law, and a refusal by the court so to find, and
exceptions by the plaintiff to such refusal.
We find it impossible, under our rules, to hear the case as it
stands. The pleadings referred to in the transcript of the
record are not set forth. Rule 8, subdivision 1, provides as
follows: "1. The clerk of the court to which any writ of
error may be directed shall make return of the same, by transmitting a true copy of the record and of the assignment of
errors, and of all proceedings in the case, under his hand and
the seal of the court." Rule 8, subdivision 3, provides as
follows: "3. No case will be heard until a complete record,
containing in itself, and not by reference, all the papers, exhibits, depositions, and other proceedings, which are necessary
to the hearing in this court, shall be filed."
The transcript of the record was filed in this court on April
5, 1886. The certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court to
the transcript is dated March 8, 1886, and does not comply
with Rule 8, subdivision 1, for it only certifies "that the foregoing writing, annexed to this certificate, is a true, correct,
and compared copy of the original remaining of record in
my office." It does not say, as required by the rule, that the
annexed papers are "a true copy of the record, and of the
assignment of errors, and of all proceedings in the case." It

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

is quite apparent that there are papers of record in the court
below, a copy of which ought to form part of the transcript..
The complaint and answers are necessary to the hearing in
this court, and unless a record containing them is filed here
the case cannot be heard.
As was said in Railway Company v. Stewart, 95 U. S. 279,
281, it is the duty of the party who takes a writ of error" to
see to it that the record is properly presented here."
In .Keene v. Whittaker, 13 Pet. 459, the Circuit Court had
given a judgment for the defendants, on an agreed case, and
the record sent here, on a writ of error, contained only the
agreed statement of facts and the judgment of the Circuit
Court, with the petition for the writ of error and its allowance.
At that time the 11th rule of the court 'was like the present
Rule 8, subdivision 1, and the 31st rule was like the present
Rule 8, subdivision 3. In view of those rules, and because the
record did not contain any of the proceedings in the court
below, this court dismissed the case.
The same thing was done in Curtis v. Petipain,18 How.
109, where the certified record consisted of an agreed statement of facts and a judgment.
While the court has undoubtedly the power to dismiss the
case as for want of prosecution by the plaintiff in error,
because of his failure to see that a proper return was filed, yet,
as the transcript was filed here on the 5th of April, 1886, and
more than three years have elapsed without the making of a
motion by the defendants in error to dismiss the case because
of a failure to comply with the rules, and the case has been
submitted to us on printed briefs filed on both sides, on the
merits, we think that the plaintiff in error ought to have leave
to sue out a writ of certiorari,to bring into this court the
papers omitted from the transcript. For this purpose
A certiorarimay, on his application to the clerk, issue, re
turnable at the next term.
VOL. CXXX-40

