PARKER v. DACRES,
Syllabus.

giving force to all the sections, its plain and obvious meaning
is that the appraisement of the customs officers shall be final,
but all other questions relating to the rate and amount of
duties, may, after the importer has taken the prescribed steps,
be reviewed in an action at law to recover duties unlawfully
exacted." Again: "The valuation made by the customs officers was not open to question in an action at law as long as
the officers acted without fraud and within the power conferred on them by the statute." In the case before us there is
no impeachment of the appraisement, so far as it states the
value of the charges or the value of the goods as increased
by the amount of the reduction made from the value of the
charges. The only inquiry is, whether the collector acted
within the power conferred upon him by statute when he required the importers to pay duties not only upon the actual
market value of the goods, but upon such additional value as
was equal to the reduction made from the value of the cases
covering the goods. These are questions of law simply, involving the power of the collector under the statute. They are
entirely apart from any inquiry as to fraud in the appraisement, or as to the values set forth in it, and may be raised by
the importer in an action at law, when he has taken such steps
as entitle him to bring suit for the recovery of duties illegally
exacted from him. This ruling is entirely consistent with the
decision in Hilton v. _Ae',ritt.
Judgment affirmed.

PARKER v. DACRES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 157. Argued January 31, February1, 1889.-Decided March 5,1889.

No right exists at common law, or in the system of equity as administered
in the courts of England prior to the organization of the government of
the United States, to redeem from a sale under a decree of foreclosure.
Clark v. Reyburn, 8 Wall. 318, does not recognize a right of redemption

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
after a sale under a decree of foreclosure, independently of a right given
by statute.
The courts of the United States, sitting in equity, recognize a statutory
right of redemption from a sale under a decree of foreclosure, and that
the statute conferring it is a rule of property in the State.
The Civil Practice Act of Washington Territory of 1873 provides that all
sales of real estate under execution, except sales of an estate of less
than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, shall be subject to a right
of redemption by the judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, within
six months after confirmation of sale upon tender to the sheriff of the
amount due with interest, and that the sheriff "may be required by order
of the court or a judge thereof to allow such redemption, if he unlawfully refuses to allow it." The freehold estate of the plaintiff below having been sold under a decree of foreclosure, he tendered to the sheriff
the amount necessary to redeem it within six months from the date of
the confirmation of the sale. The sheriff refused to receive the money.
No application was made to the court or a judge thereof, under the statute, for an order upon the sheriff requiring him to allow the redemption;
but about nine years after the sale, the plaintiff below brought this suit
to redeem; Held, that, without deciding whether the statute of the Territory is applicable to a sale under a decree of foreclosure, a court of
equity should refuse aid to a party asserting under it a right of redemption, who has neglected, at least without sufficient cause, before the
expiration of six months from the confirmation" of the sale, to invoke
the authority of the proper court or judge to compel the recognition of
such right by the officer whose duty it was, under the statute, to accept
a tender made in conformity with law.

IN EQUITY. Defendants demurred to the bill. The demurrer
was sustained in the District Court, and that judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Plaintiff
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. Jo/in H. .iitcl ell for appellant.
Ar. F 17. Upton for appellees. A'. C. B. Upton, Air. B.
I. Sharpotein and AMr. J. L. Shtalpstein were with him on the
brief.
MR. JUSTICE HA:R.AN delivered the opinion of the court.
The 6bject of this suit in equity is to obtain a decree for the
redemption of certain parcels of real estate in the county of
Walla Walla, Washington Territory, which were sold by the

PARKER v. DACRES.
Opinion of the Court.

sheriff on the second day of January, 1875, at public auction,
under a decree rendered in the District Court of the First
Judicial District of that Territory, in the case of Joseph
Petrain against Edward Shell, W. B. Thomas, John F. Abbott
and D. Brouker. The appellees, who were the defendants
below, were purchasers of the several parcels. Before the
expiration of six months from the confirmation of the sale,
namely, on the 10th of November, 1875, the appellanti who
was the plaintiff below, tendered to the sheriff, in lawful
money, the amount necessary to redeem the entire property,
presenting to him at the time papers showing that he had
given to the defendants, at least two days prior to November
10, 1875, notice that he would make such tender; a certified
copy of the above decree, with papers showing the amount
due thereon; and a duly certified copy of the deed from Sheil,
transferring to the plaintiff, on December 28, 1874, all the
property in controversy. The sheriff refused to receive the
money, and the amount was brought into couirt at the commencement of this action.
The plaintiff bases his right to redeem upon certain sections
of the Civil Practice Act of Washington Territory, approved
November 13, 1873, (Laws of Washington, 1873, p. 94,) relating to "sales of property under execution," by one of which,
§ 364, it is declared that a sale of real property, when the
estate is less than a leasehold of two years' unexpired term,
shall be absolute, but "in all other cases such property shall
be subject to redemption as hereinafter provided in this chapter." That chapter directs the sheriff to deliver to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and gives the right of redemption
to a judgment debtor or his successor in interest, in the whole
or in part of the property separately sold, and to a creditor
having a lien on any portion of the property, separately sold,
by judgment, decree, or mortgage, subsequent in time to that
-for which the property was sold. § 365. The persons last
described are designated by the statute redemptioners. By
another section the judgment debtor or redemptioner is permitted to redeem the property within six months from the
date of the order confirming the sale, by paying the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the purchase, with interest at the rate of two per cent per
month from the time of sale, together with any taxes paid by
the purchaser; and, if the purchaser be also a creditor having
a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such
lien with interest. § 366. A succeeding section prescribes
the mode of redeeming, namely: "1. The person seeking to
redeem shall give the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case
may be, two days' notice of his intention to apply to the
sheriff for that purpose; at the time specified in such notice
such person may redeem by paying to the sheriff the sum
required. The sheriff shall give the person redeeming a certificate as in case of sale on execution, adding therein the sum
paid on redemption, from whom redeemed, and the date
thereof. A party seeking to redeem shall submit to the sheriff
the evidence of his right thereto, as follows: 2. Proof that
the notice required by this section has been given to the purchaser or redemptioner, or waived. 3. If he be a lien creditor,
a copy of the docket of the judgment or decree under which
he claims the right to redeem, certified to the clerk of the
court where such jpdgment or decree is docketed, or, if he
seeks to redeem upon mortgage, the certificate of the -record
thereof. 4. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the affidavit of himself or agent showing
the amount then actually due on the judgment, decree, or
mortgage. 5. If the redemptioner or purchaser have a lien
prior to that of the lien creditor seeking to redeem, such redemptioner or purchaser shall submit to the sheriff the like
evidence thereof and of the amount due thereon, or the same
may be disregarded."
In the same act is a separate chapter regulating foreclosures
of mortgages. None of the provisions of that chapter, however, give the right of redemption after a sale under a decree
of foreclosure. But it is provided that "the payment of the
mortgage debt with interest and costs at any time before sale4
shall satisfy the judgment." § 563.
The contention of the plaintiff is that the provisions of the
chapter relating to "sales under execution," so far as they
refer to the right of redemption, apply to sales under decrees

PARKER v. DACRES.
Opinion of the Court.

of foreclosure. In support of this view decisions of the Supreme
Court of California are cited, construing similar statutory provisions from which, it is claimed, the statute of Washington Territory was copied. Kent v.- Zafan, 2 Cal. 595 (1852);
Hlarlan v. mith, 6 Cal. 173 (1856); Me.Millan v. Riohards,
9 Cal. 365 (1858); Gioss v. 'owler, 21 Cal. 392 (1863). On the
other hand it is insisted that the Civil Practice Act of 1873, so
far as it related to sales under execution and to sales under
decrees for the foreclosure of mortgages, was copied substantially from Iowa statutes, which, it is contended, did not give
the right to redeem after sale under a foreclosure decree.
Stoddardv. Forbes, 13 Iowa, 296 (1862); Zramer v. Rebman,
9 Iowa, 114 (1859).
In the view we take of this case it is unnecessary to express
an opinion whether the provision relating to sales under execution, properly interpreted, gave a right of redemption after
sale under a decree of foreclosure. If it did not, the decree
below must be affirmed, for a right to redeem, after sale, does
not exist unless given by statute. Counsel for the plaintiff
speaks of a common-law right of redemption after sale that
attaches in the absence of any statutory provision on the subject. We are not aware of any such right existing at common
law, or in the system of equity as administered in the courts of
England previous to the organization of our government. It
is a mistake to suppose that the case of Clark v. Reyburn, 8
Wall. 318, recognizes a right of redemption after a sale under
a foreclosure decree, independently of statute. It is there
stated that "by the common law, when the condition of the
mortgage was broken, the estate of the mortgagee became
indefeasible," and that "equity interposed and permitted the
mortgagor, within a reasonable time, to redeem upon the payment of the amount due before sale;" also, that, according to
the settled practice in equity, when proceedings to foreclose
were not regulated by statute, this right to redeem before sale
is fixed by the primary decree, and that only in the event of
final default in paying the amount ascertained to be due is an
absolute sale ordered. The decree in that case was one of
strict foreclosure, cutting off the right of redemption before or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

after sale. It did not find the amount due, and allowed no
time previous to the sale to redeem by paying the debt. It
was final in the first instance. In many of the States the
right to redeem within a prescribed time after sale under a
decree of foreclosure is given, in certain cases, by statute.
This right, when thus given, is a substantial one, to be recognized even in the courts of the United States sitting inequity,
because the statute constitutes a rule of property in the State
that enacts it. Brine v. Insurance Co., 96 U. S.627; Hammock v. Loan and Trust Co., 105 U. S.77, 88; M[ason v. Norhwestern Ins. Co., 106 U. S.163 ; Conn. .Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Cushman, 108 U. S. 51, 63. "What is indispensable in such a
decree," the court said in Chicago andVincennes Railroad Co.
v. Fosdick, 106 U. S. 17, 70, "is, that there should be declared
the fact, nature and extent of the default which constituted
the breach of the condition of the mortgage, and which justified the complainant in filing his bill to foreclose it, and the
amount due on account thereof, which, with any further sums
subsequently accruing and having become due, according to
the terms of the security, the mortgagor is required to pay,
within a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, and which,
if not paid, a sale of the mortgaged premises is directed." In
conformity with these principles the Civil Practice Act of
Washington Territory of 1873, in the chapter regulating the,
foreclosure of mortgages, expressly authorizes the mortgagor
before the sale occurs to satisfy the judgment by paying the
debt with interest and costs. It is clear that the right to redeem after sale, wherever it exists, is statutory.
If it be assumed that the provisions of the chapter relating
to "sales under execution," and which, in terms, gave six
months after the confirmation of sale to redeem, apply to
sales under decrees of foreclosure, it does not follow that the
plaintiff is entitled to relief. The territorial statute, like similar statutes in the several States, evidently contemplated that
a redemption, if desired, should be made within a fixed, and
comparatively short, period after sale. In few, if in any, of
the States is more than one year given. The party seeking to
redeem under the act of 1873 was required to assert his right

PARKER v. DACRES.
Opinion of the Court.

to do so within six months from the confirmation of the sale.
If he failed to do so within that time, the right of the purchaser became complete; for it is expressly declared that " if
no redemption be made within six months from the confirmation of the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff." § 368. And the mortgagor was not
remediless if, without his fault, there was a failure to redeem
within the time prescribed; for, by another section, it is expressly provided that "where a sheriff shall wrongfully refuse
to allow any person to redeem, his right thereto shall not be
prejudiced thereby, and upon the submission of the evidence
and the tender of the money to the sheriff, as herein provided,
he may be required, by order of the court or judge thereof to
allow such redemption." Of this mode of enforcing his right
to redeem, the plaintiff chose not to avail himself. No reason
is assigned why he did not do so. The complaint, upon its
face, shows that before the tender to the sheriff he had notice
that the purchasers would contest his right to redeem. With
knowledge of that fact, and notwithstanding the refusal of the
sheriff to accept his tender, he made no application to the
court or judge thereof for an order requiring that officer to
allow the redemption. After resting in silence from November 10, 1875, until the institution of this suit on the 15th of
May, 188:-a period of nearly nine years-he prayed the
assistance of a court of equity for the cancellation of the deeds
executed to the several purchasers at the sheriff's sale.
We are of opinion that, construing the statute so as to give
effect to the object for which it was enacted, a court of equity
should refuse aid .to a party, asserting under it a right of redemption, who has neglected, at least without sufficient cause,
before the expiration of six months from the confirmation of
the sale, to invoke the authority of the proper court or judge
to compel the recognition of such right by the officer whose
duty it was, under the statute, to accept a tender made in conformity with law. If, as suggested, this remedy is cumulative
only, that fact only diminishes the right of the plaintiff to
relief; for he not only neglected to avail himself of this specific
remedy, but failed to invoke, in due time, the general authorVOL. CXxx-4

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

ity, of a curt of equity. The interpretation* we give to the
statute is supported by the principle upon which courts of
equity uniformly proceed, independently of any statute of limitations, of refusing relief to those who unreasonably delay to
invoke their aid. Richards v. X.lackall, 121 U. S. 183, 187.
To avoid misapprehension, it is proper to observe that
what we have said has reference only to cases arising under
the Civil Practice Act of 1873. The present case is unaffected
by the act of the territorial legislature, approved February
3, 1886, permitting the judgment debtor, or his successor in
interest, to redeem any real estate sold under execution of
judgment or foreclosure of mortgage, at any time within one
year from the date of sale, by paying the amount of the purchase-money, with interest at the rate of one per centum per
month thereon from the date of sale, together with the amount
of any taxes the purchaser may have paid.
The decree is cfflrmed.

BALLARD v. SEARLS.
ORIGINAL 'MOTION IN A CAUSE BROUGHT HERE ON A:PPATL FROM
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 144. November 26, 1888, Submitted.-December 3, 1888, Postponed until hearing on the
merits.--December 20, 1888, Resubmitted.-Decided March 5, 1889.

Searls, the appellee, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Michigan against Worden -for infringement of
letters patent. After hearing, a decree was entered in that case in his
favor for the recovery of $24,960.31 damages and costs. Worden appealed
to this court, but gave no supersedeas bond. Thereupon execution issued
on the decree, which was levied on certain lots, the property of Ballard
the appellant. Searls then filed his bill in the Circuit Court in aid of the
execution, praying to have a conveyance by Worden to Ballard of the lots
levied upon set aside, as made to defraud Worden's creditors. On the
final hearing of that case the conveyance was set aside as fraudulent,
from which Ballard took this appeal. Meanwhile Worden's appeal in the
patent suit was reached on the docket in this court, and, after hearing,
the judgment below was reversed, and the cause was remanded to the

