CASES ADJUDGED
n; THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

OREGON RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY
v. OREGONIAN RAILWAY COMPANY, LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 26.

Argued April 27, 30, May 1, 1888.-Decided March 5, 1889.

In the United States a corporation can only have an existence under the
express law of the State by which it is created, and can exercise no
power or authority which is not granted to it by the charter under which
it exists, or by some other legislative act.
When a statute makes a grant of property, powers, or franchises to a private
corporation or to a private individual, the construction of the grant in
doubtful points should always be against tile grantee, and in favor of the
government; and this general rule of construction applies with still
greater force to articles of association organizing a corporation under
general laws.
The power to lease a railroad, its appurtenances and franchises is not to be
presumed from the usual grant of powers in a railroad charter; and,
unless authorized by legislative action so to do, one, company cannot
transfer them to another company by lease, nor can the other company
receive and operate them under such a lease.
The constitution and general laws of Oregon do not authorize a railroad
corporation, organized under the laws of the State, to take a lease of a
railroad and franchises.
The general laws of Oregon Confer upon a foreign corporation no right to
make a lease of a railroad within the State, but only the right to construct or acquire and operate orne there,
VOL. CXXX-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
When a state constitution contains a general provision that corporations
shall not be created by special laws, but may be formed under general
laws, no private corporation can be created thereafter until such general
law has been enacted.
When a corporation is organized through articles of association entered into
under general laws, the memorandum of association stands in the place
of a legislative charter in so far that its powers cannot exceed those
enumerated therein; but powers enumerated and claimed therein which
are not warranted by statute are void for want of authority. Thomas v.
Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71, explained.
The use of the words " successors or assigns" in a proviso attached to a
statute making specific grants to a corporation does not necessarily
imply that the corporation can transfer all its property and its franchises to another corporation, to be exercised by the latter.
A provision in a general act for organizing corporations for the purpose of
navigating streams, with power to construct railroads where portage is
necessary, that a corporation organized under it shall not lease such a
railroad, does not imply that without such a restraint the corporation
could make such a lease.
A provision in a general act for the organization of corporations that a corporation organized under it may authorize its own dissolution and the
disposition of its property thereafter, does niot authorize such a corporation, not dissolving but continuing in existence, to dispose of all its
corporate franchises and powers by lease.
The operation of a railroad and payment of rent for three years by a lessee
under a lease of it for ninety-six years, which was executed in violation
of the corporate powers both of the lessor and of the lessee, does not so
far execute the contract of lease by part performance, as to estop the
lessee from setting up its illegality in an action at law to recover after
accruing rent.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as follows:
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon.
The Oregonian IRailway Company, Limited, recovered a
judgment against the Oregon Railway and Navigation Company for the sum of $68,131, on a contract for the lease of
a railroad owned by the plaintiff in'the suit, which had been
leased to and used by the defendant. This sum was for the
semi-annual payment of rent, in advance, for the half year

beginning May 15, 1881.
The Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, was organized
in Scotland, under what are called "The Companies' Acts," of

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

3

Statement of the Case.

Parliament of 1862, 1867 and 1877, and in the memorandum
of association it is declared that its principal office and place of
business is at Dundee. The defendant in the action, the Oregon Railway and Navigation Oompany, was organized under
articles of incorporation, filed June 13, 1879, according to the
statutes of Oregon on that subject, and its principal office is
declared in those articles to be at Portland, Oregon.
After many amendments to the original petition, and still
more numerous amended answers, the case came to a hearing
before the court on a demurrer to the answer and a motion to
strike it out. This motion was denied, but the demurrer was
sustained, and as the pleadings were supposed to present all
the issues that could arise in the case a judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, to review which this writ of error is
prosecuted. 22 Fed. Rep. 245, and 23 Fed. Rep. 232.
The amended petition of the plaintiff sets out the acts of
Parliament under which it was organized as a corporation, or
so much thereof as is necessary to an understanding of the
questions presented by this record, and gives in full its "Memorandum of Association," and also what are called its "Articles of Association."
This memorandum, after stating the
name of the company as above given, and that its registered
office will be situhited in Scotland, proceeds to give the objects
for which it is established, as follows:
"First. The building, constructing, reconstructing, equipping,
owning, operating, leasing or selling, transferring, or disposing
of, or purchasing or otherwise acquiring, holding and operating, or otherwise using, working, or dealing in all or any such
railway or railways, railroad or railroads, in the State of Oregon and the Territory of Washington, in the United States of
America, or in either of them, or between such points in said
State or Territory or elsewhere in North America as may from
time to time be resolved or determined upon by said company,
and the carrying of passengers, goods and minerals and all
other traffic and freight on, and the doing and performing of
all other acts, deeds and other operations connected with railwa vs and railroads in the said State and Territory, or either of
them, or elsewhere in North America.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"Second. The building, constructing, equipping, owning and
operating, or the leasing, selling, transferring, holding, or
acquiring, by purchase or otherwise, and the working and
using of one or more lines or portions of lines of railroad or
railway, or parts thereof from (first) the city of Portland
or the city of Astoria, in the State of Oregon, United States
of America, or from either or both of said cities, or from some
other point or place on the Willamette or Columbia rivers, in
said State of Oregon, through any part or portion of the said
State of Oregon lying west or south of the Cascade range of
mountains, in said State, to some point at or near, in or upon
said Cascade range of mountains; (second) from thence, or
from any part or portion of the western or southwestern part
of said State of Oregon, to and across and to the east side of
said Cascade range of mountains, through a pass in said mountains at or near that fork or branch of the Willamette River,
in said State of Oregon, known as the middle fork or branch
of said river, or through some other pass in said mountains,
within one hundred miles north or south of said middle fork
or branch of said river, where shall be found to be on actual
survey the easiest and most practicable route across the Cascade range of mountains; (third) thence through that portion
of said State of Oregon lying east of said Cascade range of
mountains and on through the Territories of Washington or
Idaho, or the States of Nevada and California, in the United
States of America, or through all or any one or more of said
States and Territories to a connection with, or without making
any connection with, any other railway or railways in either
of said States of Oregon, California, or Nevada, or Territories
of Washington or Idaho, and with or without one or more
branch lines (a) running north, south, east, or west from said
main line on the east side of said Cascade range of mountains,
or (b)running from said main line on the west side of said
Cascade range, in said State of Oregon, forming a junction, or
one or more junctions, with said main line, at one or more
points, to a terminus in said portion of the State of Oregon
west of said Cascade range of mountains, or to a junction with
said main line, or to a terminus or termini at one or more sea-

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

5

Statement of the Case.

ports on the shores of the Pacific Ocean, all as may from time
to time be determined by actual surveys; as also to purchase,
build, construct, own, equip and operate, or to enter into agreements to run over or to lease (1) any line or lines, branch- or
branches, of railway or railways, railroad or railroads, that
may connect with or become attached to, or meet or become a
part of the said main line or its main branch or any of its
branches hereinbefore designated; or (2) such other main or
branch line or lines, or extensions of any railway or railways,
railroad or railroads, made in connection with this company's
main line, or of any of its branches, or separate and distinct
therefrom, all in such manner of way or form and on such
terms as said company shall from time to time deem advisable
and for its interests, and the doing and performing of all other
operations connected with said designated railway or railways,
railroad or railroads, or branches thereof, or in connection with
other railways of a similar or different nature, the doing and
performing of which this said company shall at any time deem
advisable and for its interests in the carrying out of its business.
"Third. The building, constructing, purchasing, or otherwise acquiring, holding, equipping, owning and operating, or
the leasing and operating, or the leasing, equipping and operating, or the selling, transferring, or otherwise disposing of, and
the working and using of any other railway or railroad, or of
any wharves, jetties, steamboat, or steamship, stage, or of any
canals, locks, bridge, clay road, plank road, turnpike, hack,
truck, or express lines, or any other line, lines, or means for
the transportation of freight or passengers, or either or both,
now constructed or operated in whole or in part, or which may
be hereafter constructed or operated in whole or in part, in
either of the said States of Oregon, California, or Nevada, or
said Territories of Washington or Idaho, and that whether in
connection with or separate and distinct from, and as line or
means independent of said railway or railways, railroad or railroads, so to be built, constructed, purchased, owned, equipped,
or operated as aforesaid by this company."
The petition also avers that the company has complied with
the statute of Oregon, which authorizes corporations of foreign

OCTOBER TERI.t, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

countries to do business in that State upon complying with
certain requirements. On this averment no issue is raised.
It also alleges that on August 1, 1881, the plaintiff, by an
indenture of lease, demised to the defendant a certain railway
or railroad owned by the plaintiff, in the State of Oregon,
with its stations, depots, and other property connected therewith, for a term of ninety-six years from the date of the
lease; and that the defendant, by the terms of said indenture,
covenanted and agreed to pay the plaintiff therefor the yearly
rental of twenty-eight thousand pounds sterling, in equal halfyearly payments, on the 15th of May and the 11th of November in each year, in advance. It then proceeds to allege
"that upon the execution of said indenture of lease the said
defendant entered into possession of said demised property,
and has continued in the enjoyment of the same to the present
time, but that on the fifteenth of May, 1884, the defendant,
pretending that neither it nor the plaintiff was authorized
or empowered by law to enter into said indenture of lease,
tendered and offered to restore possession of said demised
property to plaintiff in its then condition," and, disavowing
the obligation of the lease, refused to pay any further rent,
wherefore the plaintiff prays judgment for the sum of $68,131.
The substance of the numerous answers and amended answers is, that the defendant denies that the plaintiff has any
corporate existence; avers that it had no power or authority
to make the contract or lease as stated in the petition, and
that the contract, although signed by the president of the
defendant company, with the seal of that company attached,
and the signature of the secretary, by order of its board, of
directors, is also without legal authority, and is not binding
upon the defendant. In fact, the essence of the defence and,
of the whole controversy is, whether these companies had,
power under their organization as corporations to make the
contract of lease which is the foundation of this action.1
1 The following are some of the principal statutes cited and relied on in
argument, or referred to in the opinion of the court:
(1) 77te British COm'rpanies'Act of A utqust 7, 1862,25 & 26 ict. c. 89, wider

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

7

Statement of the Case.

The defendant avers that it has fully paid the rent due
under the lease for the term ending Alay 15, 1881, from which
which the OregonianRailway Company Limited was organied. The following
extractsfrom that act are from the brief of the defendant in error:
" SEC. VI. Any seven or more persons associated for any lawful purpose may, by subscribing their names to a memorandum of association, and
otherwise complying with the requisitions of this act in respect of registration, form an incorporated company, with or without limited liability."
" SEC. VIII. Where a company is formed on the principle of having the
liability of its members limited to the amount unpaid on their shares, hereinafter referred to as a company limited by shares, the memorandum of
association shall contain the following things (that is to say) (1) The
name of the proposed company, with the addition of the word "limited"
as the last word in such name: (2) The part of the United Kingdom,
whether England, Scotland, or Ireland, in which the registered office of the
company is proposed to be situate: (3) The objects for which the proposed company is to be established: (4) A declaration that the liability of
the members is limited: (5) The amount of capital with which the company proposes to be registered divided into shares of a certain fixed
amount: Subject to the following regulations: (1) That no subscriber
shall take less than one share: (2) Tlat each subscriber of the memorandum of association shall write opposite to his name the number of shares
he takes.
" SEC. IX. Where a company is formed on the principle of having the
liability of its members limited to such amount as the members respectively undertake to contribute to the assets of the company in the event of
the same being wound up, hereinafter referred to as a company limited by
guarantee, the memorandum of association shall contain the following
xhings: (that is to say), (1) The name of the proposed company, with the
addition of the word "limited" as the last word in such name: (2) The
part of the United Kingdom, whether England, Scotland, or Ireland, in
which the registered office of the company is proposed to be situate: (3)
The objects for which the proposed company is to be established: (4) A
declaration that each member undertakes to contribute to the assets of the
company in the event of the same being wound up, during the time that he
is a member, or within one year afterwards, for payment of the debts and
liabilities of the company contracted before the time at which he ceases to
be a member, and of the costs, charges and expenses of winding up the
company, and for the adjustment of the rights of, the contributories
amongst themselves, such amount as may be required, not exceeding a
specified amount."
"SEC. XI. The memorandum of association shall bear the same stamp
as if it were a deed, and shall be signed by each subscriber in the presence
of, and be attested by, one witness at the least, and that attestation shall,
be n sufficient attestation in Srotlq)z(, as well as in Englandand Ireland: It

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

time it disavowed the obligatory force of the contract, and
offered to return and deliver up to the plaintiff all the property it held under the lease.
shall, when registered, bind the company and the members thereof to the
same extent as if each member had subscribed his name and affixed his seal
thereto, and there were in the memorandum contained, on the part of himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, a covenant to observe all the
conditions of such memorandum, subject to the provisions of this act."
" SEc. XIV. The memorandum of association may, in the case of a
company limited by shares, and shall, in the case of a company limited by
guarantee or unlimited, be accompanied, when registered, by articles of
association signed by the subscribers to the memorandum of association,
and prescribing such regulations for the company as the subscribers to the
memorandum of association deem expedient: The articles shall be expressed in separate paragraphs, numbered arithmetically: They may adopt
all or any of the provisions contained in the table marked A in the first
schedule hereto: They shall, in case of a company, whether limited by
guarantee or unlimited, that has a capital divided into shares, state the
amount of capital with which the company proposes to be registered; and
in the case of a company, whether limited by guarantee or unlimited, that
has not a capital divided into shares, state the number of members with
which the company proposes to be registered, for the purpose of enabling
the registrar to determine the fees payable on registration: In a company
limited by guarantee or unlimited, and having a capital divided into shares,
each subscriber shall take one share at the least, and shall write opposite to
his name in the memorandum of association the number of shares he
takes."
"SEC. XVI. The articles of association shall be printed, they shall bear
the same stamp as if they were contained in a deed, and shall be signed by
each subscriber in the presence of, and be attested by, one witness at the
least, and such attestation shall be a sufficient attestation in Scotland as
well as England and Ireland: When registered, they shall bind the company
and the members thereof to the same extent as if each member had subscribed his name and affixed his seal thereto, and there were in such articles
contained a covenant on the part of himself, his heirs, executors and administrators, to conform to all the regulations contained in such articles,
subject to the provisions of this act; and all moneys payable by any member to the company, in pursuance of the conditions and regulations of the
company, or any of such conditions or regulations, shall be deemed to be a
debt due from such member to the company, and in England and Ireland to
be in the nature of a specialty debt.
"SEC. XVII. The memorandum of association and the articles of association, if any, shall be delivered to the registrar of joint stock companies
hereinafter mentioned, who shall retain and register the same: There shall
be paid to the registrar by a company having a capital divided into sires,

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGON.IAN

IY 00.

9

Statement of the Case.

It appears also by the pleadings, both on the part of the
plaintiff and defendant, that they entered into an agreement,
in respect of the several matters mentioned in the table marked B in the
first schedule hereto, the several fees therein specified, or such smaller fees
as the Board of Trade may from time to time direct; and by a company
not having a capital divided into shares in respect of the several matters
mentioned in the table marked C in the first schedule hereto, the several
fees therein specified, or such smaller fees as the Board of Trade may from
time to time direct: All fees paid to the said registrar in pursuance of this
act shall be paid into the receipt of Her Majesty's -Exchequer, and be
carried to the account of the consolidated fund of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland.
"SEc. XVIII. Upon the registration of the memorandum of association
and of the articles of association in cases where articles of association are
required by this act or by the desire of the parties to be registered, the
registrar shall certify under his hand that the company is incorporated,
and in the case of a limited company that the company is limited: the
subscribers of the memorandum of association, together with such other
persons as may from time to time become members of the company, shall
thereupon be a body corporate by the name contained in the memorandum
of association, capable forthwith of exercising all the functions of an
incorporated company, and having perpetual succession and a common
seal, with power to hold lands, but with such liability on the part of the
members to contribute to the assets of the company in the event of the
same being wound up as is hereinafter mentioned: A certificate of the incorporation of any company given by the registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that all the requisitions of this act in respect of registration have
been complied with."
(2) The provisions in the constitution and laws of Oregon relating to the
organizationof corporations,of which the following are the most material:
(a) Constituti n of Oregon, Article Xr, Section 2.
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall not be
created by special laws, except for municipal purposes. All laws passed
pursuant to this section may be altered, amended, or repealed, but not so
as to impair or destroy any vested corporate rights."
(b) The Oregon CorporationAct of October 14, 1862, as amended October 20,
1864, and October 24, 1866.
"SEC. 1. Whenever three or more persons shall desire to incorporate
themselves, for the purpose of engaging in any lawful enterprise, business,
pursuit, or occupation, they may do so in the manner provided in this act.
" SEC. 2. Such persons shall make and subscribe written articles of
incorporation in triplicate, and acknowledge the same before any officer

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

by which the defendant company was to continue to use the
road for the time being, in order to prevent serious loss arising
authorized to take the acknowledgment of a deed; and file one of such
articles in the office of the Secretary of State, another with the clerk of the
county where the enterprise, business, pursuit, or occupation is proposed
to be carried on, or the principal office or place of business is proposed to
be located, and retain the third in the possession of the corporation.
" SEC. 3. The articles of incorporation, or a certified copy of the one
filed with the Secretary of State or the County Clerk, is evidence of the
existence of such corporation.
"SEc. 4. The articles of incorporation shall specify: 1. The name
assumed by the corporation, and by which it shall be known, and the duration of the corporation if limited; 2. The enterprise, business, pursuit, or
occupation in which the corporation proposes to engage; 3. The place
where the corporation proposes to have its principal office or place of business; 4. The amount of the capital stock of the corporation; 5. The
amount of each share of such capital stock; 6. If the corporation is formed
for the purpose of navigating any stream or other water, or making or
constructing any railroad, macadamized road, plank road, clay road, canal
or bridge, the termini of such navigation, road, canal, or the site of such
bridge.
"SEc. 5. Upon the making and filing of the articles of incorporation as
herein provided, the persons subscribing the same are corporators, and
authorized to carry into effect the objects specified in the articles, in the
manner provided in this act; and they and their successors, associates and
assigns, by the name assumed in such articles, shall thereafter be deemed
a body corporate with power: 1. To sue and be sued; 2. To contract and
be contracted with; 3. To have and use a corporate seal, and the same to
alter at pleasure; 4. To purchase, possess and dispose of such real and
personal property as may be necessary and convenient to carry into effect
the object of the incorporation; 5. To appoint such subordinate officers
and agents as the business of the corporation may require, and prescribe
their duties and compensation; 6. To make by-laws, not inconsistent with
any existing law, for the sale of any portion of its stock for delinquent or
unpaid assessments due thereon, which sale may be made without judgment
or execution; Provided, That no such sale shall be made without thirty
days' notice of time and place of sale, in some newspaper in circulation in
the neighborhood of such company, for the transfer of its stock, for the
management of its property, and for the general regulation of its affairs."
" SEC. 9. . . . From the first meeting of the directors, the powers
vested in the corporation are exercised by them, or by their officers or
agents, except as otherwise specially provided in this chapter."
"SEc. 11. . . . The powers vested in the directors may be exercised
by a majority of them, and any less number may constitute a quorum at all
regular or stated meetings authorized by the by-laws of the corporation in all

ORGON RAILWAY CO., v. OiOO NN iy

CO.

ill

Statement of the Case.

from the disruption of the relations of the two railroads, butthat such use was not to be construed as being under the
the cases when either the directors or incorporators shall have flied with the
Secretary of State and county clerk a written statement designating such
.
less number sufficient to form a quorum
"SEC. 19. Any corporation organized under the provisions of this act
may, at any meeting of the stockholders which is called for such purpi-se,
by a vote of the majority of the stock of such corporation, increase or
diminish its capital stock or the amount of the shares thereof, or authorize
the dissolution of such corporation and the settling of its business and
disposing of its property and dividing its capital stock; provided, however,
that the capital stock of any corporation formed under this act, except
corporations formed for the purpose of making and constructing a railroad, shall never exceed the sum of two million of dollars, and anycorporation that shall violate this provision of this act shall forfeit its corporate
rights.
"SEC. 20. Any corporation formed for the purpose of navigating any
stream or other water, may. by virtue of such incorporation, construct any
railroad, macadamized road, plank road or clay road, or canal or bridge,
necessary and convenient for the purpose of transporting freight or passengers across any portages on the line of such navigation, occasioned by
any rapids or other obstructions to the navigation of such stream or other
water, in like manner and with like effect as if such corporation had been
specially formed for such purpose; but no corporation formed under this
act or heretofore or hereafter incorporated by any special act of incorporation, passed by the Legislative Assembly of this State or otherwise, for the
purpose of navigating any stream or other water of this State, or forming
the boundary thereof in whole or in part, nor any stockholder in such corporation, shall ever take or hold stock, or any interest directly or indirectly
in the stock of any corporation which may be formed under this act, for
the purpose of building or constructing any road in this act mentioned; nor
shall any such corporation ever purchase, lease or in any way control such
road or the corporate rights of such last-named corporation; provided further, that corporations heretofore incorporated or which may hereafter be
formed under this act for the purpose of establishing and keeping a ferry
across 'any stream or other water of this State or forming the boundary
thereof, in whole or in part, shall not be deemed a corporation for the purpose of navigating such stream or water within the meaning of this act,
nor shall, the stockholders thereof be restrained from taking or holding
stock in a corporation formed under this act for the purpose of constructig or building any road."
(c) An act passed October 18, 1878, to amend section twenty (above quoted) so
as to read as follows:
"Any corporation formed 'for the purpose of navigating any stream or
other water may, by virtue of such incorporation, construct any railway,

OCTOBER TElRI, 1.888.
Statement of the Case.

lease, nor as binding either party beyond what the law would
imply if this arrangement had not been made. There is also
macadamized road, plank road, or clay road, or canal, or bridge necessary
or convenient for the purpose of transporting freight or passengers across
any portage on the line of such navigation, occasioned by any rapids or
other obstructions to the navigation of such stream, or other water, in like
manner, and with like effect, as if such corporation had been .ormed for
such purpose."
(d) "An act to authorize foreign incoiporations to do business and exercise
their corporatepowers within the State of Oregon, passed October 21, 1878.
"SEc. 1. That any foreign incorporation incorporated for the purpose
of constructing, or constructing and operating, or for the purpose of or
with the power of acquiring and operating any railway, macadamized road,
plank road, clay road, canal or bridge, or for the purpose of conducting
water, gas or other substance, by means of pipes laid under ground, shall,
on compliance with the laws of this State for the regulation of foreign corporations transacting business therein, have the same rights, powers and
privileges in the exercise of the rights of eminent domain, collection of
tolls, and other prerogative franchises as are given by the laws of this State
to corporations organized within this State; for the purpose of constructing
any railway, macadamized road, plank road, clay road, canal or bridge, or
for the purpose of conducting water by means of pipes laid under the surface of the ground.
"SEC. 2. Nothing in this act contained sha7' '-c qo construed as to give
to any foreign corporation or corporations, any other or further rights,
powers, or privileges than may be acquired or exercised by corporations
incorporated under the laws of this State; but only so as to give to foreign
corporations the same rights, powers and privileges, on a compliance with
the laws of this State, as may be acquired or exercised by corporations incorporated under the laws of this State."
(e) "Act of 22d October, 1880, entitled an act to grant the Oregonian Railway
Company, Limited, the riight of way and station grounds over the state
lands, and termzinal facilities upon the public grounds at the city of
Portland."
Whereas, the Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, is now engaged in
the construction of a system of railways in the State of Oregon, from the
city of Portland, the most used shipping port of this State, to the head of
the Willamette Valley, and to a connection with the systems of railroads
having a connection with those States and Territories of the United States
situate east of the Rocky Mountains, and the building of the railway of
said company will be of great benefit and lasting advantage to the people
of this State: . . . Now, therefore,

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN WY CO.

13

Statement of the Case.

an averment in the petition that the property was not in the
same condition when the offer to return it was made as it was
"Be it enacted, &c., That there by [be] and is hereby granted to the Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, a corporation at this time engaged in
the construction and operation of a railway in the State of Oregon, and to
its assigns, the owners and operators of the railway now being constructed
by it, and for the use of said railway, in the construction, use and operation thereof, the rights, privileges, easements, and property following, that
is to say:
"SEc. 1. Those certain premises situate in the city of Portland, in the
State of Oregon, and commonly known as the public levee,

.

. . to be

held, used and enjoyed for occupation by track, side track, water stations,
depot buildings, wharves and warehouses, and such other buildings and
erections of such form and manner of construction as may be found requisite, necessary or convenient in the receiving, shipping and storing of
produce, goods, wares, merchandise and generally of all kinds of freight,
and for use generally and in the manner usual and ordinary for depot purposes, and as such to be under the exclusive management and control of
the owners of said railway;
"Provided, always, That the said Oregonian Railway Company, Limited,
or its pssigns, shall have no power to sell, convey or assign th. premises
or rights hereby granted, or any part or parcel thereof, to any person, persons, firm or corporation, save only with and as part and parcel of, and as
appurtenant to the railway now built and owned by said company, and now
."
in process of construction by it..
(f) The paper referred to by the Court in its opinion on page 29, entitled,
"Public Statutes of Oregon recognizing the assignabilityof railroads."
" In addition to the Oregonian Railway Company's Act of 22 Oct., 1880,
there are the following:
The Oregon Railway and Navigation Co.'s Act- Oregon Statutes, 25 Oct.
1880"Recites that ' the 0. R. &N. Co. was duly incorporated on July 13, 1879,
for the purpose, among other things, of,' etc. SEa. 1. That there be and
there is hereby granted to the said 0. R. & N. Co., its successors and assigns,
the right of way through any and all lands belonging to the State of Oregon, etc. SEC. 2. Whenever said company, its successors or assigns, shall
file, etc.
"1.

"2. Statutes of Oregon for 1880, p. 55 -Astoria and Winnemucca Railroad
Co.'s Act.

"SEc. 1. That there be and is hereby granted to the A. &W. R. R. Co.,
and its assigns, the right of way, etc. . . . SEc. 4. That the same company
shall have the right, and it and its assigns are hereby authorized to construct bridges, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

when it was received; but this is denied in the answer, and as
no proof was taken in regard to that fact. it can make no
figure in the case as presented to this court.
jr'. J. N. Dolph and -il. James C. Carter for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Sidney Bartlett also filed a brief for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Attorney General and Mr. George F. Edmunds (with
whom was Mtr. Edmund Robertson on the brief) for defendant in error.
I. The lease was within the corporate powers of the defendant. It is admitted that the contract in question is covered
"3.

Oregon Statutes, 1878, 55- PortlandBridge Co.'s Act.
"SEC. 1. That it shall be lawful for the Portland Bridge Co., a corporation duly incorporated under and in conformity with the law of Oregon, or
its assigns, and that said corporation or its assigns be and are hereby authorized and empowered to construct, build, etc.
"4.

Statutes of 1882, 7 - Oregon Short-Line Railway Co.'s Act- 17 October.
"SEc. 1. That there be and hereby is granted the said 0. S. L. R. Co.,
and its successors or assigns, the right of way, etc.
"5.

Statutes of 1872, 16-

"6.

Statutes of 1874, 14-

Portland,Dalles and Salt Lake R. R. Co.'s Act15 Oct.
"SEc. 1. Grants proceeds of land sales. SEC. 2. Grants rights of way.
c.11. The rights and privileges of this company, hereby granted,
shall not be assignable to any other company without the assent of the
Legislature.
Oregon Central Pacific Railway and Telegraphic
Line -24 Oct. 1874.
"SEC. 1. That there be and is hereby granted to the Oregon Central Pacific Company and its assigns the right of way through any lands belonging
to the State of Oregon, etc.
"The following act is posterior to the litigation in this case, viz., ' An act
to provide for the completion of the narrow-gauge system.' (24 Feb., 1885.) It
recites the Oregonian Railway Co.'s Act of 22 Oct. 1880, and proceeds:
Whereas, said Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, did, on the 1st day of
August, 1881, then lease its constructed lines of railway in the Willamette
Valley to the Oregon Railway and Navigation Company for the period of
ninety-six years, etc."

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

15

Argument for Defendant in Error.

by the express language of the act of incorporation; so that
the defendant's contention practically is that its own articles
of incorporation are illegal and void. The same considerations
apply to the objection that the lease was vltra vires as to the
plaintiff. Both companies are incorporated under general
laws, by articles of essentially the same character, purporting
to contain in each case the powers which are here challenged.
The law of Oregon adthorizes corporations for any lawful
business, enterprise, pursuit or occupation. This 'corporation
is created under that law for the lawful business of leasing and
operating a railroad in that State. The whole case of the
defendant rests on a misapprehension of the rule laid down by
this court in Railroad Co. v. Thomas, 101 U. S. 'T1. There
the company was created under a special act of the legislature,
which gave it power to construct and operate, but not to lease;
and the court held that a lease of the company was ultra Vires.
"The powers of corporations," says Mr. Justice Miller, "organized under legislative statutes are such, and such only, as
those statutes confer. The charter of a corporation is the
measure of its powers, and the enumeration of these powers
implies the exclusion of all others." Had the defendant's
articles been silent as to leasing, this case might have been
cited as an authority against the validity of the lease, but with
the articles as they are, it is an authority for the lease; and
so, indeed, is every other case in the United States and England in which the contract of a corporation has been declared
,ultra i es.
The decision in Railroad Co. v. Thomas is avowedly based
on the case of Ashbury Railway Carriage Co. v. Riche, L. R.
7 H. L. 653; and Mr. Justice Miller adopts the language used
in that case. That case followed a long line of English cases
in which companies organized under special acts were held
incompetent to make contracts not falling within their purposes as defined by such acts. But that case has great value
in the present controversy, inasmuch as, unlike its predecessors, but like this case, it concerns the power of a company
incorporated, not by special act, but by articles of incorporation under a general act. The decision in that case assumes

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

that the memorandum of association is the equivalent of a
legislative charter. It was so held by Lord Selborne and by
Lord Cairns, and their declarations are repeated and commented on in RailroadCo. v. Thomas. See also Pennsylvania
Railroadv. St. Louis, Alton, &e. Railroad,118 U. S. 290.
These decisions, the only ones relied on, show that the disputed power is contained in the charter. The defendant is
then driven to attack the charter. * In the vague proposition
that a lease of a railroad is contrary to public policy lies its
whole case, in'asmuch as by the general law of Oregon, anything may be leased, including a railroad.
That a lease of a railroad without power to that intent conferred upon the company making the lease is against public
policy, may be admitted on the ground that it involves an
abandonment of franchise and duty. But what has to be
established here is, not that a lease without authority of the
State is bad, but that a lease is in itself an unlawful purpose,
business, or enterprise; because, if it is a lawful purpose, business or enterprise, then the State has conferred the power on
both companies.
At common law corporations could be created by the king
for any purpose, and with any powers not contrary to general
law, including that of leasing or taking in lease. See Suttan'.
Hospital Case, 10 Rep. 1, 30 b. Under the Oregon corporation
laws, a corporation has powers analogous to those of a corporation at common law, created by the king. In the analogous
system of England under the Companies' Act, it has been held
that the power of leasing is implied, although not specified in
the memorandum of association. Featherston v. Lee Moor
Porcelain Co., L. IR. 1 Eq. 318.
In the laws of Oregon there is no public policy hostile to
leasing. The constitution prohibits incorporation except under
general laws. The general law, like the law of Great Britain,
provides one code for all kinds of corporations. It defines
the powers of such corporations including the power to "dispose of " their property. This power of disposition is again
mentioned in the section which provides for the dissolution of
corporations. As Judge Doady in the court below observes,

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the power to "dispose"

implies a corresponding power in

corporations to take. Again, we submit, although it is not
necessary for our case that these provisions may reasonably be
construed as meaning that the power to acquire or assign, by
lease or otherwise, is incident to all corporations, whether
leasing be assumed as an object in the articles of incorporation or not. See .liners' Ditch Co. v. Zellerbach, 37 California,
543; S. C. 99 Am. Dec. 300.
In its original form ยง 20 of the corporation laws of Oregon
prohibited the leasing of railroads to a certain class of corporations, and thereby, by implication, permitted it to all others.
In its amended form this prohibition was withdrawn, and
leasing became thereby open to all.
Finally the act of 1880 granting certain rights and interests
to the Oregonian Railway Company and its assigns, is inconsistent with a policy hostile to leasing. Not only is the grant
made to the company and its assigns, but the company's right
to assign the whole property is recognized, and it is enacted
that certain of the rights granted by the act shall be assignable
only with the whole railroadproperty of the grantee. This
statute is cited here only as part of the proof which negatives
the theory of a public policy hostile to leasing. Its importance
in other respects is noticed elsewhere. See on these points,
Oregon Cascade Co. v. Baily, 3 Oregon, 164; Fink v. Canyon
Road Co., 5 Oregon, 301; Branson v. Oregon Railway Co.,
10 Oregon, 278.
The defendant company is not entitled to challenge the
legality of its own articles of incorporation, or to repudiate as
unlawful a purpose which it was formed to carry out See
Ewing v. Robeson, 15 Indiana, 26; Dooley v. Cheshire Glass
Co., 15 Gray, 4941; .)arge v. Horicon Co., 22 Wisconsin, 417;
Racine &c. Railroad Co. v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 49
Illinois, 331; S. C. 95 Am. Dec. 595.
II. The defendant is estopped from denying our corporate
existence and powers.
The defendant's answer admits the contract as pleaded,
i.e., the admission that it was signed by the defendant's
president and secretary, sealed with the corporate seal, and
VOL. CXXx-2

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

authorized by the board of directors, is an admission of the
contract as pleaded. The allegation that the rent provided
for was paid for three years is in itself an admission of the
lease and of the existence between plaintiff and defendant
of the relations of landlord and tenant. The contract as
pleaded is a contract between the Oregonian Railway Company Limited and the defendant. The lease as pleaded is a
lease by the Oregonian Railway Company Limited.
The rule applicable to this state of facts is laid down in
Field on Corporations (Wood's edition) in the following
terms: "When the action is brought by the corporation on
a contract executed by the defendant to it, the general rule is
that the plaintiff need not offer to prove its corporate existence, and the defendant is estopped from denying it in the
absence of fraud on the part of the corporation; and when a
party is estopped from denying the existence of a corporation
at the time he recognized it as such, if he denies its existence
subsequently he must show how it ceased to exist." See also
Hubbard v. Chappel, 14 Indiana, 601; Jones v. Cincinnati
Type Foundry,14 Indiana, 89; Duthess Cotton Afanufacturing Co. v. Davis, 14 Tohns. 238; S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 459; Cowell v. Springs Co., 100 U. S. 55; Commissioners v. Shield, 62
Missouri, 247; Evansville Railroad v. Evansville, 15 Indiana,
395; Heaston v. Cincinnati and Fort Wayne Railroad,16 Indiana, 275; S. C. 79 Am. Dec. 430; Brownlee v. Ohio and Indiana Railroad, 18 Indiana, 68; Douglas County v. Bolles, 94
US. S. 104; Mfethodist Church v. Pickett, 19 N. Y. 482; Swartwout v. Michigan Railroad, 24 Michigan, 389; Kennedy v.
Cotton, 28 Barb. 59; Phenix Bank v. Donnell, 41 Barb. 572;
Jones v. Bank of Tennessee, 8 B. Mon. 122; S. C. 46 Am. Dec.
540; Helena v. Turner, 36 Arkansas, 577; Mutual Ins. Co. v.
Wilcox, 8 Bissell, 203; Franz v. Teutonia, 24: Maryland, 251;
Cahill v. KYalamazoo ins. Co., 2 Doug. (Mich.) 19; S. C. 43
Am. Dec. 457.
It was suggested by the defendant in the court below that
the estoppel is limited to alleged defects of organization. No
such limitation is inferred or implied in any of the cases, but
the true rule is that, while a party is not estopped to show

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

19

Opinion of the Court.

that the corporation could have no legal existence, yet if the
court knows, judicially or otherwise, (as by admission in the
pleadings,) that there is a law under which it might exist, then
the fact of contracting with the corporation estops the party
from denying its corporate capacity.
It happens that the law under which the plaintiff claims to
exist is fully before the court. Defendant expressly admits
the British Companies' Act, 1862, as pleaded. The court itself
knows the Oregon law, 1878, (p. 95,) under which it may lawfully engage in railroad business in Oregon, and the further
act of 1880, (p. 56,) which expressly recognizes the plaintiff as
a corporation laifully engaged in such business, and grants to
it and its assigns certain rights and privileges therein. The
British law of its creation, whereby a company may be created
for any lawful purpose; the Oregon law under which it may
act in Oregon; the Oregon law, recognizing its lawful existence under its corporate name, and granting it facilities for its
corporate business; the contract in its corporate name with
the defendant; all these conditions show a de facto corporation, using corporate rights under a law which permits its
existence, and raise an estoppel against persons dealing with it
which is absolute.
Against this full recognition by the legislature no plea questioning the plaintiff's corporate existence or power can be of
any avail. Such recognition was long ago held by this court
to be conclusive as to the corporate character, and to give the
power in question, even if not possessed before. Society for
the Propagationof the Gospel v. Pawlet,4, Pet. 480. See also
Jareson v. People, 16 Illinois, 257; S. C. 63 Am. Dec. 304;
Kanawhc CoaZ Co. v. .anawha and Ohio Coal Co., 7 Blatchford, 391.
MR. JusTiE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The two questions presented on this demurrer, and the only
ones necessary to be considered, are:
First. Whether the plaintiff, the Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, organized under the laws of Great Britain,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

with such aid as the statute of Oregon gives to it in reference
to business done in that State, had the power to lease its railroad to the defendant company; and,
Second. Whether the Oregon -Railway and 1avigation
Company, the defendant in the action, organized under the
laws of the State of Oregon, had the legal capacity and lawful power to make said lease on its part.
Although the lease itself, which is the foundation of this
action, is not found in the pleadings, nor in the record, the
statements in regard to it made by the petition, amended lpetition and answers leave no question as to its nature or character so far as it affects the two questions here suggested.
It may be considered as the established doctrine of this
court in regard to the powers of corporations, that they are
such and such only as are conferred upon them by the acts of
the legislatures of the several States under which they are organized. A corporation in this country, whatever it may have
been in England at a time when the crown exercised the right
of creating such bodies, can only have an existence under the
express law of the State or sovereignty by which it is created.
And these powers, where they do not relate to municipal corporations exercising authority conferred solely for the benefit
of the public, and in some sense parts of the body politic of
the State, have in this country until within recent years
always been conferred by special acts of the legislative body
under which they claim to exist. But the rapid growth of
corporations, which have come to take a part in all or nearly
all of the business operations of the country, and especially in
enterprises requiring large aggregations of capital and individual energy, as well as their success in meeting the needs of a
vast number of most important commercial relations, have
demanded the serious attention and consideration of law makers. And while valuable services have been rendered to the
public by this class of organizations, which have stimulated
their formation by numerous special acts, it came at last to be
perceived that they were attended by many evils in their operation as well as much good, and that the hasty manner in
which- they were created by the legislatures, sometimes with

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

21

Opinion of the Court.

exclusive privileges, often without due consideration and under
the influence of improper motives, frequently led to bad
results.
Whether it was this consideration, or mainly the desire to
fix some more uniform rule by which the rights and powers of
private corporations, or those for pecuniary profit, should come
into existence, it is certain that not many years ago state constitutions which were formed or rentodelled came to have in
them a provision like that which is now to be found in the
constitution of the State of Oregon, article 11, ยง 2:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall
not be created by special laws, except for municipal purposes.
All laws passed pursuant to this section may be altered,
amended, or repealed, but not so as to impair or destroy any
vested corporate rights."
Outside of the powers conferred and the privileges granted
to those organizations by the statutes under which they exist,
they are in all the States of the Union, which like Oregon have
the common law as the foundation of their jurisprudence,
governed by that comnnon law; and it is the established doctrine of this court, and, with some exceptions, of the States in
which that common law prevails, as well as of Great Britain,
from which it is derived, that such a corporation cain exercise
no power or authority which is not granted to it by the charter under which it exists, or by some other act of the legislature which granted that charter.
This proposition has been before this court more than once
in recent years. It was very fully considered in Thomas v.
PtailroadCo., 101 U. S.71, which resembled the case before
us in several important features.
The Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company, incorporated
under the laws of New Jersey, entered into an agreement with
Thomas and others for the lease of its railroad to them for
twenty years. It was agreed that the company might at any
time terminate the lease and retake possession of the railroad;
in which case any loss or damage incurred by the lessees should
be equitably adjusted by arbitration, and the amount be paid bk
the company. This contract was made in 1859, and the les-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sees took control of the property and used it until 1867, when
they were served with a notice by the lessor terminating the
lease. A suit was brought to recover the damages mentioned
in the contract, which came from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to this
court, where it was very elaborately argued, and received the
earnest consideration of the court, as may be perceived from
the report of the case. The opinion, which was concurred in
by all the judges who sat in the case, contains a full review of
the decisions of the English courts on the subject discussed,
and also of previous decisions of this court.
The question turned altogether upon the power of the railroad company, under its charter and the laws of New Jersey,
to make the lease by which its road was turned over for*
twenty years to the absolute control of other parties. The
right to do this was asserted under the following language in
the charter of the company:
"That it shall be lawful for the said company, at any time
during the continuance of its charter, to make contracts and
engagements with any 'other corporation, or with individuals,
for the transporting or conveying any kind of goods, produce,
merchandise, freight, or passengers, and to enforce the fulfilment of such contracts."
But the court said it was impossible under any sound rule of
construction to find in this language a permission to sell, lease,
or transfer to others the entire railroad and the rights and
franchises of the corporation.
The cases of The Asbur"y Railway 0arfriage & Iron Co. v.
RIichie, L. R. 7 H. L. 653, decided in the House of Lords in
1875, and Tle East Anglian Railways Co. v. Thte Fasten
Counties Railway Co., 11 C. B. 775, were also reviewed, with
several others of a similar character from the reports of the
highest courts of England, in which, as this court said:
"The broad doctrine was established that a contract not
within the scope of the powers conferred on the corporation
cannot be made valid by the assent of every one of the shareholders, nor can it by any partial performance become the
foundation of a right of action."

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

23

Opinion of the Court.

Reference was also made in the same opinion to the case of
The York & Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans, 17 How.
30, which held that a corporation which has undertaken to construct and operate a railroad cannot, by alienating its right to
use and its powers of control and supervision, avoid the responsibility that it assumed in accepting the charter. The court
said: "The corporation cannot absolve itself from the performance of its obligations without the consent of the legislature." To this effect were cited Beman v. Buford, 1 Sire. (N.
S.) 550, and lVinch v. Birkenhead & Lancaster Railway Co.,
6 Jurist, 1035; S. C. 13 Eng. L. & Eq. 506.
Afterwards, in Gareen Bay & Minnesota Railroadv. Union
Steamboat Co., 107 U. S. 98, the case of Thomas v. Railroad
Co., supra, was referred to with approbation.
Still later, in the case of Penn&ylvania Railroad Co. v. St.
Louis &c. Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 290, 309, where the whole
question was reconsidered after a full argument, the conclusion
was stated in the following language:
"We think it may be stated, as the just result of these cases
and on sound principle, that unless specially authorized by its
charter, or aided by some other legislative action, a railroad
company cannot, by lease or any other contract, turn over to
another company, for a long period of time, its road and all its
appurtenances, the use of its franchises, and the exercise of its
powers, nor can any other railroad company without similar
authority make a contract to receive and operate such road,
franchises and property of the first corporation, and that such
a contract is not among the ordinary powers of a railroad
company, and is not to be presumed from the usual grant of
powers in a railroad charter."
It may be considered that this is the law of the State of
Oregon, except as it has been altered or modified by its constitution and statutes.
We are here met with an embarrassment arising out of the
circumstance that neither the plaintiff nor the defendant in the
present case professes to exercise its powers under any special
charter conferred on it by the legislature of Oregon. That
State, in accordance with the principle laid down in its con-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution, to which we have already referred, passed general
laws for the formation of private corporations. See Laws of
Oregon, (Deady's Comp.) c. 8. Under title 1, ยง 1 reads as
follows:
"Whenever three or more persons shall desire to incorporate
themselves for the purpose of engaging in any lawful enterprise, business, pursuit, or occupation, they may do so in the
manner provided in this act."
Provision is then made for the manner in which these persons shall constitute themselves a corporation, by filing articles
of association, acknowledged before a proper officer, in the
office of the Secretary of State and in that of the clerk of the
county where the business is to be carried on. What these
articles shall contain is specified with some particularity. But
title 2 of this same chapter is more important in regard to
the matter at issue, because it relates, among other things, to
corporations which are organized for the construction of railroads. The mode of their formation is the same as that of
those coming under title 1, but the declaration of the powers
which may be exercised by railroad corporations may become
important in the consideration of the present case.
By the act of the legislature of October 21, 1878, Session
Laws, 95, it is provided "that any foreign corporation incorporated for the purpose of constructing, or constructing and
operating, or for the purpose of, or with the power of, acquiring and operating any railway,
shall, on compliance
with the laws of this State for the regulation of foreign corporations transacting business therein, have the same rights,
powers and privileges" as a domestic corporation formed for
such purpose, and no more.
When we have found, therefore, what powers were conferred
by the laws of Oregon on the -defendant corporation in this
case we shall also have determined that the powers of the plaintiff corporation were no greater with regard to the same subject
matter, so far as the statutes are concerned, except as it may
be shown that other powers are given by some express statute.
It may also be conceded, at the outset of the argument, that
the memorandum made under the Companies' Act of 1862 by

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

25

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff, and the articles of association made under the
laws of Oregon by the defendant, both contain declarations
of the powers of these companies and of each of them to buy
or sell or lease railroads. The only question, therefore, to be
considered is whether this declaration of power is authorized
by the laws of Oregon.
It is argued that the articles of association, under the Oregon
law, and the memorandum of association, under the Companies'
Acts of Great Britain, are themselves the equivalent of an act
of incorporation by the legislature, and that whatever is found
as a grant of power, or description of the purpose of the company, set forth in such articles or memorandum, is tantamount
to a legislative act. A phrase in the opinion of the court in
Dto/mas v. Railroad Co., supra, is cited as supporting this
proposition, namely, "The memorandum of association, as
Lord Cairns said, stands in place of a legislative charter."
But what was meant, both by Lord Cairns and by this court,
was that anything not claimed, granted, or described in such
instrument in relation to the powers and business of the corporation could not be held to be a part of them by construction; in other words that its powers could not exceed those
enumerated therein. It was necessarily implied in such a
remark that anything in such articles or memorandum not
warranted by the statutes in question, authorizing the formation of corporate bodies, was void for want of authority.
Of course any authority for the exercise of corporate powers,
derived from the laws of Oregon, must be in accord with the
constitution of that State and its statutes upon that subject.
The constitutional provision, above quoted, that corporations
shall not be created by special laws, but may be formed under
general laws, implies that no private corporation could be
created thereafter until such general law had been enacted,
and that it thereupon became the fundamental law of the
State in regard to all corporations formed under it. It is idle
to say, therefore, that any corporation could assume to itself
powers of action by the mere declaration in its articles or
memorandum that it possessed them.
We have examined with much care the two statutes already

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to concerning incorporation, enacted in accordance
with that constitutional provision, and do not find any express
authority for a railroad company to lease its road for an indefinite period, or for it to take such a lease; nor are we able to
find any general language in those statutes, or either of them,
in relation to the powers that may be conferred upon corporations which justifies a departure from the principles laid down
in Thomas v. Railroad Co.
It is to be remembered that where a statute making a grant
of property, or of powers, or of franchises, to a private individual, or a private corporation, becomes the subject of construction as regards the extent of the grant, the universal rule
'is that in doubtful points the construction shall be against the
grantee and in favor of the government or the general public.
As was said in the case of Charles River Bridge v. M-arren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, "in this court the principle is recognized
that in grants by the public nothing passes by implication."
See also Db)uque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litcefleld, 23
How. 66; Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63.
Therefore if the articles of association of these two corporations, instead of being the mere adoption by the corporators
themselves of the declaration of their own purposes and
powers, had been an act of the legislature of Oregon conferring such powers on the corporations, they would be subject
to the rule above stated and to rigid construction in regard to
the powers granted. How much more, then, should this rule
be applied, and with how much more reason should a court,.
called upon to determine the powers granted by these articles
of association, construe them rigidly, with the stronger leaning
in doubtful cases infavor of the public and against the private
corporation.
We have to consider, when such articles become the subject
of construction, that they are in a sense exaarte; their formation and execution- what shall be put into them as well as
what shall be left out - do not take place under the supervision
of any official authority whatever. They are the production
of private citizens, gotten up in the interest of the parties who
propose to become corporators, and stimulated by their zeal

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

27

Opinion of the Court.

for the personal advantage of the parties concerned rather than
the general good.
These articles, when signed by the corporators, acknowledged before any justice of the peace or notary public, and
filed in the office of the Secretary of State and the clerk of the
proper county, become complete and operative. They are, so
far as framed in accordance with law, a substitute for legislation, put in the place of the will of the people of the State,
formerly expressed by acts of the legislature. Neither the
officer who takes such acknowledgment, nor those who file
the articles, have any power of criticism or rejection. The
duty of the first is to certify to the fact, and of the second to
simply mark them filed as public documents, in their respective
offices.
These articles, which necessarily assume by the sole action
of the corporators enormous powers, many of which have
been heretofore considered of a public character, sometimes
affecting the interests of the public very largely and very
seriously, do not commend themselves to the judicial mind as
a class of instruments requiring or justifying any very liberal
construction. Where the question is whether they conform to
the authority given by statute in regard to corporate organizations, it is always to be determined upon just construction of
the powers granted therein, with a due regard for all the other
laws of the State upon that subje~t, and the rule stated above.
It is not urged with much apparent confidence that there
is anything in the general provisions of the laws of Oregon,
in relation to the formation of private corporations, which
are to be found in c. 8, titles 1 and 2, Deady's Comp.,
which by express terms authorizes a corporation to include
within the powers enumerated in its articles of association
that of making such a lease as the one which is the subject of
this action. Arguments based upon these laws are founded
upon the implication that building railroads is, within the
meaning of ยง 1 of title 1, a "lawful enterprise, business, pursuit or occupation;" and the further inference that the power
of leasing a railroad, either as a lessor or a lessee, is one which
is incident and proper to the pursuit of the lawful business of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

constructing and operating a railroad. The same argument is
drawn from the general fact that title 2 recognizes the authority of corporations organized for the construction of railroads, macadamized roads,- plank roads, clay roads, canals or
bridges, to appropriate lands for their necessary uses by the
exercise of the right of eminent domain, in the manner
pointed out.
The language of the statute of New Jersey, (quoted in
Thomas v. Railroad Co., savra,) under which it was urged
that the railroad company had authority to make the lease in
controversy, was quite as general and as liberal in its description of the powers which that corporation was authorized to
exercise as anything to be found in the Oregon statutes. In
fact, in the authority which was given to that company in
regard to making contracts for the'transportation of passengers and freight, and the doing of a general railroad business
with other corporations and private persons, it approaches
nearer the power to make leases than anything which is to be
found in the laws of Oregon; yet this court held that although
it was a direct authority from the legislature itself, and not
subject to the restrictive criticisms above suggested, the lease
made in that case was ultra i'es, and without authority on
the part of the company.
Another important consideration to be observed, peculiarly
applicable to the acts of corporations formed by the corporators themselves, declaring what business they are about to
pursue, and the powers which they purpose to exercise in
carrying it on, is, that while the thing to be done may be lawful in a general way, there are and must be limitations upon
the means by which it is to be done or the purpose carried
out, which the articles of incorporation cannot remove or violate. A company might be authorized by its articles to establish a large manufactory in a particular locality, and might be
held to be a valid incorporation with sufficient powers to prosecute the business described; but such articles, although mentioning the particular place, would not empower the company,
in the exercise of the power thus conferred, to carry on a business injurious to the health or comfort of those living in that
vicinity.

OREGCON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

29

Opinion of the Court.

Instances might be multiplied in which powers described in
general terms as belonging to the objects of the parties who
thus become incorporated would be valid; but the corporation,
in carrying out this general purpose, would not be authorized
to exercise the powers necessary for so doing in any mode
which the law of the State would not justify in any private
person or any unincorporated body. The manner ip which
these powers shall be exercised, and their subjection to the
restraint of the general laws of the State and its general
principles of public policy, are not in any sense enlarged by
inserting in the articles of association the authority to depart
therefrom.
In the absence of anything in the general incorporation act,
we are referred to several statutes of the State of Oregon,
which, while not specifically granting to railroad companies
the right to lease their property or to take other railroads
under lease from their owners, are supposed by implication to
recognize such right in all railroad companies. We are furnished with a list of statutes of that State in which the word
"assigns" is used in regard to corporations, generally in the
phrase "successors or assigns," from which it is sought to
imply the general proposition that a corporation may assign
all its property. A special reference is made to the act of
October 22, 1880, by which the legislature granted to the
"Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, the right of way and
station grounds over the state lands, and terminal facilities
upon the public grounds at the city of Portland."
The preamble to this statute is quite lengthy, and, taken in
connection with the enacting clause, shows very plainly that
the principal object aimed at was to give to that company, so
far as the legislature could do so, certain rights, privileges and
easements upon the public grounds, streets and levee in that
city. on and near the banks of the Willamette River, for its
depots and wharves and the operation of its railroad. After
these are fully specified, a proviso is added, "That the said
Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, or its assigns, shall
have no power to sell, convey, or assign the premises or rights
herebygranted, or any part or parcel thereof, to any person,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

persons, firm or corporation, save only with and as part and
parcel of and as appurtenant to the railway now built and
owned by said company and now in process of construction
by it."
It is strenuously argued, and with some degree of plausibility, that the language of this proviso, and the use of the
words "successors" and " assigns" in other statutes, which are
referred to, imply that by the law of Oregon railroad comnpanies may make, and must be supposed to be capable of making,
assignments. But whatever may have been the intent in the
minds of the legislators in using these words, it is not precisely the form in which we would expect to find a grant of
the power to sell, to lease, or to transfer the title, ownership,
or use of railroad lines, the property belonging thereto, and
the franchises necessary to carry them on, by one corporation
to another.
One of the most important powers with which a corporation can be invested is the right to sell out its whole propernty
together with the franchises under which it is operated, or tho
authority to lease its property for a long term of years. In
the case of a railroad company these privileges, next to the
right to build and operate its railroad, would be the most
important which could be given it, and this idea would impress
itself upon the legislature. Naturally, we would look for the
authority to do these things in some express provision of law.
We would suppose that if the legislature saw fit to confer
such rights it would do so in terms which could not be misunderstood. To infer, on the contrary, that it either intended to
confer them or to recognize that they already existed, by the
simple use of the word "assigns,'? a very loose and indefinite
term, is a stretch of the power of the court in making implications which we do not feel to be justified.
The legislators who enacted these statutes may have had an
idea that there were certain things which corporations could
assign; they may have used the expressions to which we have
referred in a very loose instead of a technical sense; or they
may have supposed that cases might arise where railroad property going by some operation of law, as bankruptcy or fore-

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

closure, from the haids of its original owners into the possession of other persons, would justify the description of-the latter
by the words "successors or assigns." In using these terms
they may have thought that authority might be given by
future statutes, either generally to all corporations or to some
special organization, to sell or transfer the corporate property
or some part of it. But whatever may have been their purpose, we think the argument is a forced one, which would vest
in railroad companies the general power tosell or lease their
property or franchises, or to make contracts to buy or take
leases of the same from other railroad corporations, from the
use which is made of these indefinite terms "successors or
assigns."
This question came up in Thoma,9 v. .Railroad Company,
supra,in which, as already stated, a lease by the railroad company of its road and corporate franchises was held to be void.
While the lease was in full operation, -an act was passed by
the legislature of New Jersey declaring it unlawful for the
directors, lessees, or agents of that railroad company to charge
more than three and a half cents per mile for the carrying of
passengers. It was insisted that this use of the word "lessees"
applied to the then existing lessees of that road, and operated
as a ratification by the state legislature of the lease under
which they held it. In discussing this subject the court said:
"It may be fairly inferred that the legislature knew at the
time the statute was passed that the plaintiffs were running
the road, and claiming to do so as lessees of the corporation.
It was not important for the purpose of the act to decide
whether this was done under a lawful contract or not. No
inquiry was probably made as to the terms of that lease, as no
information on that subject was needed.
"The legislature was determined that whoever did run the
road and exercise the franchises conferred on the company,
and under whatever claim of right this was done, should be
bound by the rates of fare established by the act. Hence,
without undertaking to decide in whom was the right to the
control of the road, language was used which included the
directors, lessees and agents of the railroad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"The mention of the lessees no more implies a ratification
of the contract of lease than the word 'directors' would imply
a disapproval of the contract. It is not by such an incidental
use of the word 'lessees,' in an effort to make sure that all
who collected fares should be bound by the law, ihat a contract unauthorized by the charter, and forbidden by public
policy, is to be made valid and ratified by the State." p. 85.
This language applies with great force to the attempt which
is made in this case to deduce from the use of the word "assign" in the act of October 22, 1880, a recognition of the
power of the railroad company to sell or assign its entire
property and rights. The object of the legislature in making
the proviso to that statute was to make sure that the grant
given to the Oregonian Company of termiinal facilities as they
are called, with the right to wharves, depots, and access to the
river for the use of the road, should never be separated by
sale, assignment, or otherwise from the road itself, and that
into whosesoever hands the road went should also go the
rights, powers and privileges conveyed by the grant. Without these prohibitory words it is possible the company might
have had power to sell or assign the depot or wharves granted,
while without the authority to do either in regard to the rights
or franchises of which they were already possessed. Hence,
they used a term which they supposed in a general way might
cover any transfer of the ownership by the railroad company
of the grants made to it by the statute, whether by operation
of law or otherwise. If the property should be sold out under
a mortgage or deed of trust, or any other instrument which
the company might possibly have had the power to make to
purchasers who might be called "assigns" under such proceedings, there should also go with it the grant made by the
statute.
The language used in the statute in question in this case is
stronger than that in other cases cited to us by counsel, and
we are of opinion that they do not, any of them, nor do they
collectively, establish the proposition, that by the laws of
Oregon a railroad company could sell or lease its entire property, franchises and powers to another company, or take a

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

33

Opinion of the Court.

grant or lease of similar property or franchises from any other
person or company.
The attempt is made to sustain the proposition here contended for in regard to the power to lease, by another inferential process of reasoning which we think equally untenable.
The following provision is found in c. 8, title 1:
"SEC. 20. Any corporation formed for the purpose of navi
gating any stream or other water may, by virtue of such
incorporation, construct any railroad, macadamized road,
plank road, or clay road, or canal or bridge, necessary and
convenient for the purpose of transporting freight or passengers across any portages on the line of such navigation,
occasioned by any rapids or other obstructions to the navigation of such stream or other water, in like manner and with
like effect as if such corporation had been specially formed
for such purpose; but no corporation formed under this act
or heretofore or hereafter incorporated by any special act of
incorporation, passed by the legislative assembly of this State
or otherwise, for the purpose of navigating any stream or
other water of this State, or forming the boundary thereof in
whole or in part, nor any stockholder in such corporation,
shall ever take or hold stock, or any interest directly or indirectly in the stock of any corporation which may be formed
under this act, for the purpose of building or constructing any
road in this act mentioned; nor shall any such corporation
ever purchase, lease, or in any way control such road or the
corporate rights of such last-named corporation."
It is argued that this prohibition against leasing the railroad
is a recognition of the fact that such a power would have
existed if it had not been forbidden by this statute; but as the
language of the whole section relates to the competition
which may exist or arise between corporations organized for
the purpose of navigating streams or other waters, when they
may find it convenient to construct a road across such portages
on the line of their navigation as may be required to carry
over goods and property from one navigable water to another.
we do not see that it has any effect in establishing such a
general principle.
VOL. cxxx-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

From the simple fact that in the revision of this law iI
reference to leases was omitted, it is argued that the 'gener,,
power of leasing one road by another wherever situated,
without reference to its competition with roads owned by
navigation companies, amounts to a restoration of the power
to lease or accept leases on the part of any railroad company
in the State, of all its road, of all its franchises, of all its
property, for an indefinite length of time.
As to this we can only say that the original section, relating
solely to a peculiar class of objects, namely, the construction
of roads across portages by corporations navigating the waters
of the State, and forbidding by its last clause the purchase,
lease, or control of such portage road or the corporate rights
acquired by them, was necessarily limited to that class of
roads, and the repeal or modification of so much of the
section as related to the power to lease could have no effect
to declare that all railroads in the State of Oregon bad the
power to make contracts of lease, either as lessors or lessees.
One other provision of the laws of Oregon, immediately
preceding the section just discussed, is also relied upon is
establishing the right of a corporation to sell all of its property, and therefore its right to the smaller or subsidiary power
of leasing it. It is found under c. 8. title 1, as follows:
"S1Eo. 19. Any corporation organized under the provision.s
of this act may, at any meeting of the stockholders which is
called for such purpose, by a vote of the majority of the stock
of such corporation, increase or diminish its capital stock or
the amount of the shares thereof, or authorize the dissolution
of such corporation and the settling of its business and disposing of its property and dividing its capital stock: Provided,
however, That the capital stock of any corporation formed
under this act, except corporations formed for the purpose of*
making and constructing a railroad, shall never exceed tim
sum of two million of dollars, and any corporation tlm.
shall violate this provision of this act shall forfeit its corporato
rights."
It is argued that because a corporation has authority to
an end to its existence by a vote of the majority of its zt',

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

35

Opinion of the Court.

holders, in which event it may proceed to settle up its affairs,
dipose of its property, and divide its capital stock, therefore,
a corporation in full operation, with no such purpose of terminating its existence, may, in the ordinary course of its business, sell all of its property, real and personal, and if it be a
railroad company dispose of its road, its franchises, and the
powers necessary to properly carry on the business of a
carrier. It is insisted th:lit if it can do this, it may, therefore,
make a lease of such pro)erty and franchises, transferring all
those powers, rights and privileges.
But it does not need argument to show that such provision,
made for the dissolution of a corporation by the voluntary act
of its incorporators, providing for the disposition of its property when the resolution to that effect has been adopted,
whether by distribution of dividends on its profits or the sale
of shares of stock, or for any other disposition of its effects
compatible with law, is not applicable to and cannot be intended to confer upon corporations continuing in existence, or
which, like these companies, contemplate in the very contract
entered into a continuance of more than ninety-six years, the
power to dispose of their corporate powers and franchises,
much less the authority to lease them for an indefinite period
to others.
In the case before us both corporations continued to exist;
they both entered into contracts covering a period of ninetysix years; and if the contract of lease be valid, one of them
obtained thereby the right to the control and use of the
property and franchises of the other, which on its part became
bound for the payment of rent therefor, a supposed profit on
the capital for the entire period of the term. We can see no
reason why the powers conferred upon a corporation going
out of existence, and dissolved by its own act, including the
right to wind up its affairs and dispose of its property, can be
held to confer any such power on a company which contemplates an existence of a hundred years to come.
Nor does there appear to be any force in the objection that if
an Oregon corporation cannot acquire the right to take a lease
of a railroad under the existing general laws, it cannot acquire

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

it at all, the legislature being prohibited by the constitution
from granting special charters of incorporation, and therefore,
it is said, it has no authority to grant special privileges to a
particular corporation -a proposition we are not prepared to
concede to its fullest extent. But assuming, without deciding,
that it is true that the legislature cannot grant the right to a
particular railroad company to nmake or to take a lease of the
railroad of another company, it would be clearly within its
power to confer by general laws on all railroad corporations
within the State the powers to make and to take leases, which
powers are claimed by the plaintiff to exist under the general
law of Oregon as it now stands.
The reasons for holding that the Oregonian Company had
no power to make the lease of its railroad are even stronger
than those for holding that the Oregon lRailway and Navigation Company had no power to take the lease.
In the first place, even if a domestic railroad corporation
established under the general laws of Oregon could be construed as entitled to assume by its articles the power of taking
leases of other railroads as incident to and in connection
with operating its own road, it would by no means follow that
such a corporation could assume the power of leasing its whole
railroad for a term of years to another corporation, and thereby
substantially abandon and transfer its whole corporate rights
and franchises.
The Oregonian Company is a foreign corporation, and the
general laws of Oregon do not give a foreign corporation the
right to lease, but only to construct or acquire and operate a
railroad within the State. The only statute relied on as giving the power to lease (except those already considered) is the
general law of Oregon of 1878, Laws of Oregon, p. 95, which
clearly does not include or touch that power. The first section, while it includes, among the classes of foreign corporations
therein particularly enumerated, "any foreign incorporation
incorporated for the purpose of constructing, or constructing
and operating, or for the purpose of or with the power of
acquiring and operating, any railway," significantly omits cor
porations established for the purpose of selling or leasing their

OREGON RAILWAY CO. v. OREGONIAN R'Y CO.

37

Opinion of the Court.

roads, instead of operating them themselves; and this section
gives to those classes of foreign corporations therein enumerated only "the same rights, powers and privileges in the
exercise of the rights of eminent domain, collection of tolls
and other prerogative franchises as are given by the laws of
this State to corporations organized within this State, for the
purpose of constructing any railway," or for one of the other
purposes already specified, of which the making of leases is
not one. And the second section, merely providing that nothing in the act contained shall be so construed as to give to
foreign corporations any other or further rights than may
be acquired or exercised by domestic corporations, but only to
give them the same as domestic corporations may acquire or
exercise, is evidently limited to the classes, both of foreign and
domestic corporations, specified in the first section.
Under this statute, in short, foreign corporations created for
the purpose of leasing get no power at all, and no foreign corporation gets any power to sell or lease its road.
Another argument relied upon by counsel for the defendant
in error is that, within the principles laid down in certain cases
on the subject, the contract here is so far an executed one that
the plaintiff in error is estopped to deny its validity and to refuse to continue its performance. As already stated, the contract was one by which the plaintiff demised its road, privileges
and franchises, for a period of ninety-six years, from the 1st
of August, 1881, to the defendant, who took possession of it,
and used and occupied it, under the lease, until the 15th day
of May, 1884, a period of less than three years. It then did
what was equivalent to returning the property to the plaintiff,
and refused to be further bound by the contract.
To say that a contract which runs for ninety-six years, and
which requires of both parties to it continual and actual operations and performance under it, becomes an executed contract
by such performance for less than three years of the term, is
carrying the doctrine much farther than it has ever been carried, and is decidedly a misnomer. This class of cases is not
governed by the doctrine of part performance in a suit in equity
for specific performance, nor is this a suit for specific perform-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ance. This is an action at law to recover money under a
contract which is void, where for nearly three years the
parties acted under it, but in which one of them refuses longer
to be bound by its provisions; and-the argument now set up
is that because the defendant has paid for all the actual use it
made of the road while engaged in the actual performance of
the contract between the dates just given, it is thereby bound
for more than ninety-three years longer by the contract which
was made without lawful authority by its president and board
of directors. We consider this proposition as needing no further consideration, except a reference to the discussion of the
same subject in Thomas v. Railroad Company and Pennsylvania,Railroad Co. v. St. Louis &c.Railroad Co., already cited.
The judgment of the C'ircuit Court of Oregon is reversed,
and the case is remanded to that court, with a direction to
overrule the demurrer,and to take such further proceedings -as shall be according to law, and not inconsistent
with this opinion.
x.

JUSTICE FIELD

dissenting.

I am not able to agree with the majority of the court in the
decision of this case. It seems to me clear that a railway corporation of Oregon has the right under her laws to lease its
road to another corporation of like character. A foreign corporation, as is the plaintiff below, is by the act of October
21st, 1878, placed- on the same footing with a domestic corporation, upon complying with the laws passed for the regulation
of such corporations transacting business in the State. That
act declares that, upon such compliance, the foreign corporation shall have "the same rights, powers and privileges" as a
domestic corporation.
Besides, the act of October 22, 1880, entitled "An act to
grant the Oregonian Railway Company, Limited, the right of
way and station grounds over the state lands, and terminal
facilities upon the public grounds at the city of Portland,"
recognizes the plaintiff as an existing corporation, lawfully
engaged in the construction and operation of a railway in

BADGER v. CUSTIMANO.
Syllabus.

Oregon, "from Portland to the head of the Willamette
Valley," and grants to it "and to its assigns" valuable
"rights, privileges, easements and property," accompanied
with a proviso that it shall have no power to sell, convey,
or assign the premises or rights granted, or any part or parcel
thereof, to any person or corporation, "save only with, and
as a part and parcel of and as appurtenant to, the railway now
built and owned by said company, and now in process of construction by it." As the court below observed, and it seems
to me very justly, this implies that the plaintiff had the power
to assign its road, and also the premises and rights thus granted
to it in connection therewith, but not otherwise.
I cannot perceive what public policy of the State is sustained
by denying to a foreign corporation, which has by her permission constructed a railway therein, the right to lease its
road to a domestic corporation. It would rather seem, if any
considerations of public policy are to control, that such policy
would favor a transfer of the road from foreigners to her own
citizens. When the transfer is made the State can exercise
over the road, its management, and the charges for its use,
the same authority which she could have previously exercised.
And there is nothing in the articles of association which forbids the directors of the plaintiff from making such a transfer
if the laws of Oregon permit it.
M .COIaTF JUSTICE FULLR was not a member of the court
when this case was argued, and took no part in this decision.

BADGER v. CUSIMANO.
ERROR TO THE CI

UIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 179. Argued January 31,1889.-Decided March 5, 18.
When there is a general finding in favor of the plaintiff on the issues of
fact raised by the pleadings in an action for the recovery of duties ile-

