AMICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

693

Statement of the Case.

of which she has been defrauded, and in such a case the statute of limitations begins to run only from the discovery of the
fraud. Xloore v. Greene, 19 How. 69; _lieader v. Torton, 11
Wall. 442; Cock v. Van Etten, 12 Minnesota, 522; Minnesota Gen. Stat. 187-8, c. 66, § 6, cl. 6.
Decree reversed, and case remanded,with directions to overrule the demurrer to the amended bill, and to take such
furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this opinion.

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 239.

Argued April 5, 8,1889.-Decided May 13,1889.

Even before the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, a provision, in a state statute of
limitations of personal actions, that a service of the summons, or its
delivery to an officer with intent that it should be served, should be
deemed a commencement of the action or equivalent thereto, was applicable, like the rest of the statute, to an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States.
A provision in a statute of limitations, that a delivery of the summons to
an officer, with the intent that it shall be actually served, shall be deemed
equivalent to the commencement of the action, is satisfied if the summons made out by the clerk, pursuant to the attorney's direction, is placed
by the clerk in a box in his office, designated by the officer, with the
clerk's assent, as a place where processes to be served by him may be
deposited and from which he usually takes them daily.

THIS was an action by a Michigan corporation against a
citizen of Wisconsin upon a judgment recovered by the plaintiff against the defendant on May 13, 1862, in the Circuit
Court for the county of Wayne and State of Michigan, for the
sum of $4211.56, which the plaintiff now sued for, with interest. The defendant answered that the cause of action did not
accrue within ten years.
At the trial, the plaintiff offered in evidence the precipe,
dated May 11, 1872, signed by its attorney, and directing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

clerk to issue a summons in this case, returnable according to
law; and the summons issued by the clerk, bearing the same
date, and returnable on the first :Monday (which was the third
day) of June, 1872; with the return of the marshal thereon,
stating that he had served it on June 3, 18,72.
The plaintiff's attorney testified that he prepared the
'p.eci~pe on the day it bore date, and, when he had filled it
up, filed it with the clerk, and then went immediately to the
marshal's office, which was one story above the clerk's office in
the same building, and told the marshal that there was in the
clerk's office a summons in this case for service.
The clerk, who had been in office for more than five years
before that day, being called as a witness, and asked as to the
practice or habit of the marshal in respect to calling at the
clerk's office for process, and as to the usual practice in the
clerk's office as to making out and delivering a summons, testified as follows: "The marshal usually stopped at our office,
on his way up and down stairs, and got such writs as were
waiting for him. We had a box in which we usually placed
them, so that he could stop in, open the door, and get them
and take them up. The box stood on a bookcase near the
door. That had been the custom for years; ever since I had
been in the office." "Sometimes attorneys would wait until
the process was issued, and take it and deliver it to the
marshal; sometimes we would put it in his box, and the
marshal would get it there." "I presume the summons must
have been made out by me on May 11, 1872; I know of nothing to the contrary. The mark of filing on the pr e ipe for a
summons is in my handwriting; it was filed May 11, 1872. I
have no special recollection about that particular summons."
"Our practice was to put writs in that box for the marshal. It
was our practice to put them there the day when the writ
was issued."

On cross-examination, he testified that he sometimes delivered processes to the attorney in the case to take to the
marshal, and sometimes, if the marshal did not come down
immediately, would take them up to him.
On refxamination, he testified that the custom was to issue

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

695

Opinion of the Court.

the summons on the same day the prwcipe was filed, and that
he had ho recollection of ever having neglected to do so.
The plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury that
"the delivery of the process to the marshal for serving may
be inferred from the practice and course of business as to
delivery of the summons by the clerk, or the practice of the
marshal to receive the same in the office of the clerk."
The court declined to give this instruction, and directed a
verdict for the defendant, which was returned. The plaintiff
duly tendered a bill of exceptions and sued out this writ of
error.
-Mr. George P. Miller for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred L. Gary (with whom was .Ar. F. C. Winkler on
the brief) for defendant in error.
:Yna. JusTicE GBAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The cause of action accrued M ay 13, 1862, when the judgment sued on was recovered; and the case turns upon the
question whether the action was commenced within ten years
afterwards.
As the facts relied on by the plaintiff to prevent the bar of
the statute of limitations occurred in May, 1872, the question
is not affected by the act of Congress of June 1, 1872, c. 255,
§ 5, requiring the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of
proceeding, in actions at law in the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States, to conform, as near as may be, to those
of the courts of record of the State. 17 Stat. 197; Rev. Stat.

914.
Before the act of 1872, the form of mesne process and the
forms and modes of proceeding in actions at law in the courts
of the United States in Wisconsin were such as were used in
the highest court of original jurisdicti6n of the State at the
time of its admission into the Union in 1848. Acts of -May
19, 1828, c. 68, 4 Stat. 278; August 6, 1846, c. 89,§ 4, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

May 29, 1848, c. 50, 9 Stat. 57, 233; United States v. Xeokuk
Council, 6 Wall. 514.
But it had been settled by a series of decisions of this court
that statutes of limitations, even in personal actions, including
actions on judgments, were "laws of the several States" which,
except where the constitution, treaties or statutes of the United
States otherwise required or provided, must, under the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 34, "be regarded as
rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the
United States in cases where they apply." 1 Stat. 92; -Rev.
Stat. § 721 ; Beatty v. Burnes, 8 Cranch, 98; Mc Cluny v. Silliman, 3 Pet. 270; Alabama Bank v. Dalton, 9 How. 522; Bacon
v. -Howard, 20 How. 22; Amy v. Dubuque, 98 U. S. 470.
Statutes of limitation of personal actions are laws affecting
remedies only, and not rights, as is clearly shown by the d~cisions that the only statutes of limitations applicable to sudh
an action are the statutes of the State where the action is
brought, and not those of the State where the cause of adtion
arose. .XcElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; Townsend v. Jemison, 9 How. 407; WFalsh v. .Mayer, 111 U. S. 31. It was thus
established that statutes of limitations of the State govdrned
personal actions in the courts of the United States. Otherwise, in the absence of Congressional legislation, there would
be no limitation of the time of bringing any personal action in
a court of the United States.
The statute of Wisconsin upon this subject, in force in May,
1872, was chapter 138 of the Revised Statutes of 1868, entitled
"Of the Limitation of Actions," the material provisiofis of
which are as follows:
"SEC. 1. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this chapter, except when in special cases
a different limitation is prescribed by statute."
"SEc. 14. The periods prescribed in section one of this
chapter for the commencement of actions, other than for the
recovery of real property, shall be as follows:"
"SEC. 16. Within ten years: 1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of any State 'or territbry within the United States, or of any court 'of the United
States."

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

697

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 27. An action shall be deemed commenced as to each
.defendant, when the summons is served on him, or on a codefendant who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in
interest with him. An attempt to commence an action shall
be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within
the meaning of this chapter, where the summons is delivered,
with the intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff
or other proper officer of the county in which the defendants,
or one of them, usually or last resided." "But such an
attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof, within sixty days."
The first sentence of the last section, declaring that the
service of the summons shall be deemed the commencement
of the action, is embodied in the statute of limitations, and is
as clearly a part of it as the second sentence of the section,
declaring that an attempt to commence an action by delivery
of the summons to an officer with intent that it shall be actually served shall be deemed equivalent to a commencement
thereof. The words "1within the meaning of this chapter"
were fitly inserted in the second sentence, in order to make
clear the intent of the legislature that this sentence laid down
a rule applicable only to the limitation of actions; and were
naturally omitted in the first sentence, because the rule therein laid down accorded with similar provisions in a previous
chapter, entitled "Of the Manner of Commencing Civil

Actions," c. 124, § 1, 11.
The legal construction and effect of § 27 of c. 138, taken in
connection with the preceding sections of the same chapter, is
that the service of the summons, or its delivery to an officer
with intent that it shall be served, is the act by which the
period of limitation must be computed; and the definition of
that act is an integral part of the statute of limitations, and
as such applicable, as the rest of the statute undoubtedly is, to
actions in the courts of the United States.
But in order to come within the second sentence of that
section, requiring the summons to be "delivered, with the intent 'that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other
'proper officer," it does not appear to us to be necessary that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

there should be a manual delivery of the summons to the
officer in person. It would be sufficient, for instance, if the
attorney left it on the marshal's desk or other place in the
marshal's office, so that the marshal would understand that it
was left with him for service. It would be equally sufficient
if the attorney, or the clerk acting by his direction, placed the
summons in a box in the clerk's office, designated by the marshal, with the clerk's assent, as a place where processes to be
served by him should be deposited, and from which he usually
took them daily.
The defendant much relies on an opinion of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, in which it was said that "the fact that
the summons was not placed in the hands of an officer of the
county in which the action was intended to be commenced
would be fatal to the claim that there was an attempt to
commence the action within the meaning of § 4240" of the
Revised Statutes of 1878, corresponding to § 27 of c. 138 of the
Revised Statutes of 1858. Sher n v. Gibmore, 58 Wisconsin,
324, 334. But in that case there was no service, or attempt
to serve, except through the mail; and the court had not
before it the question whether depositing a process in a place
provided and designated by the officer was equivalent to
putting it in his own hands.
In the case at bar, the testimony introduced by the plaintiff
tended to show that the attorney filled out the prcecipe to the
clerk to issue- the summons and filed the y.ceci2pe with the
clerk on May 11, 1872, and immediately went to the marshal's office, one story above, in the same building, and told
him there was in the clerk's office a summons in this case for
service. The summons issued by the clerk bore date of the
same day. The clerk testified that he presumed that the
summons must have been made out on the day of its date,
and knew nothing to the contrary; that his custom was to
issue the summons on the same day the prcecipe was filed, and
he had no recollection of ever having neglected to do so; but
had no personal recollection about this particular summons.
IHe also testified that there was a box on a bookcase near the
door in his office, where he usually placed such writs as were

HILL v. HARDING.
Syllabus.

waiting for the 'marshal, so that he could stop in, open the
door, and get them and take them up, and he usually stopped
on his way up and down stairs and got such writs; and that
the practice of the clerk's office was to put writs in that box
for the marshal on the day on which they were issued, but
the -clerk sometimes delivered processes to the attorney to
take to the marshal, and sometimes, if the marshal did not
come down immediately, took them up to him.
Upon this testimony, the questions, whether the box in the
clerk's office bad been duly designated by the marshal as a
place where processes to be served by him should be deposited,
and whether the summons in this case was either deposited by
the clerk in that box, or delivered by him to the marshal,
within ten years after May 13, 1862, when the cause of action
accrued, were not questions of law for the court, but questions
of fact, which should have been submitted to the jury. The
court therefore erred in not giving the instruction requested,
and in directing the jury to return a verdict for the defendant.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded,with directions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

HILL v. HARDING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 253.

COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted April 16, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

If an attachment of property in an action in a state court is dissolved by
the defendant's entering into a recognizance, with sureties, to pay, within
ninety days after any final judgment against him, the amount of that
judgment; and the defendant, after verdict against him, obtains his discharge in bankruptcy upon proceedings commenced more than four
months after the attachment; the Bankrupt Act does not prevent the
state court from rendering judgment against him on the verdict, with a
perpetual stay of execution, so as to leave the plaintiff at liberty to proceed against the sureties.

