HILL v. HARDING.
Syllabus.

waiting for the 'marshal, so that he could stop in, open the
door, and get them and take them up, and he usually stopped
on his way up and down stairs and got such writs; and that
the practice of the clerk's office was to put writs in that box
for the marshal on the day on which they were issued, but
the -clerk sometimes delivered processes to the attorney to
take to the marshal, and sometimes, if the marshal did not
come down immediately, took them up to him.
Upon this testimony, the questions, whether the box in the
clerk's office bad been duly designated by the marshal as a
place where processes to be served by him should be deposited,
and whether the summons in this case was either deposited by
the clerk in that box, or delivered by him to the marshal,
within ten years after May 13, 1862, when the cause of action
accrued, were not questions of law for the court, but questions
of fact, which should have been submitted to the jury. The
court therefore erred in not giving the instruction requested,
and in directing the jury to return a verdict for the defendant.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded,with directions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

HILL v. HARDING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 253.

COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted April 16, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

If an attachment of property in an action in a state court is dissolved by
the defendant's entering into a recognizance, with sureties, to pay, within
ninety days after any final judgment against him, the amount of that
judgment; and the defendant, after verdict against him, obtains his discharge in bankruptcy upon proceedings commenced more than four
months after the attachment; the Bankrupt Act does not prevent the
state court from rendering judgment against him on the verdict, with a
perpetual stay of execution, so as to leave the plaintiff at liberty to proceed against the sureties.

OCTOBER TER-1,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

Tins was an action of assumpsit, commenced by Harding
and others against Hill in an inferior court of the State of
Illinois, in accordance with the statutes of the State, by attachment of the defendant's real estate. The attachment was
dissolved, in accordance with those statutes, by the defendant giving bond, or, more strictly speaking, entering into a
recognizance, with sureties, conditioned to pay to the plaintiffs
"the amount of the judgment and costs which may be rendered against him in this suit on a final trial hereof, within
ninety days after such judgment shall be rendered." After
verdict for the plaintiffs, and before judgment thereon, and on
proceedings in bankruptcy commenced more than four months
after the attachment, the defendant was adjudged a bankrupt
under the Bankrupt Act of the United States, and applied to
the state court, under ยง 5106 of the Revised Statutes, for a
stay of proceedings to await the determination of the court
in bankruptcy upon the question of his discharge. The application was denied, and judgment rendered against the defendant on the verdict, and upon a bill of exceptions, stating these
facts, that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 93 Illinois, 77. Upon a former writ of error, this
court reversed the judgment of that court, and remanded the
case to it for further proceedings, upon the ground that the
defendant was entitled to the stay applied for, without considering the question whether the court in which the suit was
pending might, after the defendant had obtained his discharge
in bankruptcy, render a special judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the purpose of charging the sureties on the recognizance given to dissolve the attachment. 107 U. S. 631, 635.
The case was then remanded by the Supreme Court of Illinois to the inferior court with a direction that, upon its satisfactorily appearing that the defendant since the verdict had
obtained his discharge in bankruptcy, a judgment should be
entered for the plaintiff and against the defendant upon the
verdict, with a perpetual stay of execution. The inferior court
thereupon denied a motion of the defendant for leave to file a
formalfplea setting up his discharge in bankruptcy; admitted
in evidence a copy of that discharge, offered by the plaintiff

lILL v. HARDING.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and objected to by the defendant as not duly verified; refused
the defendant's request for a trial by jury on the question
of his discharge in bankruptcy; denied a motion to enter a
judgment in his favor, releasing him from all liability subsequent to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, on account of all causes of action involved in this
suit; and ordered judgment on the verdict, pursuant to the
mandate of the Supreme Court of the State, with a perpetual
stay of execution. Upon a bill of exceptions the judgment
and order were affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
116 Illinois, 92. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. George W. Brandt for plaintiff in error.
I. The courts of Illinois proceeded in hostility to the decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States in this case, and
erred in refusing plaintiff in error leave to file a plea of his
discharge in bankruptcy, and in entering a judgment against
him for the purpose of depriving him of the benefit of his
discharge as a bankrupt. Page v. Bussell, 2 lM. & S. 551;
Taylor v. iMills, Cowp. 525; Paul v. Jones, 1 T. R. 599; TWelsh
v. W~elsh, 4 M. & S. 333; Buel v. Gordon, 6 Johns. 126; Woodard v. Herbert, 24 Maine, 358; Ellis v. Ham, 28 Maine, 385;
Hankin v. Bennett, 8 Exch. 107; Hinton v. Acraman, 2 C. B.
367; Eastman v. Hibbard,54 N. H. 504; Mc-Mullen v. Bank of
Penn. Township, 2 Penn. St. 343; Cake v. Lewis, 8 Penn. St.
493; TFells v. Mace, 17 Vermont, 503; Comfort v. EiOsenbeis,
11 Penn. St. 13; Ltaddens v. Chambers, 2 )all. 236; Page v.
Cole, 123 Mass. 93; Carpenter v. Turrell, 100 Mass. 450;
ilamilton v. Bryant, 114 Mass. 543; Barnstable Savings Bank
v. Higgins, 124 Mass. 115; Denny v. .Merrifgeld, 128 Mass.
228; Lincoln v. Leshure, 132 Mass. 40; .cKay v. Funk, 37
Iowa, 661; Bratton v. Anderson, 5 South Carolina, 504; Bank
of Clinton v. Taylor, 120 Mass. 124; Payne v. Able, 7 Bush,
344; Martin v. Kilbourn, 12 Ileiskell, 331; Odell v. Wootten,
38 Georgia, 224; Wolf v. Stix, 99 U. S. 1; Empire Fire Ins.
Co. v. Real Estate Trust Co., 1 Bradwell, 391; Drake v. Drake,
83 Illinois, 526.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

II. Sureties are favorites in law, and no intendments will be
made against them. Law v. East India Co., 4 Ves. 824; Zang
v. Pike, 27 Ohio St. 498; Xingsbury v. Wesyall, 61 N. Y. 356;
Stull v.'Hana, 62 Illinois, 52; People v. Tompkins, 74 Illinois,
482; Pickersgill v. lahens, 15 Wall. 140; Risley v. Brown,
67 N. Y. 160; Weaver v. Shyrock, 6 S. & R. 262; Kennedy v.
Carpenter, 2 Wharton, 344, 362; Towne v. Ammidown, 20
Pick. 535; Wood v. _Fisk, 63 N. Y. 245.
III. A surety is under no moral obligation to pay the debt
of his principal. Winston v. Fenwick, 4 Stew. & Porter (Ala.)
269; Hfarrison v. Field,2 Wash. (Va.) 136; 'Fan Derveer v.
W'ight, 6 Barb. 547.
IV. The Circuit Court erred in admitting in evidence the
alleged certificate of Hill's discharge in bankruptcy. Baldwin
v. H7ale, 17 Johns. 272; Griswold v. Sedgwick, 1 Wend. 126;
Brackett v. The People, 64 Illinois, 170.
V. There was no verdict on which a judgment could be
entered. Boynton v. Ball, 105 Illinois, 627.
Mr. John i. Glover and 1r. William H
defendants in error.

Barnum for

iMR.JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by this writ of error is quite distinct
from that which arose when the case was before this court at
a former term, as reported in 107 U. S. 631. The only point
then decided was that the defendant, on his application made
after verdict and before judgment, was entitled to a stay of
proceedings to await the determination of the court in bankruptcy upon the question of his discharge. The question not
then passed upon, and now presented, is whether, since he has
obtained his discharge in bankruptcy, there is anything in the
provisions of the Bankrupt Act to prevent the state court from
rendering judgment on the verdict against him, with a perpetual stay of execution, so as to prevent the plaintiffs from
enforcing the judgment against him, and leave them at liberty
to proceed against the sureties in the bond or recognizance

HILL v. HARDING.
Opinion of the Court.

given to dissolve an attachment made more than four months
before the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
Such attachments being recognized as valid by the Bankrupt
Act (Rev. Stat. ยง 5044) a discharge in bankruptcy does not
prevent the attaching creditors from taking judgment against
the debtor in such limited form as may enable them to reap
the benefit of their attachment. When the attachment remains in force, the creditors, notwithstanding the discharge,
may have judgment against the bankrupt, to be levied only
upon the property attached. Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612,
623; Doe v. Ckildress, 21 Wall. 642. When the attachment
has been dissolved, in accordance with the statutes of the
State, by the defendant's entering into a bond or recognizance, with sureties, conditioned to pay to the plaintiffs,
within a certain number of days after any judgment rendered
against him on a final trial, the amount of that judgment, the
question whether the state court is powerless to render even a
formal judgment against him for the single purpose of charging such sureties, or, in the phrase of Chief Justice Waite in
Wolfv. Sti, 99 U. S. 1, 9, whether "the judgment is defeated
by the bankruptcy of the person for whom the obligation is
assumed," depends not upon any provision of the Bankrupt
Act, but upon the extent of the authority of the state court
under the local law. Whether that authority is exercised
under the settled practice of the court, as in Illinois, or only
by virtue of an express statute, as in Massachusetts, there is
nothing in the Bankrupt Act to prevent the rendering of such
a judgment. The bond or recognizance takes the place of the
attachment as a security for the debt of the attaching creditors ; they cannot dispute the election, given to the debtor by
statute, of substituting the new security for the old one; and
the giving of the bond or recognizance, by dissolving the
attachment, increases the estate to be distributed in bankruptcy. The judgment is not against the person or property
of the bankrupt, and has no other effect than to enable the
plaintiff to charge the sureties, in accordance with the express
terms of their contract, and with the spirit of that provision
of the Bankrupt Act which declares that "no discharge shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1888
Opinion of the Court.

release, discharge or affect any person liable for the same debt
for or with the bankrupt, either as partner, joint contractor,
indorser, surety or otherwise." Rev. Stat. ยง 5118; -In re
Albrecht, 17 Bankr. Reg. 287; Hill v. farding, 116 Illinois,
92; BarnstableSavings .Bank v. Higgins, 124 Mass. 115.
If the bond was executed before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy, the discharge of the bankrupt protects him from liability to the obligees, so that, in an action
on the bond against him and his sureties, any judgment recovered by the plaintiffs must be accompanied with a perpetual stay of execution against him; but his discharge does
not prevent that judgment from being rendered generally
against them. Woofv. Stix, above cited. If the sureties should
ultimately pay the amount of any such judgment, and thereby
acquire a claim to be reimbursed by their principal the
amount so paid (which is a point not now in issue), it would
be because his liability to them upon such a claim did not
exist at the time of the commencement of the proceedings
in bankruptcy, and therefore could not be proved in bankruptcy nor barred by the discharge, and consequently would
not be affected by any provision of the Bankrupt Act.
The courts of Illinois, in the judgment rendered in this
case, having assumed the validity of the defendant's discharge
in bankruptcy, he has not been prejudiced by the rulings
denying leave to fie after verdict a formal plea of the discharge in bankruptcy, and admitting in evidence an unverified copy of the discharge, and refusing his request for
a trial by jury upon that issue.
Judgment affirmed.

