OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

ity, of a curt of equity. The interpretation* we give to the
statute is supported by the principle upon which courts of
equity uniformly proceed, independently of any statute of limitations, of refusing relief to those who unreasonably delay to
invoke their aid. Richards v. X.lackall, 121 U. S. 183, 187.
To avoid misapprehension, it is proper to observe that
what we have said has reference only to cases arising under
the Civil Practice Act of 1873. The present case is unaffected
by the act of the territorial legislature, approved February
3, 1886, permitting the judgment debtor, or his successor in
interest, to redeem any real estate sold under execution of
judgment or foreclosure of mortgage, at any time within one
year from the date of sale, by paying the amount of the purchase-money, with interest at the rate of one per centum per
month thereon from the date of sale, together with the amount
of any taxes the purchaser may have paid.
The decree is cfflrmed.

BALLARD v. SEARLS.
ORIGINAL 'MOTION IN A CAUSE BROUGHT HERE ON A:PPATL FROM
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 144. November 26, 1888, Submitted.-December 3, 1888, Postponed until hearing on the
merits.--December 20, 1888, Resubmitted.-Decided March 5, 1889.

Searls, the appellee, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Michigan against Worden -for infringement of
letters patent. After hearing, a decree was entered in that case in his
favor for the recovery of $24,960.31 damages and costs. Worden appealed
to this court, but gave no supersedeas bond. Thereupon execution issued
on the decree, which was levied on certain lots, the property of Ballard
the appellant. Searls then filed his bill in the Circuit Court in aid of the
execution, praying to have a conveyance by Worden to Ballard of the lots
levied upon set aside, as made to defraud Worden's creditors. On the
final hearing of that case the conveyance was set aside as fraudulent,
from which Ballard took this appeal. Meanwhile Worden's appeal in the
patent suit was reached on the docket in this court, and, after hearing,
the judgment below was reversed, and the cause was remanded to the

BALLARD v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.
Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss the bill. See 121 U. S. 14.
Thereupon Ballard moved in this case, on the records in the two cases,
and on affidavits, to reverse the decree of the court below, and to remand
this cause to the Circuit Court, with direction to dismiss the bill. Held,
that if such a course could properly be taken in any case, it would be
improper to take it in this case; but that, as the appellant might be subjected to great injustice if the cause should go to hearing on the appeal
in the present condition of the record, the cause should be remanded
with instructions to the Circuit Court to allow the defendant below to
file such supplemental bill as he might be advised, in the nature of a bill
of review, or for the purpose of suspending or avoiding the decree,
upon the new matter arising from the reversal of the former decree in
Worden v. Searls.

THis was a motion to remand the cause with directions to
the Circuit Court to dismiss the bill. The case is stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles J. Hunt, for the motion, cited: Messmore v.
Haggard,46 Michigan, 558; Dakota County v. Glidden, 113
U. S. 222; Smith v. United States, 94 U. S. 97; Oheong Ah
.Moy v. United States, 113 U. S. 216; San .Mateo County v.
Southern Pacifle Railroad, 116 U. S. 138; Lord v. V'eazey, 8
How. 251; Harrisonv. N¥ixon, 9 Pet. 483 ; Waples v. United
States, 110 U. S. 630; Smith v. AfcCann, 24 How. 398.
.Ar. A. G. N. Vermilya, opposing, cited: Wood v. Jackson,
8 Wend. 1; S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 603; Manning's Case, 8 .Rep.
187,192 ; Eyre v. Woodjfle, Cro. Eliz. 278 ; Jackson v. Cadwell,
1 Cowen, 622; Woodcock v. Bennet, 1 Cowen, 711; . C. 13
Am. Dec. 568.

MR. JUSTICn. BrtADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant has made a motion that the decree appealed
from in this case, so far as it affects the said appellant, be
reversed, and that the cause may be remanded to the Circuit
Court with direction to dismiss the bill. This motion proposes
that the decree be reversed without argument of the cause in
view'of extrinsic facts, which are made to appear by the records of this court and of the Circuit Court, and by affidavits.
If such a course can be properly taken in any case, we think

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

it would be improper in the present, since the decree may be
perfectly correct and free from objection on the facts of the
case as they appear upon the record, and it is possible to be
correct, notwithstanding the facts alleged by the appellant.
These facts, however, are of such a character that the appellant may be subjected to great injustice if the cause should
go to hearing on the appeal in the present condition of the
record; and, as they have occurred since the appeal was taken,
there seems to be no mode of affording relief to the appellant
except by sending the cause back to the Circuit Court for the
purpose of allowing supplementary proceedings to be had in
that court.
The !acts as stated by the appellant, and not denied by the
appellee, are as follows:
"On the 12th day of July, 1880, Anson Searls, the appellee
in this cause, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan his bill of complaint
against Alva Worden and John S. Worden, for the infringement of a patent, and such proceedings were had in the cause
that on the 5th day of September, 1883, a decree was entered
in said cause in said Circuit Court, whereby it was decreed
that the said Alva Worden and John S. Worden infringed
the patent, and should pay over to the said Anson Searls
$24,960.31.
"That upon the entry of said decree the defendants appealed
the case to this court. But the defendants, Alva Worden and
John S. Worden, were unable to give the necessary bond to
operate as a supersedeas bond upon said appeal.
"On the 17th of September, 1883, the complainant issued
an execution on his decree, and placed it in the hands of the
marshal of said district.
"On the 18th of September, 1883, the marshal, under the
execution, levied upon certain lots in the city of Ypsilanti,
county of Washtenaw, and upon certain lands in the town of
Sumpter, county of Wayne, all in the State of Michigan, in
the Eastern District thereof, the property of the said appellant, Harrison H. Ballard; and on other lands in the said city
of Ypsilanti, belonging to the said Alva Worden and John S.

BALLARD v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

Worden.but which were mortgaged to Mary Ann Andrews,
Henry M. Curtis, Henry Van Tuyl and Charles King.
"That, on the 10th day of October, 1883, the said Anson
Searls, in aid of his execution against the Wordens, filed in
the said Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Michigan, his bill of complaint against Harrison
H. Ballard, Mary A. Andrews, Henry M. Curti,, Henry Van
Tuyl, Charles King, Alva Worden and John ').
Worden, to
set aside as fraudulent and void, as to the cred:tois of the said
Alva Worden and John S. Worden, the conveyances under
which the said Harrison H. Ballard held the lands so levied
upon; and also the mortgages given by the said Alva Worden
and John S. Worden on the said lands belonging to them to
the said Mary Ann Andrews, Henry M. Curtis, Henry Van
Tuyl and Charles King. That such proceedings were had in
said last-mentioned cause, that the cause was brought to a
final hearing, and a decree entered on the 24th day of November, A.D. 188-, in which it was decreed that the mortgages
given by the said defendants Alva Worden and John S.
Worden to the said defendants Mary A. Andrews, Henry M.
Curtis, Henry Van Tuyl, and Charles King, were good and
valid liens upon the lands mentioned therein, and that the
several conveyances to Harrison H. Ballard were fraudulent
and void as against the creditors of the said Alva Worden and
John S. Worden.
"Thereupon the said defendant Harrison H. Ballard prayed
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States to reverse
the said decree, as far as it related to him.
"That the said appeal was allowed and the amount of the
appeal bond was fixed at the sum of $8500. That the said
bond was duly executed and approved by one of the judges of
the said Circuit Court, and filed in the office of the clerk of
said Circuit Court. That on the 8th day of October, 1885, the
clerk of the said Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan, transmitted the transcript of the
record in the case of Anson Searls v. Harrison 1I. Ballard et
al. to the clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States, and
that the said transcript was filed in the office of the clerk of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

this court on the 13th day of October, 1885, and now stands
on the docket for the October Term, 1888, as No. 144.
"That since the appeal in this case, the appeal in the original case of Alva -Worden and John S. WMvden, Appellants v.
Anson Searl&, has been heard in this court, and a decree entered thereon on the 27th of March, 1887, wherein and whereby
it was, among other things, ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the final decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that the same
be remanded to the said Circuit Court with a direction to dismiss the bill with costs.
"That on the 8th day of August, 1887, this court issued its
mandate in the said case of Alva Worden et al., Appellants v.
Anson Searis to the said Circuit Court, in which, among other
things, the said Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan was directed to dismiss the bill
with costs.
"That said mandate was filed in the said Circuit Court on
the 3d day of October, 1887.
"That on the 3d day of September, 1888, a decree was entered in pursuance of said mandate in the case of Anson earls
v. AlvaT Forden and John S. lTorden; (the original case), dismissing the bill of complaint with costs."
It is apparent from this statement that the whole basis and
foundation of the present suit has disappeared by the decree
rendered in the former ease of WTrden and others v. Searls,
reported in 121 U. S. 14. Surely there ought to be some
mode of relieving a party in such a case. The appellee is endeavoring to collect the amount recovered by a decree which
has been reversed, and in a case in which his bill has been dismissed on the merits. The object of the present suit is to nid
the execution of that former decree by having declared void
certain conveyances of property by the defendants, which the
appellee has caused to be levied on for the satisfaction of the
decree. If the former decree had been reversed before the
taking of the present appeal, the appellant could have instituted supplementary proceedings in the Circuit Court for obtaining the benefit of that reversal. The conveyances sought

BALLARD v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

to be set aside were good as between the parties, and only void
as to creditors; and as the appellee, by the reversal of his decree ceased to be a creditor, his bill to have the conveyances
set aside had no longer any ground to stand on. A supplemental proceeding of some kind, therefore, would have been
the right of the defendant, the present appellant. But as the
case had been removed to this court by appeal before that decree of reversal was rendered, such a proceeding was out of
his power. Nor could it be taken in this court, where the case
was pending on appeal, for this court cannot entertain proceedings that require the exercise of original jurisdiction, except inthe few cases pointed out in the Constitution.
The only course which can be properly pursued is to remand
the cause to the Circuit Court, with instructions to allow the
appellant to file a supplemental bill, in the nature of a bill of
review, or a bill to suspend or avoid the operation of the decree,
according to the mode pointed out by Lord Redesdale in his
work on Equity Pleading. He says, on page 86: "But if a
case were to arise in which the new matter discovered could
not be evidence of any matter in issue in the original cause,
and yet clearly demonstrated error in the decree, it should
seem that it might be used as ground for a bill of review, if
relief could not otherwise be obtained." And on page 95 he
says: "5. The operation of a decree signed and enrolled has
been suspended in special circumstances, or avoided by matter
subsequent to the decree, upon a new bill for that purpose;"
and he gives an instance occurring in the time of Charles II.
These views are adopted by Mr. Justice Story in his work on
Equity Pleading. See § 415 and note; and § 428. We do not
decide what precise form such a proceeding should take: the
appellant will be advised by his counsel in this regard.
The appellee, in opposition to the appellant's motion, has
produced the certificates of the marshal of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan, showing that, on the
10th day of December, 1884, he sold the property in disput%
or some part thereof, to certain persons, under the execution
issued upon the decree in the -ase of Anson Sear s v. Alva
Worden and John S. Worden, (which was reversed by this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

as before stated,) and that the purchasers would be entitled to
a deed of said lands, and the sales would become absolute at
the expiration of fifteen months, unless previously redeemed
as prescribed by the statute of Michigan.
It is possible that these sales may complicate the inquiry to
be made by the court upon the supplemental proceedings of
the appellant; but we do not see that they can preclude such
proceedings. It is not shown that the purchasers have advanced any money on the faith of the purchases; and it is
possible that the appellant can show that they were made for
the benefit of the appellee; in either case, the sales would be
liable to be set aside on the reversal of the decree. Should the
Circuit Court deem it proper to require that the purchasers be
made parties to the supplemental proceedings, the facts of the
case could be fully elicited, and right could be done without
prejudice to any of the parties.
Our decision is that the cause be reinanded to the Circuit
Court, with instructions to allow the appellant,defendant
below, to fle such supplemental bill as he may be advised,
in the nature of a bill of review, orfor thepurpose of suspending or avoiding th-e decree, upon the new matter arisingfi-om,the reversal of the decree in the former case of
Anson Searls v. Alva Worden and John S. Worden, and
that such proceedings be had thereon as justice and equity
may require: And it is so ordered.

COLLINS COMPANWY v. COES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOE

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 164. Argued January 10, 11, 1889.-Decided March 5,1889.
The first claim in reissued letters patent No. 5294, granted February 25,
1873, to the Collins Company, as assignee of Lucius Jordan and Leander
E. Smith, for an improvement in wrenches, was only the application to
the bar of the Coes wrench, (which was an existing patented invention

