ANDRUS v. ST. LOUIS SMELTING CO.
Statement of the Case.

ANDRUS v. ST. LOUIS SMELTING AND REFINING
COiMTANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 260. Submitted April 17,1889.-

Decided May 13, 1889.

A purchaser of land, taking a conveyance from the vendor, with a covenant for peaceable possession, cannot maintain an action for its rental
value from the date of conveyance until placed in actual possession, in
consequence of being kept out by a trespasser: since he might have
required the delivery of such possession to accompany the conveyance
and the payment of the purchase money.

On the 27th of March, 1879, the plaintiff below, a citizen of
Colorado, purchased for the consideration of $875 a lot or
parcel of land in the town of Leadville, Colorado, described
in the complaint, and took a conveyance of it from the
defendant, the St. Louis Smelting and Refining Company, a
corporation created under the laws of Missouri. The deed of
conveyance contained covenants that the defendant was seized
of an estate in fee simple of the premises; that they were clear
of all liens and encumbrances; and that it would warrant
and defend the grantee in their peaceable possession against
all persons lawfully claiming the same or any part thereof.
The complaint alleged, with much repetition and unnecessary verbiage, that prior to the purchase of the land, and
pending negotiations for it, the officers, agents and attorneys
of the defendant represented to him that the company had
secured the actual possession of the premises and obtained a
release from all other parties claiming or pretending to claim
the right of possession; that it would execute to him a good
and sufficient warranty deed containing all the usual covenants, including one for quiet and peaceable possession; and
assured him that if he would purchase and pay for the premises
it could and would deliver to him immediate possession; that
at that time there was a great rush of people to the town of
Leadville on account of the report of rich mineral discoveries

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

in its immediate neighborhood; that there was a great struggle
to secure possession of lots and business houses in the town;
that there were many conflicting titles and claims to their
possession; that amidst the general confusion and struggle
and conflicting claims, the plaintiff was unable, after making
due inquiry, and using all the diligence in his power, to find
out whether the statements of the officers, agents and attorneys of the defendant were true or false; that, therefore,
relying upon their truth, and believing that they were made
in good faith, he paid the $875 and took the deed of conveyance; that before and at the time he purchased, the defendant
represented that it had received a patent from the government
of the United States for the premises as well as for a large
number of other lots in the town, that no opposition would
be made to its right of possession, and that no trouble would,
therefore, occur, either in regard to the title or the possession
of the premises; that these statements and assurances as to the
defendant being able to put the plaintiff into immediate possession, and to having obtained a release from all parties who
claimed an adverse title and right to the possession of the
premises, and that it would put him into immediate possession,
were false and fraudulent, and were made by the agents, officers and attorneys of the defendant to deceive and defraud
the plaintiff out of the money paid, knowing at the time that
the defendant could not put him in possession of the premises;
that when he attempted to enter upon them after his purchase
he found that one Sarah Ray was in actual possession, claiming the same by virtue of prior possession and occupation on
the public domain of the United States, under a town-site
right, and refused to surrender them to him; that soon afterwards the company commenced an action of ejectment against
her to recover the possession of the premises, but did not
succeed in ejecting her and her tenants before the 22d of
February, 1883, until which time the plaintiff was kept out
of possession; and that during this period the rent of the
premises was worth $400 a month, amounting, during the
period mentioned, to $18,733, all of which the plaintiff alleged
he lost by the fraud and deceit practised upon him by the

AIDRUS v. ST. LOTUS SELTING CO.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

defendant, besides the interest thereon. He therefore prayed
judgment thereon for $20,000 and costs.
To this complaint the defendant demurred on the following
grounds:
1. That the complaint did not set forth facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
2. That several pretended causes of action had been improperly united therein, to wit:
(a) A pretended cause of action for breach of a parol contract to put the plaintiff in possession of the land described;
(b) For breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment contained
in the plaintiff's deed;
(6) For deceit; and that these several causes of action had
been improperly blended in one statement.
3. That the complaint was ambiguous, unintelligible and
uncertain, in this, that it did not appear how the plaintiff was
misled or deceived by the pretended representations stated in
the complaint.
The record also disclosed what was called a "substituted demurrer," specifying various particulars in which the complaint
was alleged to be unintelligible and uncertain, but as counsel
of both parties gave the demurrer above as the one on which
the court below passed, it was so. considered here. The court
below sustained the demurrer, holding "that the complaint
and the matters and things therein alleged were not sufficient
in law for the said defendant to answer unto." The plaintiff
thereupon stating that he would abide by his complaint, it was
adjudged that the cause be dismissed with costs. To review
this judgment the case was brought to this court.
Mr. T.A. Green, for plaintiff in error, cited: U.pton v. Vail,
6 Johns. 181; S. C. 5 Am. Dec. 210; Barney v. Dewey, 13
Johns. 225; S. (Z 7 Am. Dec. 312; .Morgan v. Bliss, 2 Mass.
111; Jones v. Emery, 40 N. H. 348; Afonell v. Colden, 13 Johns.
395; S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 390; Clarl v. Baird, 9 N. Y. 183;
Phillipsv. Bush, 15 Iowa, 64; Johnson v. .ADaniel, 15 Arkansas, 109 ; Fowler v. A brams,3 E. D. Smith (N. Y.) 1; Huston
v. Plato,3 Colorado, 402; Salem Andia Rubber Co. v. Adams,

646

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

23 Pick. 256; Horton v. Doherty, 3 Gray, 372; S. C. 73 Am.
Dec. 578; Ruf v. Jarrett,94 Illinois, 475; Cravins v. Grant,
4 T. B. Mon. 126; Pritchett v. Munroe, 22 Alabama, 501;
Harlow v. Green, 34 Vermont, 379; Osborne v. Fuller,14 Connecticut, 529; Vincent v. Leland, 100 Mass. 432; Eames v.
3[organ, 37 Illinois, 260; Apy_lebee v. Rumrey, 28 Illinois, 280;
Caldwell v. Xirpatrick, 6 Alabama, 60; S. C. 41 Am. Dec. 36.
M. Charles E. Gast, for defendant in error, cited: Gardner
v. -Yeteltas, 3 HFill, 330; S. C. 38 Am. Dec. 637; Dudley v.
Folliott, 3 T. R. 584; Rayes v. Bickerstaf, Vaughn, 118;
Grannis v. Clark, 8 Cowen, 36; Beebe v. Swartwout, 3 Gilman,
162 ; 8pear v. Allison, 20 Penn. St. 200; Peabody v. Phe ps, 9
California, 213.
M . JusTicE FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As appears by the above statement, the gist of the action is
the alleged deceit practised upon the plaintiff by the agents,
attorneys and officers of the company to induce him to purchase from it a lot in Leadville, by representing that it had
obtained a release of the right of all claimants to the land,
and could put him into immediate possession; whereas, upon
attempting to enter upon the land purchased, he found another in possession, who refused to surrender it, and thus he
was kept out of possession from the time of his purchase,
March 27, 1879, to February 22, 1883, during which period he
lost its rental value.
To this ground of complaint there are two obvious answers.
In the first place, the plaintiff could have required the delivery
of the possession of the land to accompany the payment of
the money. The lot being in the town might have been readily reached, when the ability of the company to give possession could have been at once determined. The plaintiff alleges
that he used all diligence in his power to find out whether the
representations of the officers, agents and attorneys of the
company were true or false, but the inspection of the premises, the most natural and obvious mode of ascertaining

ANDRUS ov.ST. LOUIS SMELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

whether they were occupied by another, does not seem to
have been resorted to. The law does not afford relief to one
who suffers by not using the ordinary means of information,
whether his neglect be attributable to indifference or credulity, nor will industrious activity in other directions, to the
neglect of such means, be of any avail.
Besides, it does not appear at what time the party in possession entered upon the land. The complaint only alleges that
when -the time not being stated-the plaintiff attempted to
take possession, he found another person there, who, for aught
that appears, may have gone on the land after the execution
and delivery of the deed. There was at the time, according
to the allegations of the complaint, a great struggle to obtain
possession of lots among the crowd of persons pressing to the
town owing to the report of rich gold discoveries within its
immediate neighborhood. The claim of right to the land
advanced by the occupant was founded only upon her alleged
prior possession of it as a part of the public domain of the
United States, a claim which would seem, from the result of
the ejectment suit against her brought by the company, to
have been entirely worthless. The complaint alleges that the
defendant represented that it had received a patent from the
government of the United States for the premises, as well as
for a large number of other lots in the town, and contains no
averment that this representation was untrue. It may therefore be fairly presumed, that upon the title thus conferred, the
company subsequently evicted the intruder. The possession
of a patent of the United States would have justified all the
representations alleged, as to title and right of possession, and
the purchaser might have called for an inspection of that document if doubtful of the statements of the agents and officers of
the vendor.
In the second place, the covenant in the deed for quiet possession merged all previous representations as to the possession,
and limited the liability growing out of them. Those representations were to a great extent, if not entirely, mere expressions of confidence in the company's title, and the right of
possession which followed it, against all intruders. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

covenant was an affirmance of those statements in a form
admitting of no misunderstanding. It was the ultimate assurance given upon which the plaintiff could rely, a guarantee
against disturbance by a superior title. That covenant has
not been broken. It is a covenant against disturbance by
"persons lawfully claiming" the premises or any part thereof.
If the occupant holds by a paramount title, and thus lawfully
excludes the purchaser from possession, the covenant is broken.
But it is not broken by a tortious disturbance. If the occupation is without right, the remedy of the purchaser is to dispossess the intruder. His occupation does not constitute a
breach of the covenant. Beebe v. Swa8rtwout, 3 Gilman,'162,
179; Felly v. The Dutch Church of Schenectady, 2 Hill, 105,
111.
False and fraudulent representations upon the sale of real
property may undoubtedly be ground for an action for damages, when the representations relate to some matter collateral
to the title of the property and the right of possession which
follows its acquisition, such as the location, quantity, quality
and condition of the land, the privileges connected with it, or
the rents and profits derived therefrom. Lysney v. Selby, 2
Ld. Raym. 1118; Dobell v. Stevens, 3 B. & C. 623; -3fonell v.
Colden, 13 Johns. 395; Sa&ford v. fHandy, 23 Wend. 260;
Van -Epps v. JHarrison,5 Hill, 63. Such representations by
the vendor as to his having title to the premises sold may also
be the ground of action where he is not in possession, and has
neither color nor claim of title under any instrument purporting to convey the premises, or any judgment establishing his
right to them. Thus in IMardell v. Fosdick, 13 Johns. 325, an
action for deceit was sustained against the vendor of land which
had no actual existence, the court holding that' in such case
the purchaser might treat the deed as a nullity. The land not
being in existence there could be no possession, and of course
no eviction, and consequently no remedy upon the covenants,
and the purchaser would be remediless if he could not maintain
the action. But where the vendor, holding in good faith under
an instrument purporting to transfer the premises to him, or
under a judicial determination of a claim to them in his favor,

DUNLAP v. NORITMVASTERN RAILROAD C0.

649

Statement of the Case.

executes a conveyance to the purchaser, with a warranty of
title and a covenant for peaceable possession, his previous representations as to the validity of his title, or the right of possession which it gives, are regarded, however highly colored, as
mere expressions of confidence in his title, and are merged in
the warranty and covenant, which determine the extent of his
liability.

Judgment afi med.

DUNLAP v. NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 256. Argued April 17, 18S9.-Decided May 13, 1889.
When, in an action brought by an cmploy6 of a railroad company to recover
damages for injuries caused by the negligence of other employ~s, the defence of contributory negligence is set up, the plaintiff is entitled to
have the question submitted to the jury unless no recovery could be had
upon any view which could be properly taken of the fTcts which the evidence tended to establish.
This court will not, by a technical construction of an obscure record, preclude itself from correcting an error committed in the trial below, if a
construction can be given to it which will give jurisdiction.

Tmis was an action on the case brought by Dunlap against
the Northeastern Railroad Company to recover for injuries received during the month of August, 1882, by reason of a train
belonging to defendant leaving the track, while Dunlap was
acting as engineer.
The Code of Georgia (1882, pp. 509, 762) provides as follows:
"ยง 2083. Liability of railroadcomoapnies a carriers.- Railroad companies are common carriers, and liable as such. As
such companies necessarily have many employ~s who cannot
possibly control those who should exercise care and diligence
in the running of trains, such companies shall be liable to such
employ~s as to passengers for injuries received from the want
of such care and diligence."
"ยง 3036. Tnaju2-y by vo-empZoy4. - If the person injured is

