GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

appear, affirmatively, from the record that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction, .fetealfv. latertown, 128 U. S. 588, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in accordance with
law.
Reversed.
GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 7. Original. Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

The act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 385, c. 341, ยง 9, was enacted to transfer
to Territorial Courts, established by the United States, the jurisdiction to
try the crimes described in it (including the crime of murder), under
territorial laws, when sitting as and exercising the functions of a Territorial Court; and not when sitting as or exercising the functions of a
Circuit or District Court of the United States under Rev. Stat. ยง 1910.

PmnoN for a writ of habeas corpus. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.
Mr. 1F -.
Phillvps and

-Lamarfor the petitioner.

Mr. Samuel Field

'. J. G. Zachry were with him on the brief.

-Mr. Solicitor General opposing.

MR. JusTicE MILL.ER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to be directed
to the marshal of the United States for the Territory of Arizona, who, it is alleged, holds the petitioner under a judgment
of the District Court of the United States for the Second
Judicial District of that Territory, which condemned him to
death for the crime of murder. This crime is alleged in .the
indictment to have been committed by the defendant, an
Apache Indian, within said district, naming no county or
other location.
The allegation of the petitioner is that the court which tried
him had not at that time, and in the mode of trial which was
pursued, any jurisdiction of the case against him. It is argued

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

by counsel and alleged in the petition that the District Courts
of the United States in the Territory of Arizona, as in all other
Territories, have two distinct jurisdictions: that in the one
they sit to exercise the powers and to try the same class of
cases that the Circuit Courts of the United States do within
the States and in the same manner, while in the other they sit
as courts having jurisdiction of the ordinary contests between
private parties and of criminal offences arising under the territorial laws.
The controversy in this case seems to turn upon the question
whether the offence for which Gon-shay-ee was tried was an
offence against the laws of the United States, and was of that
character which ought to have been tried by the court sitting
to try such cases, or whether it was an offence against the laws
-of the Territory, and should have been tried under those laws
and by the court sitting to administer justice under them. The
petitioner alleges that the offence with which he was charged
was of the latter class; but that he was tried by the court
while it was exercising its functions under the former.
The record of the case commences with the following state'ment of the finding of the indictment:
"IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SEcowD JUDIcrAL DISTRIC'r,
CoUnty OF MA& ICOPA, TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.

"May Term, A.D. 1888, sitting for the trial of all cases arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
;having and exercising the same jurisdiction inall cases arising
-under the Constitution and laws of the United rStates, as is
vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States,
at a term thereof held at the city of Phoenix, in the county
of Maricopa, in said district and Territory, on the 29th day of
May, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight.
"THE UmTrD STATES OF AmERIA

V.
GON-SHAY-EE.
"'SEcoD JUDIcIAL DISmRIr,

Indictment.

Territory of Arizona.

"The grand jurors of the United States of America, within
and for the Second Judicial District, Territory of Arizona,

GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.

345 c

Opinion of the Court.

being duly impanelled, sworn, and charged to inquire within
and for the body of said district, of all offences committed
therein against the United States of America, upon their oath
present: That Gon-shay-ee, an Apache Indian, late of the
Second Judicial District, Territory of Arizona, with force and
arms, in said district and Territory, on or about the 5th day
of June, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight,
and before the finding of this indictment, did then and there
feloniously, wilfully, deliberately, premeditately, and with malice aforethought, make an assault on a human being, to wit,
William Deal, in the peace of the United States then and
there being, and with a certain gun, which then and there was
loaded with gun-powder and a leaden bullet, and by him, the
said Gon-shay-ee, had and held in his hands, he, the said Gonshay-ee, did then and there feloniously, wilfully, deliberately,
premeditately, and with malice aforethought, shoot off and
discharge at, to, against, and upon the said William Deal,
thereby and by thus striking the said 'William Deal with the
said leaden bullet, inflicting on and in the body of him, the
said William Deal, one mortal wound, of which mortal wound
the said William Deal then and there instantly died.
"And so the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do say that the said Gon-shay-ee, an Apache Indian, in
the manner and form aforesaid, and at the time and place
aforesaid, did him, the said William Deal, feloniously, wilfully,
deliberately, premeditately, and with malice aforethought, kill
and murder, against the peace of the United States and their
dignity, and contrary to the form of the statute in such case
made and provided.
"0. T. RousE,
"United States Attorney."
The record of the final judgment of the court is in the following language:

' 346

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
ccUNITTED STATES OF AmERICA.

JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.

DISTRICT CoURnT, SECOI

Having and exercising the same jurisdiction under the Constitution and laws of the United States as is vested in the District and Circuit Courts of the United States.

"Regular May Term,

A.D.

1888.

"June 14. A.D. 1888.
"Present: Hon. Win. W. Porter, District Judge.
"UNITED

STATES OF AmERICA,

s
GON-SHAY-EE,

Plaintiff,

~f

Convicted of
]Murder.

Defendant.

"The defendant, being present in open court in person, and
by his counsel, H. N. Alexander and L. H. Chalmers; the
United States attorneys, 0. T. Rouse and Joseph Campbell,
present on the part of the United Statbs. And this being the
time heretofore fixed for passing judgment on the defendant in
this case, the defendant Gon-shay-ee was duly informed by the
court of the nature of the indictment found against him for
the crime of murder committed on or about the 5th day of
June, A.D. 1887; of his arraignment, and plea of 'not guilty
as charged in the indictment;' of the trial, and the verdict of
the jury on the 4th day of June, A.D. 1888, guilty of murder
as charged in the indictment.
"The defendant was then asked if he had any legal cause to
show why judgment should not be pronounced against him;
and no sufficient cause being shown or appearing to the court,
thereupon the court renders its judgment that, whereas you,
Gon-shay-ee, having been duly convicted in this court of the
crime of murder, it is found by the court that you are so guilty
of said crime. It is considered and adjudged, and the judgment of the court is, that you, Gon-shay-ee, be removed hence
to the county jail of Maricopa County, or some other place of
secure confinement, and there be securely kept until Friday, the
10th day of August,

A.D.

1888, and on that day you be taken

by the United States marshal of the Territory of Arizona,
to and within the yard of the jail of said Maricopa County,

GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

Arizona, and between the hours of nine o'clock A.M. and five
o'clock P.m. of that day, by said marshal, you be hanged by
the neck till you are dead."
It is very clear from these transcripts of the proceedings in
the court below that on this trial it proceeded and considered
itself as acting as a court for the trial of offences arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, and as administering them with the same powers as those vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States generally. The
grand jurors are described as "the grand jurors of the United
States of America within and for the Second Judicial District, Territory of Arizona, being duly impanelled, sworn and
charged to inquire within and for the body of said district, of
all offences committed therein against the United States."
The court was held in the city of Phoenix, in the county
of Maricopa, and the offence is described as having been
committed within the Second Judicial District of the Territory, without any further reference to the county in which
the act was done. In the final judgment of condemnation it
is declared to be rendered in the "District Court, Second Judicial District of Arizona, having and exercising the same jurisdiction under the Constitution and laws of the United States
as is vested in the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States." Both the grand and the petit jurors were summoned
by the marshal of the United States, and the execution of the
sentence was imposed upon that officer, who now holds the
prisoner in custody under it.
If the court which tried the prisoner had been sitting for
the trial of offences committed against the territorial law, all
this would have been different. The grand jury would have
been summoned for the county in which the act was committed, and from the body of that county, by its sheriff, and
the case would have been tried by the court sitting in that
county, unless for exceptional reasons, which do not appear in
this case. The prisoner would, on conviction, have been held
by the sheriff, who would have had the execution of the sentence committed to him under a warrant from the court.
All these circumstances are so variant, in the nature of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction and the mode in which it must be exercised, that
the conviction of the prisoner under the one mode by the law
prescribed for the procedure under the other cannot be held to
be within the power of the court which proceeded under the
wrong jurisdiction. That there exists this system of a distinct
jurisdiction, administered by the same court, in the Territory
of Arizona, as it does in nearly all the others, is undoubted.
The language of ยง 1910 of the Revised Statutes points very
clearly to this distribution of the functions of the courts of the
United States in the Territories. It reads as follows:
"Each of the District Courts in the Territories mentioned
in the preceding section shall have and exercise the same
jurisdiction, in all cases arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, as is vested in the Circuit and District
Courts of the United States; and the first six days of every
terim of ithe respective District Courts, or so much thereof as is
necessary, shall be appropriated to the trial of causes arising
under such Constitution and laws; but writs of error and
appeals in all such cases may be had to the Supreme Court of
each Territory, as in other cases."
It may be safely assumed that the practice of the territorial
courts, from their first organization, has been to observe this
separation of their functions. The payment of the expenses
of the court, while sitting, as it declares in the caption above
quoted, to administer the laws of the United States, with the
same jurisdiction as is vested in the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States, is made by the Federal government, on
accounts kept and rendered by its officers; while the same
courts, when held within the different counties of the Territories to administer the territorial laws, whether criminal or
civil, are paid by the county, or in some other mode prescribed
by the legislature of the Territory.
The following language was used by this court in Eparte
Crow -Dog,109 U. S. 556, 560:
"The District Court has two distinct jurisdictions. As a
territorial court it administers the local law of the !territorial
government; as invested by act of Congress with jurisdiction
to administer the laws of the United States, it has all the

GO -SHIAY-EE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

authority of Circuit and District Courts; so that, in the former
character, it may try a prisoner for murder committed in the
Territory proper, under the local law, which requires the jury
to determine whether the punishment shall be death or imprisonment for life, Laws of Dakota, 1883, c. 9; and, in the
other character, try another for murder committed within the
Indian reservation, under a law of the United States, which
imposes, in case of conviction, the penalty of death."
See. 2145 of the Revised Statutes'extends the general laws
of the United States as to the punishment of crimes committed
in any place within their sole and exclusive jurisdiction, except
the District of Columbia, to the Indian country, and it becomes
necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the locality of the
homicide, for which the prisoner was convicted of murder, is
within that description.
The question in this case is whether the offence charged
against Gon-shay-ee was one committed against the laws of
the United States, within the meaning of the distinction which
we have been taking; or whether it was an offence against the
laws of the Territory, to be punished by a court proceeding
under its laws. It may be conceded that prior to the statute
of 1885, so far as Indians could be punished for offences of this
kind in any court, either Federal or territorial, the jurisdiction
would belong to the one sitting under the first branch and
exercising the judicial functions appropriate thereto. It is
clearly otherwise by the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 385,
c. 341, ยง 9. The only portion necessary for our present consideration is the ninth section, which reads as follows:
"That immediately upon and after the date of the passage
of this act, all Indians, committing against the person or property of another Indian or other person any of the following
crimes, namely, murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to kill, arson, burglary and larceny, within any Territory
of the United States, and either within or without an Indian
reservation, shall be subject therefor to the laws of such Territory relating to said crimes, and shall be tried therefor in the
same courts and in the same manner, and shall be subject to
the same penalties, as are all other persons charged with the

350

OCTOBER TERN, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

commission of said crimes respectively; and the said courts
are hereby given jurisdiction in all such cases; and all such
Indians committing any of the above crimes against the person or property of another Indian or other person within the
boundaries of any State of the United States, and within the
limits of any Indian reservation, shall be subject to the same
laws, tried in the same courts and in the same manner, and
subject to the same penalties, as are all other persons committing any of the above crimes within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States."
This is the last section of the Indian appropriation bill for
that year, and is very clearly a continuation of the policy upon
which Congress entered several years previously, of attempting, so far as possible and consistent with justice and existing
obligations, to reduce the Indians to individual subjection to
the laws of the country and dispense with their tribal relations. This matter was fully commented upon in the case of
Crow ]Dog, already referred to, and in UnritedStates v. Eagama,
118 U. S.375, in which the whole history of the relations between the United States and the Indians was discussed.
The latter case arose under the statute of 1885, now under
consideration, which was construed in the opinion of the court,
and the distinction clearly pointed out between offences committed against the laws of the United States, within the limits
of an organized State of the Union, and those committed
within the Territories. It is there declared that the enactment
is clearly separable into two distinct definitions of the conditions under which Indians may be punished for the same
crimes. The first is where the offence is committed within
the limits of a territorial government, whether on or off an
Indian reservation, and "the second is where the offence is
committed by one Indian against the person or property of
another, within the limits of a State of the Union, but on an
Indian reservation."
In that case the offence was charged to have been committed within the boundaries of a State of the Union, and the
Indian was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of California, from which a certificate of a divis-

GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

ion of opinion was made to this court, embracing the question whether a murder committed by an Indian on the reservation of Hoopa Valley in that State could be tried in that
court. We held that the statute gave this jurisdiction, and
that it was constitutional. Incidentally, however, in remarking upon cases of crime committed by Indians in the Territories, the court said that "in this class of cases the Indian
charged with the crime shall be judged by the laws of the
Territory on that subject and tried by its courts."
The distinction between the trial in such cases by a court
sitting as a Circuit Court of the United States to try offences
against the Federal laws, and that in which it sits as a territorial court to punish crimes against the laws of the Territory,
was not clearly stated in that opinion. We have already
shown that such a distinction exists, and have little hesitation
in holding that under the act of 1885 the case of Gon-shay-ee
should have been considered as an offence against the laws of
the Territory. That statute evidently intended to provide for
the punishment of all cases of "murder, manslaughter, rape,
assault with intent to kill, a-son, burglary and larceny," committed by Indians within any Territory of the United States,
whether within or without an Indian reservation, and the
declaration is clear that they "shall be subject therefor to the
laws of such Territory relating to said crimes, and shall be tried
therefor in the same courts and in the same manner, and shall
be subject to the same penalties, as are all other persons charged
with the commission of said crimes respectively."
These Indians, then, are subjected by this statute not to the
criminal laws of the United States but to the laws of the Territory. The statute does not even define the crimes of murder, manslaughter, etc., but this must be governed by the laws
of the Territory, so far as they furnish any definition of the
crime. There is no language which declares that they shall
be tried in the courts of the United States under the same circumstances as similar offences committed by Indians within
the States; but the second provision, which prescribes the
punishment of the same offences when committed by Indians
if within the boundaries of any State, and within the limits

OCTOBER TERAI.

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

of any Indian reservation, declares that they "shall be subject
to the same laws, tried in the same courts, and in the same
manner, and subject to the same penalties, as are all other persons committing any of the above crimes within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States."
This phrase, "within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States," is well understood as applying to the crimes which
are committed within the premises, grounds, forts, arsenals,
navy-yards, and other places within the boundaries of a State,
or even within a Territory, over which the Federal government has by cession, by agreement, or by reservation exclusive jurisdiction. Those cases are tried by Circuit or District
Courts of the United States, administering the laws of the
United States, and not by the courts of the State or those of
the Territory. The 'framers of this act were very careful, in
this part of the statute, where the offence was committed
within the territorial limits of a State, to declare that a violation of the laws of the United States in regard to these crimes
of murder, etc., should be tried in the courts exercising the
jurisdiction of the United States to punish offences against the
United States.
With regard to the Territories, however, it is different.
The declaration is that the Indians shall be tried by the courts
of the Territory, and according to its laws, and shall be subject to the penalties which those laws prescribe. They are to
be tried in the same manner and in the same courts as are
all other persons charged with the commission of said crimes
respectively, and the said courts are given jurisdiction in all
such cases. It will be observed also that this part of the statute makes no digtinction in regard to whether the crime was
committed by the Indian on or off an Indian reservation.
We do not entertain any doubt that this part of the statute
was enacted to transfer to the territorial courts established by
the general government, as all courts of general jurisdiction
are in the Territories, the jurisdiction to try the crimes described in it under the territorial laws, when sitting as and
exercising the functions of such territorial court, as pointed
out in the case of Crow Dog.

CAPTAIN JACK, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

The distinctions incident to this mode of trial have already
been indicated. They are important, relating to the 'jurisdiction, and concerning the life and the liberty of the party,
against whom a crime is charged. Whether a man shall be
tried in the county where the offence was committed, or carried to some other county, perhaps hundreds of miles distant,
is a matter of much consequence; it is of the venue of the
trial. Whether he shall be tried by a jury summoned by the
marshal of the United States from the whole Territory, or
from a section of it, amounting possibly to one-third of its
extent, or by a jury of the county in which the act was done
by the sheriff of the county, is of much moment to him; so
also as to whether he shall be indicted by a grand jury summoned to serve for the county, and residents of the county, or
by such a body summoned from the whole Territory.
It is of consequence that in this new departure which Congress has made, of subjecting the Indians, in this limited class
of cases, to the same laws which govern the whites within the
Territories where they both reside, the Indian shall at least
have all the advantages which may accrue from that change,
which transfers him, as to the punishment for these crimes,
from the jurisdiction of his own tribe to the jurisdiction of the
government of the territory in which he lives.
We are of opinion that the writ of habeas corpus should
issue asprayedfor in this case; and it is so ordered.

CAPTAIN JACK, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8.

Original.

Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

The facts that the petitioner in this case was sentenced to imprisonment in
Ohio, and that the offence was committed within a judicial district instead of an Indian reservation, do not take this case out of the decision
in Gon-shay-ee's Case just decided, ante, 343.
VOL. xy-x-23

