:OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case,

GIBBS v. CONSOLIDATED

GAS COMPANY

OF

BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF M[ARYLAND.
No. 220.

STATES

FOR THE

A;rgued M.arch 19, 20, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

Courts decline to enforce contracts which impose a restraint, though only
partial, upon business of such character, that restraint to any extent will
be prejudicial to the public interest.
But where the public welfare is not involved and the restraint upon one,
party is not greater than protection to the other party-requires, a contract

in restraint of trade may be sustained.
A corporation cannot disable itself by contract from the performance of
public duties which it has undertaken, and thereby make public accommodation or convenience subservient to its private interests.
Where particular contracts are inhibited by statute, and if attempted, are
in positive terms declared " utterly null and void," such contracts vill
not be enforced.
Recovery cannot be had for services rendered, or losses incurred, In securing the execution of an illegal agreement, by a party privy to the unlawful design.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as

follows:
Plaintiff in error brought this action in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland against the
defendant in error, "a corporation duly incorporated under
the laws of Maryland, for money payable by the defendant to
the plaintiff," as stated in the "bill of particulars of plaintiff's
claim," "for services rendered by me at your request in negotiating and consummating an arrangement and settlement of
differences between the Consolidated Gas Co. of Balto. City
and the Equitable Gas-Light Co. of Balto. City, between July
1st, 1884, and November 1st, 1884, $50,000 ;" and a trial wat
had upon the general issue pleaded, resulting in verdict and!
judgment for the defendant, May 14, 1885.
From the bill of exceptions it appears that: "At the trial
of this case, the incorporation of the defendant being admitted,

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE GAS CO.
Statement of the Case.

the plaintiff, to maintain the issues upon his part joined, gave
in evidence the agreement following between said defendant
an4l 'he Equitable Gas-Light Company of Baltimore City, a
ajaryland corporation -that is to say:
"'This agreement made this seventh day of October, eighteen
Jhundred and eighty-four, between the Equitable Gas-Light
,Company of Baltimore City, a corporation duly .organizedunder the laws of the State of Maryland, party of the first
part, and the Consolidated Gas Company of Baltimore City, a
corporation duly organized under the laws of the same State,
party of the second part. Whereas the parties hereto conduct
the business of making and selling gas in the city of Baltimore,
Maryland, and for some time past have been drawn into active
competition, resulting in a loss of profits to each company, aa
well as large expenses and great annoyance; and whereas each
party hereto desires to enter into an arrangement with the
other, whereby the business of each may be conducted in a
more profitable manner than at present:
"'Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and of
the mutuality hereof, it is hereby agreed between said parties
as follows, viz.:
"' 1. Gas shall be sold by each company at a rate of one
(dollar and seventy-five cents per thousand cubic feet, with a
rebate of fifteen cents a thousand feet to consumers for payment within seven days from date of rendering bill, unless the
rate shall be changed by mutual agreement of the parties
hereto in writing; but in view of the much larger interest of
the party of the second part in the subject-matter of this contract, it is agreed that in case of competition on the part of
any other gas company the said party of the second part shall
have the right at its discretion to reduce the rate at which gas
shall be sold by either or both of the parties hereto, and shall
have the right at its discretion to fix and change said price at
which gas shall be sold by either or both of the parties hereto,
from time to time so long as such competition shall continue :.
Provided, That said price shall not be placed at less than on(-

OCTOBER TERN, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

dollar ($1.00) per thousand feet without the mutual consent. of
the parties hereto in writing. The introduction of gas from
the street main to the inside of the building to be lighted will
in all cases be done by the companies, for which the proprietor
of the building or the person applying for the supply of gas
will be required to pay in advance the sum of eight dollars
($8.00) to cover the expenses of tapping main, laying service
pipe, setting meter and its connection to the building line. An
extra charge will be made where the building is set back from
the building line.
," '2. Each party hereto shall deduct from its receipts and
retain the sum of one dollar for every thousand feet of gas
sold by'it as a basis of cost to cover all expenses of the business
of each.
"' 3. All extensions of mains, including services and meters
on said extensions, and all enlargement of the capacity of the
works necessary to do the increasing business during the continuance of this agreement, shall be made by the Consolidated
Gas Company of Baltimore City at its own cost and expense,
whose property such enlargements and extensions shall be,
the Equitable Company only being required to provide the
meters and services necessary to supply such additional consumers as may be furnished by it under ยง 5, below.
"'4. Division of receipts shall be made as follows, viz.:
"'1. All receipts (over and above the sum of one dollar per
thousand feet allowed as a basis of cost) from gas sold each
year upon sales not exceeding the total quantity of gas sold
by both of said companies during the year ending October first,
eighteen hundred and eighty-four, shall be divided between the
parties hereto in the following proportions, viz.: The party of
the first part shall receive such a proportion of the same as the
amount of gas sold by it during the year ending October first,
eighteen hundred and eighty-four, shall bear to the total quantityof gas sold by both of the parties hereto during that period,
provided the quantity sold'by the party hereto of the first part
during said period shall not exceed two hundred and thirteen
millions of fe6t (213,000,000), and the party of the second part
shall receive all the balance after deducting the amount to

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE QAS CO.
Statement of the Case.

which the party of the first part shall be entitled, as above provided, it being expressly understood and agreed that the basis
of participation in said receipts shall be the proportion which
the quantity of gas sold by each party from October first,
eighteen hundred and eighty-three, to October first, eighteen
hundred and eighty-four, bears to the total quantity of gas
sold by both parties hereto, and that neither party hereto shall
receive more thereof than by such a basis of division it would
be entitled to, subject, however, to the foregoing provision that
the quantity sold by the party of the first part during the said
year ending October first, eighteen hundred and eighty-fpur,
shall not be considered as exceeding two hundred and thirteen
millions (213,000,000) of feet as aforesaid.
"' 2. All receipts (over and above the said allowance of one
dollar per thousand feet as a basis of cost) from gas sold each
year upon sales in excess 6f the said total quantity sold during
the year ending October first, eighteen hundred and eightyfour, shall be divided as follows, viz.: The party of the first
part shall receive thereout a percentage equal to one-half of
the percentage which it will receive as above, and the party
of the second part shall receive all the balance of such receipts
from said increased sales.
"' 5. Neither party hereto shall solicit any business belonging to the other, but either party may take such consumers of
the other as may voluntarily, without any solicitation, ilesire
to change from one to the other.
"' 6. All the accounts between the parties hereto hereunder
shall be adjusted quarterly on the tenth days of February,
May, August, and November of each year for the quarter
ending on the last day of December, March, June, and September, and settlements of all balances shall be-made within
ten days thereafter. The said adjustment of -accounts shall
be made by an auditor, who shall be chosen bi the agreement
of both parties hereto.
17. If any differences or misunderstanding arise hereunder,
'
the matter in dispute shall be referred for decision to three
arbiters, whose decision shall be bindinig upon the parties
hereto, so far as in law it may have bindling force and effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Said arbiters shall be chosen as follows, viz.: One shail be
chosen by each party hereto and the third by the two so
chosen: Provided,That if either party hereto neglects or refuses for ten days after request, in writing, mailed or personally
delivered, to appoint an arbiter, the party making such request
shall appoint two arbiters, who shall appoint a third, as above
provided.
"' 8. It is further understood and agreed that if either party
hereto shall at any time wilfully fail, omit, or neglect to perform or shall violate any of the covenants herein contained,
such party shall be liable to the other for all loss and damage
caused to or suffered by it thereby, and that the damages
which shall be caused thereby will be equal to the sum of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars (8250,000), and that the
party who shall so fail, neglect, or omit to perform, or who
;shall violate any of the covenants herein contained, shall at
,once thereupon pay to the other party the sum of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars as liquidated damages, and that
upon failure to pay the same upon demand suit may be
brought therefor, in which the damages so caused or suffered
shall be assessed at said sum of two hundred and fifty thousand
.dollars.
"' 9. This agreement shall take effect from October fifteenth,
eig. hteen hundred and eighty-four, and shall continue in force
for t hirty years from its date.'
EDh ily signed and sealed October 7th, 1884.]
"Th, plaintiff then proved the incorporation of the United
Gas Ii1n "rovement Company, a corporation incorporated by
and doi% " business in the State of Pennsylvania.
"The IA tintiff further proved that, at the time of the agreement afores, "id, he was the general manager of the said United
Gas Improve. nent Company, and the business of the said corporation was the owniug, improving, leasing, and manipulation of gas pr( 'perty throughout the country, said company
being the owne) ' of many gas-works in various parts of the
Union, and colsta, n tly in negotiation for the sale and purchase
of that kind of prc. perky.
"ie further provk d that, by reason of the rivalry in the
..city of Baltmore b tween the defendant and the Equitable

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE GAS Co.
Statement of the Case.

Gas-Light Company aforesaid, the price of gas had been reduced to a figure below that at which it could be profitably
manufactured, and that the company of which the plaintiff
was manager, as well as other gas companies throughout the
country, had been materially inconvenienced by the fact that
they were required and expected by their customers to sell
their gas at the insufficient price at which it was furnished in
Baltimore. It became, therefore, the interest of the plaintiff
and his company that the conflict in Baltimore should, if possible, be brought to an amicable termination, and the plaintiff
made a suggestion to that effect to the president of the Equitable Gas-Light Company, and in consequence thereof was
employed by that company to bring about a settlement, if
possible, with the defendant. For this purpose the plaintiff
visited Baltimore and opened negotiations with the defendant,
which were carried on for some time by proposition and counterproposition, and resulted, finally, in the agreement heretofore
inserted in this bill of exceptions.
"The plaintiff gave further evidence tending to show that
early in those negotiations he informed the defendant, through
the committee representing it, that he was employed and would
be paid by the Equitable Gas-Light Company if he made an
arrangement satisfactory to that company, and that if he
should be successful in bringing about a settlement satisfactory to the defendant also, he should expect and claim
to be compensated by the defendant likewise.
"Further testimony in respect to the matter of his said
negotiations and services and his claimed and expected compensation from the defendant was given by the plaintiff tending to support and establish the hypotheses of fact set up by
the plaintiff in those regards in his prayers hereinafter to be
inserted.
"The defendant then, to maintain the issues upon its part
joined, gave in evidence the acts of the General Assembly of
Maryland of 1867, chap. 132, and of 1882, chap. 337, both
relating to the Equitable Gas-Light Company of Baltimore
City, which it was agreed might be read in evidence, if necessary, from the statute-book, on the hearing in error.
VOL. cxxx-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

"The defendant further gave evidence tending to contradict
the evidence on the part of the plaintiff in regard to what
occurred between the plaintiff and the defendant's committee
in respect to the negotiations aforementioned, and to the
plaintiff's alleged demand for compensation from the defendant, and tending to disprove the facts assumed as the hypotheses of the plaintiff's prayers; and the defendant further gave
evidence tending to establish and maintain the hypotheses of
fact set up by the defendant in its prayers to the court, hereinafter to be inserted."
Various instructions were asked on behalf of each of the
parties, which the court declined to give, but at defendant's
request instructed the jury "that the plaintiff, upon the pleadings and evidence in this case, is not entitled to recover, because
the contract offered in evidence, and for the procuring of the
making whereof he claims compensation in this suit, was illegal
and void."
Mr. S. T. Wallis, for plaintiff in error, cited: Leslie v. Lorillard, 110 N. Y. 519; Kellogg v. Larkin, 3 Chandler (Wisconsin), 133; 8. C. 56 Am. Dec. 164; Jencks v. Coleman, 2 Sumner, 221; Central Shade Roller Co. v. Cushman, 143 Mass.
353; Palmer v. Stebbins, 3 Pick. 188; S. C. 15 Am. Dec. 204;
Richardson v. -Mellish, 2 Bing. 229; Davies v. Davies, 36
Oh. D. 359; Printing &o. Co. v. Sampson, L. R. 19 Eq.
462; Trust Estate of Woods, 52 Maryland, 520; idal v.
Girard,2 How. 126, 197; Richmond v. Dubuque &c. Rail
road,26 Iowa, 191; Swann v. Swann, 21 Fed. Rep. 299; Walshv.
Fussell, 6 Bing. 163; Hobbs v. .X3oLean,117 U. S. 567 ; United
States v. Central Pacilc Railroad, 118 U. S. 235; Baines v.
Geary, 35 Ch. D. 154; Roussillon v. Roussillon, 14 Ch. D.
351; Provident Bank v. .Marshall,40 Oh. D. 112; Diamond
Match Co. v. Roeer, 106 N. Y. 473; .Mogul Steamship Co. v.
McGregor, 21 Q. B. D. 544; Hare v. London &~c.Railway,
2 Johns. & Hem. 80; ZAew Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana
Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; _217ew Orleans Taterworks v. Rivers,
115 U. S. 674; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115
U. S. 683; Boot v. Robinson, 55 Maryland, 419; Skrainka

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Scharringhausen, 8 Missouri App. 522; Androscoggin &
Kennebec Railroad v. Androscoggin Railroad,52 Maine, 417;
Hilton v. Lckersley, 6 El. & Bi. 47; Hornby v. Close, L. R. 2
Q. B. 153; Collins v. Locke, 4 App. Cas. 674; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71, 83 ; St. Louis v. St. Louis Gaslight Co.,
5 Missouri App. 484; Arnot v. Pittston &c. Coal Co., 68 N. Y.
558; India Bagging Association v. fock, 14 La. Ann. 168;
Morris Run Coal Co. v. Barclay Coal Co., 68 Penn. St. 173;
Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Burlington &c. Railway, 3 McCrary, 130; Cook v.
Sherman, 4 McCrary, 20.
Mir. R. D. Morrison and Mr.H. P. Bond, for defendant in
error, cited: New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115
U. S. 650; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S.
683; lor-is Run Coal Company v. Barclay Coal Company,
68 Penn. St. 173; Hartford & New Haven Railroad v. Hew
York & -Yew Haven Railroad, 3 Robertson (N. Y.) 411;
Stanton v. Allen, 5 Denio, 435; S. C. 49 Am. Dec. 382;
St. Louis v. St. Louis Gas Light Co., 5 Missouri App. 484;
Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Fork & Maryland
Line Railroadv. TVinans, 17 How. 30; Sinking Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wall. 190; Irwin
v. Williar, 110 U. S. 499; Salt Lake City v. Hollister, 118
U. S. 256; National Bank v. Jatthews, 98 U. S. 621; Harris
v. Runnel&, 12 How. 79; Craig v. .Aissouri, 4 Pet. 410;
Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527; Aubert v.
.Aaze, 2 Bos. & Pul. 374; Watts v. Brooks, 3 Ves. Jr. 612;
Webb v. Pritchett,1 Bos. & Pul. 264.
iMR. CHIEF JUsTicE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiff sought to recover compensation for services
alleged to have been rendered by him to the defendant in
securing the contract in question between the defendant and
the Equitable Gas-Light Company of Baltimore. It is objected
that the court erred in giving the instruction that the plaintiff
was not entitled to recover, because it assumed a material fact

OCTOBER TERMV,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

in dispute, which shodld have been left to the jury, namely,
that it was "for the procuring of the making" of the contract
offered in evidence that compensation was claimed. The
record does not show that this objection to the instruction was
taken in the court below, nor does it contain any evidence
tending to establish that the plaintiff claimed compensation
for anything else than for services in bringing about the agreement. Plaintiff's bill of particulars is for services "in negotiating and consummating an arrangement and settlement of
differences" between the two gas companies, and he put the
contract in evidence and adduced proof that he carried on
negotiations, which "resulted finally" in the execution of it.
He was general manager of a corporation engaged in the business of "the owning, improving, leasing and manipulation of
gas property throughout the country," and as his company
and other gas companies "had been materially inconvenienced
by the fact that they were required and expected by their customers to sell their gas at the insufficient price at which it was
furnished in Baltimore," he suggested "that the conflict in
Baltimore should, if possible, be brought to an amicable termination," "and in consequence thereof" was employed by
the Equitable Gas-Light Company "to bring about a settlement, if possible, with the defendant." The conflict referred
to seems to have been the competition in the making and vending of gas in the city of Baltimore, which it had been the
object of the General Assembly of Maryland to encourage,
and the settlement to which he alludes was embodied in the
contract in question, by which competition was to be destroyed
and the object of the General Assembly defeated.
We do not feel called upon, under such circumstances, to
reverse the judgment, upon the ground that the court assumed
in the instruction a matter of fact which should have been left
to the jury to determine.
According to the evidence given by the plaintiff, he informed
the defendant "that he was employed and would be paid by
the Equitable Gas-Light Company, if he made an arrangement satisfactory to that company, and that if he should be
successful in bringing about a settlement satisfactory to the

GIBBS v,. BALTIMORE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant also, he should expect and claim to be compensated
by the defendant likewise."
Since he had thus entered upon the enterprise under a
specific agreement with the Equitable Gas Company, it is
somewhat difficult to understand upon this record how, in
carrying such an express contract out, he could impose the
obligation on the defendant to pay him for doing so, upon a
mere notification that he should expect from it compensation
for the services he had expressly agreed to render the other
company, because the result might be satisfactory to the defendant- a result necessarily to be assumed if any contract
was arrived at. The defendant could not in that view be held
to have laid by and accepted services which the plaintiff would
otherwise not have been obliged to perform or could assert
that he did perform only upon the expectation of being also
paid by the defendant. The hypotheses of fact set up by the
plaintiff in the instructions he asked, and which were refused,
contain nothing in respect of which testimony tending to support and establish such hypotheses would add to the mere fact
of the notification of plaintiff's expectation, and the evidence
on defendant's part tended to show a denial of any obligation
to pay. But apart from this, the real question submitted to
us for decision is whether, even if there were no other objection to plaintiff's recovery, such recovery could be allowed in
view of the nature of the alleged services.
In Jiwin v. Williaf, 110 U. S. 499, 510, it was held that
where a contract, void on account of the illegal intent of the
principal parties to it, had been negotiated by a person ignorant of such intent, and innocent of any violation of law, the
latter might have a meritorious ground for the recovery of
compensation for services and advances, but when such agent
"is privy to the unlawful design of the parties, and brings
them together for the very purpose of entering into an illegal
agreement, he is particeps criminis, and cannot recover for
services rendered or losses incurred by himself on behalf of
either in forwarding the transaction." It is clear from the
evidence adduced by the plaintiff that he falls within the
category last described; and he makes profert of the fact that

OCTOBER TERtM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the first suggestion in the line of manipulating the gas interests of Baltimore came from himself. Hence, if the contract
he brought about was forbidden by statute, or by public
policy, it is evident that he could not recover, and the judgment must be affirmed.
By this contract it is recited that active competition between
the two companies had resulted in expense, annoyance and
loss of profits, and it was therefore provided that the price of
gas to consumers should be placed at one dollar and seventyfive cents per thousand cubic feet, with a rebate of fifteen
cents a thousand feet for payment within seven days, "unless
the rate shall be changed by mutual agreement of the parties
hereto in writing;" but as the defendant had much the larger
interest, it might, in case of competition on the part of any
other gas company, reduce the rate at which gas should be
sold "by either or both of the parties hereto, from time to
time so long as such competition shall continue," provided it
should not be put at less than one dollar per thousand feet
without the written consent of both parties; that the entire
net receipts from the sale of gas should be pooled and divided
between the companies in a fixed ratio without regard to the
amount of gas actually supplied by either; that one of the
companies should lay no more pipes or mains for the supply
of gas in the city; that all future pipes or mains should be. laid
by and remain the property of the other company; and that
either party which violated any of the covenants in the contract should pay to the other the sum of $250,000 as liquidated
damages. It will be perceived that this was an agreement for
the abandonment by one of the companies of the discharge of
its duties to the public, and that the price of gas as fixed
thereby should not be changed except that, in case of competition, the rate might be lowered by one, but not below a
certain specified rate, without the consent of the other. And
in the case in hand the Equitable Gas-Light Company was expressly forbidden to enter into such a contract. That company
was incorporated by an act of the General Assembly of Maryland, passed March 6, 1867, with a capital of two millions of
dollars, which might be increased to three millions, and with

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to lay pipes along and under the streets, squares,
lanes and alleys of the city of Baltimore, and to supply with
light any dwelling house or other buildings or places whatever
belonging to individuals or corporations, adjacent to any such
street, square, lane or alley, and with I all the rights and privileges granted to the Gas-Light Company of Baltimore, by the
second, third, fourth and fifth sections of the ordinances of the
mayor and city council of Baltimore, entitled an ordinance to
provide for more effectually lighting the streets, squares, lanes
and alleys of the city of Baltimore, approved June seventeenth,
eighteen hundred and sixteen, and the act of assembly of December session, eighteen hundred and sixteen, chapter two hundred and fifty-one, so far as the same are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this act, and the said company hereby incorporated shall be liable to all the duties, restrictions and penalties [provided] for in said sections of said ordinance and in said
act of assembly." Laws of Maryland, 1867, pp. 207, 211, 212.
Reference to the act and ordinance of 1816, Marylamd Laws,
1813-1817, c. 251, 1816; Ordinances, Baltimore, 1813-1822,
p. 95, does not contribute to the argument here save as indicating the design of the General Assembly to give equal
powers to a competing company. Said act of March 6, 1867,
ยง 14, further provided that "the General Assembly hereby
reserves the right to alter, amend, or repeal this act at pleasure." Laws of Maryland, 1867, 207, 214.
On the 3d of May, 1882, an act supplementary to the act
incorporating the Equitable Gas-Light Company of Baltimore
City was approved, (Laws of Maryland, 1882, 551, c. 337,)
authorizing and empowering said company to manufacture
and sell gas in Baltimore County as well as in Baltimore City,
and to exercise all the powers and rights conferred upon it by
the acts of assembly and any amendments thereto, including
the right to lay all necessary and convenient pipes, etc., in the
county as well as in the city, and the fourth section of this act
was as follows:
"That the said company be, and hereby is, prohibited from
entering into any consolidation, combinations, or contract
with any other gas company whatever; and any attempt to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

do so, or to make such combinations or contracts as herein
prohibited, shall be utterly null and void."
In Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, the right to
repeal the charter of a street railroad company was sustained
under a provision of the General Statutes of Massachusetts
declaring "every act of incorporation passed after the 11th
day of March, in the year 1831, shall be subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal at the pleasure of the legislature."
In Close v. Greenwood Coemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 476, it was
said that "a power reserved to the legislature to alter, amend,
or repeal a charter authorizes it to make any alteration or
amendment of a charter granted subject to it, which will not
defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant, or any
rights vested under it, and which the legislature may deem
necessary to secure either that object or any public right."
Similar views were expressed in 8,pning 'Tlley Water
Viorks v. Scoottler, 110 U. S. 347; County of Callaway v.
Foster, 93 U. S.567, and other cases.
The consent of the corporation was not required to the
operation of such a provision as that embodied in the fourth
section of the act of 1882, but if acceptance were necessary,
the exercise of corporate action by this gas company after the
passage of the amendment was sufficient evidence of such
acceptance.
The supplying of illuminating gas is a business of a public
nature to meet a public necessity. It is not a business like
that of an ordinary corporation engaged in the manufacture of articles that may be furnished by individual effort.
New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S.650;
Louisoille Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683; Shepard v. -Milwaukee Gas Co., 6 Wisconsin, 539; Chicago GasLight & Coke Co. v. Peoples' Gas-Zight & Coke Co., 121 Illinois, 530; St. Louis v. St. Louis Gas-Light Co., 70 Missouri,
69. Hence, while it is justly urged that those rules which say
that a given contract is against public policy, should not be
arbitrarily extended so as to interfere with the freedom of
contract, Printing &c. Registering Co. v. Sampson, L. IR. 19
Eq. 462, yet in the instance of business of such character that

GIBBS v. BAIJTIMORE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

it presumably cannot be restrained to any extent whatever
without prejudice to the public interest, courts decline to enforce or sustain contracts imposing such restraint, however
partial, because in contravention of public policy. This subject is much considered, and the authorities cited in West 'i'ginia Transportation Co. v. Ohio River Pipe Line Co., 22
West Va. 600; Chicago c(Gas Co. v. Peoples' Gas Co., 121
Illinois, 530; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. American
Union Telegraph Co., 65 Georgia, 160.
The decision in fMiteke v. Reynolds, 1 P. Wins. 181; S. C.
Smith's Leading Cases, 407, 7th Eng. Ed.; 8th Am. Ed. 756,
is the foundation of the rule in relation to the invalidity of
contracts in restraint of trade; but as it was made under a condition of things, and a state of society, different from those
which now prevail, the rule laid down is not regarded as inflexible, and has been considerably modified. Public welfare
is first considered, and if it be not involved, and the restraint
upon one party is not greater than protection to the other
party requires, the contract may be sustained. The question
is, whether, under the particular circumstances of the case and
the nature of the particular contract involved in it, the contract is, or is not, unreasonable. Rousillon v. Rousillon, 14
Oh. D. 351; Leather Cloth Co. v. Lorsont, L.IR.9 Eq. 345.
"Cases must be judged according to their circumstances,"
remarked Mr. Justice Bradley in Oregon Steam lavigation Co.
v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 68, "and can only be rightly judged
when the reason and grounds of the rule are carefully considered. There are two principal grounds on which the doctrine is founded that a contract in restraint of trade is void as
against public policy. One is, the injury to the public by being deprived of the restricted party's industry; the other is,
the injury to the party himself by being precluded from pursuing his occupation, and thus being prevented from supporting himself and his family. It is evident that both these evils
occur when the contract is general, not to pursue one's trade
at all, or not to pursue it in the entire realm or country. The
country suffers the loss in both cases; and the party is deprived of his occupation, or is obliged to expatriate himself in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

order to follow it. A contract that is open to such grave objection is clearly against public policy. But if neither of these
evils ensue, and if the contract is founded on a valid consideration and a reasonable ground of benefit to the other party,
it is free from objection, and may be enforced." Innumerable
cases, however, might be cited to sustain the proposition that
combinations among those engaged in business impressed with
a public or quasi public character, which are manifestly prejudicial to the public interest, cannot be upheld. The law "cannot recognize as valid any undertaking to do what fundamental
doctrine or legal rule directly forbids. " Nor can it give effect to
any agreement the making whereof was an act violating law.
So that, in short, all stipulations to overturn - or in evasion of
what the law has established ; all promises interfering with
the workings of the machinery of the government in any of
its departments, or obstructing its officers in their official acts,
or corrupting them; all detrimental to the public order and
public good, in such manner and degree as the decisions of
the courts have defined; all made to promote what a statute
has declared to be wrong, - are void." Bishop on Contracts,
ยง 549; Woodstock, Irron Co. v. Richmond & Danville -Extension
Co., 129 U. S. 643, decided at this term, opinion by Mr. Justice Field; Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 4,41; Irwin v. IWilliar,
110 U. S. 499; Arnot v. Pittston &c. Coal Co., 68 N. Y. 558;
Central Salt Co. v. Guthrie, 35 Ohio St. 666; TV-oodruwf v.
Berry, 40 Ark. 251, 261; H. & 1K ff.Railroad v. 11W
.&
NAT.
HI. Railroad,3 Robert. (N.Y.) 411; Craft v. XIc6 onoughy,
79 Ill. 346; Roocer v. Vandewater, 4 Denio, 349; Stanton v.
Allen, 5 Denio, 434; Central Railroadv. Collins, 40 Georgia,
582; JlorrisRun Coal Co. v. Barclay Coal Co., 68 Penn. St. 173.
It is also too well settled to admit of doubt that a corporation
cannot disable itself by contract from performing the public
duties which it has undertaken,' and by agreement compel
itself to make public accommodation or convenience subservient to its private interests.
"Where," says Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of
the court in Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.71, 83, "a corporation, like a railroad company, has granted to -it by char-

GIBBS v. BALTIMORE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ter a franchise intended in large measure to be exercised for
the public good, the due performance of those functions being
the consideration of the public grant, any contract which disables the corporation from performing those functions, which
undertakes without the consent of the State to transfer to
others the rights and powers conferred by the charter, and to
relieve the grantees of the burden which it imposes, is a violation of the contract with the State and is void as against public policy."
These gas companies entered the streets of Baltimore, under
their charters, in the exercise of the equivalent of the power of
eminent domain, and are to be held as having assumed an obligation to fulfil the public purposes to subserve which they
were incorporated.
At common law corporations formed
merely for the pecuniary benefit of their shareholders could,
by a vote of the majority thereof, part with their property and
wind up their business, but corporations to which privileges are
granted in order to enable them to accommodate the public, and
in the proper discharge of whose duties the public are interested, do not come within the rule. But we are not concerned
here with the question when, if ever, a corporation can cease
to operate without forfeiture of its franchises, upon the excuse
that it cannot go forward because of expense and want of remuneration. There is no evidence in this record of any such
state of case, and, on the contrary, it appears that the cost of
the manufacture of gas was largely below the price to be
charged named in the stipulation between the parties. ' There
is nothing upon which to rest the suggestion that the companies were unable to serve the consumers, while the record
shows, on the other hand, that they simply desired to make
larger profits on whatever gas they might furnish. Nor are
we called upon to pass upon the validity generally of pooling
agreements. Here the contract was directly in the teeth of
the statute, which expressly forbade the Equitable Gas-Light
Company from entering into it. That prohibition declared the
policy of the State as well as restrained the particular corporation.
The distinction between malum in se and malum _prohibi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tum has long since been exploded, and as "there can be no
civil right where there can be no legal remedy, and there can
be no legal remedy for that which is itself illegal," Bank of
United States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 539, it is clear that contracts in direct violation of statutes expressly forbidding their
execution, cannot be enforced.
The question is not one involving want of authority to
contract on account of irregularity of organization or lack of
affirmative grant of power in the charter of a corporation, but
a question of the absolute want of power to do that which
is inhibited by statute, and, if attempted, is in positive terms
declared "utterly null and void."
"The rule of law," said Parker, C. J., in Russell v. DeGrand,
15 Mass. 35, 39, "is of universal operation, that none shall, by
the aid of a court of justice, obtain the fruits of an unlawful
bargain."
We cannot assist the plaintiff to get payment for efforts to
accomplish what the law declared should not be done, and the
judgment must be
__________Afflrimed.

ROBERTSOK v. SALOMON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 446. Argued January 16, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

In settling the meaning and application of tariff laws, the commercial
designation of an article is the first and most important thing to be
ascertained.
When the commercial designation of an article fails to give it its proper
place in the classification of a tariff law, then resort must be had to its
common designation.
In an action to recover back duties paid on an importation of white beans,
which were classified at the Custom House as "vegetables," in the general category of "articles of food," it was error in the court to exclude
evidence offered by the collector to prove the common designation of
"beans" as "an article of food."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

