OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel for Parties.

validity which has not been submitted to and confirmed by
the board provided for that purpose in the act of 1851; or, if
rejected by that board, confirmed by the District or Supreme
Court of the United States.
This proposition requires that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California in the case before us be
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with thds opinion.

PARLEY'S PARK SILVER MINING COMPANY v.
KERR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 154. Submitted January 8, 1889. -Decided

April 1, 1889.

In Utah a complaint which alleges that the plaintiff is owner and in pdssession of land, that the defendant claims an adverse interest or estate
therein, that such claim is without legal or equitable foundation and is
void, and that it is a cloud on the plaintiff's title and embarrasses him
in the use and disposition of his property and depreciates his property,
and which prays for equitable relief in these respects, is sufficient to require the adverse claim on the part of the defendant to be set up,
inquired into and judicially determined, and the question of title finally
settled.
The question, under Rev. Stat. § 2319, as to what customs and rules of miners in a mining district not inconsistent with the laws of the United
States are in force in the district when an application is made for a patent of mineral land, is one of fact determinable by the Commissioner of
the Laud Office.
Rule 4 of the rules of the Blue Ledge mining district in Utah, adopted May
17, 1870, limiting the width of a mining location to 200 feet, was so modified May 4, 1872, that thereafter the surface width was to be governed
by the laws of the United States.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. G. Sutherland and Mr. J. R. McBride for appellant.

Mr. Charles W. Bennett for appellee.

PARLEY'S PARK 11INING CO. v. KERl.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

LA

n delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in a District Court of the Territory of Utah on the 14th of September, 1880, by the appellant, Parley's Park Silver Mining Company, to establish the
validity of its title to certain mining property in Utah, and
to have annulled the adverse claim of the appellee, John W.
Kerr, to an estate or interest in said property.
The suit was founded upon § 14,79, Compiled Laws of Utah,
§ 254 of the Practice Act, which is as follows: "An action
may be brought by any person in possession by himself or his
tenant, of real property, against any person who claims an
estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest."
The complaint sets forth the cause of action in the very
terms of this section, alleging, in effect, that the plaintiff is
owner, subject only to the paramount title of the United
States, and in possession of the lands in question; that the
defendant claims an adverse interest or estate therein; that
the said claim is without legal or equitable foundation and
void; and that it is a cloud on plaintiff's title, embarrasses
him in the use and disposition of the property, and depreciates
its value. Therefore, he prays (1) That the defendant may be
required to set forth the nature of his claim, and that all adverse claims of the defendant may be determined by a decree
of the court. (2) That by said decree it be adjudged that the
defendant has no interest or estate whatever in said land, and
that the title of the plaintiff is valid and good. (3) That the
defendant be enjoined against asserting any adverse title to
said land or premises.
The defendant in his answer denies the plaintiff's ownership and possession, and sets up a paramount title in himself
based upon a patent to him from the United States embracing
the land in question.
The facts agreed upon by the parties and adopted by the
court as findings are substantially as follows: Two mining
claims in the Blue Ledge mining district of Utah, known as
the Central mining claim and the Lady of the Lake mining
VOL. cx-xx-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

claim, together with all the estate and interest therein, were
conveyed to the plaintiff by the original locators and their
grantees. At the time of the commencement of the suit there
was no actual possession of the premises in question, but the
plaintiff had, according to the mining laws of the district, possession of parts of those two mining claims, and, according to
those laws, such possession is also possession of the disputed
premises, provided they are rightfully a part of the Central
and Lady of the Lake claims, and not the property of the defendant under his patent for the Clara mining claim. This
mining claim patented to the defendant is overlapped by the
two claims of the plaintiff, and this overlapped portion constitutes the premises in controversy. The plaintiff and its
grantors had done the work required by law on its mining
claims, but had not at the time obtained a patent for either.
The Lady of the Lake mining claim was located July 25,
1875, and was surveyed for patent July 8, 1876.
The Central mining claim was located August 19, 1876, was
surveyed for application for patent August 2, 1880, and application for patent was made by the plaintiff or its grantors soon
thereafter.
The Clara mining claim was located July 28, 1872, was
surveyed for patent March 31, 1876, was entered and paid for
February 20, 1879, and the patent itself was issued February
6, 1880, to the defendant, and held by him at the commencement of the suit.
It is also agreed that "during the 60 days' publication of
the notice of application for patent for the Clara mining claim
and mill site, the owners of the Lady of the Lake mining claim
filed in the United States Land Office an adverse claim against
said application for patent, and thereby made an adverse claim
to the areas in conflict between the Lady of the Lake mining
claim and the Clara mining claim and Clara mill site. On the
25th day of July, 1876, agreements in writing were made
between the owners of the Lady of the Lake mining claim and
the applicants for patent for the Clara mining claim and mill
site, as follows: An agreement whereby the owners of the
Clara mill site relinquished their application for patent for so

PARLEY'S PARK MINING CO. v. KERR.
Opinion of the Court.

much thereof as conflicted with the Lady of the Lake mining
claim, and the owners of the Lady of the Lake mining claim
agreed, in consideration thereof, to prosecute their application
for patent for said claim with diligence and when patent was
obtained to convey to the owners of said mill site or their
assignees the area in conflict between said mill site and said
Lady of the Lake mining claim, excepting and reserving, however, to the owners of the Lady of the Lake mining claim any
mineral vein under th6 surface of said conflict area, and also
the right to mine and extract any minerals therein. And the
owners of the Clara mining claim agreed not to protest the
application for patent for the Lady of the Lake mining claim,
and at the same time the owners of the Lady of the Lake
mining claim, as part of the same agreement, made and delivered to the applicants for patent for the Clara mining claim,
and also filed in said United States Land Office, a written withdrawal relinquishing their said protest and adverse claim
against the application for patent for the Clara mining claim,
and released to the United States and their grantees the lands
and premises in conflict between the said Clara and the Lady
of the Lake mining claims, the said conflict area containing
forty one hundredths of an acre, more or less."
A copy of the mineral laws of the Blue Ledge mining district
was by agreement filed with the stipulation, and it was agreed
they formed a part of the application for patent for the Clara
mining claim. The defendant reserved the right to object to
the admissibility of any facts offered with a view to attack or
impeach the validity of the patent.
The case was submitted to the court on the pleadings, stipulations and exhibits of the parties. The court rendered judgment in favor of the defendant as the owner of the premises
in dispute, and entitled to the possession thereof, and dismissed
the plaintiff's action on the merits.- This judgment, on appeal
to the Supreme Court of Utah, was affirmed. We think it
clear that the appellant has no title, color of title, or right of
any kind to the area in conflict between the Lady of the Lake
mining claim and the Clara mining claim. The facts show
that whilst the application for patent for the Clara mining

OCTOBER TERMTT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

claim was pending, and during the sixty days' period of publication of notice, the owners of the Lady of the Lake claim,
(grantors of the appellant,) filed their protest and adverse
claim against the same, but afterwards, and withii the sixty
days, filed in the local land office a relinquishment of such
adverse claim, and a withdrawal of the protest against the said
application for the Clara mining claim.
As to the disputed premises within the Central mining claim,
the defendant relies upon his patent, which is admitted to
include the land in controversy, and was free from any conflict
with the central mining claim at the date of its issue. He
claims this patent to be conclusive of the legal title, and that
it justifies the presumption that all the prerequisite facts and
acts prescribed by law were complied with. The appellant
contends that the patent is void, because it was issued in violation of the mining laws of the Blue Ledge mining district in
which the location was made, in that those mining laws, which
have the force of 6,public statute, fixed the width of mining
locations within that district at 200 feet. The patent was for
a location of 600 feet.
The first issue to be determined is, whether the complaint is
sufficient to authorize the admission of evidence impeaching
the validity of a patent, or to sustain a judgment annulling it.
This question was directly presented in the case of Ely v. New
.Mexico and Arizona Railroad Co., recently decided by this
court. 129 U. S. 291. That was an action commenced in a
territorial court under the statutes of that Territory, almost
literally the same as the statutes of Utah under which this
action arose, and the prayer for relief was precisely the same
in both complaints. The court held, in that case, that the rule
enforced in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States,
that a bill in equity to quiet title or remove clouds must show
a legal and equitable title in the plaintiff, and set forth the
facts and circumstances on which he relies for relief, does not
apply to an action in the territorial court founded upon territorial statutes, which unite legal and equitable remedies in one
form of action. The complaint in the present case, in compliance with the requirements of the Practice Act of Utah

PARLEY'S PARK INING C0. v. KERR.
Opinion of the Court.

Territory, states in concise language the two ultimate facts,
upon which the claim for relief depends, that the plaintiff is
in possession of the property, and that the defendant claims
an interest or an estate therein adverse to him. These are
sufficient to require the nature and character of the adverse
claim on the part of the defendant to be set up, inquired into,
and judicially determined, and the question of title finally
settled.
The only question, therefore, which remains for consideration, is, whether the proofs in the agreed statement of facts,
which are incorporated in the findings of fact, show that the
patent should have embraced a width of only 200 feet. By
§ 2319, Rev. Stat., mineral lands are open to purchase under
regulations prescribed by law, and according to the local custom and rules of miners in the several mining districts, not
inconsistent with the laws of the United States. Counsel for
appellant cites the rules adopted in the Blue Ledge mining district, May 17,1870, to sustain his position. One of these rules,
§ 4, provides that "the surface width of any mining location
shall not exceed 100 feet in width on each side of the wallrocks of said lode." Had that regulation remained in existence and been in operation at the time the Clara mining claim
was located, its effect upon the legality and validity of that
location, at least as to all the land in excess of 200 feet, could
not be doubted; but we find that the miners of Blue Ledge
mining district frequently changed their rules in several important particulars, among them those relating to the width
of mining locations. We find in the record the "minutes of
a miners' meeting, held on May 4, 1872, to alter and amend
the laws of the Blue Ledge mining district." It is an agreed
fact that, on the day of that meeting, it was known to those
miners that an act of Congress, relating to the location and
extent of mining claims upon mineral lands of the United
States, had passed, or was about to be passed. Among the
other alterations adopted at that meeting, and, as seems to be
agreed, in anticipation of the act of Congress, they provided
in § 14 that "the surface width shall be governed by laws of
the United States of America." And in § 19 they add the

OOTOBtR TEkRlv, 1888."
Opinion of the Court,

general repealing clause. The act of Congress, which was
passed May 10, 1872,'provides as follows:
"A mining claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, whether located by one or
more persons, may equal, but shall not exceed, one thousand
five hundred feet in length along the vein or lode. . . . No
claim shall extend more than three hundred feet on each side
of the middle of the vein at the surface, nor shall any claim
be limited by any mining regulation to less than twenty-five
feet on each side of the middle of the vein at the surface, except where adverse rights existing on the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, render such limitation
necessary." Rev. Stat. § 2320.
The Clara mining claim, it is conceded, was located under
the by-law and the act of Congress just quoted. It was
located, officially surveyed for application for patent, and
formally presented to the Land Office for patent, before the
Central mine was located. It is admitted that these by-laws
were before the Commissioner of the General Land Office and
formed a part of the application. The question as to which
of these provisions was in force, was one of fact, determinable
by the Commissioner, whose duty it was also to take official
notice of the statute upon the subject. He decided as a fact,
that the local laws of the district as to the width of the location had not been exceeded in this instance.
Whether this decision of the Commissioner as to a fact
within his jurisdiction goes to the full extent claimed, we need
not decide. In every view, we think it was correct, and that
the patent issued by him was according to law, and, therefore,
valid.
The judgment of the court below is
-Affirmed.

