142

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

The prayer of the bill was "that the said Helen Moore be
compelled by the proper decree of this court to execute and
deliver a good and sufficient warranty deed or deeds of the
undivided one sixth part of said premises to these complainants, in the proportions to which they are respectively entitled,
as sole heirs of said Monroe," and as there is enough in the
bill as amended to warrant relief, and as the defendants could
not have been taken by surprise, we do not think the decree
should be reversed on the ground that the allegata and the
probata do not sufficiently agree to justify it. It is true, there
is no offer to pay the balance of the purchase monby, but the
case shows that a tender would have been but an empty show,
and as the court had it in its power to require payment of the
two hundred and forty dollar note, thus completing performance by Monroe, and as it did this by its decree, the allegation
would have been merely formal and became immaterial.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Aflrmed.

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 132. Submitted December 18, 1888.-Decided March 11, 1889.

Amendments are discretionary with the court below, and are not reviewable
here.
In Kentucky when the record of a County Court, composed of the county
judge and a majority of the justices of the peace of the county, shows
affirmatively an adjudication of the necessity of a construction contract;
an appropriation for preliminary work upon it: the appointment of an
agent to make the contract; and the levy of taxes to pay for work done
under it, it is not necessary, in order to fix liability on the county, that
the record should further show that the contract was reported to the
court with the name of the person making it; that it was filed in the
court, or that it was accepted by the county judge.
When a body like the county corrts of Kentucky has judicial powers, and
also large administrative and executive powers, and is by law authorized
to employ agents in the execution of the latter branch of powers, the acts
of the agents are not in every case required to appear of record.

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASER.
Opinion of the Court.
When a County Court in Kentucky, constituted as the law requires, enters
into a construction contract on behalf of the county in the manner prescribed by law, and charges the county with the amount specified therein,
its jurisdiction in that special mode of organization ceases; and it is
then the legitimate province of the County Court, held by the county
judge alone, to superintend and control the erection of the structure.
As a general rule in Kentucky, when any power is conferred or duty imposed
by statute upon a County Court, the term is understood to mean a court
held by the presiding judge alone, and not in conjunction with the justices, and should be held so to mean, even when used in connection with
fiscal matters, if it relates to mere ministerial duties.

IN CONTRACT.

Verdict and judgment for the plaintiffs.

defendant sued out this writ of error.
the opinion of the court.
M1r. D.

The

The case is stated in

1?odman and .Mr. Frank P. Straus for plaintiff
RL

in error.
M.r. Augustus

. Willson for defendants in error.

Mr. JusTici L~mAR delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 31st of December, 1879, W. T. Washer, Jacob Danenhauer and Peter Baecker commenced an action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky
against Bullitt County in that State, to recover damages for
breach of a certain contract made between Washer and the
county, and afterwards assigned by Washer to Danenhauer
and Baecker, for the construction by Washer of a bridge over
Pond Creek, between Bullitt and Jefferson counties.
A demurrer to their original petition having been sustained
with leave to amend, the defendants in error, on the 24th of
March, 1880, filed an amended petition.
The original and amended petitions substantially aver that
the county of Bullitt, by its duly authorized commizsioner,
entered into a written contract with plaintiff Washer for the
erection by him of a bridge across Pond Creek according to
specifications, at prices stipulated therein; that in this contract
the county guaranteed payment for the entire work; that the
County Court of Bullitt County appointed commissioners, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

notified Jefferson County thereof, requesting it to appoint
commissioners to contract for the bridge; that beyond the
appointment of such commissioners Jefferson County took no
action looking to any co-operation of the two in the work;
that thereupon, before the contract was made, the County
Court, the presiding judge and a majority of the justices of
the county being present, decided that it was necessary to
erect the bridge, and having exhausted all means provided by
statute for securing the aid of Jefferson County in building it,
decided to erect it upon the responsibility of Bullitt County
alone; that thereafter on the 16th of July, 1877, the Bullitt
County Court, composed as aforesaid, authorized its commissioner, J. W. Ridgway, to report any bids that might be
offered, and the amount of the same, and authorized the county
judge, W. Carpenter, to receive bids, and to accept or reject
the same; that in pursuance of that order the county judge
accepted the bid of Washer; that thereafter Ridgway, being
thereunto authorized by an order of the County Court, made
and entered into the contract with Washer for the construction
of the bridge, which contract was afterwards ratified by the
County Court, composed as aforesaid, and said court, by an
order duly entered of record, directed the levy of taxes to pay
for the work done under the contract, and the application of
the money raised to the payment of the contractors; that
Washer commenced work under that contract, and proceeded
with it until he and his assignees were notified by the county
to stop work upon the bridge; and that the defendant had
failed to perform its contract, and to pay for work done thereunder, to the damage of plaintiffs in the sum of $5325.14, for
which sum they prayed judgment.
A demurrer to this amended petition was sustained by the
Circuit Court, but upon writ of error from this court the judgment was reversed and the case remanded. Tasher v. Bullitt
County, 110 U. S. 558. The question raised by the pleadings
in that case was, whether Bullitt County had, under the
statutes of Kentucky, authority to make the contract sued on,
by Which, according to the averments of the declaration, it
undertook, at its own cost, to build across a boundary stream
a bridge, one end of whioh was in another county.

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASHER.
Opinion of the Court.

This court held that the power given by the Kentucky statutes to adjoining counties to construct bridges across boundary
streams at joint expense did not take away the common law
right of each of the counties to construct such bridges at its
sole cost.
It also held, in effect, that the a]legations of the petition
and amended petition, being admitted to be true by the
demurrer, the contract sued on must be held to have been
made under that section of the statutes which confers upon
the County Court jurisdiction to erect public buildings, bridges
and other structures, and not under the section providing for
the joint action of contiguous counties, as was contended on
behalf of the plaintiff in error; and that therefore the averments of the petition disclosed a right of artion in the plaintiffs.
Upon the return of the case to the Circuit Court, Bullitt
County filed an answer specifically denying the truth of
every material allegation of the petition and amended petition,
the chief and controlling defence being that the contract sued
on was not the contract of Bullitt County. As a part of its
answer the county filed a complete transcript of the orders of
its County Court. Plaintiffs replied to the answer, and afterwards, with the leave of the court and against the defendant's
objection, filed a second amended petition. Issue was joined,
and the case was tried by a jury, resulting in a verdict for the
plaintiffs for the full amount claimed by them, upon which
judgment was rendered. A motion for a new trial having
been overruled, this writ of error was thereupon sued out.
The first assignment of error, namely, that the court erred
in allowing the second amended petition to be filed, has been
so frequently considered and declared unfounded by this court
that it may be dismissed with the remark that amendments
are discretionary with the court.below, and not reviewable
here. See the opinion of the court in the case of Chapman v.
Barney, 129 U. S. 667, decided March 5, 1889, and the authorities there cited. The same remark applies to the assignment
that the court erred in overruling a motion for a new trial.
Arkansas 'alley Co. v. 3lfann, ante, 69, decided March 5, 1889,
and the cases there cited.
VOL. Cxxx--O

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The leading assignments of error substantially present but
one proposition, to wit: Conceding that the county had the
power to build the bridge, (as was determined by this court
on the former writ of error,) the averments of the plaintiff's
petitions were not sustained by the evidence adduced at the
trial, and the contract sued on was not made by the county
in the mode provided by law.
The statute law of Kentucky applicable to such contracts
made by a county is found in Art. 17, § 1,1 c. 28, of the General Statutes of that State (Frankfort, 1873):§ 5. "The county court is a court of record." (Page 307.)
§ 9. "The records of the county court shall at all times
show by whom the court is holden. When the justices of the
peace compose a part of the court the records must state the
names of those who take their seats, and when a member
leaves the bench his absence must be noted."
§ 1, Art. 3, c. 27. "The county court, except for the
county of Jefferson, unless composed of a majority of the
justices of the peace of said county in commission, shall not
have power to make appropriation of the county revenue or
levy, or to make any charge thereon greater than fifty dollars
for any one object."
It is contended that the contract sued on was not made in,
conformity with those requirements; that it was neither made
nor authorized by the County Court, composed of the county
judge and a majority of the justices of the peace of the county;
and that there is no record of the County Court so constituted,
showing that the contract was, as a matter of fact, authorized
to be made.
In order to test the soundness of this position, it is necessary
to consider the entire record taken together. In the first place,
'§ 1. The county judge in each county shall hold the County Court on
the days prescribed by law; but at the Court of Claims, which shall be held
once in each year, the justices of the peace of the county shall be associated
with him and constitute the court; a majority of whom shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business; which shall be confined to laying
the county levy, appropriating money, and transacting other financial business of the county.

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASHER.
Opinion of the Court.

it cannot be denied, indeed the plaintiff in error concedes, that
there are a number of orders which, even quoad hoc, come up
to the requirements of "orders of record," and "of the court
properly constituted," having been made when a majority of
the justices were present.
Among these areFirst. The order of June 18, 1877. This order recognized
Ridgway as commissioner; it adjudicated the necessity of
erecting the bridge; it adopted the Brawner site for that
bridge; and it appointed Ridgway a commissioner to confer
with a commissioner from Jefferson County concerning plans
and specifications and cost.
Second. The order of July 16, 1877. This order appropriated $600 for the building of the bridge at the Brawner site;
it directed the commissioner to report plans and specifications,
and the bids made; it authorized the county judge (W. Carpenter) to receive bids and to accept or reject the same as he
might think proper, looking to the interest of the two counties.
Third. The second order of November 19, 1877, which
appropriated $600 for the bridge.
Fourth. The order of November 18, 1878. This order
showed a levy of a tax on the taxable property of the county
for the purpose of paying for the bridge; a recognition of
Washer as contractor for building the bridge, and of Danenhauer and Baecker as his assignees; and an allowance to them,
as such assignees, in part payment of the bridge.
Fifth. The order of November 18, 18'19. This order appointed a committee to examine the work on the bridge, and
to report.
Sixth. The order of January 19, 1880. This order confirmed the committee's report, and discharged the committee.
Such is that portion of the record which is admitted to be
the record of the court "properly constituted." It is claimed
that the record is defective in the following particulars:
It gave neither the judge nor the commissioner power to
zontract; although it is conceded that the power was given to'
the county judge to accept bids. The alleged contract does
not appear to have been reported to the court; nor was there

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

any note of record that it was made by Ridgway; nor was
the contract ever filed; nor does it show that the county judge
accepted it. And lastly, while the record shows a knowledge
of the fact that a contract existed, and was with the defendants
in error, yet it does not show a knowledge of the fact that the
contract assumed to bind Bullitt County for the whole cost.
Now, inasmuch as the record does show affirmatively an
adjudication of the necessity of the contract; an appropriation
for the preliminary work; the appointment of an agent
(Carpenter) to make the contract;' and a recognition of the
contract by directing the levy of taxes to pay the contractor
and his assignees for the work done; we do not think it necessary, in order to fix a liability upon the county, that the record
should also show, affirmatively, the existence of those outside
incidents which, as enumerated, it does not set out.
The case of Mercer County Court v. Kentucky River NVavigation Co., and GarrardCounty Court v. Same, 8 Bush, 300,
much relied on and quoted from by counsel for plaintiff in
error, is, as a brief analysis will show, inapplicable to the
controversy in the present case.
An act of the Kentucky legislature, passed in 1865, to incorporate the Kentucky River Navigation Company, provided
in one of its sections: "that the county courts of the several
counties bordering on the Kentucky River, . . .
may on
the application of the corporation named, . . . a majority
of all the justices of the peace being present, subscribe stock
in said company, and levy a tax on all taxable property of
said county sufficient to pay the whole amount of said subscription in three years from the time it was made, which tax
shall be collected in all respects as taxes for state revenue are
now collected." The Mercer County Court, a majority of the
justices being present, made an order "that the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars be directed to be subscribed," and
appointed one Joseph A. Thompson, a commissioner to subscribe the same in the Kentucky River Navigation Company.
The Garrard County Court in like manner made an order that
the sum of one hundred thousand dollars should be subscribed
on the part of Garrard County, and also appointed an agent

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASHER.
Opinion of the Court.

to subscribe the same in said company. In pursuance of said
orders the subscriptions were made by the persons appointed,
on the books of the company, for and on behalf of each of
said counties by its agent. The court held that the above
orders and subscriptions were not binding, and did not amount
to contracts of subscription, because the County Court had no
authority under the statute to appoint a commissioner or agent
to make the subscription.
The decision was simply that, where the County Court,
assuming to act under a special statute, whereby was delegated to that court the extraordinary power of determining
whether a county should subscribe in aid of the Navigation
Company, and of making such subscription, undertook to appoint an agent to make the subscription, such appointment
was void as being unauthorized by law. The whole question
was, as to the power to appoint the agent; and the court held
that, as no such power to appoint existed, the court could not
bind the county, except by an order which itself amounted to
a subscription, and which must be made, as evidenced by the
record alone, when a majority of the justices were present.
The court, however, clearly recognized the principle that it
was legally possible to imply a subscription from the subsequent adoption and ratification by a full court of the act of
Thompson.
Now, in the case at bar, the power to appoint an agent or
commissioner is undeniable, and is not challenged. On the contrary, it is admitted. So also is it shown that the agent (Carpenter) was appointed. And, as we have seen, one of the
orders of the court imports upon its face a knowledge of the
contract made by its commissioner, and amounts to a ratification of such contract.
The well-settled maxim that a court of record can act only
through its orders made of record, when applied to judicial
proceedings, means that where the court must itself act, and
act directly, that action must always be evidenced by the
record. But in this instance, where a body has large administrative and executive powers, and is by law authorized to
appoint agents, the principle cannot be so extended as to mean
that all the acts of its agents shall appear of record.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The County Court of Kentucky is, by the statute of that
State, constituted the executive body of the county, and invested with the important and usual powers of a county to
'keep in repair public buildings, bridges, and other structures,
and to superintend the same; over highways and ferries, provision for the maintenance of the poor, the laying and collecting of taxes, the appropriation of the county revenue, the
appointment of many county officers, and to manage all the
fiscal affairs of the county, with many other powers, not less
important, appertaining to the administration of county government. The sole fact that its proceedings as a court of law
are of- record, cannot, in our opinion, deprive it of the power
to appoint, by record, agents to make contracts, and to transact business not of record.
With regard to the contention that the commissioner exceeded the authority given by binding Bullitt County to pay
for the entire work, an examination of the county record
shows that whilst the court sought to secure joint action with
Jefferson County in building the bridge, it determined to proceed without that county, if necessary. Especially is this
shown by the order of July 16, 1877, authorizing Carpenter
alone to accept bids without the coperation of Jefferson
County.
But this point is disposed of by this court in its decision on
the demurrer above mentioned: " N othing further," say the
court, "could be done under §§ 36 and 37. Bullitt County,
therefore, fell back upon the power conferred by § 1, of article
16, c. 28, and made a contract by which it became responsible
for the entire cost of the bridge. Its power to do this, we

think, was clear." 110 U. S. 566, 567.
It is contended that the court erred in admitting, as evidence
of the breach of the contract by Bullitt County, the letter of
the presiding judge of the County Court to Washer notifying
him to stop all work upon the bridge immediately, or that
proper proceedings would be instituted to stop the same.
The ground upon which this objection rests is, that the
-powerto direct the contractor to discontinue the work resided
only in the County Court, composed of the county judge and a

BULLITT COUNTY v. WASHER.
Opinion of the Court.

majority of the justices, and that the court so composed could
authorize such notice only by an order to that effect entered
of record.
We do not concur in the proposition that such action of the
County Court, evidenced by its record, was necessary to authorize the presiding judge to direct the contractor to stop the
work. *When that court, constituted as the law requires for
such purpose, and in the manner prescribed, entered into the
contract sued on, and charged the county with the amount
specified therein, its jurisdiction in that special mode of organization extended no farther. It then became the legitimate province of the County Court, held by the county judge
alone, to superintend and control the erection of the structure.
According to the settled course of decisions in the highest
court of Kentucky, the justices of the peace do not form a
necessary part of the County Court, except when sitting as
a court of claims, or when engaged in appropriating the revenues of the county, levying taxes, laying charges upon the
county, submitting questions of taxation to a popular vote,
and making subscription to stock in railroads. Upon no other
occasion, and with reference to no other matters, is the concurrence of the justices of the peace necessary. Gen. Stat.
Ky. 273, c. 27, art. 3, § 1; Id. 306, c. 28, art. 17, §§ 1 and 2.
All the powers of the court, which do not come within these
enumerated exceptions, are exercised exclusively by the County
Court, presided over by the county judge alone. Gen. Stat.
Ky. 304 to 307, inclusive. And, as a general rule, when any
power is conferred or duty imposed by statute upon the County
Court, the term is understood to mean a court held by the
presiding judge alone, and not in conjunction with the justices,
and should be held so to mean even when used in connection
with fiscal matters, if it relates to mere ministerial duties.
Bowling Green & .MadisonvilleRailroad v. Warren County,
10 Bush, 711 ; feriwetier v. [uhlenburg County Court, 120
U. S. 354, 357, and cases there cited.
When, therefore, Washer received the formal and official
notice to stop work, signed by the judge of the County Court
and the county attorney, he was not bound before obeying it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

to examine the records of that court to ascertain whether it
was authorized by an order made by the judge in conjunction
with the justices and duly entered of record; but he was justified in stopping immediately, as directed, and in resorting to
his action upon the contract. We are of opinion that no
principle of law or of fair dealing is violated by holding a
municipal corporation to a contract thus made within its lawful powers and by its lawfully constituted authority. For
these reasons the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Aflrmed.

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 187. Argued and submitted March 7, 1889.-Decided March 18, 1889.

A general and full assignment by a patentee of the letters patent, and all his
interest therein, to the full end-of the term, and of all reissues, renewals,
or extensions, accompanied by a clause that the net profits from sales,
royalties, settlements, or any source, are to be divided between the parties, the patentee to receive one fourth thereof, is a full and absolute
transfer of title; 'and the assignee does not hold the property as trustee
for the benefit of the patentee, but is trustee only of one fourth of the
profits which may be received.
The payment of a sum in settlement of a claim for an alleged infringement
of letters patent. cannot be taken as a standard to measure the value of
the improvements patented in determining the damages sustained by the
owner of the patent in other cases of infringement.
An agreement concerning compensation for the use of a patented invention,
where the charge may be fixed at the pleasure of the owner of the patent,
cannot be received as evidence of the value of the improvements patented
so as to bind others who have no such agreement.
In order to make the price received by a patentee from sales of licenses a
measure of damages against infringers, the sales must be common, that
is, of frequent occurrence, so as to establish such a market-price for the
article that it may be assumed to express, with reference to all similar
articles, their salable value at the place designated.
Conjectural estimates of injury, founded upon no specific data, but upon
opinions formed upon guesses, withont any knowledge of the subject,
furnish no legal ground for the recovery of specific damages.

