TH

ALASKA.

Statement of the Case.

THE ALASKA.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1217. Submitted March 11, 1889. -Decided

April 1,1889.

In a suit in admiralty, in rem, in a District Court, against a British steamship, brought by the widows of five persons, to recover $5000 each, for
the loss bf their lives, on board of a pilot-boat, by a collision which
occurred on the high seas between the two vessels, through the negligence of the steamship, a stipulation for value was given by the claimant of the steamship, in the sum of $25,000, to obtain her release. The
District Court dismissed the libel. It was amended by claiming $10,000
for the loss of each life, and then the libellants appealed to the Circuit
Court, which made the same decree. The libellants having appealed to
this Court, the appellee made a motion, under subdivision 5 of Rule 6, to
dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, and united with it a motion
to affirm; Held, that the amount involved, if not the entire sum of
$25,000, was, at least, the sum of $10,000 in each case, and that the
motion to dismiss must be denied:
But as there was sufficient color for the motion to dismiss to warrant this
court in entertaining the motion to affirm, the decree was affirmed, on the
ground that the appeal was taken for delay only, in view of the decision
in The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199, that in the absence of an act of
Congress or of a statute of a State giving a right of action therefor, a
suit in admiralty cannot be maintained in the courts of the United
States to recover damages for the death of a human being on the
high seas or on waters navigable from the sea, which was caused by
negligence.

MOTIONS TO DISMISS OR TO AFFIRM.

The court in its opinion

stated the case as follows:
This is a motion to dismiss the appeal in this case, and
united with it is a motion, under subdivision 5 of Rule 6, to
affirm the decree below, on the ground that, although the
record may show that this court has jurisdiction, it is manifest
1 The docket title of this case was CatharineA. ilfetcalfe, Mary E. Noble,
et al., Appellants, v. The Steamship Alaska, her Engines etc., Lady D. E.
Pearce, Sir Villiam George Pearce, James Robertson, and Richard Barnwell,
Executors of William Pearce,Deceased, Clainants.

OCT03E'

TERhA, 1888.

Statement of the Case.

the appeal was taken for delay only, or that the question on
which the jurisdiction depends is so frivolous as not to need
further argument.
The suit is a libel in rem, in admiralty, filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, by the owners of the pilot-boat Columbia, against the
British steamship .Alaska, to recover damages for the loss of
the Columbia by a collision with the Alaska, on the 2d of
December, 1883, on the high seas near the coast of Long,
Island, New York. The libel also embraced a claim for the
loss of property and personal effects by some of the libellants.
There was claimed for the loss of the pilot-boat, $16,000, and
for the loss of the other property, $2100. It was alleged that
the collision occurred solely through the negligence of the
persons in charge of the Alaska. All the persons on board
of the pilot-boat were drowned. Among them were four
pilots and a cook. One of the four pilots was a part-owner of
the Columbia.
William Pearce, of Glasgow, Scotland, filed a claim to the
Alaska, after her attachment, and also gave a stipulation for
value, in the sum of $20,000, to secure the release of the
Alaska from the claims for the loss of the Columbia and of
the personal effects. A supplemenfal libel was filed by the
widows of the four pilots and of the cook who were drowned,
and in it four of them on behalf of themselves and infant children severally, and the other one on her own behalf, claimed
in each of the five instances damages in the sum of $5000, for
the loss severally of the lives of the persons so drowned. After
the filing of the supplemental libel, Pearce gave a further
stipulation for value, in the sum of $25,000, to secure the
release of the Alaska from the claims for the loss of the five
lives. The latter stipulation was in the following terms:
"Whereas a supplemental libel was filed on the 22d day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four, by Catherine A. Metcalfe, Mary E.
Noble, Agnes Arnold, 'Mary Wolf, and Bella Forblade against
the British steamship Alaska, her engines, etc., for the reasons
and causes in the .said libel mentioned; and whereas the said

TIE ALASKA.
Statement of the Case.

steamship Alaska, her engines, in the original action brought
against said vessel by Augustus Van Pelt and others, was in
the custody of the marshal under the process issued in pursuance of the prayer of the said libel; and whereas a claim to
said vessel has been filed by William Pearce, and the value
thereof has been fixed by consent at twenty-five thousand
dollars for the purposes of this action, as appears from said
consent now on file in said court; and the parties hereto
hereby consenting and agreeing, that in case of default or
contumacy on the part of claimant, or his surety, execution
for the above amount may issue against their goods, chattels,
and lands:
"Now, therefore, the condition of the stipulation is such,
that if the stipulators undersigned shall at any time, upon the
interlocutory or final order or decree of the said district court
o of any appellate court to which the above-named suit may
proceed, and upon notice of such order or decree to Wilcox,
Adams & M[acklin, Esquires, proctors for the claimant of said
steamship Alaska, her engines, etc., abide by and pay the
money awarded by the final decree rendered by this court or
appellate court, if any appeal intervene, then this stipulation
to be void; otherwise to remain in full force and virtue."
Pearce put in exceptions and an. answer to the libel and the
supplemental libel, denying the liability. The District Court,
on a hearing on pleadings and proofs, entered an interlocutory
decree, adjudging that the collision was caused by the mutual
fault of the Alaska and the Columbia, and referring it to a
commissioner to ascertain the damages. 27 Fed. :Rep. 704.
The commissioner made his report, which was excepted to by
both parties, and a decree was made by the District Court
awarding to the libellants certain sums as damages for the
loss of the Columbia and of personal effects, and dismissing
the supplemental libel in respect of the damages claimed for
the loss of lives.
Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court'the claimant on
the ground that the libellants were not entitled to any damages, or, if to any, that the damages allowed were excessive;
the libellants on the ground that they were entitled to full

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against the Motions.

damages, instead of only half damages, and that the value of
the Columbia had been allowed at too small a sum; and the
libellants in the supplemental libel on the ground that they
were entitled to full damages. Before these appeals were
perfected, it was consented by the parties that the supplemental libel might be amended so that the claim for the loss
of life should be $10,000 in each of the five cases, instead of

$5000.
The Circuit Court (33 Fed. Rep. 107) made a like decree
with that of the District Court, finding that both vessels were
in fault for the collision, and dividing the damages and the
costs of both courts between the respective parties; and dismissing the supplemental libel for the loss of the lives, without
costs of either court to either party.
The suns awarded by the decree of the Circuit Court were
paid, and the libellants in the supplemental libel appealed to
this court.
.Mr. George Bethune Adams for the motions.

.Xr'. James Parkeropposing.
The motion to dismiss cannot be granted, as it is clear that
the amount in controversy exceeds the jurisdictional amount.
Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143; The ramie, 105 U. S. T73;
Ex parte Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 106 U. S. 5; Davies
v. Corbin, 112 U. S. 36. And it is well settled that the
motion to affirm will not be entertained unless there is color
of right to the other motion. Whitney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607;
Ilinckley v. .2orton, 103 U. S. '764; -Micasv. Tilliams, 104
U. S. 556; Ackley School District v. Hall, 106 U. S. 428;
Davies v. Corbin, 113 U. S. 687.
Should, however, this court deem it proper under the rule,
to entertain the motion to affirm, we present the following in
opposition to such action.
Such motion under subdivision 5 of Rule 6, can only be made
upon two grounds. 1. That the appeal was taken for delay
only. 2. That the same is so frivolous as not to need further
argument.

THE ALASKA.
Argument against the 'Motions.

This appeal cannot be said to be taken for delay only, because there is no decree against the appellants, the execution

of which can be delayed by appeal. They are under no obligation to the appellees of any nature. There is nothing to
delay about. Their libels were dismissed without costs to
either party, because the Circuit Court felt itself bound by
the decision of this court in Tke Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199.
The second ground demands more consideration. It is
always with great embarrassment that a counsel stands before this court to appeal to it to do anything that will tend to
cast a doubt upon the correctness of its own decisions; but,
on the other hand, I am sure that inasmuch as my duty to my
clients requires me so to do, no pride of opinion will induce
the court to refuse to hear their plea in the ordinary course of
its administration of justice.

Ever since admiralty law began to be administered a conflict
has existed between the admiralty and common law courts
of Great Britain as to the jurisdiction of the former. It is
now settled there that "collisions and injuries to property and
persons on the high seas" are subjects of admiralty jurisdiction. Benedict Adm. §§ 74, 111.
In the United States the same struggle began with the
adoption of the Constitution, and has continued until now.
In The Thorn s Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428 (1825), Chief Justice
Marshall, as the mouthpiece of a unanimous court, declared
that: "The admiralty has no jurisdiction over contracts for
the hire of seamen, except in cases where the service is substantially to be performed on the sea or upon waters within
the ebb and flow of the tide." This was reasserted in Peyroax v. Howard, 7 Pet. 324; The Hope, 10 Pet. 108; The Orleans v. Phcebus, 11 Pet. 175; lfaring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441.
Thus the law continued until 1851, when, in the case of The
Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, this court, Mr. Chief Justice
Taney delivering the opinion, (Mr. Justice Daniel alone dissenting,) overruled all the foregoing decisions, and held that
admiralty jurisdiction was not confined to waters within the
ebb and flow of the tide, and that, too, upon the ground that
the former contrary decisions had not been well conwidered,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against the Motions.

although the learned Chief Justice himself and his associates,
McLean, Wayne and Catron, JJ.; and such justices as Marshall, Johnson, Story, Washington, Thompson, Baldwin, Duvall
and Todd had united in making them.
In respect to the admiralty jurisdiction to award damages
growing out of loss of life, prior to the decision of The HaiPisburg, a Chief Justice (Chase) and two of the justices of
this court, (Woods and Blatchford, 6 Ben. 370,) the Circuit
Courts of four Circuits, the District Courts of nine or ten Districts, had united in maintaining the jurisdiction on various
grounds. See also Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515. The
decision in The Har~isburg changed the uniform current of
admiralty decisions on this subject.
In other matters this court has reversed its rule of jurisdiction and its views of the law. Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19
How. 393; The Legal Tender Cases; Osborne v. Xfobile, 16
Wall. 4,79, reversed in Western Union Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105
U. S.460, are instances; and there are many others.
Since the case of The Harrisburgwas decided, in the case
of The oephalonia, 29 Fed. IRep. 332, which decision was
affirmed on appeal by Mr. Justice Blatchford sitting as
circuit judge, 32 Fed. iRep. 112, Judge Benedict held that
damages for loss of life may be recovered in admiralty.
That was, to be sure, a suit in personanm by an administratrix. A tug had been sunk and several persons drowned by
a collision which occurred within the Narrows in the harbor of
New York, by the steamer Cephalonia, coming up astern of her.
Suppose the same steamer had followed the tug to a point on
the high seas just without the three mile limit and sunk her,
and drowned the same parties under the same circumstances,
would the admiralty court in such case have lost its jurisdiction?
The case is not identical with The Harrisburg. There the
parties were all citizens of the United States. The vessel was
owned in Pennsylvania, and the killing occurred in waters of
Massachusetts. There was a remedy at common law in each
of those States had the parties sued in time. But here the
libellants and those who were wrongfully killed are, and
were, citizens of New York; the wrong-doing vessel is owned

THE ALASKA.
Argument against the Motions.

in Great Britain, and the wrongful killing occurred on the
high seas, without the territorial jurisdiction of any State or
country, and in a place to which the general law, the jus gentium, applies, and to which the common law does not, and
never could or did apply.
In T7e larrisburg,the libels had not been brought within
the time limited by the statutes of Mvassachusetts or Pennsylvania.
By the statutes of the State of New York, (Code of Civil
Procedure, § 1902,) such a suit must be brought within two
years after the death. The deaths in this case occurred December 2d, 1883, and the libel was filed November 11th, 1884,
within the two years prescribed by the statutes of New York.
In The arrisburg,this court did not decide that branch of
the case. How far the fact that we began within the time
limited by the Code of New York affects jurisdiction; whether
the suit should have been brought by the administrators;
whether an action in rem against the offending vessel will
lie: these questions-will all arise in this case; and, in respect
to them, this case is different from that of The Hlarrisburg.
Unless these libellants can appeal to an Admiralty Court,
they are remediless. They could not have appealed to the
courts of the State of New York, because the deaths did not
occur within that State, or in waters subject to its jurisdiction.
Numerous decisions of the courts of that State of which these
libellants are citizens have settled it, that, no action by an
administrator will lie where the death complained of occurred
without the State, unless proof is given that the statutes of'
the State in which the death occurred authorized such an action.
TF-iford v. Panama Railroad, 23 N. Y. 465; Leonard v.
Columbia Steam Nay. Co., 84 N. Y. 48; Debevoise v. -New
York, 1ake Erie &c. Railroad,98 N. Y. 371.
No statute law applies on the high seas, as between vessels
and persons of different nations. There the admiralty law
reigns supreme; and the Court of Admiralty is the only court
whose jurisdiction applies there.
In view of all these decisions and considerations, it cannot
properly be said that the question upon which the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

:

in this case depends is so frivolous as not to need further
argument.
MR. JUSTio

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of the appeal is to obtain a decree here that the
Alaska is liable for the loss of the five lives. The ground alleged
for the motion to dismiss the appeal is, that the sum in dispute
as to each of the five lives is not over the sum of $5000, and,
therefore, is not sufficient to give jurisdiction to this court.
The view urged is, that the amount originally claimed by the
supplemental libel for the loss of each of the five lives was $5000;
that the stipulation in the sum of $25,000, given to release the
Alaska" from the five claims, was $5000 for each claim, the
amount in dispute in each case being one fifth of $25,000,
and that the case stands as if each of the five parties had commenced a separate suit for $5000, and five separate stipulations had been given, each in that amount.
But, as the stipulation is a unit, and is for the sum of $25,000,
and in it the stipulators agree that execution may issue for the
$25,000 against their property, and the condition of the stipu
lation is, that the stipulators shall pay the money awarded by
a final decree, (not exceeding, of course, $25,000,) and as the
claim of damages made by each one of the five parties is, by
the amendment of the libel, $10,000 instead of $5000, it might
very well be that some of the libellants would recover more
than $5000, even on an apportionment of the damages. The
fund of $25,000 is a common fund for the benefit of the five
parties; and, on the facts of this case, the amount involved,
on the question of jurisdiction, if not the entire sum of $25,000,
is, at least, the sum of $10,000 in each case. Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, 31 et .seq. and cases cited.
But there is sufficient color for the motion to dismiss, to
warrant us in entertaining the motion to affirm. Whitney v.
Cook, 99 U. S. 607; linckley v. Morton, 103 U. S. 761; .Micas
v. Williams, 104 U. S. 556; Te S. C. Tryon, 105 U. S. 267;
Independent School Dist. v. Hall, 106 U. S. 428; -Davies v.
Corbin, 113 U. S. 687.
On the merits, we are of opinion that this case is governed

THE ALASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

by the decision in the case of Tlie Hfarrisburg,119 U. S. 199,
and that this appeal was taken for delay only. In the case
of The Zarrisburg,it was held that, in the absence of an a~t
of Congress or of a statute of a State, giving a right of action
therefor, a suit in admiralty could not be maintained in the
courts of the United States to recover damages for the death
of a human being on the high seas or on waters navigable
from the sea, which was caused by negligence. It is admitted
by the counsel for the libellants that the statute of New York,
(Code of Civil Procedure, § 1902,) on the subject of actions for
death by negligence, does not apply to the present case, because
the deaths did not occur within the State of New York, or in
waters subject to its jurisdiction. It is further to be said, that
that statute gives a right of action only to the executor or
administrator of the deceased person, while the present suit
is brought by widows; and that the statute provides only for
a suit against an individual person or a corporation, and not
for a proceeding in rem.
A distinction is sought to be drawn between the present
case and that of The Hfarrisburg,on the ground that in that
case the vessel was owned in Pennsylvania, while here the
Alaska is a British vessel; and that in that case the wrongful
killing occurred in th waters of the State of Massachusetts,
while here it occurred on the high seas. But we see no sound
distinction between the two cases. In the case of The Harrisburg, the alleged negligence which resulted in the death occurred
in a sound of the sea, embraced between the coast of Massachusetts and the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket,
parts of the State of Massachusetts. The question involved and
decided in that case was, whether the admiralty courts of the
United States could take cognizance of a suit to recover damages
for the death of a human being on the high seas or on waters
navigable from the sea, caused by negligence, in the absence of
an act of Congress or a statute of a State, giving a right of
action therefor. That question was answered by this court in
the negative, and the decision entirely covers the present case.
The motion to dismiss the appeal is denied, and the decree
of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
VOL.

C=x-14

