UNITED STATES v. INSLEY.

263

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. INSLEY.
APPEA,

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ICASAS.
No. 221. Argued March 21, 189.- Decided April 8, 1889.

In a suit in equity, brought by the United States to redeem a parcel of
land in Kansas, from a mortgage, the defence of laches cannot be set
up, although the bill was filed more than twelve years after the defendant
obtained title to the land by purchasing it on a foreclosure sale under the
mortgage, and more than thirteen years after the United States purchased
the land on a sale on execution on a judgment obtained by it, after the
mortgage was given, against the mortgagor, who still owned the land,
the United States not having been a party to the foreclosure suit.
The United States holds the title to the land for public purposes and not
for private purposes, and holds in like manner the incidental right of
redemption.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
31r. Assistant Attorney Gene'ral .Mfaury for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE BLAT H FoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, by the United States
against the heirs-at-law of Polly Palmer and the heirs-at-law
and administratrix of Moses McElroy, seeking to redeem a
parcel of land known as lot I in block 101, in the city of Fort
Scott, in the State of Kansas, from a claim made thereto by
the Palmer heirs under a mortgage. The bill was originally
filed November 28, 1884. After a demurrer had been put in
to it by two of the defendants, an amended bill was filed, on
July 22, 1885. Some of the defendants interposed a general
demurrer to the amended bill, and on a hearing the demurrer
was, on December 14, 1885, sustained, and the bill was dismissed. From that decree the United States has appealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The material facts set forth in the amended bill are these:
On the 16th of October, 1869, the United States recovered a
judgment at law, in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas, for $2000, against Moses McElroy
and Charles Bull. Two executions were issued thereon, and
were returned unsatisfied. On the 7th of August, 1869, 'McElroy and his wife executed a mortgage for $3500 to Polly
Palmer, on lots 1 and 3 in said block No. 104. On the 30th
of May, 1871, Polly Palmer commenced a suit in a state court
of Kansas against McElroy and his wife to foreclose the mortgage, and, on October 4, 1871, obtained a judgment of foreclosure for $3764.16, which ordered that the property be sold
to satisfy the mortgage. It was sold, and purchased by Polly
Palmer. The sale was confirmed by the court, and, on January 4, 1872, a sheriff's deed for the property was made to her,
which was duly recorded. At the time the foreclosure suit
was commenced, the United States marshal had made a levy
on said property, under an execution issued on the judgment
of the United States, and the said lots 1 and 3 had been advertised to be sold on June 6, 1871. On that day, lot 1 was sold
to the United States; and on October 16, 1871, the District
Court of the United States confirmed the sale, and ordered a
deed to be made to the United States. In the foreclosure suit,
the United States was not made a party, and did not appear.
At the time that suit was commenced, the judgment of the
United States was a lien on lots 1 and 3. Polly Palmer died
in November, 1872, and McElroy died in 1881. On October
30, 18S3, the United States received a deed for lot 1, from the
marshal of the district, based on the sale of June 6, 1871, in
accordance with the order of October 16, 1871, and has been
ever since June 6, 1871, the owner of lot 1, with full right of
possession thereof, subject only to the right of -the heirs-at-law
of Polly Palmer. The amount due to the estate of Polly
Palmer on the mortgage of August 7, 1869, and on the judgment of foreclosure has been paid.
The bill alleges that the United States offers to pay the
amount, if any, due on the mortgage, in order to redeem the
property, waives an answer on oath, and prays that an account

UNITED STATES v. INSI:EY.
Opinion of the Court.

be taken of the amount due; that lot 3 be first subjected to
its payment; that an account be taken of the rents and profits
of lot 1, and if they have been more than sufficient to satisfy
the mortgage debt, the defendants be decreed to pay the excess to the United States; and that the United States be permitted to redeem lot 1, and the defendants be adjudged to
deliver up its possession to the United States.
The decision of the Circuit Court, reported in 25 Fed. Rep.
801, proceeded upon the ground that, as the government in
this case came into a court of equity claiming the same rights
as a private individual, and the case did not involve any question of governmental right or duty, the ordinary rules controlling courts of equity as to laches should be enforced; and
that, as the bill was filed more than twelve years after the
sheriff's deed had been made to Polly Palmer, and more than
thirteen years after the sale on execution to the United States,
the claim of the government was barred by its laches.
This decision of the Circuit Court was made in December,
1885, prior to the decisions of this court in the cases of Fan
Brocklin v. State of Tennessee, 117 U. S.151 ; United States
v. Nashville Railway Co., 118 U. S. 120; and United States
v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338. These cases determine that the
decree in the present case must be reversed.
In Van .Brocklin,v. State of Tennessee, p. 158, this court
said: "The 'United States do not and cannot hold property, as
a monarch may, for private or personal purposes. All the
property and revenues of the United States must be held
and applied, as all taxes, duties, imposts and excises must be
laid and collected, ' to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States."'
In the present case, the United States holds the title to the
property in question, as it holds all other property, for public
purposes and not for private purposes. So holding the title
and the right of possession under their deed, it holds in the
same manner, and for public purposes, the incidental right of
redemption. In this view, the doctrine often laid down, and
again enforced in United States v. Nfashville Railway Co.,
applies to this case. It was there said, p. 125: "It is settled

OOTOBtR TERTi,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

beyond doubt or controversy - upon the foundation of the
great principle of public policy, applicable to all governments
alike, which forbids that the public interests should be prejudiced by the negligence of the officers or agents to whose
care they are confided-that the United States, asserting
rights vested in them as a sovereign government, are not
bound by any statute of limitations, unless Congress has clearly
manifested its intention that they should be so bound. Lindsey v. .Xiller, 6 Pet. 666; United States v. Xnigkt, 14 Pet.
301, 315; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92 ;. United States v.
Thompson., 98 U. S. 486; -ink v. O'Neil, 106 U. S. 272, 281."
This doctrine is applicable with equal force, not only to the
question of a statute of limitations in a suit at law, but also to
the question of laches in a suit in equity. In United States v.
Beebe, p. 344, it was said: "The principle that the United States
are not bound by any statute of limitations nor barred by any
laches .of their officers, however gross, in a suit brought by them
as a sovereign government to enforce a public right or to
assert a public interest, is established past all controversy or
doubt.". These views entirely cover the present case.
lb was suggested in the decision of the court. below, as a
ground for applying to the United States the doctrine of
laches, that the government was not made a party to the foreclosure suit because it could not have been made such party
except at its own will, and that it would be a hardship to the
other parties to this suit to allow the government to lie by for
so many years; and then come into a court of equity to assert
the rights sought to be maintained in this suit. It is a sufficient answer to this view to say, that the principle we have
announced has long been understood to be the rule applicable
to the government, and that it rests with Congress, and not
with the courts, to modify or change the rule.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction to take such
further proceedings as may be according to law and not
inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JusTiOc

in its decision.

FIELD did not sit in this case or take any part

