OCTOBER. TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WATSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAhIS.
No. 369. Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided

March 11, 1889.

The time of the service of a cadet in the Military Academy at West Point
is to be regarded as a part of the time he served in the army within themeaning of the act of July 5, 1838, 5 Star. 256, and should be counted in
computing his longevity pay; and in an action to recover that pay he is
entitled to judgment for so much of the amount thereon thus computed
as is not barred by the Statute of Limitations.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard and Mr. F. P.
Dewees for appellants.
Mr. 1R. B. Warden and . . V.
Mm. JUsTIcE LA&i

TV.
Warden for appellee

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 24th of February, 1886, the appellee, Malbone F
Watson, filed his petition in the Court of Claims, in substance
as follows:
Claimant entered the United States Military Academy as a
cadet, July 1, 1856; was appointed a second lieutenant of eavalry, May 6, 1861 ; first lieutenant of artillery, May 14, 1861 ;
-captain, March 9, 1866; retired from active service for loss of
his right leg from wound received in line of duty, September
18, 1868. In computing his service for longevity pay he
claims to be entitled to count his time as a cadet under the
acts of July 5, 1838, 5 Stat. 256, c. 162, § 15 ; March 2, 1867,
c. 145, § 9, 14 Stat. 423; July 15, 1870, Rev. Stat. § 1262.
By so crediting his service, claimant alleges there is due him
up to the time of filing his petition the sum of $2611.10.
To this petition the United States filed a general demurrer,
which was sustained as to that part of the claim accruing six
years before the filing of the petition, and overruled as to the
rest of it, without prejudice. The court thereupon rendered

UNITED STATES v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment in favor of claimant for $126.22. The United States
appealed.
The ground upon which this judgment rests is, that the
time of the service of claimant as a cadet in the Military
Academy at West Point is to be regarded as a part of the time
lie served in the army within the meaning of the act of July
5, 1838, and should be counted in computing his longevity pay
under that act; and that he is entitled to receive so much of
the amount thereon thus computed as is not barred by the
Statute of Limitations.
The provisions of the acts of Congress, relied upon as the
foundation of the claim of the appellee, are as follows:
Section 15, act of July 5, 1838: "Every commissioned officer of the line or staff, exclusive of general officers, shall be
entitled to receive one additional ration per diem for every
five years he may have served or shall serve in the army of
the United States : Provided, That in certain cases where
officers are entitled to and receive double rations, the additional
one allowed in this section shall not be included in the number
to be doubled."
Section 9, act of March 2, 1867: "That § 15 of the 'Act
to increase the present military establishment of the United
States, and for other purposes,' approved July 5, 1838, be
amended so that general officers shall not hereafter be excluded from receiving the additional ration for every five
years' service; and it is hereby further provided that officers
on the retired list of the army shall have the same allowanco
of additional rations for every five years' service as officers in
active service."
Act of July 15, 1870, now § 1262, Rev. Stat. : "There shall
be allowed and paid to each commissioned officer below the
rank of brigadier-general, including chaplains and others having assimilated rank or pay, ten per centum of their current
yearly pay for each term of five years of service."
That cadets at West Point were always part of the army,
and that service as a cadet was always actual service in the
army, has been settled by the decision of this court in the case
of VTnite(d States v. Morton, 112 U. S. 1, in which a question
VOL.

M=x-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

almost identical with the one now before us was presented for
consideration. In that case, Morton, the claimant, had entered
the United States Military Academy at West Point as a cadet,
July 1, 1865, had graduated therefrom June 15, 1869, and had
served in the army as a commissioned officer from that date
until March 31, 1883. In computing his service pay the accounting officers did not allow him credit for the time he had
been a cadet at West Point as part of his time of service in the
army; and he accordingly brought suit in the Court of Claims
under the acts of February 24, 1881, and June 30, 1882, 21
Stat. 346, and 22 Stat. 118, respectively. These acts, among
other things, provided that: "Additional pay to officers for
length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay,
and the actual time of service in the army or navy, or both,
shall be allowed all officers in computing their pay." The
Court of Claims rendered judgment in favor of the claimant,
which, on an appeal prosecuted on behalf of the United States,
was affirmed by this court. In the opinion of the court it was
stated that "the only question for decision is, whether the time
of service as a cadet is to be regarded as ' actual time of service
in the army."' The court, after an elaborate examination and
discussion of the laws bearing thereon and having relation
thereto, answered that question in the affirmative, and said:
"From this review of the statutes, it cannot be doubted that,
before the passage of the act of July 28, 1866, (now § 1094,
Rev. Stat., which in so many words classes the cadets at West
Point as a part of the army of the United States,) as well as
afterwards, the corps of cadets of the Military Academy was a
part of the army of the United States, and a person serving as
a cadet was serving in the army. ..
The practical construction of the requirement of the act of 1838, that the cadet
should engage to serve for eight years, shown by the fact that
the form of the engagement in this case was to 'serve in the
army of the United States for eight years,' is a circumstance of
weight to show that the government, from the beginning,
treated the plaintiff as serving in the army. The service for
which he engaged began on the 1st of July, 1865, and the eight
years ran from that time. That being his status, the acts of

CALTON v. UTAH.
Syllabus.

1881 and 1882, in speaking of 'actual time of service in the
army,' cover the time of his service as a cadet. . . . Under
the statutes involved in the present case, a cadet at West Point
is serving in the army as fully as an officer retired from active
service is serving in the army, under the statutes which apply
to him, so far as the question of longevity pay is concerned."
More direct and emphatic language could not be used to support the contention of the claimant in this case. The words
"actual time of service in the army," as used in the act of February 24, 1881, are not more expressive of cadet service at
West Point, than are the words "for every five years he may
have served or shall serve in the army of the United States,"
as used in the act of July 5, 1838. They both mean the same
kind of service; and we are of the opinion that such service
should be reckoned in computing longevity pay prior, as well
as subsequent, to the act of February 24, 1881.
We also concur with the Court of Claims, that in this case
there can be no recovery for any part of the claim that accrued
prior to February 24, 1880, the day when the bar of the Statute
of Limitations took effect. Rev. Stat. § 1069. The claim sued
on is valid as to that part of it which accrued after that date.
For these reasons the judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

CALTON v. UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 1408.

Argued January 2, 1889.- Decided March 11, 1889.

A statute of Utah provided that every person guilty of murder in the first
degree shall suffer death, or, upon the recommendation of the jury, may
be imprisoned at hard labor in the penitentiary for life, at the discretion
of the court; Held,
(1) That the authority given to substitute imprisonment at hard labor
in the penitentiary for life for the punishment by death, when the
accused is found guilty of murder in the first degree, depends
upon a previous recommendation to that effect by the jury;
(2) That when a person is on trial charged with the commission of mur-

