OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

1889. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER said that the same questions
were presented upon the record in this case as in the District oJ
Columbia, Plaintff in EBro?"v. Lawrence B. Gannon, No. 182, just
decided, and that for the reasons there given the writ of error
must be
Dismissed.

Mr. A. G. Riddle for plaintiff in error.
Mr'. S. S. Henkle for defendant in error.

STEVENS v. NICHOLS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 190. Argued March 11, 1889.-Decided April 1, 1889.

A petition for removal which alleges the diverse citizenship of the parties
in the present tense is defective, and if it does not appear in the record
that such diversity also existed at the commencement of the action, the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to send it
back to the state court, with costs against the party at whose instance
the removal was made.

THE case as stated by the court was as follows:
This action was commenced on the 25th day of July, 1881,
in one of the courts of Mllissouri, by the defendant in error
against the Texas and Atlantic Refrigerator Car Company, a
corporation of that State, Robert S. Stevens and Henry D.
Mfirick. Its object was to reach, and have applied in satisfaction of a judgment obtained by the plaintiff against the car
company, the several amounts due from Stevens and AMirick
on their subscriptions of stock in that company
Stevens and Mirick filed a joint petition for the removal of
the case into the Circuit CoXct of the United States, upon the
ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties. The allegation in the petition was that the plaintiff "is a citizen of the
State of Missouri," and that the defendants "are not citizens

STEVENS v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the State of Missouri, but are citizens of the State of New
York."
The state court made an order for the removal of the case
to the Circuit Court of the United States. In the latter court,
the necessary pleadings having been filed, the case was tried,
resulting in a verdict and judgment against Stevens for the
sum of $5027.33, and against Mirick for the sum of $627.41.
The court having overruled a motion for new trial, and also a
motion in arrest of judgment, Stevens has brought the case
here for review.
No question was made in the court below or in this court as
to the right of Stevens and Mirick to remove the case from
the state court.
M'. A. E. Garland and -Mr. James Ca' for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. George P. B. Jackson for defendant in error.
MR.

JusTicE

Am

_Nr delivered the opinion of the court.

1. It was held in Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.646, 649, upon
writ of error from a Circuit Court of the United States, that
"in cases where jurisdiction depends upon the citizenship of
the parties, such citizenship, or the facts which in legal intendment constitute it, should be distinctly and positively averred
in the pleadings, or they should appear affirmatively and with
equal distinctness in other parts of the record." XAlansfield,
Coldwater &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382; Hancock v. Holbrook, 112 U. S.229, 231; Thayer v. Eife Association,
112 U. S.717, 719; Continental Ins. Co. v. Rhoads, 119 U. S.
237, 239.
2. The case was not removable from the state court, unless
it appeared affirmatively in the petition for removal, or elsewhere in the record, that at the commencement of the action,
as well as when the removal was asked, Stevens and Mirick
were citizens of some other State than the one of which the
plaintiff was, at those respective dates, a citizen. Gibson v.

OCTOBER TERAL,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, 562; Houston & Texas Central Railway
v. Shirley, 111 U. S. 358, 360; .3ansfteld,Coldwater &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 381; Akers v. Akers, 117 U. S.
197.
3. The petition for removal does not allege the citizenship
of the parties except at the date when it was filed, and it is
not shown elsewhere in the record that Stevens and Mfirick
were, at the commencement of the action, citizens of a State
other than the one of which the plaintiff was, at that date, a
citizen. The court, therefore, cannot consider the merits of
the case. Aetcalf v. lWatertowa, 128 U. S. 586; -Mfonris v.
Gilrer,129 U. S. 315, 325.
The judgment is reversed upon the ground that it does not
appear that the Circuit Court bad jurisdiction, and the case is
remanded to that court, with directions to send it back to the
state court, the plaintiff in error to pay the costs in this court
and in the court below. Yansfield &c. Railway v. Swan, 111
U. S. 379.
Reversed.
BUXTON v. TRAVER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 211. Submitted March 18, 1889.-Decided April 1,1889.
No portion of the public domain, unless, it be in special cases, not affecting
the general rule, is open to sale until it has been surveyed, and an
approved plat of the township embracing the land has been returned to
the local land office.
A settler upon public land, in advance of the public surveys, acquires no
estate in the land which he can devise by will, or which, in case of his
death intestate, will pass to his heirs at law, until, within the specified
time after the surveys and the return of the township plat, he files a declaratory statement such as is required when the surveys have preceded
settlement, and performs the other acts prescribed by law.
Section 2269 of the Revised Statutes has no application to the case of a
settler who dies before the time arrives when the papers necessary to
establish a preemption right can be filed.

THE case which makes the federal question is stated in the
opinion of the court.

