PICARD v. TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO.

637

Statement of the Case.

flict with the laws of the United States, does not strike us as
of great weight. A corporation interested in mining may be
represented by an officer or agent, at any meeting of miners
called together to frame such rules and regulations in their
mining district. Corporations engaged in other business are
constantly represented in this way at meetings called in relation to matters in which they are interested. There is nothing
in the nature of mining to prevent such a representation of a
corporation when rules to control the acquisition and development of mines are to be considered and settled.
It follows that the judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to overrule the demurrer of the defendants, and to take further
.proceedinas in accordance with this opinion.

PICARD v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND

GEORGIA. RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 246. Argued April 12,1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

Legislative immunity from taxation is a personal privilege, not transferable,
and not to be extended beyond the immediate grantee, unless otherwise
so declared in express terms.
Immunity from taxation does not pass to the purchaser at a sale of "the
property and franchises of a railroad corporation " to enforce a statutory
lien. 1Mforgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, on this point affirmed.
Although a grant of immunity from taxation by a legislature to a corporation has sometimes been held to be a privilege which may be transferred,
the later and better opinion is that, unless other provisions remove all
doubt of the intention of the legislature to include the immunity in the
term "privileges," it will not be so construed.
The property of the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company, situated in the State of Tennessee, is not exempt from taxation
under the laws of that State.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER" TERM3,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

.ir. George F. Pickle, Attorney General of the State of
Tennessee (with whom were -Mr.Albert S. -larks, Mr. John,
-r.*William 0. 7-ertrees on the brief) for
J Jertrees and
appellant.
Mr.William A. Baxter for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE FinELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to enjoin the collection of certain taxes for the
years 1883 and 1884, assessed by the Board of Railroad Tax
Assessors of Tennessee against the property of the complainant, the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company. The property formerly belonged to the Cincinnati,
Cumberlaud Gap and Charleston Railroad Company; and the
claim asserted by the bill is, that the property, whilst held by
that company, was exempt from taxation, and that such exemption has accompanied it in its transfer to the complainant.
That company-was incorporated by an act of the legislature
of Tennessee, passed November 18, 1853. Among other things
the act provided that whenever the company should have completed its road from Cumberland Gap to the East Tennessee
and Virginia Railroad, or to the southern boundary line of the
State, it should "have all the rights and privileges" conferred
by its charter for a period of ninety-nine years. Statutes of
Tenn. 1853-4, c. 301, § 6. It also declared that the company
should be vested, except as otherwise provided by its charter,
with "all the rights, powers and privileges, and subject to all
the restrictions and liabilities, of the Nashville and Louisville
Railroad Company." An act was passed by the legislature of
Tennessee on the 9th of February, 1850, to incorporate a company under this last name, which, among other things, declared
"that the capital stock in the said company, the dividends
thereon, and the roads and fixtures, depots, workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation belonging to the said
company shall be forever exempt from taxation in each and
every of the said States of Tennessee and Kentucky, and i-1
shall not be lawful for either of the said States, or any corpo:.

PICARD v. TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO.

639

Opinion of the Court.

ate or municipal police or other authority thereof, or of any
town, city, county, or district thereof, to impose any tax on
such stock or dividends, property or estate." Statutes of
Tenn. 1849-50, c. 76, § 40.
It does not appear that any organization of this company
was ever perfected. It is stated by counsel that none ever
took place; and it would seem that such was the conclusion
of this court in Goodlett v. Louisville Railroad,122 U. S. 391,
406.
Assuming, however, that its organization was perfected, its
rights, powers and privileges were subject to the restrictions
specified in the act, and one of these was that the act should
"become a law whenever the State of Kentucky may enact
the same for the same purpose, with such modifications and
amendments" as she may deem right, not inconsistent with
its provisions. By this restriction we understand that the act
was not to take effect until re-enacted by Kentucky, with such
modifications as she might suggest, not inconsistent with it.
It is conceded that Kentucky never passed any such act as
here mentioned. We are of opinion therefore, that we may
properly omit from consideration the act of February 9, 1850,
to incorporate the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company,
and the attempt to invest the Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap
and Charleston Railroad Company with its "rights, powers,
and privileges." If this construction be correct, the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company never acquired under
that act any rights, powers, or privileges, those designated in
its charter being subject to restrictions, which were not complied with; and, therefore, whatever right the Cincinnati,
Cumberland Gap and Charleston Company possessed, to have
its property exempted from taxation, must be found independently of the provision referring to and granting the exemption
contained in the charter of the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company. There is no such exemption from taxation in
its own charter. It is, however, contended that provisions in
an act of the legislature of the State, chartering the Lexington and Knoxville Railroad Company, passed on the 22d of
December, 1853, had the effect of extending such exemption to

OCTOBER

.ERA, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the property of the Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap and Charleston Railroad Company, inasaiuch as it invests that company
with the "rights, powers, and privileges" "of the East Tennessee and Virginia Railroad Company." Statutes of Tenn.
1853-4, c. 325, § 6. The act incorporating this last company
declared that its capital stock should be forever exempt from
taxation, and that its road, "with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of
transportation," should be exempt from taxation for the period
of twenty years from the completion of its road, and no longer,
and that the road should be commenced within five years after
the passage of the act, and be finished within ten years thereafter, otherwise the charter should be void. Statutes of Tenn.
1847-8, c. 120, §§ 30, 31.
The answer avers that the road has never been completed,
and no proof was offered to refute this averment. The burden
of proof to show the completion was upon the complainant,
for until then the exemption claimed could have no existence
even while the property remained in the possession of the
Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap and Charleston Railroad Company.
Assuming, however, that we are mistaken in the construction given as to the effect of the provisions in the charters of
the two companies, the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company and the East Tennessee and Virginia Railroad Company,
and that the references to those companies are to be construed
as embodying all "the rights, powers and privileges" which it
was intended the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company
should possess if the act creating its charter had been reenacted by Kentucky, and which it was intended the East
Tennessee and Virginia Railroad Company should possess
after the completion of its road, our conclusion upon the questions involved would not be affected. It is conceded that the
property of the company passed upon sales and conveyances
made under a decree rendered in a suit against the company,
commenced by the State of Tennessee, to parties who have
since conveyed the same to the complainant. That suit was
brought to enforce a statuitory lien reserved by the State as

PICARD v. TENNESSEE &c. IALROAD CO.

641

Opinion of the Court.

security for the loan of her bonds issued to the company, and
the sale made under the decree, and confirmed, was of the
"property and franchises" of the railroad company.
By this sale and the conveyance which followed, immunity
from taxation did not pass. Such immunity is not in itself
transferable. It has been held, and the doctrine has been so
often repeated that it is no longer an open question, that the
legislature of a State may exempt the property of particular
persons or corporations from taxation, either for a limited
period or perpetually; but to justify the conclusion that such
exemption is granted, it must appear by language so clear and
unmistakable as to leave no doubt of the purpose of the legislature. The power of taxation is one of the highest attributes
of sovereignty, and the suspension of its exercise as to any
persons or property is not a matter to be presumed or inferred.
It must be declared or it will not be deemed to exist. If the
legislature can lay aside a power devolved upon it for the good
of the whole people of the State, for the benefit of a private
party, it must speak in such unmistakable terms that they will
not admit of any reasonable construction consistent with the
reservation of the power. The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18
Wall. 206, 225.
Yielding to the doctrine that immunity from taxation may
be granted, that point being already adjudged, it must be considered as a personal privilege not extending beyond the
immediate grantee, unless otherwise so declared in express
terms. The same considerations which call for clear and unambiguous language to justify the conclusion that immunity
from taxation has been granted in any instance must require
similar distinctness of expression before the immunity will be
extended to others than the original grantee. It will not pass
merely by a conveyance of the property and franchises of a
railroad company, although such company may hold its property exempt from taxation. As we said in Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, 2 3: "The franchises of a railroad corporation are rights or privileges which are essential to the operations of the corporation, and without which its road and works
would be of little value; such as the franchise to run cars, to
VOL. cxxx-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

take tolls, to appropriate earth and gravel for the bed of its
road, or water for its engines, and the like. They are positive rights or privileges, without the possession of which the
road of the company could not be successfully worked. Immunity from taxation is not one of them. The former may
be conveyed to a purchaser of the road as part of the property
of the company; the latter is personal, and incapable of transfer without express statutory direction."
It is true there are some cases where the term "privileges"
has been held to include immunity from taxation, but that has
generally been where other provisions of the act have given
such meaning to it. The later, and, we think, the better opinion is, that unless other provisions remove all doubt of the
intention of the legislature to include the immunity in the
term "privileges," it will not be so construed. It can have
its full force by confining it to other grants to the corporation.
The case of Railroad Company v. County of Hamblen, 102
U. S. 273, was, with the exception of one particular, substantially like the one before us. The claim of exemption founded
upon the act of December 22, 1853, referring to the charter of
the East Tennessee and Virginia Railroad Company, was not
there relied upon. Reliance was, however, placed upon the
act chartering the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company
as exempting the property of the Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap
and Charleston Railroad Company from taxation. The court
held that immunity from taxation did not pass to the purchaser upon the sale of the property under the decree rendered
in the suit brought by the State against the company.
The decree below must therefore be
Reversed and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill, and it is so ordered.

