OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

McKINLEY v. WHEELER.
PRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 233. Argued April 2, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

A corporation, created under the laws of one of the States of the Union,
all of whose members are citizens of the United States, is competent to
locate, or join in the location of, a mining claim upon the public lands of
the United States, in like manner as individual citizens.
Whether such a corporation will not be treated as one person, and as entitled to locate only to the extent permitted to a single individual, quuere.
A corporation interested in mining may be represented by its officer or
agent at any meeting of miners called together to frame rules and regulations in their mining district.

THIS was an action for the recovery of an undivided interest in a mine. Defendants demurred to the complaint and
the demurrer was sustained and the action dismissed. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
-opinion.

AXr. Assistant Attorney General Mlfaury for plaintiff in
error.

.Xr. Hugh Butler was on the brief for same.

_b'. .. X. _Patterson for defendants in error.
Thomas was with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

Mr. C. S.

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for the possession of an undivided half
interest in a mining claim known as the Vallejo lode, in the
mining district of Roaring Forks, in the county of Pitkin,
Colorado.
The plaintiff derives whatever interest he possesses by purchase and conveyance from the Josephine Mining and Prospecting Company, a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of Colorado, for the purpose of prospecting for valuable mineral deposits in the public domain of the United States
in that State. The Vallejo lode was discovered and located

McKINLEY v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

by that company and two persons named Charles Miller and
James W. McGee, the location being in their joint name, one
half interest for the benefit of Miller and McGee and the
other half for the benefit of the members of the corporation.
At the time of the discovery and location all the members of
the corporation were citizens of the United States, and were
severally and individually qualified and competent to enter
upon the public domain and acquire title to mineral lands
upon it by discovery and location.
The complaint, in addition to these facts, alleges that on the
11th of March, 1884, the plaintiff was and has since been the
owner of an undivided half interest in the mining claim mentioned, which is described by metes and bounds as set forth in
the original location certificate, and was then and has ever
since been entitled to its possession; that on the 20th of October, 188:, the defendants entered upon the premises and wrongfully and unlawfully excluded the plaintiff therefrom, and have
ever since thus excluded him, to his damage of one thousand
dollars. He therefore prays judgment for the possession of
an undivided half interest in the mining claim and for the
damage alleged.
To this complaint, the material facts of which are set forth
in two counts, the defendants demurred on several grounds,
some of which are mere formal objections, but one of which
is as follows: "Because the plaintiff bases his title or claim of
ownership to an undivided one half of the said Vallejo lode
mining claim upon a purchase and conveyance from the Josephine Mining Company, a locator of said claim, and that said
company, whether a corporation or partnership, was and is
incapable of originally locating a mining claim, in whole or in
part, under the statutes of the United States or of the State
of Colorado."
After argument the court sustained the demurrer, and entered judgment dismissing the action, with costs against the
plaintiff, who has brought the case here on a writ of error.
As thus appears, the sole question presented for our determination is whether a corporation created under the laws of one
of the States of the Union, all of whose members are citizens

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, is competent to locate or join in the
location of a mining claim upon the public lands of the
United States, in like manner as individual citizens. The
question must, of course, find its solution in the enactments
of Congress.
Section 2319 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"All valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the
United States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, are hereby
declared to be free and open to exploration and purchase, and
the lands in which they are found to occupation and purchase,
by citizens of the United States and those who have declared
their intention to become such, under regulations prescribed
by law, and according to the local customs or rules of miners
in the several mining-districts, so far as the same are applicable and not inconsistent with the laws of the United States."
It will be observed that no prohibition is here made against
citizens of the United States uniting together for the occupation and purchase of public lands containing "valuable mineral
deposits." Nothing is said of partnerships or associations or
corporations; it is to citizens that the privilege is granted, and
that they may unite themselves in such modes in all other
pursuits was, as a matter of course, well known to those who
framed as well as to those who passed the statute. There was no
occasion for special reference to the subject to give sanction to
these modes of uniting means to explore for mineral deposits
and to develop them when discovered. Many branches of
mining, and those which yield the largest returns, can be carried on only by deep excavations in the earth and the use of
powerful machinery, requiring expenditures generally far
beyond the means of single individuals. In lode mining
especially such excavations extend in most tases hundreds of
feet, in many cases thousands of feet into the earth, where, for
successful working, the steam engine of great power is as essential an instrument as the pick and the shovel. It was expected,
of course, that mining would continue after the passage of the
act as before. No change in that respect was needed or asked
for. The object of the act of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91, c. 152,
ยง 1, from which the provisions of ยง 2319 were carried into the

McKINLEY v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes, was "to promote the development of the
mining resources of the United States." It is so expressed in
its title, and such development is sought to be promoted by
indicating the manner in which claims to mines can be established, and their extent, and by offering a title to the original
discoverer or locator who should develop the mine discovered
and located, or to his assigns.
At the present day, nearly all enterprises, for the prosecution
of which large expenditures are required, are conducted by
corporations. They occupy in such cases almost all branches
of industry, and prosecute them by means of the united capital
of their members with increased success. In many States they
are formed under general laws, by a very simple proceeding; by an instrument signed by the proposed members agreeing to
thus unite themselves, stating their number, the object of their
incorporation, the proposed capital, the number of shares, the
period of duration and the officers under whose direction their
business is to be conducted. Such a document being acknowledged by the parties and filed in certain designated offices, a
corporation is created. The facility with which they may be
thus formed, and the convenience of thus associating a number
of persons for business, have led to an enormous increase of
their number. They are little more than aggregations of
individuals united for some legitimate business, acting as a
single body, with the power of succession in its members without dissolution. We think, therefore, that it would be a forced
construction of the language of the section in question, if,
because no special reference is made to corporations, a resort
to that mode of uniting interests by different citizens was to be
deemed prohibited. There is nothing in the nature of the
grant or privilege conferred which would impose such a limitation. It is in that respect unlike grants of land for homesteads and settlement, indicating in such cases that the grant
is intended only for individual citizens.
The development of the mineral wealth of the country is
promoted, instead of retarded, by allowing miners thus to
unite their means. This is evident from the fact that so soon
as individual miners find the necessity of obtaining powerful

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

machinery to develop their mines, a corporation is formed by
them; and it is well known that a very large portion of the
patents for mining lands has been issued to corporations.
If we turn now to other provisions of the Revised Statutes
we find that the conclusion which we have reached is justified
by their language. Section 2321 provides as follows:
"Proof of citizenship, under this chapter, may consist, in the
case of an individual, of his own affidavit thereof ; in the case of
an association of persons unincorporated, of the affidavit of
their authorized agent, made on his own knowledge, or upon
information and belief; and in the case of a corporation
organized under the laws of the United States, or of any
State or Territory thereof, by the filing of a certified copy of
their charter or certificate of incorporation."
Again, ยง 2325, in stating the manner and conditions under
which a patent for a mining claim may be obtained, provides
as follows:
"A patent for any land claimed and located for valuable
deposits may be obtained in the following manner: Any person, association, or corporation authorized to locate a claiin
under this chapter, having claimed and located a piece of land
for such purposes, who has or have complied with the terms
of this chapter, may file in the proper land office an application for a patent, under oath, showing such compliance," etc.
It will be thus seen that the statute itself assumes, what one
would naturally infer without reference to it, that citizens of
the United States are permitted to enjoy the privilege which
is granted to them in their individual capacity, though they
may unite themselves into an association or corporation.
The doctrine is well established that rights with respect to
property held by citizens are not lost because they unite themselves into corporate bodies. They are subsequently as able
to invoke the law for the enforcement of their rights as previously, the court in such cases looking through the name in
order to protect those whom the name represents. We have
an illustration of this, as applied to corporations, in the construction given to the clause of the Constitution which extends
the judicial power of the United States to controversies be-

MNcKINLEY v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

tween citizens of the States and aliens, and between citizens
of different States.
In Bank of the United State. v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61, 87,
the question arose whether a corporation composed of citizens
of one State could sue in the Circuit Court of the United
States a citizen of another State, and it was answered in the
affirmative. In deciding the question, the court, speaking by
Chief Justice Mharshall, said: " However true the fact may be,
that the tribunals of the States will administer justice as impartially as those of the nation, to parties of every description,
it is not less true that the Constitution itself either entertains
apprehensions on this subject, or views with such indulgence
the possible fears and apprehensions of suitors, that it has established national tribunals for the decision of controversies
between aliens and a citizen, or between citizens of different
States. Aliens, or citizens of different States, are not less susceptible of these apprehensions, nor can they be supposed to
be less the objects of constitutional provision, because they are
allowed to sue by a corporate name. That name, indeed, cannot be an alien or a citizen; but the persons whom it represents
may be the one or the other; and the controversy is, in fact
and in law, between those persons suing in their corporate
character, by their corporate name, for a corporate right, and
the individual against whom the suit may be instituted. Substantially and essentially the parties in such a case, where the
members of the corporation are aliens, or citizens of a different State from the opposite party, come within the spirit and
terms of the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution on the
national tribunals. Such has been the universal understanding
on the subject. Repeatedly has this court decided causes between a corporation and an individual without feeling a doubt
respecting its jurisdiction."
The doctrine of this case has been followed and is now the
settled law in the courts of the United States. On the same
principle, provisions of law, in terms applicable to persons,
securing to them the enjoyment of their property, or affording
means for its protection, are held to embrace private corporations. The construction given to the 6th article of the defini-

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

tive treaty of peace of 1783 between Great Britain and the
United States illustrates this. 8 Stat. 83. That article provided that there should be "no future confiscations made, nor
any prosecutions commenced against any person or persons for,
or by reason of, the part which he or they may have taken in
the present war; and that no person shall, on that account,
suffer any future loss or damage either in his person, liberty, or
property." An English corporation held in Vermont certain
lands granted to it before the Revolution, and the legislature
of that State undertook to confiscate them and give them to
the town where they were situated. The English corporation
claimed the benefit of this article, and recovered the property
against the contention that the treaty applied only to natural
persons, and could not embrace corporations because they
were not persons who could take part in the war, or could be
considered British subjects, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Washington, observing that the argument proceeded upon an
incorrect view of the subject, and referring to the case of the
Bank of the United States v. .Deveauz, to show that the court,
when necessary, will look beyond the name of a corporation
to the individuals whom it represents. Society for the Propagation of the Gospel v. New -Haven,8 Wheat. 464,491. Many
other illustrations of the doctrine might be cited.
We are of opinion that the same rule of construction
should control in this case, and that, in accordance with it,
ยง 2319 of the Revised Statutes must be held not to preclude a
private corporation formed under the laws of a State, whose
members are citizens of the United States, from locating
a mining claim on the public lands of the United States.
There may be some question raised as to the extent of a
claim which a corporation may be permitted to locate as an
original discoverer. It may perhaps be treated as one person and entitled to locate only to the extent permitted to
a single individual. That question, however, is not before us
and does not call for an expression of opinion.
The objection to this construction arising from the fact that
the section gives force, in the location of claims, to the rules
and customs of miners, so far as applicable, when not in con-

PICARD v. TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO.

637

Statement of the Case.

flict with the laws of the United States, does not strike us as
of great weight. A corporation interested in mining may be
represented by an officer or agent, at any meeting of miners
called together to frame such rules and regulations in their
mining district. Corporations engaged in other business are
constantly represented in this way at meetings called in relation to matters in which they are interested. There is nothing
in the nature of mining to prevent such a representation of a
corporation when rules to control the acquisition and development of mines are to be considered and settled.
It follows that the judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to overrule the demurrer of the defendants, and to take further
.proceedinas in accordance with this opinion.

PICARD v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND

GEORGIA. RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 246. Argued April 12,1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

Legislative immunity from taxation is a personal privilege, not transferable,
and not to be extended beyond the immediate grantee, unless otherwise
so declared in express terms.
Immunity from taxation does not pass to the purchaser at a sale of "the
property and franchises of a railroad corporation " to enforce a statutory
lien. 1Mforgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, on this point affirmed.
Although a grant of immunity from taxation by a legislature to a corporation has sometimes been held to be a privilege which may be transferred,
the later and better opinion is that, unless other provisions remove all
doubt of the intention of the legislature to include the immunity in the
term "privileges," it will not be so construed.
The property of the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company, situated in the State of Tennessee, is not exempt from taxation
under the laws of that State.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

