CALTON v. UTAH.
Syllabus.

1881 and 1882, in speaking of 'actual time of service in the
army,' cover the time of his service as a cadet. . . . Under
the statutes involved in the present case, a cadet at West Point
is serving in the army as fully as an officer retired from active
service is serving in the army, under the statutes which apply
to him, so far as the question of longevity pay is concerned."
More direct and emphatic language could not be used to support the contention of the claimant in this case. The words
"actual time of service in the army," as used in the act of February 24, 1881, are not more expressive of cadet service at
West Point, than are the words "for every five years he may
have served or shall serve in the army of the United States,"
as used in the act of July 5, 1838. They both mean the same
kind of service; and we are of the opinion that such service
should be reckoned in computing longevity pay prior, as well
as subsequent, to the act of February 24, 1881.
We also concur with the Court of Claims, that in this case
there can be no recovery for any part of the claim that accrued
prior to February 24, 1880, the day when the bar of the Statute
of Limitations took effect. Rev. Stat. ยง 1069. The claim sued
on is valid as to that part of it which accrued after that date.
For these reasons the judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

CALTON v. UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 1408.

Argued January 2, 1889.- Decided March 11, 1889.

A statute of Utah provided that every person guilty of murder in the first
degree shall suffer death, or, upon the recommendation of the jury, may
be imprisoned at hard labor in the penitentiary for life, at the discretion
of the court; Held,
(1) That the authority given to substitute imprisonment at hard labor
in the penitentiary for life for the punishment by death, when the
accused is found guilty of murder in the first degree, depends
upon a previous recommendation to that effect by the jury;
(2) That when a person is on trial charged with the commission of mur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
der in the first degree, it is the duty of the court to Inform the
jury of their right, under the statute, to recommend imprisonment
for life at hard labor in the place of the punishment of death; and
that failure to do so is error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.
John IH.Mitchell for plaintiff in error.
X&. Assistant Attorney General .Maury for defendant in

error.
MR.JusTiCE HLN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Calton, was indicted in the District
Court of the Second Judicial District of the Territory of Utah
for the crime of murder in the first degree, in that he "feloniously, unlawfully, wilfully, purposely, premeditatedly, deliberrately, and of his malice aforethought," killed and murdered
one Michael Cullen. Under the plea of not guilty evidence
was introduced by him for the purpose of showing: first, that
at the time of the killing he was incapable, by reason of unsoundness of mind, of committing any criminal offence;
second, that at most the killing was "upon a sudden quarrel
or heat of passion," and, therefore, he could not be found
guilty of any higher offence than voluntary manslaughter;
third, that at the time of the killing be had reasonable ground
to apprehend, and did apprehend, that the deceased was about
to do him great bodily harm.
He was found guilty of murder in the first degree. A
motioi for a new trial having been denied, and the defendant
having elected, as under the territorial statutes be might do,
to suffer death by shooting, rather than by hanging, it was
adjudged that on a named day, between certain hours, he be
publicly shot. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory that judgment was affirmed, "save as to the time and
the publicity of the execution thereof." This saving was because the local statute provides that "a judgment of death
must be executed within the walls or yard of a jail or some
convenient private place in the district." Laws of Utah,

CALTON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

1878, p. 136. The present writ of error brings up for review
that judgment of affirmance.
It appeared in proof that Calton, Tiberty and Cullen were
residents of the Star Mining District in the Territory, and
well acquainted with each other. On the morning the shooting occurred, Calton and Tiberty went to Milford, a small
town near by, and there happened to meet Cullen. During
the day they all indulged in strong drink, and became somewhat intoxicated. They were together during most of the
time, and apparently upon friendly terms. About six o'clock
in the afternoon the three started for home. They left Mil'ford together in a wagon, Calton and Cullen sitting on the
driver's seat, Calton driving, and Tiberty on a pile of ore
sacks in the body of the wagon. They did not get far in the
direction of their homes when Tiberty, leaving his bottle of
liquor on the sacks, alighted from the wagon to get a whiplash that Calton had dropped. While he was on the ground a
dispute, in some way not fully explained, arose between Cullen
and Calton about the possession of Ciberty's bottle of liquor.
Subsequently, and while the latter was off the wagon, a struggle ensued between Cullen and Calton, during which they
clinched, each one having hold of the other's throat in such
manner as to satisfy Tiberty, who was a short distance away,
that they were angry. At one time Cullen seemed to be
pressing Calton against or over the dach-board. The latter
finally released himself from the grasp of his antagonist, who
was much the stouter man, and, jumnping to the ground, took
a loaded pistol from a bundle he had in the wagon, and fired
at Cullen five shots in rapid succession. According to the
statements of Tibertv the deceased did not move after the
first shot, the defendant saying, immediately after that shot
was fired, that he had killed him, and that he "might as well
give him the rest." Calton and Tiberty returned to Milford
with the dead body in the wagon, and the former surrendered
himself to an officer of the law.
The penal code of Utah established by the act of February
18, 1876, provides that "every murder perpetrated by poison,
lying in wait, or any other kind of wilful, deliberate, malicious

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and premeditated killing; or committed in the perpetration of,
or attempt to perpetrate, any arson, rape, burglary, or robbery; or perpetrated from a premeditated design, unlawfully
and maliciously to etfect the death of any other human being
other than him who is killed; or perpetrated by any act
greatly dangerous to the lives of others, and evidencing a
depraved mind, regardless of human life, is murder in the
first degree; and any other homicide committed under such
circumstances as would have constituted murder at common
law, is murder in the second degree." Compiled Laws Utah,
1876, p. 585.
The same code further provides that: "Every person guilty
of murder in the first degree shall suffer death, or, upon the
recommendation of the jury, may be imprisoned at hard labor
in the penitentiary for life, at the discretion of the court, and
every person guilty of murder in the second degree, shall be
imprisoned at hard labor in the penitentiary for not less
than five, nor more than fifteen years." Compiled Laws
Utah, 1876, p. 586.
It is clear that the authority given in the section last
quoted, to substitute imprisonment at hard labor in the penitentiary for life for the penalty of death, when the accused is
found guilty of murder in the first degree, depends upon a
previous recommendation to that effect by the jury. Without
such recommendation the court, in the absence of sufficient
grounds for a new trial, has no alternative but to sentence
the accused to suff~r death. While in this case the jury were
instructed as to what constituted murder in the first and
second degrees, they were not informed as to their right,
under the statute, to recommend imprisonment for life at hard
labor in the penitentiary in place of the punishment of death.
If their attention had been called to that statute, it may be
that they would have made such a recommendation, and
thereby enabled the court to reduce the punishment to im.
prisonment for life. We are of opinion that the court erred
in not directing the attention of the jury to this matter. The
statute evidently proceeds upon the ground that there may
be cases of murder in the first degree, the punishment for

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

which by imprisonment for life at hard labor will suffice to
meet the ends of public justice. Its object could only have
been met through a recommendation by the jury that the
lesser punishment be inflicted, and it is not to be presumed
that they were aware of their right to make such recommendation. The failure of the court to instruct them upon this
point prevented it from imposing the punishment of imprisonment for life, even if, in its judgment, the circumstances of the
case rendered such a course proper. It was well said in the
dissenting opinion of iMr. Justice Henderson, in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, that by the action of the District
Court "the prisoner was deprived of a substantial right. The
determination of the question as to whether he should suffer
death or imprisonment was one of vital consequence to him.
The jury to whom the statute commits the determination
of that question, at least in part, were not informed of their
duty and responsibility in the matter so as to require them to
exercise their judgment and discretion in relation to it, and by
the verdict they rendered the court had none." These views
are in accordance with the fundamental rules obtaining in the
trial of criminal cases involving life.
Other questions were discussed at the bar, but as the instructions relating to them are somewhat obscure, and as they
may not arise upon another trial in the form in which they
are now presented, we forbear a determination of them.
For the errorindicated the judgment is reversed, with directions for a new trial, and for such furtherproceedings "as
may not be inconsistentwith this opinion.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COL-MHBIk.
IWo.137. Argued January 8,9,1889. -Decided

March 11, 1889.

In view of the state of the art at the time of their issue, letters patent No.
101,590, granted to Turner Cowing, April 5, 1870, for "a wood pavement

