THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
CHAE CHAN PING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1446. Argued March 28, 29,1889.-

Decided May 13,1889.

In their relations with foreign governments and their subjects or citizens,
the United States are a nation, invested with the powers ivhich belong to
independent nations.
So far as a treaty made by the United States with any foreign power can
become the subject of judicial cognizance in the courts of this country, it
is subject to such acts as Congress may pass for its enforcement, modification or repeal. The Head AMoney Cases, 112 U. S. 580, and Whitney
v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190, followed.
The abrogation of a treaty, like the repeal of a law, operates only on future
transactions, leaving unaffected those executed under it previous to the
abrogation.
The rights and interests created by a treaty, which have become so vested
that its expiration or abrogation will not destroy or impair them, are
such as are connected with and lie in property, capable of sale and transfer or other disposition, and not such as are personal and untrahsferable
In their character.
The power of the legislative department of the government to exclude aliens
from the United States is an incident of sovereignty, which cannot be
surrendered by the treaty making power.
The act of October 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 504, c. 1064, excluding Chinese laborers
from the United States, was a constitutional exercise of legislative power,
and, so far as it conflicted with existing treaties between the United States
and China, it operated to that extent to abrogate them as part of the
municipal law of the United States.
A certificate issued to a Chinese laborer under the fourth and fifth sections
of the act of May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58, c. 126, as amended July 5, 1884, 23
Stat. 116, c. 220, conferred upon him no right to return to the United
States of which he could not be deprived by a subsequent act of Congress.
The history of Chinese immigration into the United States stated, together
with a review of the treaties and legislation affecting it.

THE court stated the case as follows in its opinion:

This case comes before us on appeal from an order of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California refusing to release the appellant, on a writ of habeas
eomp us, from his alleged unlawful detention by Captain Walker,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

master of the steamship Belgic, lying within the harbor of San
Francisco. The appellant is a subject of the Emperor of China
and a laborer by occupation. He resided at San Francisco,
California, following his occupation, from some time in 1875
until June 2, 1887, when he left for China on the steamship
Gaelic, having in hispossession a certificate, in terms entitling
him to return to the United States, bearing date on that day,
duly issued to him by the collector of customs of the port of
San Francisco, pursuant to the provisions of section four of the
restriction act of May 6, 1882, as amended by the act of July
5,. 1884. 22 Stat. 58, c. 126; 23 Stat. 115, c. 220.
On the 7th of September, 1888, the appellant, on his return
to California, sailed from Hong Kong in the steamship Belgic,
which arrived within the port of San Francisco on the 8th of
October following. On his arrival he presented to the proper
custom-house officers his certificate, and demanded permission
to land. The collector of the port refused the permit, solely
on the ground that under the act of Congress, approved October 1, 1888, supplementary to the restriction acts of 1882 and
1884, the certificate had been annulled and his right to land
abrogated, and he had been thereby forbidden again to enter
the United States. 25 Stat. 504, c. 1064. The captain of the
steamship, therefore, detained the appellant on board the
steamer. Thereupon a petition on his behalf was presented to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, alleging that he was unlawfully restrained
of his liberty, and praying that a writ of habeas corpus might
be issued directed to the master of the steamship, commanding
him to have the body of the appellant, with the cause of his
detention, before the court at a time and place designated, to
do and receive what might there be considered in the premises.
A writ was accordingly issued, and in obedience to it the body
of the appellant was produced before the court. Upon the
hearing which followed, the court, after finding the facts substantially as stated, held as conclusions of law that the appellant was not entitled to enter the United States, and was not
unlawfully restrained of his liberty, and ordered that he be
remanded to the custody of the master of the steamship from

THE CHINESE EXCLU SION CASE.
Argument for Appellant.

which he had been taken under the writ. From this order an
appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. George Yoadly and Ir. James C. Carter argued the case
orally for appellant. They also filed a brief, prepared by Mr.
-Ioadly, citing: Woolsey, Internat. Law, 5th ed. g 63; Field,
Code of Internat. Law, § 318; Bluntschli, Das Aoderne Voelkerrecht der Civiliserten Staaten, § 381; Head Money Cases,
112 U. S. 580, 598; Cliew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536,
592; Society for the Propagationof the Go.el v. Yew Haven,
8 Wheat. 46,493; .JXeClurg v. Ilingsland,1 How. 206; Townsley v. Surnrall,2 Pet. 182; Langdell on Contracts, 2d ed. 62;
Poste's Gains, Lib. 3, 372; Dig. 9, 5, 15, 22, 25; Sandar's Justinian, Lib. 3, Tit. 14, 2d ed. p. 419; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 429;
Thomas v. Thomas, 202 Q. B. (N. S.) 851; Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 655; Shuey v. United States, 92 U. S.
73 ; Loring v. Boston, 7 Met. 409 ; Janvrin v. Exeter, 48 N. H.
83; 2 B. Com. 37; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 595;
4 Madison's Writings, 478-480, 526; Virginia Report of
1799-1800, 204-205, Richmond, 1850; Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87; Knapp v. Tlomas, 39 Ohio St. 377, 381 ; United
States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 450; Von Holst
on Const. 40; 9 Kentucky Resolutions of 1798, Jefferson's
Writings, 466, Riker's ed. 1853-6; Virginia Resolutions of
1798, 4 Elliot's Degates, 528, 531; Mass. Resolutions, Feb. 30,
1799; N. H. Resolutions, June 15, 1799; The Debates on the
Virginia Resolutions in the Virginia Legislature; The Debates
on the Alien and Sedition Law in Congress; Story, Conflict
Laws, §§ 41, 46; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 142; Mugler v.
RZansas, 123 U. S. 661; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 31;
XYew
York v. .3filn, 11 Pet. 102, 139; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Presserv. Illinois,116 U. S. 266; Magna
Charta; Dauphin v. Key, McArthur & Mackay, 203; 1 Hare
Const. Law, 550; Cummings v. State, 4 Wall. 277; Exparte
Garland, 4 Wall. 377; Pierce v. Carskadon, 16 Wall. 234;
Blair v. Ridgly, 41 Missouri, 63; S. C. 97 Am. Dec. 248; 1n
re
-aung Sing Hee, 36 Fed. Rep. 437; In re Zook Tin Sing,
21 Fed. Rep. 905, 910; In re Thy Sing, 36 Fed. Rep. 553;
Iiltham v. Ward, 2 Mass. 236.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

_yr. Carteralso filed a brief "designed to present in a short
compass the main propositions elaborated and illustrated in
the more copious brief prepared by Mr. Hoadly."
I. It appears by the record that the appellant when brought
before the court below in pursuance of the writ of habeas
corpus was restrained of his liberty in not being allowed to
land from the steamer Belgic-in other words, that he was
imprisoneed upon that vessel.. The judgment of the court was
that he had no right to land, and was therefore not unlawfully
restrained of his liberty. If he had such right, it will not
be denied that the judgment was erroneous and should be
reversed.
II. Inasmuch as it did not appear to the court below that
the petitioner was held under any sentence, judgment, writ or
other judicial process of any court, it became instantly manifest that he was deprived of his liberty withwut dueprocessof
law, unless some other matter appeared showing that he was
not entitled to the protection of the common constitutional
safeguard to personal liberty.
(1) It is, at least, in general true that whenever upon the
hearing, upon a return to a writ of habeas coipus any man
is held a prisoner upon any other ground or pretence than
the command of some writ or other judicial process, order,
or judgment, he must instantly be discharged. It is only by
the authority of law manifested through the mandate of some
court orjudicial officer that one man can be held a prisoner
by another.
(2) There is no distinction in this respect, between citizens
and the subjects of other nations. Liberty is the birthright
and inalienable possession of all men, as muen. For this proposition an American lawyer disdains to cite authority. Neither
the fundamental law of the United States, nor of any one of
the States, recognizes any such distinction.
III. The special matter which the judgment of the court
below determined as sufficient to take the case of the appellant out of the operation of the principles above mentioned,
was, that the appellant was a Chinese laborer who had been
a resident of the United States, but who had departed there-

THE CHINESE EXOLUSION CASE.
Argument for Appellant.

from, and was, under the provisions of the act of Congress,
approved October 1st, 1888, forbidden to return to the United
States. This matter was wholly insufficient to justify the
detention of the appellant.
(1) The inherent right of a sovereign power to prohibit,
even in time of peace, the entry into its territories of the
subjects of a foreign state will not be denied. But the United
States, while a sovereign government, is yet one which can
exercise only those powers of sovereignty which are enumerated in and delegated by the instrument which created it, and
such other incidental powers as are necessary and proper in
order to carry into execution those thus enumerated. That
the power of prohibition above mentioned is one, in terms,
delegated, will not be asserted. That it is necessary or proper
in order to carry into execution some power expressly delegated may be asserted, but is by no means conceded. Such
a proposition may well await the solemn determination of this
court when some case arises which depends solely upon it.
Its establishment is not necessary in order to maintain the
case of the appellant.
(2) Whatever power Congress may have to prohibit the
immigration of other foreign citizens or subjects, it had none
to prohibit the return to this country of the appellant. He
had a vested right to return, which could not be taken from
him by any exercise of mere legislative power.
(a) That he had a lawful right to be in the United States
when the writ issued cannot be denied. He had been a peaceable resident of California for twelve years preceding June
2d, 1887. He had come here under a treaty between the
United States and his own nation, which declared "the inherent and inalienable right of man to change his home and
allegiance, and also the mutual advantage of the free migration and immigration of their citizens and subjects respectively
from the one country to the other.for purposes of curiosity, of
trade, or as permanent residents." Burlingame Treaty, Art.
V. He could not have been ejected from the United States
by any mere legislation. However the power "to regulate
commerce with foreign nations" may authorize congressional

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

legislation to prevent the entry of foreign subjects, no one, it is
believed, will assert that any power is conferred upon Congress to command them to surrender any residence they may
have acquired under such invitations and guaranties, and
depart from the country. The "Alien Law" of 1-798 has
been feebly sustained as an exercise of lawful power; but that
did not assert the right of compelling an alien fiend to leave
the country, and the only defence of it which has been allowed
as plausible was that it was a measure in preparation for
antii ated war, and, therefore, an exercise of the war power.
(b) If, therefore, the appellant had a right of residence here,
it is extremely clear that it is a right which could not be taken
away by mere legislation. Such taking away could not be
effected without first taking away his liberty. It is very
certain that he never himself surrendered the right, unless his
departure from the country under all the guaranties supplied
by the acts of 1882 and 1884 is to be deemed such a surrender; and such an assertion may safely be left unanswered.
It follows, therefore, that the appellant had the right to land
when the writ issued.
(c) It will be observed that the right of the appellant to
return to the United States is based, so far as above insisted
upon, not upon any contract between him and that government, but upon a title or right to be in that country when the
writ issued -a title or right fully acquired by, and vested in
him by his coming here under the permission of the laws and
treaties under which he came. It was granted to him by law;
but, when once granted, could not be taken away by mere
law, for two reasons: (1), because it was a valuable right like
an estate in lands, and the taking of it away would necessarily
involve the taking away of his liberty; and (2), because, whatever sovereign powers may, in general, do in the way of
banishing aliens, no power to do that has been delegated to
the Congress of the United States.
(3) But another, and perhaps more clearly demonstrable
basis for the asserted right of the appellant to return, is that
which refers the acquisition of it to a contract.
That there was a contract between the appellant and the

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Argument for Appellant.

United States by which the latter became bound to permit his
return is very clear.
The provisions of acts of 1882 and 1884 (22 Stat. 58; 1884,
23 Stat. 115) contained an offer on the part of the United States
to every Chinese laborer then in this country, if he should
leave the country and comply with the conditions therein for
such case specified, to permit him to return. That offer was
accepted and the conditions were fully complied with by the
appellant. This created a perfect contract, binding upon the
United States.
(a) The consideration was perfect. It was that the appellant would give up his actual residence in the United States,
with all the rights and benefits which such residence conferred
upon him, undertake the expense and hazard of a journey
abroad, and procure certain documentary evidence. The circumstance that these things were of no benefit to the United
States is wholly immaterial. The sacrifice by the appellant
completely answers the conception of consideration.
(b) As it was not a case of mutual promises, but the promise was only on the side of the United States, it was a unilateral contract, and the promise was one which would not become binding until the full pe~formance of the consideration.
It was fully performed.
(4) The contract being thus fully executed by the appellant,
he completely acquiredthe right which it was agreed he should
have upon its execution. No muniment of title was necessary
in order to complete the investiture. It was as perfectly vested
as the title to real property is vested by the execution and
delivery of a deed.
(5) It may possibly be urged that the making of contracts
are executive acts, not within the ordinary contemplation of
legislation, and that the laws in question should not be deemed
as containing offers, but as being pieces of simple legislation,
subject to repeal at any time, and that all persons should take
notice of this fact and consider that they acted at their peril;
and that in the present case the Chinese laborers were bound
to know that in leaving the country they took the peril of a
repeal of the laws. Such a suggestion would be an entire perversion of the real fact.

OCTO3ER TtRR, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

(a) The making through the instrumentality of laws of
ofers for contracts is perfectly familiar. Laws making provision for sales of public lands, for giving rdwards for the apprehension of criminals, for the furnishing of supplies to the
public, and for the construction of public works, are common
instances. That offers may be thus made is plain; the only
question in a particular case is whether an offer was intended.
(b) States, as well as individuals, are moral agents, and the
common rules of morality and good faith are as binding upon
them as upon individuals; and when one man declares to
another that he will, in case such other will do or suffer a certain thing, bestow upon the latter an advantage, and thus
tempt him to act or suffer upon the faith of the promise, he
will not be heard to say that he did not intend to make an
offer.
(c) The question is, was it contemplated by the acts of Congress of 1882 and 1884 that the Chinese laborers would act
upon the assurance therein contained? If it was, those acts
must be deemed to have intended the making of offers. The
contrary supposal would impute to Congress the deliberate
intention of holding out expectations which it knew would be
acted upon without meaning to make them good.
(d) The answer to the above question cannot be doubtful.
It declares that the exclusion from the country shall not apply
to Chinese laborers now resident in it and who may wish to go
away with intent to return; provides documentary evidence establishing their indentity in the shape of a formal certificate;
and declares that such certificate "sh1all entitle the Chinese
laborer to whom the same is issued to return to, and re-enter
the United States." It is not in this court that any argument
is necessary to show that these statutes contemplate that individuals affected by them will act upon the faith of the assurance which they contain.
(6) If we have succeeded in establishing that the appellant
had a vested right to return, acquired by contract, we need
spend no time in asserting that it could not be taken away by
a mere exercise of legislative power.
l7te Sinking Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700.

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

(7) There are, indeed, exceptions to the doctrines above mentioned. The existence of war, or pestilence, might have justified the refusal of permission to land. Anything which, by
the rules of law, destroys or suspends the operations of a contract, would have been effective upon the one in question.
But no such ground is suggested in the present case. The
exclusion act of 1888, and that alone, was invoked by way of
justification.
IV. The act of 1888, so far as respects Chinese laborers of
the class of which the appellant is one, is unconstitutional, as
being a bill of attainder, or expostfacto law. If the appellant
had a right to return, the depriving him of such right is puniskment, and this cannot be inflicted except by judicial sentence.
.Mr. Harvey S. Brown and X2r1.Thwma D. Riordan also
filed a brief for appellant.

Mr. Solicitor Genera , Xr. G. A.. Johnson, Attorney General of California, Mr. Stephen XiL White and .Mr. John F.
Swift for appellees.
M . JUsTice, FTP.T

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appeal involves a consideration of the validity of the
act of Congress of October 1, 1888, prohibiting Chinese laborers from entering the United States who had departed before
its passage, having a certificate issued under the act of 1882
as amended by the act of 1884, granting them permission to
return. The validity of the act is assailed as being in effect
an expulsion from the country of Chinese laborers, in violation of existing treaties between the United States and the
government of China, and of rights vested in them under the
laws of Congress.
It will serve to present with greater clearness the nature
and force of the objections to the act, if a brief statement be
made of the general character of the treaties between the two
countries and of the legislation of Congress to carry them into
execution.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The first treaty between the United States and the Empire
of China was concluded on the 3d of July, 1844, and ratified
in December of the following year. 8 Stat. 592. Previous
to that time there had been an extensive commerce between
the two nations, that to China being confined to a single port.
It was not, however, attended by any serious disturbances
between our people there and the Chinese. In August, 1842,
as the result of a war between England and China, a treaty
was concluded stipulating for peace and friendship between
them, and, among other things, that British subjects, with
their families and establishments, should be allowed to reside
for the purpose of carrying on mercantile pursuits at the five
principal ports of the empire. 6 Hertslet's Commercial Treaties, 221; 3 Nouveau Recueil G6n~ral de Trait~s (18412), 84.
Actuated by a desire to establish by treaty friendly relations
between the United States and the Chinese Empire, and to
secure to our people the same commercial privileges which
had been thus conceded to British subjects, Congress placed
at the disposal of the President the means to enable him to
establish future commercial relations between the two countries "on terms of national equal reciprocity." Act of March,
1843, c. 90, 5 Stat. 624. A mission was accordingly sent by
him to China, at the head of which was placed Mr. Caleb
Cushing, a gentleman of large experience in public affairs.
He found the Chinese government ready to concede by treaty
to the United States all that had been reluctantly yielded to
England through compulsion. As the result of his negotiations the treaty of 1844 was concluded. It stipulated, among
other things, that there should be a "perfect, permanent and
universal peace, and a sincere and cordial amity" between the
two nations; that the five principal ports of the empire should
be opened to the citizens of the United States, who should be
permitted to reside with their families and trade there, and to
proceed with their vessels and merchandise to and from any
foreign port and either of said five ports; and while peaceably attending to their affairs should receive the protection of
the Chinese authorities. Senate Document No. 138, 28th
Cong. 2d Sess.

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION- CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

The treaty between England and China did not have the
effect of securing permanent peace and friendship between
those countries. British subjects in China were often subjected not only to the violence of -mobs, but to insults and
outrages from local authorities of the country, which led to
retaliatory measures for the punishment of the aggressors.
To such an extent were these measures carried, and such
resistance offered to them, that in 1856 the two countries
were in open war. England then determined, with the cooperation of France, between which countries there seemed
to be perfect accord, to secure from the government of China,
among other things, a recognition of the right of other powers
to be represented there by accredited ministers, an extension of
commercial intercourse with that country, and stipulations for
religious freedom to all foreigners there, and for the suppression of piracy. England requested of the President the concurrence and active co-operation of the United States similar
to that which France had accorded, and to authorize our
naval and political authorities to act in concert with the allied
forces. As this proposition involved a participation in existing hostilities, the request could not be acceded to, and the
Secretary of State in his communication to the English government explained that the war-making power of the United
States was not vested in the President but in Congress, and
that he had no authority, therefore, to order aggressive hostilities to be undertaken. But as the rights of citizens of the
United States might be seriously affected by the results of
existing hostilities, and commercial intercourse between the
United States and China be disturbed, it was deemed advisable to send to China a minister plenipotentiary to represent
our government and watch our interests there. Accordingly,
Mr. William B. Reed, of Philadelphia, was appointed such
minister, and instructed, whilst abstaining from any direct
interference, to aid by peaceful cobperation the objects the
allied forces were seeking to accomplish. Senate Document
No. 4'T, 35th Cong. 1st Sess. Through him a new treaty was
negotiated with the Chinese government. It was concluded
in June, 1858, and ratified in August of the following year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

12 Stat. 1023. It reiterated the pledges of peace and friendship between the two nations, renewed the promise of protection to. all citizens of the United States in China peaceably
attending to their affairs, and stipulated for security to Christians in the profession of their religion. Neither the treaty of
1841, nor that of 1858, touched upon the migration and emigration of the citizens and subjects of the two nations respectively from one country to the other. But in 1868 a great
change in the relations of the two nations was made in that
respect. In that year a mission from China, composed of distinguished functionaries of that empire, came to the United
States with the professed object of establishing closer relations between the two countries and their peoples. At its
head was placed Mr. Anson Burlingame, an eminent citizen of
the United States, who had at one time represented this country as commissioner to China. HTe resigned his office under
our government to accept the position tendered to him by the
Chinese government. The mission was hailed in the United
States as the harbinger of a new era in the history of China
-as the opening up to free intercourse with other nations
and peoples a country that for ages had been isolated and
closed against foreigners, who were allowed to have intercourse and to trade with the Chinese only at a few designated
places; and the belief was general, and confidently expressed,
that great benefits would follow to the world generally and
especially to the United States. On its arrival in Washington,
additional articles to the treaty of 1858 were agreed upon, which
gave expression to the general desire that the two nations and
their peoples should be drawn closer together. The new articles, eight in number, were agreed to on the 28th of July,
1868, and ratifications of them were exchanged at Pekin in
November of the following year. 16 Stat. 739. Of these
articles the 5th, 6th and 7th'are as follows:
"ARTmL V. The United States of America and the Emperor
of China cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right
of man to change his home and allegiance, and also the
mutual advantage of the free migration and emigration of
their citizens and subjects respectively from the one country

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

to the other for purposes of curiosity, of trade, or as permanent residents. The high contracting parties, therefore, join

in reprobating any other than an entirely voluntary emigration for these purposes. They consequently agree to pass
laws making it a penal offence for a citizen of the United
States or Chinese subjects to take Chinese subjects either to
the United States or to any other foreign country, or for a
Chinese subject or citizen of the United States to take citizens
of the United States to China or to any other foreign country
without their free and voluntary consent, respectively.
"ARTicLE VI. Citizens of the United States visiting or
residing in China shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities
or exemptions in respect to travel or residence as may there
be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored
nation. And, reciprocally, Chinese subjects visiting or residing in the United States shall enjoy the same privileges,
immunities and exemptions in respect to travel or residence
as may there be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the
most favored nation. But nothing herein contained shall be
held to confer naturalization upon citizens of the United States
in China, nor upon the subjects of China in the United States.
" ARTIcLE VII. Citizens of the United States shall enjoy all
the privileges of the public educational institutions under the
control of the government of China; and, reciprocally, Chinese
subjects shall enjoy all the privileges of the public educational
institutions under the control of the government of the United
States, which are enjoyed in the respective countries by the
citizens or subjects of the most favored nation. The citizens
of the United States may freely establish and maintain schools
within the Empire of China at those places where foreigners
are by treaty permitted to reside; and, reciprocally, Chinese
subjects may enjoy the same privileges and immunities in the
United States."
But notwithstanding these strong expressions of friendship
and good will, and the desire they evince for free intercourse,
events were transpiring on the Pacific Coast which soon dissipated the anticipations indulged as to the benefits to follow
the immigration of Chinese to this country. The previous
VOL. cxxx-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

treaties of 1844 and 1858 were confined principally to mutual
declarations of peace and friendship and to stipulations for
commercial intercourse at certain ports in China and for protection to our citizens whilst peaceably attending to their
affairs. It was not until the additional articles of 1868 were
adopted that any public declaration was made by the two nations that there were advantages in the free migration and
emigration of their citizens and subjects respectively from one
country to the other; and stipulations given that each should
enjoy in the country of the other, with respect to travel or
residence, the "privileges, immunities, and exemptions" enjoyed by citizens or subjects of the most favored nation.
Whatever modifications have since been made to these general
provisions have been caused by a well-founded apprehension from the experience Of years- that a limitation to the immigration of certain classes from China was essential to the peace
of the community on the Pacific Coast, and possibly to the
preservation of our civilization there. A few words on this
point may not be deemed inappropriate here, they being confined to matters of public notoriety, which have frequently
been brought to the attention of Congress. Report of Committee of H. R. iNo. 872, 46th Cong. 2d Sess.
The discovery of gold in California in 1848, as is well known,
was followed by a large immigration thither from all parts of
the world, attracted not only by the hope of gain from the
mines, but from the great prices paid for all kinds of labor.
The news of the discovery penetrated China, and laborers
came from there in great numbers, a few with their own
means, but by far the greater number under contract with
employers, for whose benefit they worked. These laborers
readily secured employment, and, as domestic servants, and in
various kinds of out-door work, proved to be exceedingly useful. For some years little opposition was made to them
except when they sought to work in the mines, but, as their
numbers increased, they began to engage in various mechanical pursuits and trades, and thus came in competition with our
artisans and mechanics, as well as our laborers in the field.
The competition steadily increased as the laborers came in

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

crowds on each steamer that arrived from China, or Hong
Kong, an adjacent English port. They were generally industrious and frugal. Not being accompanied by families, except
in rare instances, their expenses were small; and they were
content with the simplest fare, such as would not suffice for
our laborers and artisans. The competition between them
and our people was for this reason altogether in their favor,
and the consequent irritation, proportionately deep and bitter,
was followed, in many cases, by open conflicts, to the great
disturbance of the public peace.
The differences of race added greatly to the difficulties of
the situation. Notwithstanding the favorable provisions of
the new articles of the treaty of 1868, by which all the privileges, immunities, and exemptions were extended to subjects
of China in the United States which were accorded to citizens
or subjects of the most favored nation, they remained strangers in the land, residing apart by themselves, and adhering to
the customs and usages of their own country. It seemed impossible for them to assimilate with our people or to make
any change in their habits or modes of living. As they grew
in numbers each year the people of the coast saw, or believed
they saw, in the facility of immigration, and in the crowded
millions of China, where population presses upon the means
of subsistence, great danger that at no distant day that portion
of our country would be overrun by them unless prompt action
was taken to restrict their immigration. The people there
accordingly petitioned earnestly for protective legislation.
In December, 1878, the convention which framed the present constitution of California, being in session, took this subject up, and memorialized Congress upon it, setting forth, in
substance, that the presence of Chinese laborers had a baneful
effect upon the material interests of the State, and upon public
morals; that their immigration was in numbers approaching
the character of an Oriental invasion, and was a menace to
our civilization; that the discontent from this cause was not
confined to any political party, or to any class or nationality,
but was well-nigh universal; that they retained the habits
and customs of their own country, and in fact constituted a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Chinese settlement within the State, without any interest in
our country or its institutions; and praying Congress to take
measures to prevent their further immigration. This memorial
was presented to Congress in February, 1879.
So urgent and constant were the prayers for relief against
existing and anticipated evils, both from the public authorities
of the Pacific Coast and from private individuals, that Congress was impelled to act on the subject. Many persons, however, both in and out of Congress, were of opinion that so
long as the treaty remained unmodified, legislation restricting
immigration would be a breach of faith with China. A statute was accordingly passed appropriating money to send commissioners to China to act with our minister there in negotiating and concluding by. treaty a settlement of such matters of
interest between the two governments as might be confided
to them. 21 Stat. 133, c. 88. Such commissioners were appointed, and as the result of their negotiations the supplementary treaty of November 17, 1880, was concluded and ratified
in May of the following year. 22 Stat. 826. It declares in
its first article that "Whenever, in the opinion of the Government of the United States, the coming of Chinese laborers to
the United States, or their residence therein, affects or threatens
to affect the interests of that country, or to endanger the good
order of the said country or of any locality within the territory thereof, the Government of China agrees that the Government of the United States may regulate, limit, or suspend
such coming or residence, but may not absolutely prohibit it.
The limitation or suspension shall be reasonable and shall
apply only to Chinese who may go to the United States as
laborers, other classes not being included in the limitations.
Legislation taken in regard to Chinese laborers will be of such
a character only as is necessary to enforce the regulation, limitation, or suspension of immigration, and immigrants shall not
be subject to personal maltreatment or abuse." In its second
article it declares that "Chinese subjects, whether proceeding
to the United States as teachers, students, merchants, or from
curiosity, together with their body and household servants,
and Chinese laborers who are now in the United States shall

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

be allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord,
and shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities and
exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of
the most favored nation."
The government of China thus agreed that notwithstanding
the stipulations of former treaties, the United States might
regulate, limit, or suspend the coming of Chinese laborers,
or their residence therein, without absolutely forbidding it,
whenever in their opinion the interests of the country, or
of any part of it, might require such action. Legislation for
such regulation, limitation, or suspension was entrusted to
the discretion of our government, with the condition that it
should only be such as might be necessary for that purpose,
and that the immigrants should not be maltreated or abused.
On the 6th of May, 1882, an act of Congress was approved,
to carry this supplementary treaty into effect. 22 Stat. 58,
c.126. It is entitled "An act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese." Its first section declares that
after ninety days from the passage of the act, and for the
period of ten years from its date, the coming of Chinese
laborers to the United States is suspended, and that it shall
be unlawful for any such laborer to come, or, having come, to
remain within the United States. The second makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine, to which imprisonment may be
added, for the master of any vessel knowingly to bring within
the United States from a foreign country, and land, any such
Chinese laborer. The third provides that those two sections
shall not apply to Chinese laborers who were in the United
States November 17, 1880, or who should come within ninety
days after the passage of the act. The fourth declares that,
for the purpose of identifying the laborers who were here on
the 17th of November, 1880, or who should come within the
ninety days mentioned, and to furnish them with "the proper
evidence" of their right to go from and come to the United
States, the "collector of customs of the district from which any
such Chinese laborer shall depart from the United States shall,
in person or by deputy, go on board each vessel having on
board any such Chinese laborer and cleared or about to sail

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

from his district for a foreign port, and on such vessel make a
list of all such Chinese laborers, which shall be entered in registry books to be kept for that purpose, in which shall be stated
the name, age, occupation, last place of residence, physical
marks or peculiarities and all facts necessary for the identification of each of such Chinese laborers, which books shall
be safely kept in the custom-house;" and each laborer thus
departing shall be entitled to receive, from the collector or his
deputy, a certificate containing such particulars, corresponding
with the registry, as may serve to identify him. "The certificate herein provided for." says the section, "shall entitle the
Chinese laborer to whom the same is issued to return to and
re-enter the United States upon producing and delivering the
same to the collector of customs of the district at which such
Chinese laborer shall seek to re-enter."
The enforcement of this act with respect to laborers who
were in the United States on November 17, 1880, was attended with great embarrassment, from the suspicious nature,
in many instances, of the testimony offered to establish the
residence of the parties, arising from the loose notions entertained by the witiesses of the obligation of an oath. This
fact led to a desire for further legislation restricting the
evidence receivable, and the amendatory act of Xuly 5, 1884,
was accordingly passed. 23 Stat. 115, c. 220. The committee
of the House of Representatives on foreign affairs, to whom the
original bill was referred, in reporting it back, recommending
its passage, stated that there had been such manifold evasions,
as well as attempted evasions, of the act of 1882, that it had
failed to meet the demands which called it into existence.
Report in I. R. No. 614, 48th Cong. 1st Sess. To obviate
the difficulties attending its enforcement the amendatory act
of 1884 declared that the certificate which the laborer must
obtain "shall be the only evidence permissible to establish his
right of re-entry" into the United States.
This act was held by this court not to require the certificate
from laborers who were in the United States on the 17th of
November, 1880, who had departed out of the country before May 6, 1882, and remained out until after July 5, 1884.

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

M'hew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536. The same difficulties and embarrassments continued with respect to the
proof of their former residence. Parties were able to pass
successfully the required examination as to their residence before November 17, 1880, who, it was generally believed, had
never visited our shores. To prevent the possibility of the
policy of excluding Chinese laborers being evaded, the act of
October 1, 1888, the validity of which is the subject of consideration in this case, was passed. It is entitled "An act a
supplement to an act entitled ' An act to execute certain treaty
stipulations relating to Chinese,' approved the sixth day of
Atay, eighteen hundred and eighty-two." 25 Stat. 504, c. 1064.
It is as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of Armerica in Congress assembled, That
from and after the passage of this act, it shall be unlawful for
any Chinese laborer who shall at any time heretofore have
been, or who may now or hereafter be, a resident within the
United States, and who shall have departed, or shall depart
therefrom, and shall not have returned before the passage of
this act, to return to, or remain in, the United States.
"SEC. 2. That no certificates of identity provided for in the
fourth and fifth sections of the act to which this is a supplement shall hereafter be issued; and every certificate heretofore
issued in pursuance thereof is hereby declared void and of no
effect, and the Chinese laborer claiming admission by virtue
thereof shall not be permitted to enter the United States.
"SEc. 3. That all the duties prescribed, liabilities, penalties,
and forfeitures imposed, and the powers conferred by the
second, tenth, eleventh and twelfth sections of the act to
which this is a supplement, are hereby extended and made
applicable to the provisions of this act.
"SEC. 4. That all such part or parts of the act to which
this is a supplement as are inconsistent herewith are hereby
repealed.
"Approved October 1, 1888."
The validity of this act, as already mentioned, is assailed,
as being in effect an expulsion from the country of Chinese

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

laborers in violation of existing treaties between the United
States and the government of China, and of rights vested in
them under the laws of Congress. The objection that the act
is in conflict with the treaties was earnestly pressed in the
court below, and the answer to it constitutes the principal part
of its opinion. 36 Fed. Rep. 431. Here the objection made
is, that the act of 1888 impairs a right vested under the treaty
of 1880, as a law of the United States, and the statutes of
1882 and of 1884 passed in execution of it. It must be conceded that the act of 1888 is in contravention of express stipulations of the treaty of 1868 and of the supplemental treaty of
1880, but it is not on that account invalid or to be restricted
in its enforcement. The treaties were of no greater legal
obligation than the act of Congress. By the Constitution,
laws made in pursuance thereof and treaties made under the
authority of the United States are both declared to be the
supreme law of the land, and no paramount authority is given
to one over the other. A treaty, it is true, is in its nature a
contract between nations and is often merely promissory in
its character, requiring legislation to carry its stipulations into
effect. Such legislation will be open to future repeal or amendment. If the treaty operates by its own force, and relates to
a subject within the power of Congress, it can be deemed in
that particular only the equivalent of a legislative act, to be
repealed or modified at the pleasure of Congress. In either
case the last expression of the sovereign will must control.
The effect of legislation upon conflicting treaty stipulations
was elaborately considered in The -HeadA-oney Cases, and it
was there adjudged "that so far as a treaty made by the United
States with any foreign nation can become the subject of judicial cognizance in the courts of this country, it is subject to
such acts as Congress may pass for its enforcement, modification, or repeal." 112 U. S. 580, 599. This doctrine was
affirmed and followed in W7itney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190,
195. It will not be presumed that the legislative department
of the government will lightly pass laws which are in conflict
with the treaties of the country; but that circumstances may
arise which would not only justify the government in disre-

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

garding their stipulations, but demand in the interests of the
country that it should do so, there can be no question. Unexpected events may call for a change in the policy of the
country. Neglect or violation of stipulations on the part of
the other contracting party may require corresponding action
on our part. When a reciprocal engagement is not carried
out by one of the contracting parties, the other may also
decline to keep the corresponding engagement. In 1798 the
conduct towards this country of the government of France
was of such a character that Congress declared that the United
States were freed and exonerated from the stipulations of previous treaties with that country. Its act on the subject was
as follows:
"An Act to declarethe treatiesheretofore concluded with France,
no longer obligatory on the United States.
"Whereas the treaties concluded between the United States
and France have been repeatedly violated on the part of the
French government; and the just claims of the United States
for reparation of the injuries so committed have been refused,
and their attempts to negotiate an amicable adjustment of all
complaints between the two nations have been repelled with
indignity; And whereas, under authority of the French government, there is yet pursued against the United States a
system of predatory violence, infracting the said treaties, and
hostile to the rights of a free and independent nation:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the United States are of right freed and exonerated from the
stipulations of the treaties, and of the consular convention,
heretofore concluded between the United States and France;
and that the same shall not henceforth be regarded as legally
obligatory on the government or citizens of the United States."
1 Star. 578, c. 67.
This act, as seen, applied in terms only to the future. Of
course, whatever of a permanent character had been executed
or vested under the treaties was not affected by it. In that
respect the abrogation of the obligations of a treaty operates,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

like the repeal of a law, only upon the future, leaving transactions executed under it to stand unaffected. The validity of
this legislative release from the stipulations of the treaties was
of course not a matter for judicial cognizance. The question
whether our goverilment is justified in disregarding its engagements with another nation is not one for the determination of
the courts. This subject was fully considered by Mr. Justice
Curtis, whilst sitting at the circuit, in Taylor v. .Morton, 2
Curtis, 454, 459, and he held that. whilst it would always be a
matter of the utmost gravity and delicacy to refuse to execute
a treaty, the power to do so was prerogative, of which no
nation could be deprived without deeply affecting its independence; but whether a treaty with a foreign sovereign had
been violated by him, whether the consideration of a particular stipulation of a treaty had been voluntarily withdrawn by
one party so as to no longer be obligatory upon the other, and
whether the views and acts of a foreign sovereign, manifested
through his representative, had given just occasion to the
political departments of our government to withhold the execution of a promise contained in a treaty or to act in direct
contravention of such promise, were not judicial questions;
that the power to determine them has not been confided to
the judiciary, which has no suitable means to execute it, but
to the executive and legislative departments of the government; and that it belongs to diplomacy and legislation, and
not to the administration of existing laws. And the learned
justice added, as a necessary consequence of these conclusions,
that if Congress has this power, it is wholly immaterial to
inquire whether it has, by the statute complained of, departed
from the treaty or not; or, if it has, whether such departure
was accidental or designed; and if the latter, whether the
reasons therefor were good or bad. These views were reasserted and fully adopted by this court in WMitney v. ?ob6ertson,
124 U. S. 190, 195. And we may add to the concluding observation of the learned justice, that if the power mentioned
is vested in Congress, any reflection upon its motives, or the
moti'ves of any of its members in exercising it, would be entirely uncalled for. This court is not a censor of the morals

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

of other departments of the government; it is not invested
with any authority to pass judgment upon the motives of their
conduct. When once it is established that Congress possesses
the power to pass an act, our province ends with its construction, and its application to cases as they are presented for determination. Congress has the power under the Constitution
to declare war, and in two instances where the power has
been exercised - in the war of 1812 against Great Britain,
and in 1846 against Mexico - the propriety and wisdom and
justice of its action were vehemently assailed by some of the
ablest and best men in the country, but no one doubted the
legality of the proceeding, and any imputation by this or any
other court of the United States upon the motives of the members of CongTess who in either case voted for the declaration,
would have been justly the cause of animadversion. We do
not mean to intimate that the moral aspects of legislative acts
may not be proper subjects of consideration. Undoubtedly
they may be, at proper times and places, before the public, in
the halls of Congress, and in all the modes by which the public
mind can be influenced. Public opinion thus enlightened,
brought to bear upon legislation, will do more than all other
causes to prevent abuses; but the province of the courts is to
pass upon the validity of laws, not to make them, and when
their validity is established, to declare their meaning and apply
their provisions. All else lies beyond their domain.
There being nothing in the treaties between China and the
United States to impair the validity of the act of Congress of
October 1, 1888, was it on any other ground beyond the competency of Congress to pass it? If so, it must be because it was
not within the power of Congress to prohibit Chinese laborers
who had at the time departed from the United States, or should
subsequently depart, from returning to the United States.
Those laborers are not citizens of the United States; they are
aliens. That the government of the United States, through the
action of the legislative department, can exclude aliens from its
territory is a proposition which we do not think open to controversy. Jurisdiction over its own territory to that extent is an
incident of every independent nation. It is a part of its in-

OCTOBER TER.M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

dependence. If it could not exclude aliens it would be to that
extent subject to the control of another power. As said by this
court in the case of The Exchiange, 7 Cranch, 116, 136, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall: "The jurisdiction of the nation
within its own territory is necessarily exclusive and absolute.
It is susceptible of no limitation not imposed by itself. Any
restriction upon it, deriving validity from an external source,
would imply a diminution of its sovereignty to the extent of
the restriction, and an investment of that sovereignty to the
same extent in that power which could impose such restriction.
All exceptions, therefore, to the full and complete power of a
nation within its own territories, must be traced up to the consent of the nation itself. They can flow from no other legiti.
mate source."
While under our Constitution and form of government th6
great mass of local matters is controlled by local authorities,
the United States, in their relation to foreign countries and
their subjects or citizens are one nation, invested with powers
which belong to independent nations, the exercise of which
can be invoked for the maintenance of its absolute independence and security throughout its entire territory. The powers
to declare war, make treaties, suppress insurrection, repel invasion, regulate foreign commerce, secure republican governments to the States, and admit subjects of other nations to
citizenship, are all sovereign powers, restricted in their exercise only by the Constitution itself and considerations of public
policy and justice which control, more or less, the conduct of
all civilized nations. As said by this court in the case of
Cohens v. Tirginia, 6 Wheat. 26, 413, speaking by the same
great Chief Justice: "That the United States form, for many,
and for most important purposes, a single nation, has not yet
been denied. In war, we are one people. In making peace
we are one people. In all commercial regulations, we are one
and the same people. In many other respects, the American
people are one; and the government which is alone capable of
controlling and managing their interests in all these respects,
is the government of the Union. It is their government, and
in that character they have no other. America has chosen to

THE CHIESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

be in many respects, and to many purposes, a nation; and for
all these purposes her government is complete; to all thes6 objects, it is competent. The people have declared, that in the
exercise of all powers given for these objects, it is supreme. It
can then in effecting these objects legitimately control all individuals or governments within the American territory. The
constitution and laws of a State, so far as they are repugnant to
the Constitution and laws of the United States, are absolutely
void. These States are constituent parts of the United States.
They are members of one great empire -for some purposes
sovereign, for some purposes subordinate." The same view is
expressed in a different form by Mr. Justice Bradley, in Knox
v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 555, where he observes that "the United
States is not only a government, but it is a national government,
and the only government in this country that has the character
of nationality. It is invested with power over all the foreign
relations of the country, war, peace and negotiations and
intercourse with other nations; all which are forbidden to the
state governments. It has jurisdiction over all those general
subjects of legislation and sovereignty which affect the interests of the whole people equally and alike, and which require
uniformity of regulations and laws, such as the coinage, weights
and measures, bankruptcies, the postal system, patent and
copyright laws, the public lands and interstate commerce, all
which subjects are expressly or impliedly prohibited to the
state governments. It has power to suppress insurrections, as
well as to repel invasions, and to organize, arm, discipline and
call into service the militia of the whole country. The President is charged with the duty and invested with the power to
take care that the laws be faithfully executed. The judiciary
has jurisdiction to decide controversies between the States, and
between their respective citizens, as well as questions of national concern; and the government is clothed with power to
guarantee to every State a republican form of government,
and to protect each of them against invasion and domestic
violence."
The control of local matters being left to local authorities,
and national matters being entrusted to the government of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Union, the problem of free institutions existing over a widely
extended country, having different climates and varied interests, has been happily solved. For local interests the several
States of the Union exist, but for national purposes, embracing
our relations with foreign nations, we are but one people, one
nation, one power.
To preserve its independence, and give security against foreign aggression and encroachment, is the highest duty of every
nation, and to attain these ends nearly all other considerations
are to be subordinated. It matters not in what form such
aggression and encroachment come, whether from the foreign
nation acting in its national character or from vast hordes of
its people crowding in upon us. The government, possessing
the powers which are to be exercised for protection and security,
is clothed with authority to determine the occasion on which
the powers shall be called forth; and its determination, so far
as the subjects affected are concerned, are necessarily conclusive upon all its departments and officers. If, therefore, the
government of the United States, through its legislative department, considers the presence of foreigners of a different race
in this country, who will not assimilate with us, to be dangerous to its peace and security, their exclusion is not to be stayed
because at the time there are no actual hostilities with the
nation of which the foreigners are subjects. The existence of
war would render the necessity of the proceeding only more
obvious and pressing. The same necessity, in a less pressing
degree, may arise when war does not exist, and the same
authority which adjudges the necessity in one case must also
determine it in the other. In both cases its determination is
conclusive upon the judiciary. If the government of the
country of which the foreigners excluded are subjects is dissatisfied with this action it can make complaint to the executive
head of our government, or resort to any other measure which,
in its judgment, its interests or dignity may demand; and there
lies its only remedy.
The power of the government to exclude foreigners from
the country whenever, in its judgment, the public interests
require such exclusion, has been asserted in repeated instances,

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

and never denied by the executive or legislative departments.
In a communication made in December, 1852, to Mr. A. Dudley Mann, at one time a special agent of the Department of
State in Europe, Mr. Everett, then Secretary of State under
President Fillmore, writes: "This government could never give
up the right of excluding foreigners whose presence it might
deem a source of danger to the United States." "Nor will this
government consider such exclusion of American citizens from
Russia necessarily a matter of diplomatic complaint to that
country." In a dispatch to Mr. Fay, our minister to Switzerland, in March, 1856, Mr. Marcy, Secretary of State under
President Pierce, writes : "Every society possesses the undoubted right to determine who shall compose its members,
and it is exercised by all nations, both in peace and war." "It
may always be questionable whether a resort to this power is
warranted by the circumstances, or what department of the
government is empowered to exert it; but there can be no
doubt that it is possessed by all nations, and that each may
decide for itself when the occasion arises demanding its exercise." In a communication in September, 1869, to Mh. Washburne, our minister to France, Mr. Fish, Secretary of State
under President Grant, uses this language: "The control of
the people within its limits, and the right to expel from its
territory persons who are dangerous to the peace of the State,
are too clearly within the essential attributes of sovereignty to
be seriously contested. Strangers visiting or sojourning in a
foreign country voluntarily submit themselves to its laws and
customs, and the municipal laws of France, authorizing the
expulsion of strangers, are not of such recent date, nor has the
exercise of the power by the government of France been so
infrequent, that sojourners within her territory can claim surprise when the power is put in force." In a communication
to Mr. Foster, our minister to Mexico, in July, 1879, Mr.
Evarts, Secretary of State under President Hayes, referring to
the power vested in the constitution of Mexico to expel objectionable foreigners, says: "The admission that, as that constitution now stands and is interpreted, foreigners who render
themselves harmful or objectionable to the general govern-

OCTOBER TER.M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ment must expect to be liable to the exercise of the power
adverted to, even in time of peace, remains, and no good reason
is seen for departing from that conclusion now. But, whle
there may be no expedient basis on which to found objection,
on principle and in advance of a special case thereunder, to
the constitutional right thus asserted by Mexico, yet the manner of carrying out such asserted right may be highly objectionable. You would be fully justified in making earnest
remonstrances should a citizen of the United States be expelled
from Mexican territory without just steps to assure the grounds
of such expulsion, and in bringing the fact to the immediate
knowledge of the Department." In a communication to Mr.
W. J. Stillman, under date of August 3, 1882, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State under President Arthur, writes:
"This government cannot contest the right of foreign governments to exclude, on police or other grounds, American citizens
from their shores." Wharton's International Law Digest,

S206.
The exclusion of paupers, criminals and persons afflicted
with incurable diseases, for which statutes have been passed,
is only an application of the same power to particular classes
of persons, whose presence is deemed injurious or a source of
danger to the country. As applied to them, there has never
been any question as to the power to exclude them. The
power is constantly exercised; its existence is involved in the
right of self-preservation. As to paupers, it makes no difference by whose aid they are brought to the country. As Mr.
Fish, when Secretary of State, wrote, in a communication
under date of December 26, 1872, to Mr. James Moulding, of
Liverpool, the government of the United States "is not willing and will not consent to receive the pauper class of any
community who may be sent or may be assisted in their immigration at the expense of government or of municipal authorities." As to criminals, the power of exclusion has always been
exercised, even in the absence of any statute on the subject.
In a despatch to Mr. Cramer, our minister to Switzerland, in
December, 1881, Mr. Blaine, Secretary of State under President Arthur, writes: "While, under the Constitution and

THE CHINESE EXCLUSION CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws, this country is open to the honest and industrious
immigrant, it has no room outside of its prisons or almshouses
for depraved and incorrigible criminals or hopelessly dependent
paupers who may have become a pest or burden, or both, to
their own country." Wharton's Int. Law Dig., supra.
The power of exclusion of foreigners being an incident of
sovereignty belonging to the government of the United States,
as a part of those sovereign powers delegated by the Constitution, the right to its exercise at any time when, in the judgment of the government, the interests of the country require
it, cannot be granted away or restrained on behalf of any one.
The powers of government are delegated in trust to the United
States, and are incapable of transfer to any other parties.
They cannot be abandoned or surrendered. Nor can their
exercise be hampered, when needed for the public good, by
any considerations of private interest. The exercise of these
public trusts is not the subject of barter or contract. Whatever license, therefore, Chinese laborers may have obtained,
previous to the act of October 1, 1888, to return to the United
States after their departure, is held at the will of the government, revocable at any time, at its pleasure. Whether a
proper consideration by our government of its previous laws,
or a proper respect for the nation whose subjects are affected
by its action, ought to have qualified its inhibition and made
it applicable only to persons departing from the country after
the passage of the act, are not questions for judicial determination. If there be any just ground of complaint on the part of
China, it must be made to the political department of our
government, which is alone competent to act upon the subject.
The rights and interests created by a treaty, which have
become so vested that its expiration or abrogation will not"
destroy or impair them, are such as are connected with and
lie in property, capable of sale and transfer or other disposition, not such as are personal and untransferable in their character. Thus in 27~e Head Money Cases, the court speaks of
certain rights being in some instances conferred upon the
citizens or subjects of one nation residing in the territorial
limits of the other, which are "capable of enforcement as
voL. cxxx-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

between private parties in the courts of the country." "An
illustration of this character," it adds, "is found in treaties
which regulate the mutual rights of citizens and subjects of
the contracting nations in regard to rights of property by
descent or inheritance, when the individuals concerned are
aliens." 112 U. S. 580, 598. The passage cited by counsel
from the language of Mr. Justice Washington in Society for
the Propagationof the Gospel v. Yew Haven, 8 Wheat. 464,
493, also illustrates this doctrine. There the learned justice
observes that "if real estate be purchased or secured under a
treaty, it would be most mischievous to admit that the extinguishment of the treaty extinguished the right to such estate.
In truth, it no more affects such rights than the repeal of a
municipal law affects rights acquired under it." Of this
doctrine there can be no question in this court; but far different is this case, where a continued suspension of the exercise
of a governmental power is insisted upon as a right, because,
by the favor and consent of the government, it has not heretofore been exerted with respect to the appellant or to the
class to which he belongs. Between property rights not
affected by the termination or abrogation of a treaty, and expectations of benefits from the continuance of existing legislation, there is as wide a difference as between realization and
hopes.
During the argument reference was made by counsel to the
alien law of June 25, 1798, and to opinions expressed at the
time by men of great ability and learning against its constitutionality. 1 Stat. 570, c. 58. We do not attach importance to
those opinions in their bearing upon this case. The act vested
in the President power to order all such aliens as he should
judge dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States,
or should have reasonable grounds to suspect were concerned
in any treasonable or secret machination against the government, to depart out of the territory of the United States within such time as should be expressed in his order. There were
*other provisions also distinguishing it from the act under consideration. The act was passed during a period of great political excitement, and it was attacked and defended with great

NEW YORK &c. M11INING CO. v. FRASER.
*

Statement of the Case.

zeal and ability. It is enough, however, to say that it is
entirely different from the act before us, and the validity of
its provisions was never brought to the test of judicial decision
in the courts of the United States.
Order cfflrmed.

NEW

YORK AND COLORADO MINING SYNDICATE AND COMPANY v. FRASER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 204. Argued March 14, 1889.- Decided April 15, 1889.
Unless the fact upon which a reversal of a judgment is claimed appears in
the record sufficiently to be passed upon, the judgment will not be reversed.
In an action to recover for goods sold and delivered, a copy of an itemized
account of them may be handed to a witness to refresh his memory in
regard to the matters contained in it.
Evidence that a witness is familiar enough with gold mills to know what
they can perform and what they can earn, but that he has only seen one
silver mill, being the one in controversy, lays no foundation for his testimony as to the fair rental value of that silver mill.
In the absence of other and better evidence, the rental value of a silver mill
may be shown by proof of the amount of ore delivered and milled.
The declarations of the defendant's agent as to matters within the scope of
his authority were properly admitted in evidence.
When the exception to the refusal of a request to instruct the jury shows
no evidence tending to prove the facts which the request assumes to
exist, there is nothing before the court for consideration.
The legal rate of interest upon the cost of a silver mill may be taken by a
jury as its fair rental value, in the absence of other evidence concerning
that value.
In estimating damages resulting from the stoppage of a mill, the jury may
take into consideration the wages of the men thrown out of work while
the mill was idle.

Tins writ of error was brought to review a judgment entered upon a verdict for $10,500 in favor of the defendants in
error. The case originated in five different suits, brought by
them against the plaintiff in error in the Circuit Court of the

