OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Citations for Appellant.

the defendant, and that it was right to give to the plaintiff
the entire profits made by the defendant by the-laying by him
of his concrete flagging, in view of the testimony in the case.
It clearly appears that the defendant's concrete flagging derived its entire value from the use of the plaintiff's invention,
and that if it had not been laid in that way it would not have
been laid at all.
In Elizabeth v. NVicholson Pavement Co., 97 T.S. 126, 139,
it is said that "when the entire profit of a business or undertaking results from the use of the invention, the patentee will
be entitled to recover the entire profits, if he elects that
remedy." This language was quoted with approval in Root
v. R aiway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 203. As in the case of the
Nicholson patent, so in the case of the Sehillinger patent, the
pavement was a complete combination in itself, differing from
every other pavement, and the profit made by the defendant
was a single profit derived from the construction of the pavement as an entirety. Callahan v. .Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 665,
666.
Within the decision in Gar'etson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120,
the proof in this case is satisfactory, that the entire value of
the defendant's pavement, as a marketable article, was properly and legally attributable to the invention of Schillinger.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
A4fib ed.

WILSON v. EDMONDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 245.

Argued April 11,12,1889. -Decided

April 22, 1889.

On the facts of this case, it was held that the defendant was not a co-partner with another person, in his general business, and liable for his debts.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Enoch Totten and -A&. W. Willoughby, for appellant,
cited: IWaugh v. Carver, 2 ff. Bl. 235; Peasants v. Fant,22

WILSON v. EDMONDS.
Citations for Appellee.

Wall. 116; Parkerv. Canfild, 37 Connecticut, 250; Prattv.
Langdon, 12 Allen, 544; Richardson v. Hughitt, 76 N. Y. 55;
Cox v. flickrnan, 9 0. B. (N. S.) 747; S. C. 8 H. L. Cas. 268;
Bond v. Pittard,3 M. & W. 357; Bullen v. Shalp, L. R. 10. P.
86; Perley v. Driver,5 Ch. D. 458; Hitsham v. Jukes, 1 B.
& S. 868; Beauregard v. Carr, 91 U. s. 140; Smith v. Knight,
71 Illinois, 148; Linton v. AXillikin, 47 Illinois, 178; Curry v.
Fowler, 87 N. Y. 133; -ifZin v. Smith, 17 S. & R. 165; In
re Estate of Davis, 5 Wharton, 530; . C. 34 Am. Dec. 574;
Brooks v. Washington, 8 Grattan, 268; S. C. 56 Am. Dec.. 142;
South CarolinaBank v. Case, 8 B. & 0. 427; Barton v. Hanson, 2 Campb. 597; Bank of the United States v. Binney, 5
Mkason, 176; Wood v. Olmer, 7 Ohio St. 172; Leggett v. Hyde,
58 N. Y. 272; Everett v. Coe, 5 Denio, 180; Berthold v. Goldsmith, 24 How. 536; Hargrave v. Conroy, 19 N. J. Eq. (4: 0. E.
Green) 281; Sheridan v. Jledara,10 N. J. Eq. (2 Stockton) 469;
S. C. 64 Am. Dec. 464; In re Francis, 2 Sawyer, 286.
Mr. Nfathaniel Wilson, for appellee, cited: Brown v.
Swann, 10 Pet. 497; Russell v. Clarke, 7 Cranch, 69, 89;
G'regory v. .forris, 96 U. S. 619, 623; ilauselt v. itarrison,
105 U. S. 401, 405; Casey v. Cavaroc, 96 U. S. 467, 480;
Clark v. Iselin, 21 Wall. 360; Peugh v. Davis, 96 U. S. 332,
336, 337; Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139, 147; THughes v.
Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489; Babcock v. Wyran, 19 How. 289;
Shillaber v. Robinson, 97 U. S. 68; Villa v. Rodyiguez, 12
Wall. 323; Cook v. Tullis, 18 Wall. 332; Stewart v. Platt, 101
U. S. 731, 738, 739; Donaldson v. Farwell, 93 U. S. 631;
Jerome v. .MeCarter,94 U. S. 734; Yeatman v. Savings Institution, 95 U. S. 764; Seymour v. Freer, 8 Wall. 202; Bee-with
v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289; Dale v. Pierce, 85 Penn. St. 474;
Cutrry v. Fowler, 87 N. Y. 33; Harvey v. Childs, 28 Ohio St.
319; Luitner v. -Milliken,47 Illinois, 178; Adams v. Funk, 53
Illinois, 219; Smith v..Knight, 71 Illinois, 148; Boston & Colorado Smelting Co. v. Smith, 13 R. I. 27; Williams v. Soutter,
7 Iowa, 435, 445, 446; Ruddick v. Oti., 33 Iowa, 402; Hart v.
Kelley, 83 Penn. St. 286, 290; Wells v. Babcock, 56 Mich. 276;
Beecher v. Bush, 45 :Mich. 188, 196; Buzard v. Bank of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

Greenville, 67 Texas, 84; Rice v. Austin, 17 Mass. 197, 206;
AJfeehan v. Valentine, 29 Fed. Rep. 276; Barter v. Rodman, 3
Pick. 434; 1Denny v. Cabot, 6 Met. 82; Bradley v. White, 10
Met. 303; S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 435; 3lonroe v. Greenhoe, 54
Mich. 9; Thayer v. Augustine, 55 Mich. 187; Colwell v. Britton, 59 Mich. 350; Tanderburg v. lull, 20 Wend. 70; Boyce
v. Bundy, 61 Indiana, 432; Eastman v. Clark, 53 N. H. 276;
Clifton v. Howard, 89 Missouri, 192; Cully v. Edwards, 44
Arkansas, 423; Polk v. Buchanan, 5 Sneed, (37 Tennessee,)
721 -Dwinell v. Stone, 30 MV[aine, 384; .fillett v. Holt, 60
Maine, 169; Darrow v. St. George, 8 Colorado, 592; Nicholas
v. Thielges, 50 Wisconsin, 491; Pond v. Cummins, 50 Connecticut, 372; Setzer v. Beale, 19 West Virginia, 274; Crawford
v. Austin, 34 Maryland, 49; Sangston v. Hack, 52 Maryland,
173; Heran v. Hall, 1 B. Mon. 159; S. C. 35 Am. Dec. 178;
Cox v. Hickman, 8 H. L. Cas. 268; Bullen v. Sharp, L. R.
1 C. P. 86; ifollwo v. Court of Wards, L. R. 4 P. C. 419;
fil0ehaw v. Jukes, 3 B. & S. 847; Easterbrook v. Barber, L.
R. 6 C. P. 1; London Assurance Co. v. Drennen, 116 U. S.
461; Drennen v. -LondonAssurance Co., 113 U. S. 51.
MR. JusTicE BLATOCHFOrD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 7th of June, 1884, Josiah H. Squier, of the city of
Washington, doing business there as a banker and broker,
under the name of J. H. Squier & Co., being indebted in a
large amount, made an assignment of all his property to Jay
B. Smith, for the benefit of his creditors. Afterwards, in the
same month, Theron C. Crawford, a creditor of J. H. Squier
,&-Co., brought a suit in equity, in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, against Squier and Smith, to remove
Smith from his position as assignee, and to have the estate
settled. An order was made in that suit removing Smith and
appointing Jesse B. Wilson receiver of the estate, for the purpose of administering its assets under the direction of the court.
Squier died in September, 1884.
After the assignment to Smith and before the appointment
of Wilson as receiver, James B. Edmonds filed in the Crawford
suit a petition claiming that he was the owner of certain securi-

WILSON v. EDMONDS.
Opinion of the Court.

ties which were in a safe belonging to him in the office of the
firm; and, by an order made in the cause, he was allowed to,
take possession of those securities, giving bond for the same.
Thereupon Wilson, as receiver, filed a bill in equity, in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, against Edmonds.
The bill alleged that Edmonds was not the owner of the securities; that he had been interested in business with Squier & Co.
for a number of years; that the relations between Edinond
and Squier were defined by a written agreement, which in
effect made Edmonds a partner with Squier in the business,
down to the time of said assignment; that, in respect to two
particular notes made by Squier & Co., and held by Edmonds,
dated August 1, 1883, one for $40,000 and the other for $4000,
Squier & Co. did not owe to Edmonds the moneys named in
them; that, during all the time mentioned, Edmonds had been
drawing out from the firm large sums of money, as interest
upon moneys which he claimed to have advanced or paid to
the firm; that such payments of interest had been largely in
excess of that allowed by law, in many instances as great as
1 per cent per month; that such sums so paid as interest had
been drawn from deposits made with Squier & Co. by persons
who deposited their money with that firm and were still its
creditors; and that Edmonds ought to refund the money so
received by him as unlawful interest, if it should appear that
he was not liable, as a partner with Squier, to pay all the debts
of the firm.
The bill prayed that Edmonds might set forth in his answer
when he first had any business 'relations with Squier, what
they were, and how long they continued; that he might state
what was the consideration for the two notes, and when it
arose; and that he might set forth any written contract between him and Squier, in relation to any business transaction
between them, and when and how he became possessed of the
securities referred to, and the particulars of the payments of
money by Squier & Co., or Squier, to him, both as principal
and interest, and what moneys he had loaned or advanced to
Squier & Co., for the purpose of buying or speculating in the
purchase of vouchers of army or navy officers, and other securi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ties, and the dates and amounts of all notes given to him by
Squier & Co., and how much he had received in payment on
said notes for principal, and how much for interest, and, if any
such notes were given, when they were surrendered, and for
what purpose and for what consideration.
The bill further prayed that the court would direct the said
securities or their proceeds to be delivered or paid by Edmonds
.to the plaintiff, for the benefit of the creditors of Squier &
Co., as having been the property of Squier & Co., which passed
under said assignment; that, if it should appear that Edmonds
was not a partner and as such liable to pay the debts of the
firm, then a decree might be made against Edmonds for so
much as had been paid to him by Squier & Co. as illegal interest upon money advanced or lent by him to Squier & Co.; and
that an account might be taken between him and Squier & Co.,
to ascertain the true indebtedness, if any, of the firm to him.
The defendant put in an answer to the bill, claiming to be
the owner of the securities in question, and stating that their
total amount was about $28,443; that they consisted mostly
of pay vouchers of United States officers, which by custom
had become a sort of commercial paper, having a market
value; that a few of them were indorsed payable to Squier &
Co., but all of them had been delivered to the defendant by
Squier & Co. for a valuable consideration equal to their par
value, and upon the promise by Squier & Co. that they would
redeem the same or collect the money thereon .for the defendant, or do what might be necessary to enable him to receive
the money thereon; that, since the order of the court allowing
him to take them, he had found about $9000 of them to be of
such doubtful value that he had, under an order of the court,
tendered them to the receiver; and that of the residue (less
than $20,000) some were of doubtful value. The answer
denied that he had been interested in the business of Squier
& Co. except as a creditor, and that he had ever been a partner in Squier & Co. or with Squier. He set forth his relations
with Squier substantially as follows:
Early in April, 1879, Squier informed the defendant that
the firm of J. H. Squier & Co., which was cQnstituted of

WILSON v. EDMONDS.
Opinion of the Court.

Squier alone, was borrowing money and paying 2 per cent a
month therefor, to enable it to purchase certain securities, and
that it wished to borrow additional moneys for the purchase
of official pay vouchers, and would pay interest on such money
at the rate of from 1 to 1j per cent a month. Squier offered
to borrow moneys from the defendant at such rate, but the
defendant declined to make such loans, and informed Squier
that he had no knowledge of Squier's responsibility, and that
10 per cent per annum was the highest rate of interest he had
ever paid or received. Subsequently, Squier came to him with
some of the pay vouchers, and urged him to receive the same
as security for money to be lent to Squier to enable him to
purchase such vouchers, and proposed that, for the money so
lent, the note of Squier & Co. should be given, and interest
paid at the rate of 10 per cent per annum, payable at the end
of each month, and half as much more, to be applied on
the principal in final settlement. It was also proposed by
Squier that the securities so obtained should be delivered to
the defendant, and should be surrendered by him as they
matured, on payment of the money they represented, or by
having others of like kind and amount substituted for them,
provided payments were so made before the maturity of the
notes given for the money borrowed. The defendant agreed
to this proposal, and, from April, 1879, to April, 1882, he lent
to Squier & Co. nearly $48,000, taking notes"for each separate
loan at 10 per cent interest, and pay vouchers as security
therefor. The loans were intended by the defendant to have
amounted in the aggregate to only a small sum, but they
finally aggregated a large sum, and, when he found that payments were not made as promised, he refused to make further
loans, and took a memorandum to protect his title to the
vouchers, and his right to collect them. For each loan made
by him to Squier & Co., a separate note was so taken, and the
various notes were subsequently consolidated into the two
notes for $40,000 and $4000. Some time in 1882, there
having been an extension given and a renewal of notes, and
due credit given for all sums received from Squier & Co. to
apply on the loans, both interest and principal, Squier & Co

OCTOBER TERTMA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

agreed to pay off the debt entirely, at a time not later than
the early spring of 1883. This not having been done, the
defendant, on August 1, 1883, demanded a settlement from
Squier & Co., but, at the request of Squier & Co., consented
to a further extension of six months as to $40,000 of the indebtedness, the defendant then holding the notes of Squier
& Co. for $44,000, and pay vouchers as security therefor to
about that amount. The interest on the notes had then been
fully paid, and the debt had been slightly reduced by the
monthly payments in excess of interest, made subsequently to
April, 1882, the amount of which excess was less than $3000.
Renewal notes were given for the same total amount as those
surrendered by the defendant, leaving for further consideration what exact amount should be credited, with the agreement that, by means of such credit and payments of money,
$4000 of the debt should be cancelled within three months.
Squier & Co. agreed that while the notes were running they
would keep the securities fully equal to the debt, and when
unable to pay from the profits the stipulated monthly sum to
apply on the notes, then any sums collected on the vouchers
should not be reinvested nor others taken in lieu thereof, but
should be applied on the debt, and that the securities of the defendant and any collections thereon should be kept free from
other transactions of the firm. No portion of the notes was
thereafter paid, except the monthly sum of $540 at the end of
each month, before the failure of Squier & Co. Meantime,
because of the reduction of the debt, though it was slight,
the defendant allowed Squier & Co., in the exchange of securities, to reduce their aggregate. In so doing, he confided in
Squier as to the quality and amount of the substituted securities, and, on the failure of Squier & Co., was surprised to find
that the amount of securities held by him was less than had
been represented and less than the aggregate debt, and that
many of them which had been represented to be good were
worthless.
This agreement, so made, and dated August 1, 1883, was
evidenced by the following written instrument, executed by
J. H. Squier & Co. and the defendant: "This agreement wit-

WILSON v. EDAIONDS.
Opinion of the Court.

nesseth, that James B. Edmonds has delivered to J. H. Squier
& Co. forty-four thousand dollars for investment by the latter
for the former in the purchase of pay vouchers, payable not
later than six months from date of purchase, of officers in
army, navy, or civil service of the United States, and for reinvestment, upon collection by said Squier, in same kind of
securities, but not unless they are purchased so as to yield to
said Edmonds a net profit of one and one-fourth per cent per
month on forty thousand dollars and one per cent per month
on four thousand dollars, and enough besides to pay said Squier
& Co. for their services and for guaranteeing prompt payment
of the vouchers. Said Squier & Co. guarantees the genuineness
of each voucher he shall purchase, as well as its prompt payment and the return to said Edmonds of said principal sum of
forty-four thousand dollars over and above said profits, and
may retain all profits above those going to said Edmonds as
aforesaid. Said Squier & Co. shall transact all the business
without charge. Said Edmonds shall keep possession of the
vouchers to the extent of the principal invested and two per
cent besides, and will exchange, as they become payable, for
others of like kind or for cash. He may keep his safe therefor in banking-house of said Squie, free of charge. Said Squier
& Co.give their notes to said Edmonds for said $44,000 and
interest at ten per cent, to wit, one for forty thousand dollars
and one for four thousand dollars, of same date as this memoraudum, and as a further guaranty and indemnity to Edmonds.
This contract shall terminate upon notice by either party or
upon death of either, and then all the moneys so invested shall
be returned to said Edmonds, with interest to extent aforesaid;
and in case of death of said Edmonds the money shall be paid
to his present wife, if she survive him. All moneys that may
be collected by said Edmonds on said vouchers and received
shall be credited to said Squier & Co. on said notes."
The total amount of the loans made by the defendant to
Squier & Co. amounted to nearly $48,000, and the total amount
of the moneys paid by Squier & Co., or Squier, to the defendant, in respect of such loans, for interest or principal, or for
any other purpose, was less than $29,000. No sums were

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn out of the firm by the defendant or received from it,
except such payments to be applied first upon interest and the
residue upon the principal. The defendant never put any
money into the firm, or had any business transactions with it,
except to make such loans, which were made to accommodate
Squier & Co., and to enable them to purchase the vouchers, on
condition that they should deliver them to the defendant as
security for the loans. A note was given in every instance for
the loan, bearing 10 per cent interest, which notes were surrendered to Squier & Co. whenever others were given in lieu
thereof. The securities in question were delivered to the defendant from month to month, in lieu of others for the same
or larger amounts surrendered to Squier & Co., it being usual
for Squier & Co. to deliver a certain amount to him and to receive back others which had matured, of like or larger amounts;
and occasionally the defendant entrusted small amounts to
Squier & Co. for collection, upon the agreement to return a
similar amount in a few days, to be purchased with the proceeds of the collection, according to the written agreement of
August 1, 1883. A similar but briefer memorandum had been
made in 1882 between the parties, which was given up with
the old notes, to Squier & Co., on August 1, 1883. The total
number of the notes given by Squier & Co. to the defendant
was equal to the total number of the loans and renewals.
A replication was put in to this answer, and proofs were
taken on both sides. The case was heard by the court at
special term, before Mr. Justice Cox, and a decree made dismissing the bill. A copy of the opinion of the court is furnished to us, but it does not seem to be reported.
It appears from the opinion that the grounds on which the
bill was dismissed were, that, although there may have been
a. partnership between the parties as to the particular venture
or investment of the money in the securities in question, such
a contract of partnership did not connect the defendant with
the general business of Squier & Co.; that the contract was,
that, in consideration of certain moneys placed by the defendant in the hands of Squier, he would purchase for the defendant
a certain class of securities, which securities were not to be

WILSON v. EDMONEDS.
Opinion of the Court.

mingled with the general business of Squier & Co., but were
to be placed in the possession of the defendant and held by
him; that no profits were to be received by the defendant
except from this particular venture; that the property which
the defendant's money was to buy was to be bought at a rate
which would yield to the defendant a specified profit, and
enough besides to pay Squier & Co. for their services and for
guaranteeing prompt payment of the vouchers; that the property placed in the hands of the defendant was thus to be worth
that much more than he paid for it, and his profit was to be
derived from the identical securities which his money purchased; that the evidence showed that there was a large business done by Squier & Co. outside of the transactions with
the defendant, in which business the defendant did not participate; that the parties connected with such other business
had no concern with the transactions between the defendant
and Squier & Co.; and that, although the relation between
the defendant and Squier might be called a partnership relation to the limited extent mentioned, it was not of such a
chqracter as to involve the defendant in the responsibility
with Squier claimed in the bill.
The plaintiff appealed to the court in general term, which
affirmed the decree of the special term, and from that decree
the plaintiff has appealed to this court. No opinion was rendered by the general term, and it may therefore be assumed
that it proceeded upon the grounds stated by Nr. Justice Cox.
We are of opinion that, upon the same grounds, the decree
must be affirmed. In addition, it may be said, that the evidence sustains the matters set up in the answer; that it is
not shown that the defendant ever represented himself to be
a member of the firm of Squier & Co., nor does it appear that
any creditor of that firm was ever informed or supposed that
the defendant was such member, or gave credit to the firm, or
had dealings with the firm, on the understanding or belief that
he was a partner. The dealings between the parties appear
always to have been of the character mentioned in the written
paper of August 1, 1883. In every case of an advance or loan
of money by the defendant to Squier & Co., a note was given
VOL. Cxxx-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

to the defendant for the amount, bearing ten per cent interest,
and pay-vouchers for the same amount were placed in the
hands of the defendant. The money lent by the defendant
to Squier & Co., for which the notes were given, was to be
invested in vouchers which were to be bought at a rate to net
in the way of discount the profit designated in the agreement;
but that profit was not intended to be a profit to the defendant, in addition to the ten per cent interest, for it was expressly
provided that all moneys which might be collected by the
defendant on the vouchers, or received by him, should be
credited to Squier & Co. on the notes. This compelled a
credit to Squier & Co. on the principal of the notes, of all
the monthly sums paid by Squier & Co. to the defendant, and
called "profits," over and above the amount necessary to pay
to him ten per cent interest on the aggregate amount of his
loans; and the practical construction of the agreement by the
parties.was to the same effect, because the testimony of Edmonds shows that he had various settlements from time to
time with Squier, in which prior notes that he had received
from Squier for loans were surrendered to Squier, on the ground
that they had been extinguished by the surplus of the monthly
payments by Squier, over and above the amount necessary to
pay to the defendant interest at ten per cent on the moneys
which he had lent to Squier. It was lawful to stipulate in
writing for interest at ten per cent. Rev. Stat. District of
Columbia, ยง 714.

Decree afirmed.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. SEASONGOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 224.

Argued March 21, April 1,1889.-Decided April 15,1889.

An appeal prayed and granted in a Circuit Court "of this cause to the
Supreme Court" brings the whole case here, including orders previously
made in it.
A party to a decree in a state court in a matter subject to its jurisdiction

