BADGER v. CUSTIMANO.
Syllabus.

Oregon, "from Portland to the head of the Willamette
Valley," and grants to it "and to its assigns" valuable
"rights, privileges, easements and property," accompanied
with a proviso that it shall have no power to sell, convey,
or assign the premises or rights granted, or any part or parcel
thereof, to any person or corporation, "save only with, and
as a part and parcel of and as appurtenant to, the railway now
built and owned by said company, and now in process of construction by it." As the court below observed, and it seems
to me very justly, this implies that the plaintiff had the power
to assign its road, and also the premises and rights thus granted
to it in connection therewith, but not otherwise.
I cannot perceive what public policy of the State is sustained
by denying to a foreign corporation, which has by her permission constructed a railway therein, the right to lease its
road to a domestic corporation. It would rather seem, if any
considerations of public policy are to control, that such policy
would favor a transfer of the road from foreigners to her own
citizens. When the transfer is made the State can exercise
over the road, its management, and the charges for its use,
the same authority which she could have previously exercised.
And there is nothing in the articles of association which forbids the directors of the plaintiff from making such a transfer
if the laws of Oregon permit it.
M .COIaTF JUSTICE FULLR was not a member of the court
when this case was argued, and took no part in this decision.

BADGER v. CUSIMANO.
ERROR TO THE CI

UIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 179. Argued January 31,1889.-Decided March 5, 18.
When there is a general finding in favor of the plaintiff on the issues of
fact raised by the pleadings in an action for the recovery of duties ile-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
gally exacted, the facts must be taken to be as alleged by him in the
pleadings.
Since the enactment of § 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488,
523, the value of an importation of goods is to be ascertained for the
purposes of customs duties by their actual market value, without reference to the " charges" specified in §§ 2907, 2908, Rev. Stat.; and it
appearing in this case that under an appralisement of imported oranges,
the invoiced value of such "charges" was reduced, and the amount of
such reduction added to the invoiced value of the fruit, although such
invoice value represented its true market value; Held, that such addition
to the true invoice value was illegal, and that the power of the collector
to make it was apart from any question of fraud in the appraisement,
and could be raised in an action at law when the importer had taken such
steps as entitled him to bring suit for the recovery of the duties so illegally exacted.

THE case is stated by the court in its opinion.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Mllaury for plaintiff in error.
Mr. 1icha/rd H Browne for defendants in error.
Charles B. Singleton was with him on the brief.

Mr.

MR. JusTicF HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for the recovery of the sum of $1400.07,
with interest, being the amount of certain duties which, it is
alleged, were illegally exacted from the defendants in error.
The case was tried by the court pursuant to a stipulation between the parties waiving the intervention of a jury.
The court found "the issues of fact raised by the pleadings
in favor of the plaintiffs." We must assume, therefore, that
the facts were as alleged by the plaintiffs in their pleadings.
It is alleged in the petition and amended petition that the
plaintiffs were importers of and dealers in foreign fruits at
iNew Orleans; that, in December, 1883, and January, 18841,
they imported several cargoes of Valencia oranges on the
steamships Pontiac, Norfolk, North Anglia, Vindolano, and
Ehrenfels, aggregating 21,165 cases, each case being over two
and one half cubic feet; that the invoice value of the oranges
was 177,310 pesetas, while the invoice value of the charges
(composed of value of cases, nails, packing, bands, cost of

BADGER v. CUSIMANO.
Opinion of the Court.

transportation, etc.) was 120,990 pesetas, making the total invoice value of fruit and charges, 298,300 pesetas; that the fruit
as it arrived was duly entered in the customs department at
New Orleans, the fruit at its true invoice value, which was its
true market value at the date of the respective importations,
and the charges at their true invoice value; that, nevertheless,
the collector, without pretending that there was any mistake
or fraud in the invoice value of the fruit, caused an appraisement of each importation to be made, despite the protest and
remonstrance of petitioners, and thereby increased the invoice
value of the fruit, and reduced the invoice value of the charges
in each, increasing the value of the fruit by just so many pesetas as the invoice value of the charges was reduced, and making a total increase of 36,271.15 pesetas in the value of the
fruit, equal to $7000.33 in American coin, upon which petitioners were obliged to pay 20 per cent duty, or $1400.07;
that as soon as the liquidations of *each and all of the entries
were made by the customs department, and within thirty days
thereafter, the petitioners appealed from the decision of the
collector to the Secretary of the Treasury; that the Secretary,
on the 18th of February, 1885, decided that it appeared that
the "fruit in question was invoiced at a value which properly
represented its market value, but that the value of the boxes,
packing, etc., was excessive, and was reduced by the appraiser,
and the value of tile fruit advanced to the same extent," and
affirmed the decision of the collector; that one 'of the merchant appraisers appointed by the collector knew nothing of
the value of Valencia oranges or of the charges thereon, and so
admitted; that none of the oranges, nor any samples thereof,
were submitted to or examined by the merchant appraisers,
which facts were specifically set forth in plaintiff's protest,
filed with the collector, against the appraisement; and that
all the subsequent appraisements of shipments, other than the
shipment by the Pontiac, were based upon the above merchant
appraisement, and an appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury
was refused, on the ground that such appraisement was binding.
The effect of § 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121,
22 Stat. 488, 523, was to exclude from the estimate of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of duties collectible upon goods imported from other
countries, the value of the "charges" specified in §§ 2907
and 2908 of the Revised Statutes, including the value of the
usual and necessary sacks, crates, boxes, or covering of any
kind, not composed of materials or made in any form designed
to evade duties thereon, but used in the bonatide transportation of such goods to the United States. The duties, therefore,
for which the plaintiffs were liable in respect to the oranges
they imported, were to be ascertained with reference only to
their true and actual market value. Oe'teuffer v. Robei.tson,
116 U. S. 499, 509, 510. That the collector made a reduction
of the invoice value of the charges is of no consequence, because
such charges were not dutiable items. He did what the law
did not authorize him to do, namely, increased the dutiable
value of the oranges although they were invoiced and entered
at their true market value. The additional duties exacted from
the plaintiffs on this increased value amounted to the sum for
which the judgment was rendered.
It is insisted, however, that this question cannot arise upon
the present writ of error. The only bill of exceptions taken
in the case states, "that on the trial of the cause the plaintiffs
offered evidence tending to show that the value fixed on goods
imported by them was excessive, and that the appraisement of
said goods was erroneous; to the reception of which evidence
defendant objected, on the ground that said goods were duly
appraised, and that the appraisement is final and conclusive in
the absence of fraud, which is not alleged, and on the further
ground that such evidence is not admissible under the allegations of plaintiffs' petition, which objections were overruled by
the court, and said evidence received, to wit, on ground, because, in the opinion of the court, it is not necessary to allege
fraud."
The contention of the government is that as fraud was not
specifically alleged in respect to the appraisement, the court
erred in admitting and considering evidence to impeach it.
This position is supposed to be sustained by the case of Hfilton
v. .Me,2-ritt, 110 U. S. 97, 106. In that case it was said: "Considering the acts of Congress as establishing a system, and

PARKER v. DACRES,
Syllabus.

giving force to all the sections, its plain and obvious meaning
is that the appraisement of the customs officers shall be final,
but all other questions relating to the rate and amount of
duties, may, after the importer has taken the prescribed steps,
be reviewed in an action at law to recover duties unlawfully
exacted." Again: "The valuation made by the customs officers was not open to question in an action at law as long as
the officers acted without fraud and within the power conferred on them by the statute." In the case before us there is
no impeachment of the appraisement, so far as it states the
value of the charges or the value of the goods as increased
by the amount of the reduction made from the value of the
charges. The only inquiry is, whether the collector acted
within the power conferred upon him by statute when he required the importers to pay duties not only upon the actual
market value of the goods, but upon such additional value as
was equal to the reduction made from the value of the cases
covering the goods. These are questions of law simply, involving the power of the collector under the statute. They are
entirely apart from any inquiry as to fraud in the appraisement, or as to the values set forth in it, and may be raised by
the importer in an action at law, when he has taken such steps
as entitle him to bring suit for the recovery of duties illegally
exacted from him. This ruling is entirely consistent with the
decision in Hilton v. _Ae',ritt.
Judgment affirmed.

PARKER v. DACRES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 157. Argued January 31, February1, 1889.-Decided March 5,1889.

No right exists at common law, or in the system of equity as administered
in the courts of England prior to the organization of the government of
the United States, to redeem from a sale under a decree of foreclosure.
Clark v. Reyburn, 8 Wall. 318, does not recognize a right of redemption

