OCTOBER TERAL,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, 562; Houston & Texas Central Railway
v. Shirley, 111 U. S. 358, 360; .3ansfteld,Coldwater &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 381; Akers v. Akers, 117 U. S.
197.
3. The petition for removal does not allege the citizenship
of the parties except at the date when it was filed, and it is
not shown elsewhere in the record that Stevens and Mfirick
were, at the commencement of the action, citizens of a State
other than the one of which the plaintiff was, at that date, a
citizen. The court, therefore, cannot consider the merits of
the case. Aetcalf v. lWatertowa, 128 U. S. 586; -Mfonris v.
Gilrer,129 U. S. 315, 325.
The judgment is reversed upon the ground that it does not
appear that the Circuit Court bad jurisdiction, and the case is
remanded to that court, with directions to send it back to the
state court, the plaintiff in error to pay the costs in this court
and in the court below. Yansfield &c. Railway v. Swan, 111
U. S. 379.
Reversed.
BUXTON v. TRAVER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 211. Submitted March 18, 1889.-Decided April 1,1889.
No portion of the public domain, unless, it be in special cases, not affecting
the general rule, is open to sale until it has been surveyed, and an
approved plat of the township embracing the land has been returned to
the local land office.
A settler upon public land, in advance of the public surveys, acquires no
estate in the land which he can devise by will, or which, in case of his
death intestate, will pass to his heirs at law, until, within the specified
time after the surveys and the return of the township plat, he files a declaratory statement such as is required when the surveys have preceded
settlement, and performs the other acts prescribed by law.
Section 2269 of the Revised Statutes has no application to the case of a
settler who dies before the time arrives when the papers necessary to
establish a preemption right can be filed.

THE case which makes the federal question is stated in the
opinion of the court.

BUXTON v. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. William Craig and .r.
tiffs in error.

Douglas Dyrenfort for plain-

.Mr. A. L. Rhodes, [T. A. T.Britton, -Mr. A. B. Broune
and .3!r. V. J. Curtis for defendants in error.
3m. JUSTICE FILD delivered the opinion of the court.
this was a suit to charge the defendant Hattie L. Traver as
trustee for the plaintiffs, of an undivided half interest in
certain lands in San Bernardino County, California, and was
commenced in one of the Superior Courts of the State. To
the complaint the defendants demurred; the demurrer was
sustained and judgment entered that the suit be dismissed.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment
was affirmed; and the case is brought to this court on writ of
error.
The complaint alleges that on the 2d of February, 1870, one
Oscar Traver settled upon a quarter section of land in township two in San Bernardino County, CMifornia, and that until
his death he lived upon, improved and cultivated the land;
that, at the time of his settlement and continuously until the
1st day of July, 1879, it was public property of the United
States, and was unoccupied and unsurveyed and subject to
the right of prebmption; that no approved plat of the township was received at the United States District Land Office at
Los Angeles, which embraced the land in controversy, until
July 1st, 1879; that at the time of his settlement, and thereafter until his death, which occurred January 2d, 1877, he
was a citizen of the United States, and entitled to the benefit
of the preemption and homestead laws; that he settled upon,
improved the land, and erected a building thereon, intending
to acquire a title thereto from the United States as soon as he
possibly could; that at the time of his settlement he was a
single person and remained so until the 13th of December,
1870, when he intermarried with the defendant Hattie L.
Traver; that on his death he left surviving him his widow and
two daughters, Lizzie and Annie, and the three were his only

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

heirs at law; that the daughters have since married and are
the plaintiffs in this suit; that the deceased died intestate;
and that no administrator of his estate has been appointed.
The complaint further alleges that on the 16th of July, 1878,
the defendant Hattie L. Traver filed in the United States District Land Office at Los Angeles, a preemption declaratory
statement describing the land, alleging settlement on the 2d of
February, 1870, and stating her intention to claim the same
under the preemption laws of the United States; that soon after
the death of Oscar Traver she wrote to the plaintiffs at San
Francisco, informing them of the death of their father, and
representing that he had not left any property; that this representation was made with intent to deceive them and prevent
them from filing the necessary papers to complete his preemption and homestead rights; that in December, 1882, they
discovered for the first time that she had completed those
rights and obtained the patent; that she had lived upon the
land and received to her own use its rents and profits since
his death, which are stated upon information and belief to be
$2500; that the land is of the value of one thousand dollars
per acre; that the other defendants named claim to have some
interest in the land by purchase from her; that such purchase
was made with notice of the plaintiffs' rights; and that she
denies that they have any rights in the lands, or in the rents,
issues and profits thereof. The prayer of the complaint is
that the defendant Hattie L. Traver may be charged, as
trustee for plaintiffs of an undivided half interest in the lands,
and in the rents, issues and profits thereof, and account for
and pay over to them such interest in the rents, issues and
profits; that the other defendants be adjudged to have no
interest in the land or in any part thereof; and that the plaintiffs may have such other and further relief as to the court
may appear to be just.
The entire claim and contention of the plaintiffs 'rest upon
two grounds: 1st, that the deceased acquired by his occupation
of unsurveyed lands of the United States a right of preemption
to them under the laws of the United States; and, 2d, that
the plaintiffs, as heirs at law of the deceased, were equally

BUXTON v. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled, with his widow, under ยง 2269 of the Revised Statutes,
to the benefit of the patent obtained by her. That section is
as follows:
"Where a party entitled to claim the benefits of the preemption laws dies before consummating his claim, by filing in
due time all the papers essential to the establishment of the
same, it shall be competent for the executor or administrator
of the estate of such party, or one of the heirs, to file the
necessary papers to complete the same; but the entry in such
cases shall be made in favor of the heirs of the deceased preemptor, and a patent thereon shall cause the title to inure to
such heirs, as if their names had been specially mentioned."
Neither of these grounds is well taken. No portion of the
public domain, unless it be in special cases not affecting the
general rule, is open to sale until it has been surveyed and an
approved plat of the township embracing the land has been
returned to the local land office. A settlement upon the public
lands in advance of the public surveys is allowed to parties
who in good faith intend, when the surveys are made and
returned to the local land office, to apply for their purchase.
If, within a specified time after the surveys, and the return of
the township plat, the settler takes certain steps, that is, files
a declaratory statement, such as is required when the surveys
have preceded settlement, and performs certain other acts
prescribed by law, he acquires for the first time a right of preemption to the land, that is, a right to purchase it in preference
to others. Until then he has no estate in the land which he
can devise by will, or which, in case of his death, will pass to
his heirs at law. He has been permitted by the government
to occupy a certain portion of the public lands and therefore
is not a trespasser, on his statement that when the property is
open to sale he intends to take the steps prescribed by law to
purchase it; in which case he is to have the preference over
others in purchasing, that is, the right to preempt it. The
United States make no promise to sell him the land, nor do
they enter into any contract with him upon the subject. They
simply say to him -if you wish to settle upon a portion of
the public lands, and purchase the title, you can occupy any

, 236

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

unsurveyed lands which are vacant and have not been reserved
from sale; and, when the public surveys are made and returned,
the land not having been in the meantime withdrawn from
sale, you can acquire, by pursuing certain steps, the right to
purchase them. If those steps are from any cause not taken,
the proffer of the government has not been accepted, and a
title in the occupant is not even initiated. The title to the
land remains unaffected, and subject to the control and - disposition of the government, as before his occupancy. This doctrine has been long established in this court. Thus in Frisbie
v. ]l~itney, 9 Wall. 187, 193, where the subject was fully considered, it was held that occupation and improvement on the
public lands, with a view to preemption, did not confer a
vested right in the land so occupied. Speaking of the settlement in that case, the court, by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "So
far as anything done by him is to be considered, his claim
rests solely upon his going upon the land and building and
residing on it. There is nothing in the essential nature of
these acts to confer a vested right, or, indeed, any kind of claim
to land, and it is necessary to resort to the preemption laws
to make out any shadow of such right." The same doctrine
was affirmed in The Yosermite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, the
court observing that until all the preliminary steps to the
acquisition of the title of the United States, prescribed by law,
have been complied with, the settler has not acquired any
title against the United States. Among these are the entry
of the land at the appropriate land office and the payment of
its price. "Until such payment and entry," the court added,
"the acts of Congress give to the settler only a privilege of
preemption in case the lands are offered for sale in the usual
manner; that is, the privilege to purchase them in that event,
in preference to others. The United States by those acts enter
into no contract with the settler, and incur no obligation to
any one that the land occupied by him shall ever be put up
for sale. They simply declare that in case any of their lands
are thrown open for sale, the privilege to purchase them in
limited quantities, at fixed prices, shall be first given to parties
who have settled upon and improved them." Nothing was

BUXTON v. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

done in this case by the deceased occupant beyond his occupancy, and therefore nothing to initiate a title in him; not
even the privilege of purchasing the land was acquired by him.
His death occurred two years before the surveys were made
and returned.
Section 2269 of the Revised Statutes, upon which the plaintiffs rely, has no application to the case presented by them.
That section was taken from ยง 2 of the act of March 3d,
1843, 5 Stat. 620, "to authorize the investigation of alleged
frauds under the preemption laws, and for other purposes."
At that time no settlement on unsurveyed lands was permitted
by the laws of the United States, and the second section was
intended to secure to the heirs of the deceased preemptor a
claim to the benefit of the preemption laws, which he had
initiated, but not completed before his death, "by filing in due
time all the papers essential to the establishment of the same."
His executor or administrator, or one of his heirs, was in that
event allowed to file such papers. No claim of the deceased
in this case was lost by any failure to file the necessary papers.
The time for any papers to be filed did not arrive during his
life.
The contention of the plaintiffs in error is, that the section,
upon a correct construction, extends to heirs of a deceased
occupant of unsurveyed public land of the United States, who
during his life did nothing beyond its occupation and improvement, the same rights which are conferred upon heirs of a
person entitled at the time of his death to the benefits of the
preemption laws. It is upon the suppo.cd denial of such
rights to the plaintiffs by the court below that the jurisdiction
of this court is invoked; it is upon that denial alone that the
jurisdiction can be maintained. What we have said as to the
legal effect of the deceased's occupation and improvement
shows that no title was-initiated or right of preemption
created by them, and of course nothing was left by the deceased to be completed by his heirs, and hence there was no
denial of any rights to them under the statute, as claimed.
Jvudgmeht affirmed..

