OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

introduction of this restrictive word " such," except to alter
radically the plain meaning of the sentence.
Neither can we assent to the position of the court below
that there is, as to this case, a difference between indebtedness incurred by contracts of the county and that form of
debt denominated "compulsory obligations." The compulsion
was imposed by the legislature of the State, even if it- can
be said correctly that the compulsion was to incur debt; and
the legislature could no more impose it than the county
could voluntarily assume it, as against the disability of a
constitutional prohibition. Nor does the fact that the constitution provided for certain county officers, and authorized
the legislature to fix their compensation and that of other
officials, affect the question. There is no necessary inability
to give both of the provisions their exact and literal fulfilment.
In short, we conclude that article six aforesaid is "a limitation upon the power of the county to contract any and
all indebtedness, including all such as that sued upon in
this action;" and therefore, under the stipulation already
set forth, the county is entitled to judgment.
Wherefore the judgment of the court below is reversed,
and the case is remanded to that court, with a direction
to enterjudgment for the defendant.

LAKE COUNTY v. GRAHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1265. Submitted January 2, 1889.- Decided May 13, 1889.

Lake County v. Rollins, ante 662, affirmed and applied to the bonds in controversy in this action.
1 The docket title of this case is The Board of County Commissioners of
the County of Lake v. Graham.

LAKE COUNTY v. GRAH

.

Opinion of the Court.
When the constitution of a State imposes upon the municipal corporations
within it a limitation of their power to incur debts, it is not within the
power of the legislature of the State to dispense with that limitation,
either directly or indirectly.
The constitution of Colorado imposed a limit upon the power of municipal
corporations to contract debts. The legislature authorized county commissioners (a vote of the tax-payers first being had) to issue bonds of
the county, not to exceed the amount of the floating debt, that amount
to be ascertained by the commissioners, no reference being made in the
statute to the constitutional limitation. The commissioners of Lake
County settled the amount of the floating debt of the county at $500,000,
which was in excess of the constitutional limitation, and issued bonds
to that amount, in which reference was made to the statute, and in which
it was "certified that all the provisions and requirements of said act
have been fully complied with by the proper officers in the issuing of this
bond." Held, that the county was not estopped to deny that the bond was
issued in violation of the provisions of the Constitution.

THiE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. -DanielE. Park and -Mr. H. B. Johnson for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr. -Robert . Foot and -Mr. Willard Teller for defendant
in error,
MR. JusTcC. LA-AYA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado.
It is a suit against the county of Lake, in that State, and
is based on one hundred and ninety-eight coupons, aggregating the sum of $7280, and being for interest on certain bonds
issued by the county on the 2d of January, 1882.
The case was tried in the court below on an agreed statement of facts, which is in the bill of exceptions. From that
agreement it appears that the bonds, from which the coupons
sued on were detached, were executed in exchange for divers
warrants of the county, to the amount of five hundred thousand dollars; that they were executed in compliance with an
act of the General Assembly of Colorado, entitled "A n act to
enable the several counties of the State to fund their floating

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

indebtedness;" that the indebtedness of the county on the 6th
day of September, 1881, the day the first notice was published
under the act, as evidenced by county warrants, was $500,000,
and the assessed valuation of the property of said county on
said day was $16,423,403, afterwards rebated, in 1882, to
$5,017,000, in accordance with a decision of the Supreme
Court; and that such was the indebtedness and valuation on
the day the bonds and coupons were issued.
There is also in the record an agreement between the parties
that if section six of article eleven of the constitution of the
State of Colorado be construed to be a limitation upon the
power of the defendant county to contract any and all indebtedness, including all such as that sued upon in this action, then
it is admitted that the claimed indebtedness sued on herein
was incurred after the limitation prescribed by said constitution had been reached and exceeded by the said defendant, the
county of Lake, and in the event of such a construction by the
Circuit Court, or the Supreme Court of the United States, then
and in that case, and for the purposes of the action, it is also
admitted that the defendant is entitled to judgment thereon,
unless the defendant is estopped from making such defence by
the recitals contained on the face of the bonds and coupons
sued on in this action.
In the case of Commissioners of La-ke County v. Rollins, ante,
662, we have set forth said section six, and have decided that
it does impose "a limitation upon the power of the defendant
county to contract any and all indebtedness." That decision
disposes of the first condition in the agreement recited above.
It only remains to decide whether the county is estopped from
making such defence by the recitals contained on the face of
such bonds and coupons. The bonds and coupons are as
follows:

"No.

.

$

"United States of America, County of Lake, State of Colorado.
Funding bond. Series
"The county of Lake, in the State of Colorado, acknowledges itself indebted, and promises to pay to

LAKE COUNTY v. GRA]AI.
Opinion of the Court.

dollars, lawful money of the United States,
or bearer,
for value received, redeemable at the pleasure of the said
county, after ten years, and absolutely due and payable twenty
years from the date hereof, at the office of the treasurer of the
said county, in the city of Leadville, or at the banking house
of Jesup, Paton & Co., in the city of New York, at the option
of the holder, with interest thereon at the rate of eight per
cent per annum, payable semi-annually, on the first day of
January and the first day of July in each year, at the office
of the county treasurer aforesaid, or at the banking house of
Jesup, Paton & Co., in the city of New York, at the option
of the holder, upon the -presentation and surrender of the
annexed coupons as they severally become due.
"This bond is one of 710 funding bonds each of like date,
comprised in three series, designated 'A, 'B,' and 'C,' respectively, series ' A ' consisting of 450 bonds for the sum of
one thousand dollars each, numbered from 1 to 450, both numbers inclusive; series ' B' consisting of 60 bonds for the -sum of
five hundred dollars each, numbered from 451 to 510, both
numbers inclusive; and series 1C ' consisting of 200 bonds for
the sum of one hundred dollars each, numbered from 511 to
710, both numbers inclusive; the whole amounting to five
hundred thousand dollars, which the board of county commissioners of said Lake County have issued under and by virtue
of and in full compliance with an act of the general assembly
of the State of Colorado entitled ' An act to enable the several
counties of the State to fund their floating indebtedness,' approved February 21, 1881; and it is hereby certified that all
the provisions and requirements of said act have been fully
complied with by the proper officers in the issuing of this
bond. It is further certified that this issue of bonds has been
authorized by a vote of a majority of the duly qualified electors of said county of Lake, voting on the question at a
general election duly held in said county on the 8th day of

November,

A.D.

1881.

"The faith and credit of the county of Lake are hereby
pledged for the punctual payment of the principal and interest
of this bond.

OCTOBER TER.2, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"In testimony whereof the board of county commissioners
of the said county of Lake has caused this bond to be signed
by its chairman, countersigned by the county treasurer, and
attested by the county clerk, under the seal of the county,
this second day of January, A.D. 1882.
"Attest:
County Clerk.
"[County seal.]
"6'kairma Board of County Commissioners."
Section one of the act under which the bonds were issued is
as follows:
"SEc. 1. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners of any county having a floating indebtedness exceeding
ten thousand dollars upon the petition of fifty of the electors
of said counties (county) who shall have paid taxes upon property assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, to
publish for the period of thirty days, in a newspaper within
said county, a notice requesting the holders of the warrants of
such county to submit, in writing, to the board of county
commissioners, within thirty days from the date of the first
publication of such notice, a statement of the amount of the
warrants of such county which they will exchange, at par and
accrued interest, for the bonds of such county, to be issued
under the provisions of this act, taking such bonds at par. It
shall be the duty of such board of county commissioners, at
the next general election occurring after the expiration of
thirty days from the date of the first publication of the notice
aforementioned, upon the petition of fifty of the electors of
such county, who shall have paid taxes upon property assessed
to them in said county in the preceding year, to submit to the
vote of the qualified electors of such county, who shall have
paid taxes on property assessed to them in said county in the
preceding year, the question whether the board of county
commissioners shall issue bonds of such county, under the provisions of this act, in exchange, at par, for the warrants of such
county, issued prior to the date of the first publication of the
aforesaid notice; or they may submit such question at a

LAKE COUNTY v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

special election, which they are hereby empowered to call for
that purpose, at any time after the expiration of thirty days
from the date of the first publication of the notice aforementioned, on the petition of fifty qualified electors as aforesaid;
and they shall publish, for the period of at least thirty days
immediately preceding such general or special election, in
some newspaper published within such county, a notice that
such question will be submitted to the duly qualified electors
as aforesaid at such election. The county treasurer of such
county shall make out and cause to be delivered to the judges
of election, in each election precinct in the county, prior to the
said election, a certified list of the taxpayers in such county
who shall have paid taxes upon property assessed to them in
such county in the preceding year; and no person shall vote
upon the question of the funding of the county indebtedness
unless his name shall appear upon such list, or unless he shall
have paid all county taxes assessed against him in such county
in the preceding year. If a majority of the votes lawfully
cast upon the question of such funding of the county indebtedness shall be for the funding of such indebtedness, the board of
county commissioners may issue to any person or corporation
holding any county warrant or warrants, issued prior to the
date of the first publication of the aforementioned notice,
coupon bonds of such county in exchange therefor at par. No
bonds shall be issued of less denomination than one hundred
dollars, and if issued for a greater amount, then for some
multiple of that sum, and the rate of interest shall not exceed
eight per cent per annum. The interest to be paid semi-annually, at the office of the county treasurer, or in the city of New
York, at the option of the holders thereof. Such bonds to be
payable at the pleasure of the county, after ten years from the
date of their issuance, but absolutely due and payable twenty
years after date of issue. The whole amount of bonds issued
under this act shall not exceed the sum of the county indebtedness at the date of the first publication of the aforementioned
notice, and the amount shall be determined by the county
commissioners, and a certificate made of the same, and made a
part of the records of the county; and any bond issued in ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

cess of said sum shall be null and void; and all bonds issued
under the provisions of this act shall be registered in the office
of the state auditor, to whom a fee of ten cents shall be paid
for recording each bond."
Nothing is better settled than this rule-that the purchaser
of bonds, such as these, is held to know the constitutional
provisions and the statutory restrictions bearing on the question of the authority to issue them; also the recitals of the
bonds he buys; while, on the other hand, if he act in good
faith and pay value, he is entitled to the protection of such
recitals of facts as the bonds may contain.
In this case the constitution charges each purchaser with
knowledge of the fact that, as to all counties whose assessed
valuation equals one million of dollars, there is a maximum
limit, beyond which those counties can incur no further indebtedness under any possible conditions, provided, that in calculating that limit, debts contradted before the adoption of
the constitution are not to be counted. The statute, on the
other hand, charges the purchaser with knowledge of the fact
that the county commissioners were to issue bonds, at par, in
exchange forsuch warrants of the county as were themselves
issued prior to the date of the first publication of the notice
provided for; that the only limitation on the issue of bonds
in the statute was, that the bonds should not exceed in
amount the sum of the county indebtedness on the day of notice aforesaid; that while the commissioners were empowered
to determine the amount of such indebtedness, yet the statute
does not refer that board, for the elements of its computation
to the constitution or to the standards prescribed by the constitution, but leaves it open to them, without departing from
any direction of the statute, to adopt solely the basis of the
county warrants. The recitals of the bonds were merely to
the effect that the issue was "under, and by virtue of, and in
full compliance with," the statute; "that all the provisions
and requirements of said act have been fully complied with
by the proper officers in the issuing of this bond;" and that
the issuing was "authorized by a vote of a majority of the
duly qualified electors," etc.; no express reference being made

LAKE COUNTY v. GIAIAM.
Opinion of the Court.

to the constitution, nor any statement made that the constitutional requirements had been observed.
There is, therefore, no estoppel as to the constitutional
question, because there is no recital in regard to it. Carroll
County v. Smitb, 111 U. S. 556. It is true, it might be said, that

inasmuch as the bonds recite that all the requirements of the
statute had been fully complied with by the proper officers,
and inasmuch as one of those requirements was that the
officers should determine the amount of the county debt, the
inference is fair and reasonable that the statute meant only
that they should count what was a just and actual debt, not
claims that were void, and therefore no debt; and that the recital made was in effect a statement that the whole matter had
been examined by the board, and that they had issued bonds
for only such warrants as were found to be issued in conformity
to the law, the whole law - fundamental as well as statute.
Waiving the question as to whether such a conclusion, persuasive as it might be in other aspects of a cause, is not too
remote and indirect for the basis of an estoppel, the avowed
object of which is to exclude from consideration the truth,
still how could the case be any better for the defendant in
error? Had the bond expressly stated that the board canvassed
the debt, and found the same to be binding and valid under the
law and the constitution, and that the same was $500,000, the
recital would not be an estoppel. It must be remembered that
these bonds show on their face an issue of $500,000. In the
case of Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83, 92, this court
said :
":Recurring, then, to a consideration of the recitals in the
bonds, we assume, for the purposes of this argument, that they
are in legal effect equivalent to a representation, or warranty,
or certificate on the part of the county officers, that everything necessary by law to be done has been done, and every
fact necessary by law to have existed did exist, to make the
bonds lawful and binding. Of course, this does not extend
to or cover matters of law. All parties are equally bound to
know the law ; and a certificate reciting the actual facts, and
that thereby the bonds were conformable to the law, when,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

judicially speaking, they are not, will not make them so, nor
can it work an estoppel upon the county to claim the protection
of the law. Otherwise it would always be in the power of a
municipal body, to which power was denied, to usurp the forbidden authority, by declaring that its assumption was within
the law. This would be the clear exercise of legislative power,
and would suppose such corporate bodies to be superior to the
law itself."
Now, while it is true that the bonds show on their face an
issue of $500,000, yet it is also true that neither the constitution nor the statute nor the bond shows the amount of the
valuation of the county; and it therefore might be said that,
for this reason, and notwithstanding the purchaser's knowledge of the limit, and his knowledge that $500,000 of debt was
incurred, yet he might not have known that the limit had been
exceeded, being ignorant of the other term in the calculation,
that of the amount of the assessed values, and that the recital
of conformity, misleading him, would operate as an estoppel.
This question is settled in the case of Dixon County v. Field,
supra. The court there say, p. 93:
"If the fact necessary to the existence of the authority was
by law to be ascertained, not officially by the officers charged
with the execution of the power, but by reference to some express and definite record of a public character, then the true
meaning of the law would be, that the authority to act at all
depended upon the actual objective existence of the requisite
fact, as shown by the record, and not upon its ascertainment
and determination by any one; and the consequence would
necessarily follow, that all persons claiming under the exercise
of such a power might be put to proof of the fact made a condition of its lawfulness, notwithstanding any recitals in the
instrument."
"The amount of the bonds issued was known. It is stated
in the recital itself. It was $87,000. The holder of each bond
was apprised of that fact. The amount of the assessed value
of the taxable property in the county is not stated; but, em vi
termini, it was ascertainable in one way only, and that was by
reference to the assessment itself, a public record equally ac-

LAKE COUNTY v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

cessible to all intending purchasers of bonds, as well as to the
county officers. This being known, the ratio between the two
amounts was fixed by an arithmetical calculation. No recital
involving the amount of the assessed taxable valuation of the
property to be taxed for the payment of the bonds can take
the place of the assessment itself, for it is the amount as fixed
by reference to that record that is made by the constitution the
standard for measuring the limit of the municipal power.
Nothing in the way of inquiry, ascertainment, or determination as to that fact is submitted to the county officers. They
are bound, it is true, to learn from the assessment what the
limit upon their authority is, as a necessary preliminary in the
exercise of their functions and the performance of their duty;
but the information is for themselves alone. All the world
besides must have it from the same source, and for themselves.
The fact, as it is recorded in the assessment itself, is extrinsic,
and proves itself by inspection, and concludes all determinations that contradict it."
To the suggestion that the purchaser was not chargeable
with knowledge of the fact that the maximum of 12 mills on
the dollar had been exceeded-for the $500,000 of debt
ascertained to be due on the day of notice, and for which
bonds were issued, might have been partly or wholly
created before the constitution was adopted, and therefore
be excluded from the rule by the very terms of the constitution itself -there
are two decisive answers. First, the
bill of exceptions shows that the debt was not so created
either in whole or in part. Second, the defendant in error
is not entitled to an estoppel even if such an inference
might have been drawn from the recital of conformity.
The cases just cited show that the records are the only
source of information.
The question here is distinguishable from that in the cases
relied on by counsel for defendant in error. In this case
the standard of validity is created by the constitution. In
that standard two factors are to be considered; one the
amount of assessed value, and the other the ratio between
that assessed value and the debt proposed. These being

OCTOBEI, TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

exactions of the constitution itself, it is not within the power
of a legislature to dispense with them, either directly or
indirectly, by the creation of a ministerial commission whose
finding shall be taken in lieu of the facts.
In the case of Sherman County v. Simons, 109 U. S. 35,
and others like it, the question was one of estoppel as
against an exaction imposed by the legislature; and the
holding was, that the legislature, being the source of exaction, had created a board authorized to determine whether
its exaction had been complied with, and that its finding
was conclusive to a bona fide purchaser. So also in Oregon
v. Jennings, 119 U. S. '74, the condition violated was not one
imposed by the constitution, but one fixed by the subscription contract of the people.
For these reasons, and under the stipulation above recited,
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with a direction to enter
judgment for the defendant.

JONES v. VAN DOREN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 202. Argued March 14, 1889.-

Decided May 13, 1889.

A bill in equity by a widow to obtain her right of dower, alleging that she
conveyed it to one of the defendants upon an express trust for her, and
he conveyed to the other defendants with notice of the trust, may be
allowed to be amended by alleging that she was induced to make her conveyance by his fraudulent misrepresentations as to the nature of the
instrument.
Upon a bill in equity by a widow against one who has obtained from her
by fraud a conveyance of her right of dower, and another who, with
notice of the fraud, has taken a mortgage from him, and has foreclosed
the mortgage by sale of all the land, part to the mortgagee and part to a
purchaser in good faith, and praying for an account, a redemption of the
mortgage and a reconveyance of the land still held by the mortgagee,

