OCTOBER TERMT,

1888.

Citations for Appellants.

IURLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 215. Argued March 19, 1889. -Decided

April 22,1889.

Reissued letters patent No. 4364, granted to John J. Schillinger, May 2,
1871, for an "improvement in concrete pavements," on the surrender of
original letters patent No. 105,599, granted to said Schillinger, July 19,
1870, were valid.
The proper construction of the claims of 'the reissue stated, in view of a
disclaimer filed March 1, 1875.
The questions of utility, noirelty and infringement considered.
The entire profit made by the defendant from laying his pavement was
given to the plaintiff, because it appeared that it derived its entire value
from the use of the plaintiff's invention; that if it had not been laid in
that way it would not have been laid at all; and that the profit made by
the defendant was a single profit derived from the construction of the
pavement as an entirety.
IN EQUITY,

to restrain alleged infringement of letters patent

and for damages. Decree in favor of the complainants. Respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
fir. L. L. Bond, (with whom was X. E. A. West on the
brief,) for appellants, cited: Smith v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 112;
Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150, 159; Heald v. Rice, 104 U. S.
737, 755; Atlantic Tlorks v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192; Railroad
Co. v. Sayles, 97 U. S. 554; Df v. Sterling Pump Co., 107
T. S. 636; Carver v. Hyde, 16 Pet. 513; Burr v. Du'ryee, 1
Wall. 531; Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288; Brooks v. Fiske,
15 How. 212; Snow v. -Lake Shore Railway Co., 121 U. S.
617; Ashcroft v. Railroad Co., 97 U. S. 189; .Mathews v.
_31achine Co., 105 U. S. 54; Bridge v. Excelsior Co., 105 U. S.
618; NTeacy v. Allis, 13 Fed. Rep. 784; 1eoCormick v. Talcott,
20 How. 402; Schillinger v. Gunther, 2 Ban. & Ard. Pat. Gas.
544; S. C. 3 Ban. & Ard. Pat. Gas. 491 ; Schillinger v. Greenway
Brewing Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 244; CaliforniaStone Paving Co.
v. Perine,8 Fed. Rep. 821; Oalifornia Stone Paving Co. v.

URLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

F'eeborn, 11 Fed. Rep. 735; Schillinger v. .Middleton, 31 Fed.
Rep. 736; Cammeyer v. NSewton, 94 U. S. 225; Bates v. Coe,
98 IT. S. 31; Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120; Black v.
Thorne, 111 U. S. 122; Brown v. Pper,91 U. S. 41; -Vance
v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427; Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wall.
583; Blanchardv. Putnam, 8 Wall. 420; Slawson v. Grand
Street Railroad,107 U. S. 649; Terhune v. Phillips, 99 U. S.
592; Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1, 29; Guidet v. Brooklyn, 105
U. S. 650; Phillips v. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604; -ew YorkBelting Co. v. Sibley, 15 Fed. Rep. 386; Tyler v. Welch, 3 Fed.
Rep. 636; White v. Gleason .MJf'g Co., 17 Fed. IRep. 159;
Dunbar v. XAyers, 94 U. S. 187; Atlantic Giant Powder Co.
v. Rulings, 21 Fed. Rep. 519; Union Cartridge Co. v. V. S.
Cartridge Co., 112 13. S. 624; Hollister v. Benedict X.Af'g
Co., 113 U. S. 59.
Mr. George W. Hey, for appellees, cited: Schillinger v. Gun.
ther, 14 Blatchford, 152; S. C. 17 Blatchford, 66; California
Stone Paving Co. v. Perine,8 Fed. Rep. 821; Schillinger v.
Brewing Company, 24 0. G. 495; _uhl v. .Mueller, 21 Fed.
Rep. 510; CaliforniaStone Paving Co. v. Freeborn,17 Fed.
Rep. 735; California Stone Paving Co. v. -Molitor,113 U. S.
613; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218; Ames v. Howard, 1
Sumner, 482, 485; Blanchardv. S8prague, 3 Sumner, 535, 539;
.Davoll v. Brown, I Woodb. & Min. 53, 57; Parker v. Hayworth, 4 McLean, 370; Le Roy v. Tathamn, 14 fHow. 156, 181;
Warswick iMf'g Co. v. Steiger, 17 Fed. Rep. 250; Tilghman
v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136; Brady v. Atlantic Works, 3 Ban. &
Ard. Pat. Gas. 577; Cox v. Griggs,2 Fish. Pat. Cas. 174; -Hays
v. Sulsor, 1 Fish. Pat. Cas. 532; Bell v. -Daniels,1 Fish. Pat.
Cas. 372; Wayne v. Eolmes, 2 Fish. Pat. Cas. 20; Serrell v.
Collins, 1 Fish. Pat. Cas. 289; Curtis on Patents, ยง 338; Lowell
v. Lewis, 1 Mass. 184.
MR. JUSTiCE BLATonFoED delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by John J.
Sbhillinger and Elmer J. Salisbury against J. B. Hurlbut,

OCTOBER TER,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

founded on the alleged infringement of reissued letters pat
ent, No. 4364, granted to John J. Schillinger, May 2, 1871,
for an "improvement in concrete pavements," on the surrender of original letters patent No. 105,599, granted to said
Schillinger, July 19, 1870. The defences set up in the answer
are the invalidity of the reissue, want of utility in the invention, want of novelty and non-infringement.
The bill was filed in October, 1882. Salisbury having died,
the suit was, so far as his interest was concerned, revived in
March, 1884, in the name of Olive G. Salisbury, as administratrix. The interest of Salisbury was that he was the exclusive licensee under the reissued patent for the State of Illinois.
Issue having been joined, proofs were taken on both sides, and
on the 15th of May, 1884, the court entered an interlocutory
decree, adjudging that the reissued patent was valid, that the
defendant had infringed it, and that the administratrix of
Salisbury recover profits and damages from the 26th of
August, 1882, the date of the license to Salisbury. The
decree also ordered a reference to a master to take an account
of the profits and the damages.
The master took proofs, and on the 30th of September,
1884, filed his report, to the effect that between August 26,
1882, and May 20, 1884, the defendant had laid 70,909 feet of
pavement by the use of the plaintiff's patent, for which he
should be held to account; and that the plaintiffs had shown
an established license fee of five cents a square foot, or
$3545.45, as damages, which amount he reported. He also
reported that the defendant's profits had amounted to four
cents a square foot. The defendant excepted to this report,
and, on a hearing, the court held that the evidence did not
establish a fixed license fee as a royalty, and that the proper
amount of recovery was the defendant's profits, at the rate of
four cents a square foot, or $2836.36; and it entered a final
decree, on the 16th of November, 1885, for that amount.
The defendant has appealed from that decree.
The specifications, claims and drawings of the original and
the reissued patents are as follows, the specifications and
claims being placed in parallel columns, the parts of each

K1-URLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

which are not found in the other being in italic, and the
drawings of the original and the reissue being the same:
Original.
"Be it known that I, John
J. Schillinger, of the city,
county, and State of New
York, have invented a new
and useful improvement in
concrete pavements; and I
do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which
will enable those skilled in the
art to make and use the same,
reference being had to the accompanying drawing, forming
part of this specification, in
which drawing"Figure 1 represents my
pavement in plan view. 'Fig.
2 is a vertical section of the
pavement.
piv.1.

Reissue.
"Be it known that I, John
J. Schillinger, of the city,
county, and State of New
York, have invented a new
and useful improvement in
concrete pavements; and I
do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which
will enable those skilled in the
art to make and use the same,
reference being had to the accompanying drawing, forming
part of this specification, in
which drawing " Figure I represents aylan
of my pavement. Fig. 2 is a
vertical section of the same.
Similar letters indicate corre.
s'ondingparts.

OCTOBEIR TERMj, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Fi.Z.

"This invention relates to
pavements for sidewalks and
otherpurposes, and consists in
combining, with the joints of
concrete pavements, strips of
tar-paper or equivalent material arranged between the several blocks in such a manner
as to produce a suitable tight
joint and yet allow the blocks
to be raised separately without affecting or injuring the
blocks adjacent thereto.

"In carrying out my invention I form the concrete by
mixing cement with sand and
gravel or other suitable materials to form a suitable plastic
composition, using about the
following proportions: One
part, by measure, of cement;
one part, by measure, of sand,
and from three to six parts,
by measure, of gravel, using
sufficient water to make the
mixture plastic; but I do not
confine myself to any proportions for making the concrete
composition. While the mass

"This invention relates to a
concretepavementwhich is laid
in sections,so that each section
can be taken up and relaid
without disturbingthe adjoining sections. With the joints
of this sectional concretepavement are combined strips of
tar-paper or equivalent material arranged betiyeen the several blocks or sections in such
a manner as to produce a suitable tight joint and yet allow
the blocks to be raised separatefy without affecting the
blocks adjacent thereto.
"In carrying out my invention I form the concrete by
mixing cement with sand and
gravel or other suitable material to form a plastic compound, using about the following proportions: One part,
by measure, of cement; one
part, by measure, of sand, and
from three to six parts by
measure, of gravel, with sufficient water to render the mixture plastic; but I do not confine myself to any definite
proportions or materials for
making the concrete composi-

HURLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

is plastic I lay or spread the
same upon the foundation or
bed of the pavement, either in
moulds or between movable
joists of the proper thickness,
so as to form the edges of the
concrete blocks a a, &c. When
the block a has been formed I
take strips of tar-paperb, qf a
width equal or almost equal to
the height of the block, and
place them vp againstthe edges
of the block in such a manner
that they form the joints between such block and the adjacent blocks. After completing one block, a, I place the
tar-paper b along the edge
where the next block is to
be formed, and I put the plastic composition for such next
block up against the tar-paper
joint and proceed with the
formation of the new block
until it is completed. In this
manner I proceed in making
all the blocks until the pavement is completed, interposing
tar-paper between their several joints, as described. The
paper constitutes a tight water-proof joint, but it allows
the several blocks to heave
separately from the effects of
frost, or to be raised or removed separately, whenever
occasion may arise, without
injury to the adjacent blocks.

tion. While the mass is plastic I lay or spread the same
on the foundation or bed of
the pavement, either in moulds
or between movable joists of
the proper thickness, so as to
form the edges of the concrete
blocks a a, one block being
formed after the other. When
thefirst block has set I remove
the joists or partitionsfrom
between it and the next block to
be formed, and then Iform the
second block, and so on, each
succeeding block being formed
after the adjacent blocks have
set, [and since the concrete in
setting shrinks, the second block
when set does not adhere to the
first, and so on,] and when the
pavement is completed each
block can be taken up independent of the adjoining blocks.
Between the joints of the adjacent blocks are placed strips
b of tar-paperor other suitable
materialin thefollowing manner: After completing one
block, a, I place the tar-paper
b along the edge where the
next block is to be formed,
and I put the plastic composition for such next block up
against the tar-paper joint and
proceed with the formation of
the new block until it is completed. In this manner I proceed until the pavement is

OCTOBER TERMi, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The paper does not adhere completed, interposing tar-pa-

when placed against the edge per between the several joints,
of thefullyformed block, and as described. The paper contherefore the joints are al- stitutes a tight, water-proof
ways free between the sev- joint, but it allows the several
eral blocks, although adher- blocks to heave separately
ence may take place between from the effects of frost, or
thepaper and theplastic edges to be raised or removed sepaof the blocks which are formed rately, whenever occasion may
after the paper joints are set arise, without injury to the
adjacent blocks. The paper
uP inplace.
when placed against the block
ffirst formed does not adhere

thereto, and therefore the
joints are always free between the several blocks, al-

though the paper iagy adhere

to the edges of the block or
blocks formed after the same
has been set up in its place between the joints. [In such
cases, however, where cheapness is an object, the tarpaper
may be omitted and the blocks
formed without interposing
anything between their joints,
as previously described. In
this latter case the joints soon
fill up with sand or dust, and
the pavement is rendered suftciently tight for many purposes, while the blocks are detached from each other and
can be taken up and relaid
each independent of the adjoining blocks.]

"What I claim as new and
"What I claim as new and
desire to secure by letters-pat- desire to secure by letters-patent isent is-

HURLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

"The arrangement of tar"1. A concrete *pavement
paper or its equivalent be- laid in detached blocks or sectween adjoining blocks of con- tions, substantiallyin the mancrete, substantially as and for ner shown and described.
the purpose described."
"2. The arrangement of
tar-paper or its equivalent between adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as and for
the purpose setforth."
On the 1st of March, 1875, Schillinger filed in the Patent
Office the following disclaimer: "To the Commissioner of
Patents: Your petitioner, John J. Schillinger, of the city and
county and State of iNew York, represents that letters patent
of the United States, reissue INo. 4364, bearing date May 2,
1871, were granted to him for an improvement in concrete
pavements. That he has reason to believe that, through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, the specification and claim of
said letters patent are too broad, including that of which your
petitioner was not the first inventor, and he therefore hereby
enters his disclaimer to the following words: ' And since the
concrete in setting shrinks, the second block when set does not
adhere to the first, and so on,' and which occurs near the middle part of the said specification, and to the following words
near the end of the specification : ' In such cases, however,
where cheapness is an object, the tar-paper may be omitted
and the blocks formed without interposing anything between
their joints, as previously described. In this latter case the
joints soon fill up with sand or dust, and the pavement is rendered sufficiently tight for many purposes, while the blocks are
detached from each other and can be taken up and relaid each
independent of the adjoining blocks.' Your petitioner hereby
disclaims the forming of blocks from plastic material without
interposing anything between their joints while in the process
of formation. Your petitioner owns the said patent and the
whole interest therein, except in the following places or territory, for which he has granted exclusive license. under royalty, or sold rights under said patent, to wit, the counties of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Kings, Queens, and Richmond, New York State; Hartford
County, Connecticut; the District of Columbia; the States of
New Jersey, Georgia, Maryland, Louisiana, Texas, Ohio, Michigan, Missouri and Illinois, which above-named States and
places comprise all the territory for which he has sold or
granted exclusive licenses or rights in or under said patent, to
the best of his recollection, knowledge and belief."
The words specifically disclaimed by the disclaimer are embraced in brackets in the copy of the specification of the reissue
above set forth.
The Schillinger patent has been before several of the Circuit
Courts of the United States, and also before this court, for
adjudication.
In the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
before Judge Shipman, in February, 1877, in Schiillinger v.
Gunther, 14 Blatchford, 152, and 2 Ban. & Ard. Pat. Cas. 544,
and 11 Off. Gaz. 831, and in the same case, before Judge
Blatchford, in August, 1879, 17 blatchford, 66, and 4 Ban. &
Ard. Pat. Cas. 479, and 16 Off. Gaz. 905; in the Circuit Court
for the District of California, before Judge Sawyer, in May,
1881, in CaliforniaArtificial Stone _Paving Co. v. -Molitor,and
The Same v. Perine,7 Sawyer, 190, and 8 Fed. Rep. 821, and
20 Off. Gaz. 813; in the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York, before Judge Blatchford, in July, 1883, in
Schillinger v. Greenway Brewing Co., 21 Blatchford, 383, and
17 Fed. Rep. 244, and 24 Off. Gaz. 495; and in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, before Judge Sage, in
June, 1884, in .Kuld v. -Mueller, 21 Fed. Rep. 510, and 28 Off.
Gaz. 541; the patent was sustained. In the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia., in general term, in July, 1885, in
Schillinger v. Craiford,4:Mackey, 450, and 37 Off. Gaz. 1349,
it was held void, on the question of novelty. It was also
interpreted by Judge Sawyer, in the Circuit Court for the
District of California, in California Artificial Stone Paving
Co. v. Feeborn, in January, 1883, 8 Sawyer, 443, and 17 Fed.
Rep. 7.35, and by Judge Deady, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Oregon, in August, 1887, in Schillingerv. .Middleton,
31 Fed. Rep. 736.

HURLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

The patent was before this court in CaliforniaPaving Co.
v. M1olitor, 113 U. S. 609, in March, 1885, but only on a question of contempt, and in Califom'a Paving Co. v. Schalicke,
119 U. S. 401, in December, 1886.
We are of opinion that the proper construction of the reissued
patent is, that the invention consists in dividing the pavement
into blocks, so that one block can be removed and repaired
without injury to the rest of the pavement, the division being
effected by either a permanent or a temporary interposition of
something between the blocks. Concrete pavement had been
laid before in sections, without being divided into blocks. The
effect of the disclaimer was to leave the patent to be one for a
pavement wherein the blocks are formed by interposing some
separating material between them. To limit the patent to the
permanent interposition of a material equivalent to tar-paper,
would limit the actual invention. The use of a bottom layer
of coarse cement, and placing on it a course of fine cement, and
dividing the upper course into blocks by a trowel run partially
or wholly through the upper course while it is plastic, in a line
coincident with the joints between the sections in the lower
layer, accomplishes the substantial results of Schillinger's
invention, in substantially the way devised by him, and is
within the patent as it stands after the disclaimer. The disclaimer took out of the first claim of the reissue only so much
thereof as claimed a concrete pavement made of the plastic
material laid in detached blocks, without interposing anything
in the joints in the process of formation, leaving that claim to
be one for such a pavement laid in detached blocks, when free
joints are made between the blocks, by interposing permanently
or temporarily between them, in the process of their forma
tion, tar-paper or its equivalent.
In California Paving Co. v. Schalicke, (supra,)it was said,
(p. 406:) "The evidence in the present case shows that the
defendant, during the process of making his pavement, marked
off its surface into squares. But the question is whether he,
to any extent, divided it into blocks, so that the line of cracking was controlled, and induced to follow the joints of the
divisions, rather than the body of the block, and so that a
VOL. CXXX-30*

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

block could be taken out, and a new one put in its place, with.
out disturbing or injuring an adjoining block. The specification makes it essential that the pavement shall be so laid in
sections ' that each section can be taken up and relaid without
disturbing the adjoining sections.' Again it says that the
joint between the blocks 'allows the several blocks to heave
separately, from the effects of frost, or to be raised or removed
separately, whenever occasion may arise, without injury to the
adjacent blocks.' This is essential; and, in all the cases where
infringement has been held to have been established, there
have been blocks substantially separate, made so by the permanent or temporary interposition of a separating medium or a
cutting instrument, so that one block could upheave or be removed without disturbing the adjoining blocks. The patentee,
in the disclaimer, expressly disclaimed 'the forming of blocks
from plastic material without interposing anything between
their joints while in the process of formation.' It appears that
the defendant laid his pavement in strips from the curb of the
sidewalk inward to the fence, in one mass, and then marked
the strip crosswise with a blunt marker, which is made an
exhibit, to the depth of about one sixteenth of an inch. But it
is not shown that this produced any such division into blocks
as the patent speaks of, even in degree. There were no blocks
produced, and, of course, there was nothing interposed between blocks. The mass underneath was solid, in both layers,
laterally. So far as appears, what the defendant did was just
what the patentee disclaimed. The marking was only for ornamentation, and produced no free joints between blocks, and
the evidence as to the condition of the defendant's pavements
after they were laid shows that they did not have the characteristic features above mentioned as belonging to the patented
pavement."
In its decision in the present case, which was made before
that in the Schalicke case, the court said that the case was in
no way different, so far as infringement was concerned, from
the cases against Perine and Molitor and the case against the
Greenway Brewing Company.
In. the Schalicke case, it was said, in the opinion of this

HURLBUT v. SCHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

court, in regard to the pavement in the Molitor case: "The
defendant's pavement was made by cutting a lower course into
sections with a trowel, to a greater or less depth, according to
the character of the material, making a joint, and doing the
same with an upper course, the upper joint being directly over
the lower joint. Into the open joint, in each case, was loosely
put some of the partially set material from the top of the laid
course, answering the purpose of tar-paper. A blunt and
rounded joint-marker, which was said to be - or I of an inch
in depth, was then run over the line of the joints, marking off
the block. The pavement was weaker along the line of the
joint than in any other place. This was held to be an infringement."
It was also there said that, in the Greenway
Brewing Company case, "it was held that the 2d claim of the
reissue was infringed by a concrete pavement which had an
open cut made by a trowel entirely through two courses of
material, the line of cut in the upper course being directly
over the line of cut in the lower course, and that the interposition of the trowel, though temporary, was an equivalent for
the tar-paper, even though the joint was left open after the
trowel was removed, and was not made tight."
In the present case, the only pavement for which the defendant was held liable was what was called in his account or statement before the master "concrete flag pavement," the manner
of constructing which is thus described by Mr. Perkins, a witness for the plaintiff: "First, joists are placed seven to eight
feet apart, in front of the property where the work is to be
laid. First, one stone is formed by placing a joist across between the others at right angles, generally at about four feet
from the place of beginning. In this space a mortar, composed
of sand, gravel and cement, is put and thoroughly tamped, so
that the coarse material will be from three to four inches in
thickness, leaving about one half inch on top for a mortar
composed of sand and-cement, which is trowelled off and made
even with the top surface of the joists. Then the short joist
that is put in at right angles, as before described, is taken up
and placed about the same distance as before, and again filled
in. The finer material in the coarse concrete is generally

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Coutrt.

worked next to the joist, so as to make a good, smooth, strong
edge. When the top stuff is put on this last stone, and finished
over on top with a trowel, the joint between the two stones
being marked on the outer joist, a trowel is drawn through
the top stuff, to make a joint straight, to correspond with the
joint below." The evidence is satisfactory, that the trowel
was used to cut through or into the top layer to an extent
sufficient to make such a separation of the top layer into
blocks, at a line corresponding with the joint below between
the sections of the first layer, as to control the cracking of the
top layer, by dividing it substantially into separate blocks.
This division depends on the depth of the cut. The defendant
contends that the object and effect of the marking with the
trowel was only to give to the pavement the appearance of
flagging; but the evidence is entirely clear, that the cut was
made sufficiently deep, in proportion to the thickness of the
upper layer, to make such a separation of the upper layer into
blocks as would compel any tendency to crack to follow the
line of the cut made by the trowel, and not run off into the
body of the layer; and that thus the object of Schillinger's
invention was attained. The defendant is, by the report of
the master and the decree of the Circuit Court, made liable
only for concrete flagging so laid and cut as to produce such
result. The defendant was particular to have the cut in the
upper layer made with the trowel directly over the line between
the two sections of the lower layer, and it is shown that the
upper layer of his pavement thus made would come up in separate blocks. He made his lower course of sand, gravel and
cement, mixed in the proportions of one part of cement to six
or seven of sand and gravel, while he made his upper course
of one half sand and one half cement, made plastic with water.
The lower course of his flagging was composed of material in
which there was only one part of cement or adhesive substance
to six or seven parts of non-adhesive substance, and there was
but a slight tendency to adhere between the faces of the two
sections in the lower course; while as the upper layer was
composed one half of adhesive substance, the tendency was
for its material to adhere strongly. Therefore, a out in the

HTURILBUT v. SCHILLINGEB,.
Opinion of the Court.

upper course, coincident with the joint below, would permit
any action of the settling of the lower course, through frost or
upheaval, to extend to the top of the upper course through a
joint cut in that course, of sufficient depth to prevent the tendency of the upper course to crack in its body rather than in
the line of the cut.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the first claim of the reissue, as it stands after the disclaimer, is infringed, because the
defendant's pavement is a concrete pavement, laid in detached
blocks or sections, substantially in the manner shown and described in the specification of the reissue, the detached blocks
in the upper course being the equivalent of the detached blocks
or sections of the Schillinger pavement; and that the second
claim of the reissue is infringed, because the temporary use of
the trowel or cutting instrument, to divide the upper course
into blocks, is the equivalent of the tar-paper of the Schillinger
patent, the cutting making a division which controls the cracking, and facilitates the taking up and relaying of the blocks
or sections in the upper course "without disturbing the adjoining sections," and the trowel being interposed to effect its
object during the process of forming the pavement on the spot
where it is to remain.
The invention.of Schillinger was a very valuable one. The
evidence is that it entirely superseded the prior practice of
laying concrete pavements in a continuous, adhering mass.
The defendant introduced in evidence, on the question of
novelty, the following patents:
English patent to Claridge, No. 7489, of 1837; English
patent to D'llarcourt, No. 7991, of 1839; United States patent
to Russ, No. 5475, of 1848; English patent to ChesneauNo.
350, of 1852; English patent to Coignet, No. 2659, of 1855;
English patent to De la Haichois, No. 771, of 1856; and
United States patent to Van Camp, No. 93,142, of July 27,
1869. All of these patents, except the Van Camp patent,
were introduced in evidence on the part of the defence in the
case against the Greenway Brewing Company, and it was held
in that ease that none of them anticipated the Schillinger invention. A copy of the record in that case, embracing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

pleadings, and the evidence and patents put in by the defend,
ant in it, on the question of novelty, forms part of the record
in the present case.
An examination of the patents put in evidence by the defendant, in connection with the testimony in regard to them,
shows that the Claridge pavement was not a concrete pavement, and was not formed in detachable blocks, but was a continuous asphalt pavement; that the D'Ifarcourt pavement was
not a concrete pavement laid in detached blocks or sections,
nor could one section be removed without disturbing adjacent
sections; that the Russ patent shows aconcrete foundation for
a stone pavement, the pavement proper being constructed of
granite or syenite placed on top of the concrete foundation,
such concrete foundation not being formed in detachable
blocks, but only being provided at certain places with removable panels, consisting of frames filled with concrete, to be
lifted out to give access to water-pipes or for other purposes;
that the Chesneau pavement was not a concrete pavement laid
in detached sections or blocks, but was a continuous pavement,
provided with panels to give access in certain places to gas
and water-pipes, the panels being made of sections set in
frames, which were removably inserted in the surrounding
pavement, and there was no arrangement of tar-paper or its
equivalent between adjoining blocks of concrete, for the plirpose set forth in the Schillinger patent; that the Coignet
patent did not show a concrete pavement, made in detachable
blocks after the manner of Schillinger's, and built on the
ground where it was to remain; that the De la Haichois pavement was not a concrete pavement laid in detachable blocks
or sections, or having the arrangement of tar-paper or its
equivalent between adjoining blocks of concrete, like that of
Schillinger; and that the Van Camp patent showed only blocks
formed in moulds, and removable from the moulds, or the
pavement to be laid cemented in the moulds, and it not being
stated that the blocks should be formed on the spot where
they were to remain, nor that they should be formed of cement
and gravel or sand. It further appears that, in the Van Camp
patent, when the blocks are made in moulds, they are like

HURLBUT v. ;CHILLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

bricks, or artificial stones, or wooden blocks, which are prepared and then brought to the place where they are to be laid
and put down in-the usual manner; and that, when the blocks
remain in the moulds and are thus laid, they do not present a
uniform wearing surface of concrete, or constitute a concrete
pavement formed in detachable blocks by joints.
Other testimony as to prior public use was introduced in this
case, taken from the record in the case of Schillinger v. Phillip
Best Brewing Co., in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Wisconsin, which testimony was also introduced in
the case against the Greenway Brewing Company, having
been taken in November, 1882. In the decision in the latter
case, it was correctly said of that testimony: "So far as it
refers to prior use in Germany, not shown in a patent or
printed publication, it was duly objected to in this case and
must be excluded. As to the cement malt floor which Row
laid in Baltimore twenty-five years ago, he shows that it was
not made in sections detachable by free joints. The testimony
of Botzler as.to a prior malt floor laid by him in Chicago is too
indefinite to amount to sufficient evidence to defeat a patent."
So far as that testimony related to a pavement used in Germany, it was objected to at the time it was introduced in this
case, as incompetent. It was clearly inadmissible under ยง 4923
of the Revised Statutes, because it did not show anything
that had been patented or described in a printed publication.
We do not think that the reissued patent, as it stood after
the filing of the disclaimer, was open to the objection that it
was not for the same invention as that of the original patent.
Whatever there was of objectionable matter inserted in the
specification or the first claim of the reissue, when it was
granted, was removed by the disclaimer. The reissue was
granted within ten months after the original. The single
claim of the original patent was repeated in the reissue as the
second claim of the latter, and the first claim of the reissue, as
it stood after the disclaimer, did not expand beyond the claim
of the original what was claimed in the reissue.
As to the amount of the decree, we think the court properly
.awarded the sum of four cents per square foot-as the profits of

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Citations for Appellant.

the defendant, and that it was right to give to the plaintiff
the entire profits made by the defendant by the-laying by him
of his concrete flagging, in view of the testimony in the case.
It clearly appears that the defendant's concrete flagging derived its entire value from the use of the plaintiff's invention,
and that if it had not been laid in that way it would not have
been laid at all.
In Elizabeth v. NVicholson Pavement Co., 97 T.S. 126, 139,
it is said that "when the entire profit of a business or undertaking results from the use of the invention, the patentee will
be entitled to recover the entire profits, if he elects that
remedy." This language was quoted with approval in Root
v. R aiway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 203. As in the case of the
Nicholson patent, so in the case of the Sehillinger patent, the
pavement was a complete combination in itself, differing from
every other pavement, and the profit made by the defendant
was a single profit derived from the construction of the pavement as an entirety. Callahan v. .Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 665,
666.
Within the decision in Gar'etson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120,
the proof in this case is satisfactory, that the entire value of
the defendant's pavement, as a marketable article, was properly and legally attributable to the invention of Schillinger.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
A4fib ed.

WILSON v. EDMONDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 245.

Argued April 11,12,1889. -Decided

April 22, 1889.

On the facts of this case, it was held that the defendant was not a co-partner with another person, in his general business, and liable for his debts.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Enoch Totten and -A&. W. Willoughby, for appellant,
cited: IWaugh v. Carver, 2 ff. Bl. 235; Peasants v. Fant,22

