OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Syllabus.

rules and articles of war, and the other incidents of military
service. Notwithstanding ยง 1223, such officers, when in the
diplomatic or consular service, may still be borne on the retired
list, but cannot receive double compensation.
Nor can we disturb the judgment adverse to the counterclaim. As between individuals, where money has been paid
under a mistake of law, it cannot be recovered back, but it is
denied that this rule is applicable to the United States, upon
the ground that the government is not bound by the mistakes
of its officers, whether of law or of fact. United States v.
Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720; United States v. Bank of X etrojpolis, 15 Pet. 377; AL?Elrata v. United States, 102 U. S.
426. But inasmuch as the claimant, if not an officer de jure,
acted as an officer defacto, we are not inclined to hold that he
has received money which, ex oguo et bono, he ought to return.
He was paid as a military officer from December 6, 1869, to
the 21st of February, 1870, and for the time from February
21, 1870, to April 30, 1870, and for about fourteen months,
beginning in September, 1881, and ending in November, 1882.
After May 19, 1869, he was employed in a.diplomatic or consular capacity, except during the above specified periods, and
the implication from the findings is that he was paid for those
periods, because he was actually rendering service, whether
subject to assignment thereto or not.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. CUMMING.
CUMMING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Non. 723, 724.

Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided

April 22, 1889.

Qongress enacted that A B and C D "be permitted to sue in the Court of
Claims, which court shall pass upon the law and facts as to the liability

UNITED STATES v. CUMMING.
Opinion of the Court.
of the United States for the acts of its officer" E F,..."
collector of
internal revenue" etc., "and this suit may be maintained, any statute
of limitation to the contrary notwithstanding." Held, that this was a
waiver of the defence based upon the statute of limitations, but not a
waiver of the defence based on the general principle of law that the
United States are not liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted on the
citizen by their officers while engaged in the discharge of official duties.

Tit case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Assistant Attyrney General Howard for the United
States.
.Mr. -Michael Jacobs, Mr. Leonawrd Myers and Xr..David
.McAdam for Gumming and others.
MR. JUsTicE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals from a judgment against the United
States in favor of Joseph M. Cumming and Hamilton J. Miller, surviving members of the late firm of J. M. Cumming &
Co., formerly manufacturers, distillers, vendors and exporters
of whiskeys and alcohols, for the sum of thirty-six thousand dollars, as the damages sustained by that firm in consequence of
certain acts of Joshua F. Bailey, collector of internal revenue
for the fourth internal revenue district of New York, and of
other officers who served under or with him. The amount for
which the plaintiffs asked judgment was $1,635,753.
The suit was brought under the authority of the following
act of Congress, approved February 26, 1885, 23 Stat. 639,
c. 167.
"AN AcT for the relief of Joseph M. Cumming, Hamilton
J. filler and Wiliam MlcRoberts.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
Joseph M. Gumming, Hamilton J. M iller and William McRoberts, late copartners in the business of commission merchants and bonded warehousemen in the city of New York, be
permitted to sue in the Court of Claims; which court shall
pass upon the law and facts as to the liability of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

States for the acts of its officer, Joshua F. Bailey, by reason of
the seizure, detention and closing up of the commission houses
and bonded warehouses of said copartners, for the breaking up
and interruption of their said business, and for the seizure and
detention of the property, books and papers in and connected
with said business, by Joshua F. Bailey, collector of internal
revenue for the fourth internal revenue district of said State or
by said Bailey and other internal revenue officers. The United
States shall appear to defend against said suit, and either party
may appeal to the Supreme Court as in ordinary cases against
the United States in said court; and said suit may be maintained,
any statute of limitation to the contrary notwithstanding.
"Approved, February 26, 1885."
It is evident that Congress intended to open the doors of the
Court of Claims to the plaintiffs, so far as to permit them to
sue the government, unembarrassed by any defence of the statute of limitations, and to obtain an adjudication, based upon
"the law and facts," as to the liability of the United States
for the wrongs of which complaint is made. In other words,
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims was so enlarged as to
embrace this particular demand and to authorize such judgment as, under all the evidence, would be consistent with law.
Here, however, we are met with the suoggestion, that there is a
general principle, applicable, as this court said, in Gibbon~s v.
'UnitedStates, 8 Wall. 269, 275, to all governments, which
"forbids, on a policy imposed by necessity, that they should
hold themselves liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted by their
officers on the citizen, though occurring while engaged in the
discharge of official duties." Did Congress intend to abrogate
this principle so far as the demands of the present plaintiffs
are concerned? Did it invest the Court of Claims with jurisdiction to render a judgment against the United States upon
its appearing that the revenue officers transcended the authority conferred upon them by law, or had exercised their authority in such manner as made them personally liable in damages
to the plaintiffs? There would be some ground for an affirmative answer to these questions if the statute had not required
the court to pass upon both the law and the facts "as to the

UNITED STATES 'v. CUMMING.
Opinion of the Court.

liability of the United States." If the facts disclosed a case of
unauthorized wrongs done to the plaintiffs by the revenue
officers of the United States, the question, by the very terms
of the act, would still remain, whether the United States were
liable, in law, for such damages as the plaintiffs had sustained.
There would seem to be no escape from the conclusion that
Congress intended that the liability of the government should
be determined by the settled principles of law. The only
right waived by the government was a defence based upon the
statute of limitations. Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392;
Tillson v. United States, 100 U. S. 43; McClure v. United
States, 116 U. S. 145.
It is said that the act, professedly for .the relief of the plaintiffs, would be unavailing, unless it is so construed as to relieve
them from the operation of the rule laid down in Gibbons v.
United States. A satisfactory answer to this suggestion is that
if Congress intended to do more than give the plaintiffs an
opportunity, in an action for damages brought in the Court of
Claims, to test the question as to the liability of the United
States, upon the law and facts, for the alleged wrongs of their
officers, that intention would have been expressed in language
not to be misunderstood. It is as if the plaintiffs asserted
before Congress the liability, in law, of the government for
the damages they sustained, and Congress permitted them to
invoke the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims in order that
there might be a judicial determination of the question by that
tribunal, with the right of appeal "as in ordinary cases against
the United States in said court."
According to this construction of the act, the plaintiffs were
not entitled to judgment against the United States in any sum;
for, if Collector Bailey and other revenue officers did nothing
more than the law authorized them to do, neither they nor the
government would be liable in damages; while, if they acted
illegally, they would be personally liable in damages; not the
government.
The judgment is reversed, 'with directions to rendei.judgmen?
in favor of the United States.
IR. JUSTICE MILLERP

and TMn.

JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

