DUNLAP v. NORITMVASTERN RAILROAD C0.

649

Statement of the Case.

executes a conveyance to the purchaser, with a warranty of
title and a covenant for peaceable possession, his previous representations as to the validity of his title, or the right of possession which it gives, are regarded, however highly colored, as
mere expressions of confidence in his title, and are merged in
the warranty and covenant, which determine the extent of his
liability.

Judgment afi med.

DUNLAP v. NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 256. Argued April 17, 18S9.-Decided May 13, 1889.
When, in an action brought by an cmploy6 of a railroad company to recover
damages for injuries caused by the negligence of other employ~s, the defence of contributory negligence is set up, the plaintiff is entitled to
have the question submitted to the jury unless no recovery could be had
upon any view which could be properly taken of the fTcts which the evidence tended to establish.
This court will not, by a technical construction of an obscure record, preclude itself from correcting an error committed in the trial below, if a
construction can be given to it which will give jurisdiction.

Tmis was an action on the case brought by Dunlap against
the Northeastern Railroad Company to recover for injuries received during the month of August, 1882, by reason of a train
belonging to defendant leaving the track, while Dunlap was
acting as engineer.
The Code of Georgia (1882, pp. 509, 762) provides as follows:
"ยง 2083. Liability of railroadcomoapnies a carriers.- Railroad companies are common carriers, and liable as such. As
such companies necessarily have many employ~s who cannot
possibly control those who should exercise care and diligence
in the running of trains, such companies shall be liable to such
employ~s as to passengers for injuries received from the want
of such care and diligence."
"ยง 3036. Tnaju2-y by vo-empZoy4. - If the person injured is

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

himself an employ6 of the company, and the damage was
caused by another employ6, and without fault or negligence
on the part of the person injured, his employment by the company shall be no bar to recovery."
It was contended on behalf of the plaintiff that the accident
happened in consequence of the road-bed being defective to
such an extent and under such circumstances as to render
defendant liable; while defendant claimed that plaintiff was
guilty of contributory negligence, because he was running
faster than twenty miles an hour, the superintendent having
instructed him not to exceed that speed; because he made use
of intoxicating drinks while on duty; and because the rules of
the company limited speed to ten miles an hour before crossing trestles and bridges, while the place of the accident was
near a trestle and plaintiff was running at a greater rate than
ten miles an hour.
Evidence was adduced tending to sustain plaintiff's contention, and to refute that of defendant, as to a rate of speed
exceeding twenty miles an hour, and the use of intoxicating
liquors; and algo to show that plaintiff was a locomotive engineer in the employment of the Richmond and Danville Railroad, and during the month of August, 1882, was sent to
relieve an engineer on the Northeastern Railroad; that he relieved him on Saturday, on which day he hauled dirt, and that
on Saturday evening he went to Tallulah Falls and got his
train conductor, and from there to Athens, Sunday, and
started out on Monday, on the evening of which day the accident occurred; that he had never been over the road before
and had no experience of it or knowledge of the track; that
he had never seen or read the train rules governing the iunning of trains on the road; that while he had been over the
road once and returned, it was impossible for him, upon so
slight an experience, to remember at night just where the
trestles were; and that he did not know at the time that this
particular trestle was immediately in front of him. Defendant's superintendent testified that he understood that Dunlap
had never been over the road but once; that he explained to
him Monday morning that he had a safe conductor and a

DUNLAP v. NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD CO. 651
Argument for Defendant in Error.

good set of brakemen, and that he could rely upon the conductor; that he "talked with him about the train and the
track, and the conductor and the equipment of the train, and
about the pilot and the pilot's duty, and about the character
of the conductor and the character of the run generally, and
the rate of speed, which was from eighteen to twenty miles
an hour - not to exceed twenty;" and that he did not know
"that Mr. Dunlap ever saw our train rules or read them."
There was some controversy as to the existence of the rule
as stated, at the time of the accident, but there was no dispute
that the train was running more than ten miles an hour.
The court instructed the jury to return a verdict for the
defendant, which being done and judgment rendered thereon,
the cause was brought here on writ of error.
.Afe. -HokeSmith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Pope Barrow for defendant in error.
I. No question is presented by this bill of exceptions which
calls for a decision by this court. No exceptions were taken
at the trial by plaintiff's attorney to any ruling of the court,
or to any instructions given to the jury, or to the failure or
refusal of the court to give any which were requested. There
is no pretence that any such exceptions were taken or noted
during the trial. Walton v. United States, 9 Wheat. 651;
Bradstreetv. Thomas, 4 Pet. 102; Phelps v. .Afa4yer, 15 How.
160; ShWepard v. Wilson, 6 How. 260, 275; Insurance Co. v.
Lanier, 95 U. S. 171; Barton v. Forsyth, 20 How. 532; French
v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506.
In the case last mentioned the court instructed the jury to
find for the defendant. It was contended in this court by
counsel for the defendant in error that the bill of exceptions
did not show that the exceptions were taken at the trial. The
court examined the bill of exceptions to decide the question
whether this was true and held to the contrary; that is to say,
that the bill of exceptions did show that the exceptions were
taken at the trial. If an instruction to find for the defendant

OCTOBER TER,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

had been such a case as did not require counsel to except at
the trial, it would undoubtedly have been disposed of by the
court on that ground without an examination to ascertain
whether or not exceptions were so taken. If it had been
immaterial in that case whether they were so taken, the court
would not have troubled itself to investigate that question.
II. On the merits the plaintiff was not entitled to recover.
Rowland v. Cannon, 35 Georgia, 105; Central Railroad v.
-Jenney, 58 Georgia, 485; Atlanta & West Point Railroad v.
Webb, 61 Georgia, 586; Code of Georgia, ยง 3036;. Central
Railroad Co. v. Sears, 61 Georgia, 279; Zettier v. Atlanta, 66
Georgia, 195; Schofield v. Chicago, .Milwaukee &c.Railroad
Co., 114 U. S. 615; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,
109 U. S. 478 ; Chandlerv. *Von Roeder, 24 How. 224; .H~erbert
v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319; Railroad Co. v. Jones, 95 U. S. 439;
Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116.
MR. CmF J-usTiE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court erred in not submitting the question of
contributory negligence to the jury, as the conclusion did not
follow, as matter of law, that no recovery could be had upon
any view which could be properly taken of the facts the
evidence tended to establish. Kane v. Northern Central Railway, 128 U. S. 91; Jones v. East Tennessee,* Virginia &f
Georgia Railroad Co., 128 U. S. 443.
It is urged that the exceptions were not properly saved, and
therefore that they should be disregarded. There is some
obscurity in the record upon this subject, but upon the whole
we think that enough appears to enable us to pass upon the
question presented. The bill of exceptions shows that certain
instructions, numbered I and 2, were requested by plaintiff and
refused, and certain instructions, numbered 3 and 4, objectionable or adverse to plaintiff, were given, and it is stated by the
court that "the plaintiff's counsel presented his request in
writing before the charge of the court began. The court
instructed the jury to find for the defendant, without notice to

UNITED STATES v. RIAYNES.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff's counsel that the requests would not be given, and
there was no opportunity for counsel to except to the failure
of the court to charge as requested until the instructions were
given to the jury. The exceptions, therefore, contained in
NTos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 were not taken or noted during the trial."
But the bill of exceptions also states: "V. The court instructed the jury to return a verdict for the defendant. VI. The
jury returned a verdict in accordance with said instructions,
and judgment was thereupon entered up in behalf of defendant in pursuance of said instructions; and to said instructions,
verdict and judgment, the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted
and now excepts, during the term at which said case was tried
and while said term is still in session, and assigns the same as
error, and prays the court to sign and certify this exception."
We understand from this language, taken together, that
the general instruction of the court to find for the defendant
was excepted to at the proper time; and while greater accuracy of expression should have been used, we are not inclined by too technical a construction to preclude ourselves
from correcting the error we hold was committed. The judgment is
Reversed and the caase remanled, with directions to grant a
new trial.

UINITED STATES v. HAYNES.
ERROR TO THE OIRcUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 273. Submitted April 24, 18S.- Decided May 13,1889.
An action on the official bond of a collector of customs is not one of which
this court has appellate jurisdiction, under ยง 699 of the Revised Statutes,
without regard to the sum or value in dispute.

Tis was an action brought by the United States against
the principal and sureties on the official bond of a collector of
customs, to recover the sum of $634.60, which he had refused

