HULING v. KAW VALLEY RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

HULING v. KAW VALLEY RAILWAY
PROVEMENT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

AND

M-

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 230.

Argued and submitted April 1, 2, 1889. -Decided

April 22, 1889.

In proceedings commenced under a state statute for condemnation of land
for a railroad, a published notice in compliance with the terms of the
statute, specifying the section, township and range, county and State, in
which it is proposed to locate the railroad, is sufficient notice to a nonresident owner of land therein, and such publication is "due process of
law," as applied to such a case.
When, after notice to the owner as required by law, land has been condemned
for a railroad by commissioners regularly appointed and duly sworn, who
discharged their duties in the manner required by law, the question
whether one of the commissioners was or was not a freeholder, as
directed by the statute, is not open for consideration collaterally in an
action of trespass by the owner against the railroad company for entering on the land after condemnation.
TRESPASS.

Judgment for defendant.

Plaintiff sued out

this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
.tr. Eyo Hunton (with whom was Mr. Albert Young on
the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
X,1r. George W. .Xefary and HP. TFallace Prattfor defendant in error submitted on their brief.
MR. JssiSTE MLLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the court below by the plaintiffs
in error against the Kaw Valley Railway and Improvement
Company, as defendants, in the nature of an action of trespass
on land. It was in fact to recover for the value of land taken
by the railroad for its right of way, and for damages to adjacent lands, houses, fences and property, incident to the taking.
The land was a part of a quarter-section in Jackson Township,
Wyandotte County, Kansas. The railway company answered
by setting up proceedings which they had taken under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of Kansas for the condemnation of the land for the use
of the railroad, and the payment of $725 into the treasury of
that county in accordance with law, that being the amount
which the commissioners who conducted the condemnation
proceedings bad allowed the plaintiffs. The defendants set
out these proceedings in full, and relied upon them, as a sufficient defence for taking possession of and using the land.
The parties waived a jury, and the case was tried by the
court, who found for the defendant, the railway company, and
entered a judgment against the plaintiffs for the costs. We
are called upon to review that judgment.
The record of the case is a very singular one, as there is no
special finding of facts by the court, but a general finding in
favor of the defendants. Instead, however, of a finding of
facts, there is a bill of exceptions, which itself contains the
entire history of the case, including the pleadings, the motions,
the evidence, the judgment of the court and all that is in the
record besides. The only point raised by this bill of exceptions
was as to the admission of the testimony of L. H. Wood, who
acted as one of the commissioners by appointment of the district judge of Wyandotte County, in which the land lay. The
deposition of Wood was directed to the question whether he
was a freeholder of Wyandotte County, and, although he
declared that at the time he was appointed as commissioner he
was the owner of considerable real estate, upon further examination he stated that the title to it was in some other person, who
held it as trustee for him. This attempt to raise the question
of whether he was a freeholder within the meaning of the
statute of Kansas on that subject was ruled out entirely by
the exclusion of all his testimony on the trial, and this constitutes the principal assignment of error in the case.
Article 9 of chapter 23 of the Compiled Laws of Kansas,
page 224, entitled "Appropriation of lands for the use of railway and other corporations," provides two modes of doing
this. The first of these modes is by an application to the
board of county commissioners, which is the governing body
of the county, to lay off along the line of the proposed road as
located by the company a route for such railroad. Upon this

HULING v. KAW VALLEY RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

application being made in writing, the board of county commissioners shall forthwith proceed to lay off such route, and
have the same carefully surveyed, and appraise the value and
assess the damages to the interest of each of the owners of the
land so taken; all of which they shall embody in a written
report and file it in the office of the county clerk in such county.
The county clerk shall immediately file a copy of this report
in the office of the treasurer of the county; and, if the company shall pay the amount of this appraisement into the treasurer's office, this shall be certified upon the copy of the report
under his hand and seal of office, and he shall pay over
the amounts to the persons, respectively, entitled to them.
Upon the filing of a copy of this report, and a certificate of
the payment of the money, in the office of the register of deeds
for the proper county, the company shall have the right to
occupy the lands so embraced within such route for the purposes necessary for the construction and use of its road. These
proceedings, it is declared, shall vest in the company, its successors and assigns, the perpetual use of the lands as soon as
the railroad has been constructed.
Section 86 of this article provides that before the county
commissioners shall proceed to lay off any railroad route,
notice of the time when the same shall be commenced shall be
given by publication, thirty days before the time fixed, in
some newspaper published in the county. It also provides
that an appeal may be had from the determination of the
board of county commissioners as to the value of the lands
and other damages to the District Court of the county, which
appeal shall only affect the amount of compensation to be
allowed, but shall not delay the prosecution of the work, if
the company shall pay the amount as aforesaid and execute a
bond with sufficient security to pay all damages which may
be adjudged to be paid by the said court.
Another mode of appropriating this land, by the exercise of
the right of eminent domain, for the use of railroads, is provided by ยง 87 of the same article. In this case, the railroad
company, instead of applying to the board of county commissioners, may apply to the judge of the District Court of the
VOL.

cxxx-36

OCTOBER TER21, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

county through which the railroad is to be built, who shall
appoint three commissioners, who shall be freeholders and
residents of the county, to make the location, appraisement
and assessment of damages, instead of the county commissioners. This appointment shall be made in writing under the
hand of the district judge, upon the written application of
the corporation or other persons, and the application for and
certificate of appointment shall be recorded in the office of
the register of deeds of the proper county. Such commissioners being duly sworn, shall perform all their duties in the
manner and under the same regulations and restrictions as
are provided in the case where they are performed by the
county commissioners, and the subsequent proceedings, including the right of appeal, shall be the same.
In the case now before us, the proceeding was had under
the latter provision of the statute. The transcript on its face
seems to be regular in every particular, showing a full compliance with all the requirements of the statute on the subject.
There was the proper publication made in the newspaper, and,
indeed, so far as the face of the record is concerned, no objection seems to be made to it, except that it is very urgently
argued that the notice published was not sufficient because it
did not apprise the party of what land was to be taken; and,
if in that respect it was a sufficient compliance with the statute, it is then insisted that the statute itself was void as
authorizing the taking of private property without due process of law.
In regard to this objection, we do not see how the notice
is deficient, if any notice short of one actually served upon the
party can be sufficient. With regard to the description of
the property, the notice gives all that could be known at the
time it was published. As the- commissioners had the power
to determine the precise location of the road, that location
could not be described with more precision than it is in the
newspaper publication set out in the proceedings. It is directed to all persons owning lands on the line of the railroad
as the same is now or may be located through section 23, township 11, range 25, in the county of Wyandotte and State of

RULLNG v. KAW VALLEY RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Kansas; and it notified persons owning land in that section
that the commissioners duly appointed would, on Monday, the
22d of May, 1882, proceed to lay off the route for said road
through said section and appraise the value and assess the
damages to each quarter-section through and over which the
railroad might be located. To the plaintiffs in this case, who
are the owners of a quarter-section of land in section 23 of that
township, this was a sufficient warning that the road might
run through their land at that point, and sufficient notice of
the time and place where this matter would be determined, as
also the amount to which they would be entitled for the appropriation of their ]and. If this notice had been read by the
plaintiffs, it was a clear and distinct notification to them that
it would be determined at that time whether any, and how
much, of their land in section 23 would be taken for the railroad, and the value to be set upon it by the commissioners;
and we think that this was all the notice they had a right to
require. Of course, the statute goes upon the presumption
that, since all the parties cannot be served personally with
such notice, the publication, which is designed to meet the
eyes of everybody, is to stand for such notice. The publication itself is sufficient if it had been in the form of a personal
service upon the party himself within the county. Nor have
we any doubt that this form of warning owners of property
to appear and defend their interests, where it is subject to
demands for public use when authorized by statute, is sufficient to subject the property to the action of the tribunals
appointed by proper authority to determine those matters.
The owner of real estate, who is a non-resident of the State
within which the property lies, cannot evade the duties and
obligations which the law imposes upon him in regard to such
property, by his absence from the State. Because he cannot
be reached by some process of the courts of the State, which,
of course, have no efficacy beyond their own borders, he cannot therefore hold his property exempt from the liabilities,
duties and obligations which the State has a right to impose
upon such property; and in such cases some substituted form
of notice has always been held to be a sufficient warning to

OCTOBER TERMX,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the owner, of the proceedings which are being taken under the
authority of the State to subject his property to those demands
and obligations. Otherwise the burdens of taxation, and the
liability of such property to be taken under the power of eminent domain, would be useless in regard to a very large amount
of property in every State of the Union.
It is, therefore, the duty of the owner of real estate, who is
a non-resident, to take measures that in some way he shall be
represented when his property is called into requisition; and
if he fails to do this, and fails to get notice by the ordinary
publications which have usually been required in such cases, it
is his misfortune, and he must abide the consequences. Such
publication is "due process of law" as applied to this class of
cases. Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Secombe v. Railroad
Co., 23 Wall. 108; Pennoyer v. 1Veft, 95 U. S. 714, 722, 743,
744; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; JlfcMillea v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 97, 105; Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403, 406.
Conceding that these proceedings subjected the land in controversy to the jurisdiction of the commissioners appointed by
the district judge of Wyandotte County, the question as to
whether one of those commissioners was a freeholder or not
is not open to consideration in this suit. The commissioners
were regularly appointed by the proper officer, and took the
proper oath, and have discharged their duties in the manner
required by law. The railroad company has paid the money
and taken possession of the land which was condemned by
those commissioners. The plaintiffs cannot recover in the
present action without a holding in this .collateral proceeding
that all that was done by those commissioners is void by reason of this want of qualification in one of their number. The
proper time for these plaintiffs to have taken this objection to
Mr. Wood as a commissioner was either at the time of his appointment, or at the time he proceeded to act as commissioner.
If it be objected that they could not be supposed to have any
notice of the application for the appointment of these commissioners, and of the time and place when the judge would act
on that application, the law presumes that they had notice,

UNION TRUST CO. v. SOUTJIERN NAY. CO.

565

Syllabus.

and might have attended at the time the commissioners
entered upon their duties. If this objection had been then
taken, it might have been sustained, or it could have been
taken by way of appeal from the proceedings of the commissioners; but to permit such an objection as this to prevail at
this time, and thus defeat the whole of the proceedings upon
this narrow ground, is a proposition unsupported by sound
principle or by authority. It is a collateral attack upon a proceeding which has been completed according to the forms of
law. There is no more reason why this want of qualification
should, when shown at this stage of the proceeding, invalidate
it all, than there is why the discovery, after a judgment and
after that judgment has passed beyond the control of the
court, that one of the jurors was disqualified, should make
absolutely void the verdict and judgment. It is only one of
those cases frequently occurring in the administration of the
law, in which it is better that errors not pointed out at the
proper time should be disregarded, than that, by attempts to
correct them, evils much worse should follow than those incident to the error. Comnrr's of Leavenworth Go. v. Epen, 12
Kansas, 531; Venard v. Cross, 8 Kansas, 248; Coover v. Reyvolds, 10 Wall. 308; Voorhees v. Bank of the United States,
10 Pet. 449.
Thejudgrnent of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

UNION TRUST COMPANY v. SOUTHERN INLAND
NAVIGATION AND IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIROUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No.191.

Argued March 11, 12, 1889. -Decided

April 22,1889.

County of Warren v. Marcy, 97 U. S. 96, affirmed to the point that all persons
dealing with property are bound to take notice of a suit pending with
regard to the title thereto, and will, on their peril, purchase the same from
any of the parties to the suit.

