364

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Syllabus.

384 U. S.

SHILLITANI v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.

No. 412. Argued March 2, 1966.-Decided June 6, 1966.*
Petitioners, having refused to testify before a grand jury under
immunity granted by the respective District Courts under the
Narcotic Control Act of 1956, were found guilty of contempt in
proceedings' under Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 42 (b). Each was
sentenced to two years' imprisonment, with the proviso that he
would be released sooner if and when he answered the questions.
The Court of Appeals, construing the sentences as giving petitioners an unqualified right to release upon compliance with the
orders to testify, rejected petitioners' constitutional objections
that they were not indicted or given jury trials. Held:
1. The character of these actions and their purpose to obtain
answers to the questions for the grand jury rendered them civil
contempt proceedings, for which indictment and jury trial are
not constitutionally required. Pp. 368-370.
2. Though courts have inherent power through civil contempt
to enforce compliance with their lawful orders, the justification
for coercive imprisonment as applied to such contempt depends
upon the contemnor's ability to comply wifh the court's order.
Where, as in these cases, the grand jury has been finally discharged, the contumacious witness cannot longer be copfined since
he has nb further opportunity to purge himself of contempt.
Pp. 370-372.
345 F. 2d 290, 346 F. 2d 5, vacated and remanded.

Albert J. Krieger argued the cause for petitioner in
No. 412.
Jacob Kossman argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner in No. 442.
Ralph S. Spritzer argued the cause -for the United
States in both cas3s. With him on the brief were As*Together with No. 442, Pappadio.v. United States, also on certiorari to the same court.

SHILLITANI v. UNITED STATES.
364

Opinion of the Court.

sistant Attorney General Vinson, Nathan Lewin, Beatrice
Rosenberg and Sidney M. Glazer.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.
These consolidated cases again present the difficult
question whether a charge of contempt against a witness for refusal to answer questions before a grand jury
requires an indictment and jury trial. In both cases,
contempt proceedings were instituted after petitioners
had refused to testify under immunity granted by the
respective District Courts. Neither petitioner was indicted or given a jury trial. Both were found guilty and
sentenced to two years' imprisonment, with the proviso
that if either answered the questions before his sentence
ended, he would be released. The opinion of the District
Court in Pappadiois reported at 235 F. Supp. 887 (D. C.
S. D. N. Y. 1964). In Shillitani,the District Court simply entered an order, which is not reported. The Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed each conviction in separate opinions. United States y. Pappadio,346
F. 2d 5 (1965); United States v. Shillitani,345 F. 2d_290
(1965). We granted certiorari to re~riew the validity
of the sentences imposed in both cases. 382 U. S. 913,
916 (1965). We hold that the conditional nature of
these sentences r~nders each of the actions a civil contempt proceeding, for which indictment and jury trial
are not constitutionally required. However, since the
term of the grand jury before which petitioners were contumacious has expired, the judgments below must be
vacated and the cases remanded for dismissal.
I.
No. 412, Shillitani v. United States.
Shillit4ni appeared under subpoena before a grand
jury investigating possible violations of the federal narcotics laws. On three occasions he refused to aniswer

.366

OCTOBER TERM. 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

-

384 U. S.

questions, invoking his privilege against self-incrimination. At the Government's request, the District Judge
then granted him immunity under the Narcotic Con"trol Act of 1956, 18 U. S. C.. ยง 1406 (1964 ed.), and
ordered him to answer certain questions. When called
before the grand jury again, Shillitani persisted in his

refusal. Thereafter, in a proceeding under Rule 42 (b)
of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procdedure,' the District
"Cou'rt found him guilty of criminal contempt. No jury
trial was requested. Shillitani was sentenced to prison
for two years "or until the further order of this Court.

Should . . . Mr. Shillitani answer those questions before
the expiration of said sentence, or the discharge of the
said grand jury, whichever may first occur, the furtherorder of this Court may be made terminating the sen-

tence of imprisonment."

The Court of Appeals affirmed,

rejecting Shillitani's constitutional objection'to the imposition of a two-year sentence without indictment or trial
by jury on the basis that "the contempt proceedings preceded any compliance" and the "sentence contained a
'This rule provides:
"Disposition Upon Notice and Hearing. A criminal contempt
except as provided in subdivision (a) of this rule shall be prosecuted
on notice. The notice shall state the time and place of hearing,
allowing a reasonable time for the preparation of the defense, and
shall state the essential facts constituting the criminal contempt
charged and describe it as such. The notice shall be given orally
by the judge in open court in' the presence of the defendant or,
on application of the United States attorney or of an attorney
appointed by the court for that purpose, by an order to show cause
or an order of arrest. The defendant is entitled to a trial by jury
in any case in which an act of Congress so provides. He is entitled
to admission to bail as provided in these rules. If the conteimpt
charged involves disrespect to or criticism of a judge, that judge
is disqualified from presiding at the trial or hearing except with
the defendant's consent. Upon a verdict or finding of guilt the
court shall enter an order fixing the punishment."

SHILLITANI v. UNITED STATES.
364

Opinion of the Court.

purge clause." It further construed the sentence as giving Shillitani an unqualified right to be released if and
when he obeyed the order to testify. 345 F. 2d, at 294.
-No. 442, Pappadio v. United States.
Pappadio appeared under subpoena before the same
grand jury. He also refused three times to answer
numerous questions on the ground that the answers
would incriminate him. He was then granted immunity under 18 U. S. C. ยง 1406 and directed fo testify.
He continued to refuse to answer any questions except
those of identification. In opposition to the grand jury's
subsequent -request that the District Court require Pappadio to cooperate, his attorney claimed that he should
not be called as a witness so long as a 1958 indictment
charging him with conspiracy to violate the narcotics
laws was pending. The District Court held that Pappadio had complete immunity, including any criminal
proceeding then pending, and ordered him to answer all
questions previously asked. Upon return to the grand
jury, Pappadio did respond to numerous questions, but
still refused to answer five questions pertaining to his
alleged association with a group headed by Thomas
Lucchese which engaged in narcotics traffic and other
illicit activities.' An -order to show cause was issued,
Pappadio's demand for a jury was denied, and the District Court found him in contempt for willful disobedi2

These questions were as follows:

"Mr. Pappadio, who, were the attorneys who were present at these
meetings?"
"Aside from the meetings which you described, which took place
on the street, where else did you meet with Lucchese?"
"Who else was present at these meetings besides yourself, Lucchese
and the attorneys?"
"All right; How many of such meetings were there ?"
"Where did the meetings take place?"

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

ence of its order to testify. He received a sentence
almost identical to that given Shillitani, and the Court
of Appeals affirmed on the same grounds.3
II.
We believe that the character and purpose of these
actions clearly render them civil rather than criminal
contempt proceedings. See Penfield Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Comm'n, 330 U. S. 585, 590 (1947). As the
distinction was phrased in Gompers v. Bucks Stove &
Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 449 (1911), the act of disobedience consisted solely "in refusing to do what had
been ordered," i. e., to answer the questions, not "in doing
what had been prohibited." And the judgments imposed
conditional imprisonment for the obvious purpose of
compelling the witnesses to obey the orders to testify.
When the petitioners carry "the keys of their prison in
their own pockets," In re Nevitt, 117 F. 448, 461 (C. A.
8th Cir. 1902), the action "is essentially a civil remedy
designed for the benefit of other parties and has quite
properly been exercised for centuries to secure compliance
with judicial decrees." Green v. United States, 356 U. S.
165, 197 (1958) (BLACK,, J., dissenting). In short, if the
petitioners had chosen to obey the order they would not
have faced jail'. This is evident from the statement of
the District Judge at the time he sentenced Shillitani:
"I want to make it clear that the sentence of the
Court is not intended so much by way .of punishment as it is intended solely to secure for the grand
jury answers to the questions that have been asked
of you." (Emphasis supplied.)
3 Because of the similarity in language between the two contempt
orders, it is reasonable to assume that the Court of Appeals also
construed Pappadio's sentence as giving him an absolute right to
be released upon. compliance, although the opinion was silent 6n
this point.

SHILLITANI v. UNITED STATES.
364

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals also interpreted the sentence as
conditional: "We construe the judgment in this case ....
to mean that defendant has an unqualified right to -be
released. from prison once he obeys Judge Wyatt's order.
As thus construed, the sentence was entirely proper.'"
345 F. 2d, at 294. While all of the parties before this
Court briefed the issues with reference to criminal contempt, counsel for petitioners and the Government conceded at argument that the contempt orders were remedial, and, therefore, might well be deemed civil in
nature rather than criminal.
The fact that both the District Court and the Court
of Appeals called petitioners' conduct "criminal contempt" does not disturb our conclusion. Courts often
speak in terms of criminal contempt and punishment
for remedial purposes. See, e. g., United States v.
Onan, 190 F. 2d "1 (C. A. 8th Cir. 1951). "It is not the
fact of punishment but rather its character and purpose
that often serve to distinguish" civil from criminal contempt. Gompers v. Bucks Stove &,Range Co., 221 U. S.
418, 441 (1911). Despite the fact that Shillitani and
4

The record of the contempt proceedings in Pappadio's case further indicates that the District Judge viewed the matter as civil
contempt. The following colloquy offers one example:
"Mr. Lawler: Your Honor, since the primary purpose of this
investigation is to obtain testimony or to obtain evidence so that
indictments might be filed or voted upon, might I suggest ...
that you include a clause in the sentence that if Mr. Pappadio does
answer the questions as directed, that a further application may be
made to your Honor to reconsider this sentence, so that we will
have some coercive effect on Mr. Pappadio.
"The Court: Yes, I shall adopt the proposal presented by Assistant
United States Attorney Lawler, and my decision shall be deemed to
include a provision reading in the form and manner proposed . . .1:
The Assistant United States Attorney again stressed the coercive
function of the sentences when opposing applications for bail pending
appeal by both Shillitani and Pappadio.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

Pappadio were ordered imprisoned for a definite period,
their sentences were clearly intended to operate in a
prospective manner-to coerce, rather than punish. As
such, they relate to civil contempt. While any imprisonment, of course, has punitive and deterrent effects;, it
must be viewed as remedial if the court conditions release
upon the contemnor's willingness to testify. See Nye v.
United States, 313 U. S. 33, 42-43' (1941). The test
may be stated as: what does the court primarily seek
to accomplish by imposing sentence? Here the purpose
was to obtain answers to the questions for the grand
jury.
/

III.

There can be no question that courts have inherent
power to enforce compliance with their lawful orders
through civil contempt. United States v. United Mine
Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 330-332 (1947) (BLACK and
DOUGLAS, JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in part);
United States v. Barnett, 376 U. S.. 681, 753-754 (1964)
(Goldberg, J., dissenting). And it is essential that courts
be able to compel the appearance and testimony of witnesses. United States v. Bryan, 339 U. S. 323. 331
(1950). A grand jury' subpoena must command the
same respect. Cf. Levine v. United States, 362 U. S.
610, 617 (1960). Where contempt consists of a reflsal
to obey a court order to testify at any stage in judicial
proceedings, the witness may be confined until compliance. McCrone v. United States, 307 U. S. 61 (1939);
Giancana v. United States, 352 F. 2d 921 (C. A. 7th
Cir.), cert. denied, 382 U. S. 959 (1965).6 The condi5 On the contrary, a criminal contempt proceeding would be characterized by the imposition of an unconditional sentence for punishment or deterrence. See Cheff v. Schnackenberg, post, at 377.
1 The court may also impose a determinate sentence which includes
a purge clause. This type of sentence would benefit an incorrigible
witness. It raises none of the problems surrounding a judicial

SHILLITANI v. UNITED STATES.
364

Opinion of the Court.

tional nature of the imprisonment-based entirely upon
the contemnor's continued defiance--justifies holding
civil contempt proceedings absent the safeguards of indictment and jury, Uphaus v. Wyman, 364 U. S. 388,
403-404 (1960) (DouGLAS, J., dissenting), provided that
the usual due process requirements are met.7
However, the justification for coercive imprisonment
as applied to civil contempt depends upon the ability
of the contemnor to comply with the court's order.
Maggio v. Zeitz, 333 U. S. 56, 76 (1948). Where the
grand jury has been finally discharged, a contumacious
witness, can no longer be confined since he then has
no further opportunity to purge himself of contempt.
Accordingly, the contempt orders entered against Shillitani and Pappadio were improper insofar as they imposed
sentences that extended beyond the cessation of the grand
jury's inquiry into petitioners' activities.' Having sought
to deal only with civil contempt, the District Courts
lacked authority to imprison petitioners for a period
longer than the term of the grand jury. This limitation
accords with the doctrine that a court must exercise
"[t]he least possible power adequate to the end proposed." Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 231 (1821);
In re Michael, 326 U. S. 224, 227 (1945).' The objeccommand that unless the witness testifies within a specified time
he will be imprisoned for a term of years. See Reina v. United
States, 364 U. S. 507 (1960).
LSee Parker v. United States, 153 F. 2d 66, 70 (C. A. 1st Cir.
1946).
" By the same token, the sentences of imprisonment may be continued or reimposed if the witisses adhere to their refusal to testify
before a successor grand jury.
9This doctrine further requires that the trial judge first consider
the feasibility of coercing testimony through the imposition of civil
contempt. The judge should resort to criminal sanctions only after
he determines, for good reason, that the civil remedy would be
inappropriate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U.S.

tion that the length of imprisonment thus depends
upon fortuitous circumstances, such as the life of the
grand jury and when a witness appears, has no relevance
to the present situation. That argument would apply
only to unconditional imprisonment for punitive purposes, which involves different considerations. Once the
grand jury ceases to function, the rationale for civil contempt vanishes, and the contemnor-has to be released.
Since the term of the grand jury inthese cases expired
in March 1965, the judgments here for review are vacated,
and the cases remanded with directions that they be
dismissed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE took no part in the decision of

these cases.

[For dissenting opinion of MR.JUSTICE
post, p. 380.]

HARLAN,

see

