KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
Syllabus.

KATZENBACH, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET
MORGAN ET ux:

AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 847.

Argued April 18, 1966.-Decided June 13, 1966.*

Appellees, registered voters in New York City, brought this suit to
challenge the constitutionality of § 4 (e) of the Voting Rights Act
of 1965 to the extent that the provision prohibits enforcement of
the statutory requirement for literacy in English as applied to
numerous New York City residents from Puerto Rico who, because
of that requirement, had 'previously been denied the right to vote.
Section 4-(e) provides that no person who has completed the sixth
grade in a public school, or an accredited private school, in Puerto
Rico in which the language of instruction was other than English
shall be disfranchised for inability to read or write English. A
three-judge District Court granted appellees declaratory and injunctive relief, holding that in enacting § 4 (e) Congress had
exceeded its powers. Held: Section 4 (e) is a proper exercise of
the powers under § 5 of the 'Fourteenth -Amendment, and by
virtue of the Supremacy Clause, New York's English literacy requirement cannot be enforced to the extent it conflicts with § 4 (e).
Pp. 646-658.
(a) Though the States have power to fix voting qualifications,
they cannot do so contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment or any
other constitutional, provision. P. 647.
(b) Congress' power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment
to enact legislation- prohibiting enforcement of a state law is not
limited to situations where the state law has been adjudged to
violate the provisions of the Amendment which Congres sought
to enforce. It is therefore the Court's task here to determine, not
whether New York's English literacy requirement as applied violates the Equal Protection Clause, but whether § 4 (e)'s piohibition against that requirement is "appropriate legislation" to enforce the Clause. Lassiter v. Northampton Election Bd., 360
U. S. 45, distinguished. Pp. 648-650.
*Together with No. 877, New York City Board of Elections v.
Morgan et ux., also on appeal from the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Syllabus.

384. U. S.

(c) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment is a positive grant
of legislative power authorizing Congress to exercise its discretion
in determining the rieed for and nature of -legislation to secure
Fourteenth Amendment guarantees. The test. of McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421, is to be applied to determiie whether
a congressional enactment is- "appropriate legislation" under § 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 650-651.
(d) Section 4 (e) was enacted to enforce the Equal Protection 'Clause as a.measure to secure nondiscriminatory treatment
by government for numerous Puerto Ricans residing in New York,
both in the imposition of voting qualifications and the providon
or administration of governmental services. Pp. 652--53.
(e) Congress had -an adequate basis for deciding that § 4 (e)
was plainly adapted to that end. Pp. 653-656.
(f) Section 4 (e) does not, itself invidiously discriminate in
violation of the Fifth Amendment for failure to extend relief to
those educated in non-American flag schools. A- reform measure
such as § 4 (e) is not. invalid because Congre& might have gone
further than it did and did not eliminate all the *evils at the sam&
time. Pp. 656-658.. "
.247 F. Supp. 196, reversed.

Solicidor General Marshall argued the.cause for appellants in No. 847. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney General Doar, Ralph S. Spritzer,. Louis F..
Claiborne, St. John Barret-t and Louis M. Kauder.
J.Lee. Rankin argued the cause for appellant, in No.
877. - With him on the brief were Norman Redlich and
Seymourf B. Quel.
-Alfred Avins argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellees ifi both cases.
Rafael Herizandez Colon, Attorney General, argued
the cause and filed a brief for the Commonwealth of
Puerto- Rico, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.'
Jean M. Coon, Assistant Attorney General, argued the
cause for the State of New York, as amicue cure, urg'ng
affirmance. With her on the brief were Louis J. Lefko-

-

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

witz, Attorney General, and Ruth Kessler Toch, Acting
Solicitor General.
MR. Jusn.cE BRENNAN

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases concern the constitutionality of § 4 (e) of
the Voting Rights Act- of 1965.1 That law, in the respects pertinent in these cases, provides that no person
who has successfully completed the sixth primary grade
in a public school in, or a private school accredited by, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in which the language of
instruction was other than English shall be denied the
right to vote in any election because of his inability to
read or write English. Appellees, registered voters in
New York City, brought this suit to challenge the constitutionality of § 4 (e) insofar as it pro tanto prohibits
1

The full text of §4 (e) is as follows:
"(1) Congress hereby declares that to secure the rights under the
fourteenth amendment of persons educated in American-flag schools
in which the predominant classroom language was other than English,
it is necessary to prohibit the States from conditioning the' right to
vote of such persons on ability to read, write, understand, or interpret any matter in the English language.
"(2) No person who demonstrates that he has successfully completed the sixth primary grade in a public school in, or a private
"school accredited by, any State or territory, the District of Colum-=
bia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in which the predominant
classroom language was other than English, shall be denied the right
to vote in any Federal, State, or local election, because of his inability to read, write, understand, or interpret'any matter in 'the
English language, except that in States in which State law provides
that a different level of education is presumptive of literacy, he shall
demonstrate that he has successfully completed an equivalent level
of education in a public school in, or- a private school accredited by,
any State or territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in which the predominant classroom language
was other than English." :79 Stat. 439, 42 U. S. C. § 1973b (e)
(1964 ed., Supp. I).

.644

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

the enforcement of the election laws of New York

2 requiring an ability to read and write English as a condition of voting. Under these laws many of the several
hundred thousand New York City residents who have'
migrated there from the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
had previously been denied the right to vote, and appellees attack § 4 (e) insofar as it would enable many of

2 Article I, § 1, of the New York Constitution provides, in pertinent part:
"Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, after January first, one
thousand nine hundred twenty-two, no person shall become entitled
to vote by attaining majority, by naturalization or otherwise, unless
such person is also able, except for physical disability, to read and
Write 'English."
Section 150 of the New York Election Law provides, in pertinent
part:
"... In the case of a person who became entitled to vote in this
state by attaining majority, by naturalisation or otherwise after
January first, nineteen hundred twenty-two, such person must, in
addition to the. foregoing provisions, be able, except for physical disability, to read and write English. A 'new voter,' within the meaning of this article, is a person who, if he is entitled to vote in this
state, shall'have become so entitled on or after January first, nineteen hundred twenty-two, and who has not already voted at a general election in the state of New York after making proof of ability
to read and write English, in the manner provided in section one
..hundred sixty-eight."
Section 168 of -the New York Election Law provides, in pertinent
part:
"1. The board of regents of the state of New York shall make
provisions for the giving of literacy tests.

"2 .... But a new voter may present as evidence of literacy a
certificate or diploma showing that he has completed the work up
to and including the sixth grade of an approved elementary school
or of -an approved higher school in which English is the language
of instruction or a certificate or diploma showing that he has completed the work lp to and including the sixth grade in a public
school or a private Achool accredited by the Compionwealth of-,

645

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

/

these citizens to vote.' Pursuant to § 14 (b) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, appellees commenced this proceeding in the District Court for the District of Columbia
seeking a declaration that § 4 (e) is invalid -and an injunction prohibiting appellants, the Attorney General of
the United States and the New York City Board of
Elections, from either enforcing or complying with
Puerto Rico in which school instruction is carried on predominantly

in the English language or a matriculation card issued by a college
or university to a student then at such institution or a certificate
or a letter signed by an official of the university or college certifying
to such attendance."
Section 168 of the Election Law as it now reads was enacted while
§ 4 (e) was under consideration in Congress. See 111 Conig. Rec.
19376-19377. The prior law required the successful completion of
the eighth rather than the sixth grade in a school in which the
language of instruction was English.
3This limitation on appellees' challenge to § 4 (e), and thus on
the scope of our inquiry, does not distort the primary intent of
§ 4 (e). The measure was sponsored in the Senate by Senators
Javits and Kennedy and in the House by Representatives Gilbert
and Ryan, all of New York, for the -explicit purpose of dealing with
the disenfranchisement of large segments of the Puerto Rican'population in' New York. Throughout the congressional debate it was
repeatedly acknowledged that § 4 (e)- had particular reference to the
Puerto Rican population in New York. 'That situation was the
alrost exclusive subject of discussion. "See 111 Cong. Rec. 11028,
11060-11074, 15666, 16235-16245, 16282-16283, 19192-19201, 1937519378; see also Voting Rights, Hearings before Subcommittee No. 5
of the House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 6400, 89th Cong.,
1st Sess., 100-101, 420-421, 508-517 (1965). The Solicitor General
informs us in his brief to this Court, that in all probability the prac- tical effect of § 4 (e) will be limited to enfranehising those educated
in Puerto Rican schools. He advises us that, aside from the schools
in the Commonwealth of Puerto .Rico, there -are no public or
parochial schools in the territorial limits of the United States in
which the predominant language of instruction is other than Englishand which would have generally been attended by persons who are
otherwise- qualified to vote save for their lack of -literacy in English.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

§ 4 (e). 4 A three-judge district court was designated.
28 U. S. C. §§ 2282, 2284 (1964 ed.).. Upon cross motions for summary judgment, that court, one judge dissenting, granted the declaratory and injunctive relief
appellees sought.. The court held that in enacting § 4 (e)
Congress exceeded the powers granted to it by the Constitution and therefore usurped powers reserved to the
States by the Tenth Amendment. 247 F. Supp. 196.
Appeals were taken directly to this Court, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 1252, 1253 (1964 ed.), and we noted probable jurisdiction. 382 U. S. 1007. We reverse. We hold that, in the
application challenged in these cases, § 4 (e) is a proper
exercise of the powers granted to Congress by § 5 of the
Fourteenth Amendment 5 and that by force of the
4'Section 14 (b) provides, in pertinent part:
"No court other than the District Court for the District of Columbia . . .shall have jurisdiction to issue . . .. any restraining order or
temporary or permanent injunction against the . . . enforcement of

any provision of this Act or any action of any Federal officer or
employee pursuant hereto." 79 Stat. 445, 42 U. S. C. § 19731 (b)
(1964 ed., Supp. I).
The Attorney General of the United States was initially named
as the sole defendant. The New York City Board of Elections was
joined as a-4efendant after it publiqly announced its intention to
comply with § 4 (e); it has taken the position in these proceedings
that § 4 (e) ig a proper exercise of congressional power; The Attorney General of the State of New York has participated as amicus
curiae in the proceedings below and in this Court, urging § 4 (e) be
declared unconstitutionaL The United States was granted leave to
intervene as a defendant, 28 U.:S. C. § 2403 (1964 ed.); Fed. Rule
Civ. Proc. 24 (a).
."SzEcioN 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appro-

priate legislation, the provisions of this article."
It is therefore unnecessary, for us to consider whether § 4 (e)
could be sustained as an exercise of power under the Territorial
Clause, Art. IV, § 3; see dissenting opinion of Judge McGowan below, 247 F. Supp., at 204; or as a measure to discharge certain
treaty obligations of the United States,- see Treaty of Paris of 1898,
30 Stat. 1754, 1759; United Nations Charter, Articles 55 and 56;

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

Supremacy Clause, Article VI, the New York English
literacy requirement cannot be enforced to the 6xtent
that it is inconsistent with § 4 (e).
Under the distribution of powers effected by the Constitution, the States establish qualifications for voting
for state officers, arfd the qualifications established by the
States for voting for members of the most numerous
branch of the state legislature also determine who may
vote for United States Representatives and Senators,
Art. I, § 2; Seventeenth Amendment; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 663. But, of course, the States
have no power to grant or withhold the franchise on
conditions that are forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment, or any other provision of the Constitution. Such
exercises of state power are no more immune to the limitations of the Fourteenth Amendment than any other
state action. The Equal Protection Clause itself has
been held to forbid some state laws that restrict the
right to vote.'
Art. I, § 8, cl. 18. "Nor need we consider whether § 4 (e) could be
sustained insofar as it relates to the election of federal officers as an
exercise of congressional power under Art. I, § 4, see Minor v,
Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 171; United States -v. Classic, 313 U. S.
299, 315; Literacy Tests and Voter Requirements in Federal and
State Elections, Hearings before the Subcommittee on Constitutional
Rights of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on S. 480, S. 2750,
and S. 2979, 87th Cong., 2d Ses., 302, 306-311 (1962) (brief of the
Attorney General); nor whether § 4 (e) could be nustained, insofar
as it relates to the election of state officers, as an exercise of congressional power to enforce the clause guaranteeing to each State a
republican form of government, Art. IV, § 4; Art. I, § 8, cl. 18.
"Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U. S. 663; Carrington'
v. Rash, 380 U. S. 89. See also United States v. Mississippi, 380
U. S. 128; Louisiana v. United States,. 380 U. S. 145, 151; Lassiter
v. Northampton Election Bd., 360 U. S. 45; Pope y. Williams,
193 U. S. 621, 632-634; Minor v. Happersett,21 Wall. 162; cf. Burns
v. Richardson,ante, p. 73, at 92; Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

The Attorney General of the State of New York
argues that an exercise of congressional power under § 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment that prohibits the enforcement of a state law can'only be sustained if the
judicial branch determines that the state law is prohibited by the provisions of the Amendment that Congress
sought to enforce. More specifically, he urges that
§ 4 (e) cannot be sustained as appropriate legislation to
enforce the Equal Protection Clause unless the judiciary
decides-even with the guidance of a congressional judgment-that the application of the English literacy requirement prohibited by § 4 (e) is forbidden by the
Equal Protection Clause itself. We disagree. Neither
the language nor history of § 5 supports such a construction.7 As was said with regard to § 5 in Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 345, "It is the power of Congress which has been enlarged. Congress is authorized
to enforce the prohibitions by appropriate legislation.
Some legislation is contemplated to make the amendments fully effective." A construction of § 5 that would
require a judicial determination that the enforcement of
the state law precluded by Congress violated the Amendment, as a condition of sustaining the congressional en-actment, would depreciate both congressional resourcefulness and congressional responsibility for implementing
the Amendment." It wotild confine the legislative power
For the historical evidence suggesting that the sponsors and
supporters of the Amendment were primarily interested in augmenting the power of Congress, rather than the judiciary, see generally
* Frantz, Congressional Power to Enforce the Fourteenth Amendment
Against Private Acts, 73 Yale L. J. 1353, 1356-1357; .Harris, The
Quest for Equality, 33-56 (1960); tenBroek, The Antislavery Origins.
of the Fourteenth Amendment 187-217 (1951).
Senator Howard, in introducing the proposed Amendment to the
Senate, described § 5.as "a direct affirmative delegation of power to
Congress," and added:
'It casts upon Congress the responsibilitfr of seeing to it, for the
future, that all-the sections of the amdendrient are carried out in

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

in this context to the insignificant role of abrogating only
those state laws that the judicial branch was prepared to
adjudge unconstitutional, or of merely informing the
judgment of the judiciary by particularizing the "majestic generalities" of § 1 of the Amendment. See Fay
v. New York, 332 U. S. 261, 282-284.
Thus our task in this case is not to determine whether.
the New York English literacy requirement as applied
to deny the right to vote to a person who successfully
completed the sixth grade in a Puerto Rican school violates the Equal Protection Clause. Accordingly, our decision in Lassiter v. Northampton Election Bd., 360
U. S. 45, sustaining the North Carolina English literacy
requirement as not in all circumstances prohibited by the
first sections of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, is inapposite. Compare also. Guinn v. United
States, 238 U. S. 347, 366; Camacho v. Doe, 31 Misc. 2d
692. 221 N. Y. S. 2d 262 (1958), aff'd 7 N. Y. 2d 762,
163 N. E. 2d 140 (1959); Camacho v. Rogers, 199.F.
Supp. 155 (D. C. S. D. N. Y. 1961). "Lassiter did not
present the question before us here: Without regard to
whether the judiciary would find that the Equal Protection Clause itself nullifies New York's English literacy
requirement as so applied, could Congress prohibit the
enforcement of the state law by legislating under § 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment? In answering this question, our task is limited to determining whether such
good faith, and that no State infringes the rights of persons or
property. I look -upon this clause as indispensable for the reason
that it thus imposes upon Congress this power and this duty. It
enables Congress, in case the States shall enact laws in c6nflict with
the principles of the amendment, to correct that legislation by a
formal congressional enactment." Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st
Sess., 2766, 2768 (1866).
This statement of § 5's purpose was not questioned by anyone in
the course of the debate. Flack, The Adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment 138 (190).

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of. the Court.

384 U. S.

legislation is, as required by § 5, appropriate legislation
to enforce the Equal Protection Clause.
By including § 5 the draftsmen sought to grant to
Congress, by a specific provision applicable to the Fourteenth Amendment, the same broad powers expressed in
the Necessary and Proper Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 18. The
classic formulation of the reach of those powers was
established by Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421:
"Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope
of the constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which
are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and
spirit of the constitution, are constitutional."
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S., at 345-346, decided 12
years after the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment,
held that congressional power under § 5had this same
broad scope:
"Whatever legislation is appropriate, that is, adapted
to carry out the objects the amendments have in
view; whatever tends to enforce submission to the
prohibitions they contain, and to secure to all persons the enjoyment of perfect equality of civil
rights and the equal protection of the laws against
State denial or invasion, if not prohibited, is
brought within the domain of congressional power."
9
n fact, 'earlier drafts of the proposed Amendment employed the
"necessary and proper" terminology to describe the scope of congressional power under the Amendment. See tenBroek, The Antislavery Origins of.the Fourteenth Amendment 187-190 (1951). The
substitution, of the, "appropriate legislation" formula was never
thought to have the effect of diminishing the scope of this congressional power. See, e. g., Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess.,
App. 83 (Representative Bingham, a principal draftsman of the
Amendment and the earlier proposals).

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 311; Virginia
v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 318.. Section 2 of the Fifteenth
Amendment grants Congress a similar power to enforce
by "appropriate legislation" the provisions of that
amendment; and We recently held in South Carolina v.
Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 326, that "[t]he basic test to
be applied in a case involving § 2 of the Fifteenth Amend"ment is the same as in all cases concerning the express
powers of Congress with relation to .the reserved powers
of the States." That test wag identified as the one
formulated in McCulloch v. Maryland. See also James
Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, 558-559
(Eighteenth Amendment). Thus the McCuloch 'v.
Maryland standard is the measure of what constitutes
"appropriate legislation" under §5 of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Correctly viewed, § 5 is a positive grant
of legislative power authorizing Congress to exercise its
discretion in determining whether and what legislation
is needed to secure the guarantees of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
We therefore proceed to the consideration whether
§ 4 (e) is "appropriate legislation" to enforce the Equal
Protection Clause, that is, under the McCulloch v. Maryland standard, whether § 4 (e) ma r be regarded as an
enactment to enforce the- Equal Protection Clause,
whether it is ."plainly adapted to that end" anid whether
it is not prohibited by but..is consistent with "the letter
and spirit of the constitution."
10 Contrary to the suggestion of the dissent, post, p. 668, § 5 does

not grant Congress power to exercise discretion in the other direction and to enact "statutes so as in effect to dilute equal protection
and due process -decisions of this Court." We emphasize that Congress' power under § 5 is limited to adopting measures to enforce the
guarantees of the Amendment; § 5 grants Congress no power to
restrict, abrogate, or dilute these guarantees. Thus, for example, an
enactment authorizing the States to establish racially segregated sys-

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

There can be no doubt that § 4 (e) may be regarded
as an enactment to enforce the Equal Protection Clause.
Congress explicitly declared that it enacted § 4 (e) "to
secure the rights under the fourteenth amendment of
persons educated in American-flag schools in which the
predominant classroom language was other than English." The persons referred to include those who have
migrated from the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to New
York and who have been denied the right to vote because
of their inability to read and write English, and the FQurteenth Amendment rights referred to include those emanating from the Equal Protection Clause. More specifically, § 4 (e) may be viewed as a measure to secure for
the Puerto Rican community residing in New York nohdiscriminatory treatment by government-both in the
imposition of voting qualifications and the provision or
administration of governmental services, such as public
schools; public housing and law enforcement.
Section 4 (e) may be readily seen as "plainly adapted"
to furthering these aims of the Equal Protection Clause.
The practical effect of § 4 (e) is to prohibit New York
from denying the right to vote to. large segments of its
Puerto Rican-community. Congress has thus prohibited
the State from denying to'that community the right that
-is "preservative of all rights." Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356, 370. This enhanced political power will be
helpful in gaining nondiscriminatory treatment in public
services for the entire Puerto Rican co mmunity.1 Seetems of education would not be-as required by § 5-a measiire "to
enforce" the Equal Protection Clause since that clause of its 6wn
force prohibits such state laws.
11 Cf. James Everard's Breweries v. Day, supra, which held that-,
under the Enforcement Clause of the Eighteenth Amendment, Congress could prohibit the prescription of intoxicating milt liquor for
medicinal purposes even though the- Amendment itself only prohibited the mantfacture and sale of intoxieating liquors for beverage
purposes. Cf. also the settled principle' applied in-"t&e Shireveport

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

tion 4 (e) thereby enables the Puerto Rican minority better to obtain - "perfect equality of civil rights and the
equal protection of the laws." It was well within congressional authority to say that this need of the Puerto
Rican minority for the vote warranted federal intrusion
upon any state interests served by the English literacy
requirement. It was for Congress, as the branch that
made this judgment, to assess and weigh the Various conflicting considerations-the risk or pervasiveness of the
discrimination in governmental services, the effectiveness
of eliminating the state restriction on the right to 'vote as
a means of dealing with the evil, the adequacy or availability of alternative remedies, and the nature and significance of the state interests that would be affected by
the nullification of the English literacy requirement as
applied to residents who have successfully completed the
sixth grade in a Puerto Rican school. It is not for us to
review the congressional resolution of these factors. It is
enough that we be able to perceive a basis upon which
the Congress might resolve the conflict as it did. There
plainly was such a basis to support § 4 (e) in the application in question in this case. Any contrary conclusion
would require us tb be blind to the realities familiar to
the legislators. The result is no different if we confine our inquiry to
the question whether § 4 (e) was merely legislation aimed
Case (Houston, E. & IV. T. R. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342),
and expressed in United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 118, that
the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce "extends to
those activities intrastate which so affect interstate commerce or the
exercise of the power of Congress over it as to make regulation of
them appropriate means to the attainment of a legitimate end .
Accord, Atlanta Motel v. United States, 379 U. S. 241, 258.
12 See, e. g., 111 Cong. Rec. 11061-11062, 11065-11066, 11240;
Literacy Tests and Voter Requirements in Federal and State ilections, Senate Hearings, n. 5, supra, 507-508.

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384U. S.

at the elimination of-an invidious discrimination in establishing voter qualifications. We are told that New
York's Englh literacy requirement originated in the desire to provide an incentive for non-English speaking
immigrants to learn the English language and in order
to assure the intelligent exercise of the franchise. Yet
Congress might well have questioned, in light of the many
exemptions provided, " and some evidence suggesting that
prejudice played a prominent role in the enactment of
the requirement,"4 whether these were actually the interests being served. Congress might have also questioned
whether denial of a right deemed so precious and fundamental in our society was a necessary or appropriate
means of encouraging persons to learn English, or of furthering the goal of an intelligent exercise of the franchise. 5 Finally, Congress might well have concluded that
13 The principal exemption complained of is that for persons who
had been eligible to vote before January 1, 1922. See n. 2, supra.
14 This evidence consists in part of statements made in the Constititional Conveiition first considering the English literacy requirement, such as the following made by the sponsor of the measure:
"More precious even than the forms of government are the mental
qualities of our race. While those stand unimpaired, all is safe.
They are exposed to a single danger, and that is that by constantly
changing our voting citizenship through the wholesale, but valuable
and necessary infusion of Southern and Eastern European races .
The danger has begun. . . . We should check it." III New York
State Constitutional Convention 3012 (Rev. Record :1916).
See also id., at 3015-3017, 3021-3055. This evidence was reinforced
by an understanding, of the cultural milieu at the time of proposal
and enactment, spanning a period from 1915 to 1921-not one of the
enlightened eras of our history. See generally Chafee, Free Speech
in the United States 102, 237, 269-282 (1954 ed.). Congress was
aware of this evidence. See, e. g., Literiacy Tests and Voter Requirements in Federal and State Elections, Senate Hearings, n. 5, supra,
507-513; Voting Rights, House Hearings, n. 3, supra, 50&-513.
15 Other States Jave found ways of assuring an intelligent exercise
of the franchise short of total disenfranchisement of persons not

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

655

Opinion of the Court.

as a means of furthering the intelligent exercise of the
franchise, an ability to read or understand Spanish is as
effective as ability to read English for those to whom
Spanish-language newspapers and Spanish-language radio
and television programs are available to inform them of

election issues and governmental affairs.16 Since Congress undertook to legislate so as to preclude the enforcement of the state law, and did so in the context of a general appraisal of literacy requirements for voting, see
literate in English. For example, in Hawaii, where literacy in either
English or Hawaiian suffices, candidates' names may be printed in
both languages, Hawaii Rev. Laws § 11-38 (1963 Supp.); New
York itself already provides assistance for those exempt from the
literacy requirement and are literate in no language, N. Y. Election
Law § 169; and, of course, the problem of assuring the intelligent
exercise of the franchise has been met by those .States, more than
30 in number, that have no literacy requirement at all, see e. g., Fla.
Stat. Ann. §§ 97.061, 101061 (1960) (form of personal assistance);
New Mexico Stat. Ann. §§ 3-2-11, 3-3-13 (personal assistance for
those literate in no language), §§ 3-3-7, 3-3-12, 3-2-41 (1953) (ballots and iistructions authorized to be printed in English or Spanish).
Section 4 (e) does not preclude resort to these alternative methods
of assuring the intelligent exercise of the franchise. True, the statute
precludes, for a certain class, disenfranchisement and thus limits the
States' choice of means of satisfyifig a purported state interest. But
our cases have held that the States can be required to tailor carefully.,
the means of satisfying a legitimate state interest when fundamental
liberties and rights are threatened, see, e. g., Carrington v. Rash,
380 U. S. 89, 96; Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U. S.
663, 670; Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 529-530; Thornhill
v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 95-96; United States v. Carolene Products
Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152-153, n. 4; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
and Congress is free to apply the same principle in the exercise of
its powers.
16 See, e. g., 111 Cong. Rec. 11060-11061, 15666, .16235.
The
record in this case includes affidavits describing the nature of 'New
York's two major Spanish-language newspapers, one daily and one
weekly, and its three full-time Spanish-language radio stations and
affidavits from those who, have campaigned in Spanish-speaking areas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

South Carolinav. Katzenbach, supra,to which it brought
a specially informed legislative competence, it was Congress' prerogative to weigh these competing considerations. Here again, it is enough that we perceive a basis
upon which Congress might predicate a judgment that
the application of New York's English literacy requirement to deny the right to vote to a person with a sixth
grade education in Puerto Rican schools in which the
language of instruction was other than English constituted an invidious discrimination in violation of the
Equal Protection Clause.
There remains the question whether the congressional
remedies adopted in § 4 (e) constitute means which are
not prohibited by, but are consistent "with the letter and
spirit of the constitution." The only respect in which
appellees contend that § 4 (e) fails in this regard is that
the section itself works an invidious discrimination in
violation of the Fifth Amendment by prohibiting the
enforcement of the English literAcy requirement only for
those educated in American-flag schools (schools located
within United States jurisdiction) in which the language
of instruction was other than English, and not. for thos6
educated in schools beyond the territorial limits of the
United States in which the language of instruction was
also other than English. This is not a complaint that
Congress, in enacting § 4 (e), has unconstitutionally denied or diluted anyone's right to vote but rather that
Congress violated the Constitution by not extending the
27 See, e. g., 111 Cong. Rec. 11061 (Senator
Long of Louisiana
and Senator Young), 11064 (Senator Holland), drawing on their
exlierience with voters literate in a language other than English.
See also an affidavit from Representative Willis of Louisiana expressing the view that on the basis of his thirty years' personal
experience in politics he has "formed a definite opinion that Frenchspeaking voters who are illiterate in English generally have as clear
a grasp of the issdes and an understanding of the candidates, as do
people who read and write the English language."

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

Opinion of the Court.

relief effected in § 4 (e) to those educated in nonAmerican-flag schools. We need not pause to determine.
whether appellees have a sufficient personal interest to
have § 4 (e) invalidated on this ground, see generally
United States v. Raines, 362 U. S. 17, since the argument,
in our view, falls on the-merits.
Section 4 (e) does not restrict or deny the franchise but
in effect extends the franchise to persons who otherwise
would be denied it by state law. Thus we need not decide whether a state literacy law conditioning the right to
vote on achieving a certain level of education in an
American-flag school (regardless of the language of instruction) discriminates invidiously against those educated in non-American-flag schools. We need only decide
,whether the challenged limitation on the reliet, effected
in § 4 (e) was permissible. In deciding that question,
the principle that calls for the closest scrutiny of distinctions in laws denying fundamental rights, see n. 15, supra,
is inapplicable; for the distinction challenged by appellees
is presented only as a limitation on a reform measure
aimed at eliminating an existing barrier to the exercise of
the franchise. Rather, in deciding the constitutional
propriety of the limitations in such a reform measure we
are guided by the familiar principles that a "statute is
not invalid under the Constitution because it might have
gone farther than it did," Roschen v: Ward, 279 U. S.
337, 339, that a legislature need not "strike at all evils
at the same time," Semler v. Dental Examiners, 294 U. S.
608. 610, and that "reform may take one stel' at a time,
addressing itself to the phase of the problem which seems
most acite. to the legislative mind," Williamson v. Lee
Optical Co., 348 U. 5. 483, 489.
Guided by these principles, we are satisfied that appellees' challenge to this limitation in § 4 (e) is without
merit. In the context of the case before us, the congres-,
sional choice to limit the relief effected in § 4 (e) may,

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

for example, reflect Congress' greater familiarity with the
quality of instruction in American-flag schools, 11 a recognition of the unique historic relationship between the
Congress and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,"9 an
awareness of the Federal Government's acceptance of the
desirability of the use of Spanish as the language of instruction in Commonwealth schools, 2 0 and the fact that
Congress has fostered policies encouraging migration
from the Commonwealth to the States.2 ' We have no
occasion to determine in this case whether such factors
would justify a similar distinction embodied in a votingqualification law that denied the franchise to person&
educated in non-American-flag schools. We hold only
that the limitation on relief effected in § 4 (e) does not
constitute a forbidden discrimination since these factors
might well have been the basis for the decision of Coiigress to go "no farther than it did."
We therefore conclude that. § 4 (e), in the application*
challenged in this case, is appropriate legislation to enforce the Equal Protection Clause and that the judgment
of the District Court must be and hereby is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTicE.DouGLAS joins the Court's opinion except
for the discussion, ai pp. 656-658, of the question whether
thWe congressional remedies adopted in § 4 (e) constitute
means which are not prohibited by, but are consistent
with "the letter and spirit of the constitution." On that
18 See, e. g., 111 Cong. Rec. 11060-11061.
29 See Magruder, The Commonwealth Status of Puerto Rico, 15
U. Pitt. L. Rey. 1 (1953).
20
See, e. g.,'ll Cong. Rec. 11060-11061, 11066, 11073, 16235.
See Osuna, A History of Education in Puerto Rico (1949).
21
See, e. g., 111 Cong. Rec. 16235; Voting Rights, House Hearings, n. 3, supra, 362. See also Jones -Act of 1917, 39 Stat. 953,
conferring United States citizenship on all citizens of Puerto Rico.

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

HALAiv, J., dissenting.

question, he reserves judgment until such time as it is
presented by a member of the class'against Which that
particular discrimination is directed.
whom MR. JUSTICE STEWART
dissenting.*
joins,
Worthy as its purposes may be thought by many, I
do not see how § 4 (e) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
79 Stat. 439, 42 U. S. C. § 1973b (e) (1964 ed. Supp. I),
can be sustained except at the sacrifice of fundamentals
in the American constitutional system-the separation
between the legislative and judicial function and the
boundaries between federal and state political authority.
By the same token I think that the validity of New
York's literacy test, a question which the Court considers only in the context of the federal statute, must be
upheld. It will conduce to analytical clarity if I discuss
the second issue first.
I.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

The Cardona Case (No. 673).
This case presents a straightforward Equal Protection
problem. Appellant, a resident and citizen of New York,
sought to register to vote but was refused registration
because she failed to meet the New York English literacy
1
qualification respecting eligibility for the franchise.
She maintained that although she could not read or write,
English, she had been born and educated in Puerto Rico.
and was literate in Spanish. She alleges that New York's
statute requiring satisfaction of an English literacy test is
an arbitrary and irrational classification that violates the
*[This opinion applies also to Cardona v. Power, post, p. 672.]
1 The pertinent portions of the New York Constitution, Art. II,
§ 1, and statutory, provisions are reproduced in the Court's opinion,
ante, pp. 644-645, n. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

.. , dissenting.

384 U. S.

Equal Protection Clause at least as applied to someone
who. like herself, is literate in Spanish.
Any analysis of this problem must begin with the
established rule of law that the franchise is essentially a
matter of state concern, Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall.
162; Lassiter v. Northampton Election Bd., 360 U. S.45,
subject only to the overriding requirements of various
federal constitutional provisions dealing with the franchise, e. g., the Fifteenth, Seventeenth. Nineteenth, and
Twenty-fourth Amendments,' and, as more recently decided, to the general principles of the Fourteenth Amendment. Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533; Carringtonv.
Rash, 380 U. S.89.
The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which alone concerns us here, forbids a
State from arbitrarily discriminating among, different
classes of persons. Of course it has always been recog-'
nized that nearly all legislation involves some sort of
classification, and the equal protection test applied by
this Court is a narrow one: a state enactment or practice
may be struck down under the clause only if it cannot
be justified as founded upon a rational and permissible
state policy. See, e. g., Powell v. Pennsylvania,127 U. S.
678;'Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co.,-220 U. S.
61,; Walters v. City of St. Louis, 347 U. S.231.
It is suggested that a different and broader equal protection standard applies in cases where "fundamental liberties and rights are threatened," see ante, p. 655, note
15; dissenting opinion of DOUGLAS, J., in Cardona, post,
2 The Fifteenth Amendment forbids denial or
abridgment of the
franchise "on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude"; the Seventeenth deals with popular election of members of
the Senate; the Nineteenth provides for equal suffrage for women;
the Twenty-fourth outlaws the poll tax as a qualification for participation in federal elections.

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

HARLAN,

J.,, dissenting.

pp. 676-677, which would require a State to show a need
greater than mere rational policy to justify classifications
in this area. No such dual-level test has ever been articulated by this Court, and I do not believe that any such
approach is consistent with the purposes of the Equal
Protection Clause, with the overwhelming weight of
authority, or with well-established principles of federalism which underlie the Equal Protection Clause.
Thus for me, applying the basic equal protection
standard, the issue in this case is whether New York has
shown that its English-languqage literacy test is reasonably designed to serve a legitimate state interest. I
think that it has.
In 1959, in Lassiter v. Northampton Election Bd.,
supra, this Court dealt with substantially the same
question and resolved it unanimously in favor of the
legitimacy of a state literacy qualification. There a
North Carolina English literacy test was challenged. We
held that there was "wide scope" for State qualifications
of this sort. 360 U. S., at 51. Dealing with literacy
tests generally, the Court there held:
"The ability to read and write . . . has some relation to standards designed to promote intelligent use
of the ballot. . . . Literacy and intelligence are obviously not synonymous. Illiterate people may be
intelligent voters. Yet in our society where newspapers, periodicals, books, and other printed matter
canvass and debate campaign .issues, a State might
conclulF that only those who are literate should
exercise the franchise. . . . It was said last century in Massachusetts that a literacy test was designed to insure an 'independent and intelligent'
exercise of the right of suffrage. Stone v. Smith, 159
Mass. 413-414, 34 N. E. 521. North Carolina agrees.
We do not sit in judgment on the wisdom of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

T., dissenting.

384 U. S.

policy. We- cannot say, however, that it is not' an
allowable one measured by constitutional standards."
360 U. S., at 51-53.
I believe the same interests recounted in Lassiter
indubitably point toward upholding the rationality of the
New York voting test. It is true that the issue here is
not so simply drawn between literacy per se and illiteracy.
Appellant alleges that sh4 is literate in Spanish, and that
she studied American historyand government in United
States Spanish-speaking schools in Puerto Rico. *She
alleges further that she is "a regular reader of the New
York City Spanish-language daily newspapers and other
periodicals, which . . . provide proportionately more
coverage of government and politics than' do most
English-language newspapers," and that she listens to
Spanish-language radio broadcasts in New York which
provide full treatment of governmental and political
news. It is thus maintained that whatever may be the
validity of literacy tests per se as a conditi6n of voting,
application of such a test to one literate in Spanish, in
the context of the large and politically significant
Spanish-speaking community in New York, serves no
legitimate state interest, and is thus an arbitrary classification that violates the Equal Protection Clause.
-Although to be sure .there is a difference between a
totally illiterate persona and one who is literate in a
foreign tongue, I do not believe that this added factor
vitiates the constitutionality of the New York statute.
Accepting appellant's allegations as true, it is nevertheless also true that the range of material available to i
resident of New York literate only in Spanish is much
more limited than what is available to an English-speaking resident, that the business of national, state, and local
government is conducted in English, and that propositions, amendments, and offices for which candidates are
running listed on the ballot are likewise in English. It

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

663

HARLAxN, J., dissenting.

is also true that most candidates, certainly those campaigning on a national or statewide level, make their
speeches in English. New York may justifiably want its
voters to be able to understand candidates directly,
rather than through possibly imprecise translations or
summaries reported in a limited number of Spanish news
media. It is noteworthy that the Federal Government
requires literacy in English as a prerequisite to naturalization, 66 Stat. 239, 8 U.. S. C. § 1423 (1964 ed.),
attesting to the national view of its importance as a prerequisite to full integration into• the American political
community. Relevant too is the fact that the New York
English test is not complex,8 that it is fairly adminis3

The test is described in McGovney, The American Suffrage
Medley 63 (1949) as follows' "The examination is based upon prose
compositions of about ten lines each, prepared by the personnel
of the State Department of Education, designed to be of the level
These are uniform for any
of reading in the sixth grade ....
single examination throughout the state. The examination is given
by school authorities and graded by school superintendents or
teachers under careful instructions from the central authority, to
secure uniformity of grading as nearly as is possible." The 1943
test, submitted by the Attorney General of New York as representative, is reproduced below:
NEw YORK STATE REW.ENTS

LTERACy 'IILST

(To be filled in by the candidate in ink)
Write your name here ..........................................
Last name
Middle initial
First name
Write your address here ........................................
: ...............
Write the date here ..........................
Year
Day
Month
Read this and then write the ahswers to the questions
Read it as many times as you need to *
The legislative branch of the. National Government is called the
Congress of the United States. Congress makes the laws of the
Nation. Congress is composed of two houses. The upper house is
called the Senate and its members are called Senators. There are
96 Senatorg in the upper house, two from each State. Each United

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

tered,4 and that New York maintains free adult education classes which appellant and members of her class
are encouraged to attend.' Given the State's legitimate
concern with promoting and safeguarding the intelligent
use of the ballot, and given also New York's long experience with the process of. integrating non-English-speaking residents into the mainstream of American life, I do
not see how- it can be said that this qualification for
suffrage is unconstitutional. I would uphold the validity
of the New York statute, unless the- federal statute prevents that result, the question to which I now turn.
States Senator is elected for a term of six years. The lower house
of Congress is known as the House of Representatives. The number
of Representatives from each state is determined by the population
of that state. At present there are 435 members of the House of
Representatives. Each Representative is elected for a term of two
years. Congress meets in the Capitol at Washington.
The answers to the following questions are to be
taken from the above paragraph
1 How many houses are there in Congress? ...................
2 What does Congress do. ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3

4
5
6
7

What is the lower house of Congress called ?.................

How many members are there in the 'lower house? ........
How long is the term of office of a United States Senator? ......
How many Senators are there from each state? ............
For how long a period are members of the House of Representatives elected? .............................................
8 In what city does Congress meet?
....................
4There is no allegation of discriminatory enforcement, and the
method of examination, see n. 3, supra, mak% unequal application
virtually impossible. McGovney has noted, op. cit. supra, at 62,
that "New York is the only state in the Union that both has a
reasonable reading requirement and administers it in a manner that
secures uniformity of application throughout the state and precludes
discrimination, so far as is humanly possible." See Camacho v.
Rogers, 199 F. Supp. 155, 159-160.
See McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New York Ann., Education
Law, § 4605. See generally Handbook of Adult Education in the
United States 455-465 (Knowles ed. 1960).

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

HARLANT,

J., dissenting.

II.
The Morgan Cases (Nos. 847 and 877).
These cases involve the same New York suffrage
restriction discussed above, but the challenge here comes
not in the form of a suit to enjoin enforcement of the
state statute, but in a test of the constitutionality of a
federal enactment which declares that "to secure the
rights under the fourteenth amendment of persons educated in American-flag schools in which the predominant
classroom language was other than English, it is necessary to prohibit the States from conditioning the right to
vote of such persons on ability to read, write, understand,
or interpret any matter in the English language." Section 4 (e) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Section 4 (e)
declares that anyone who has successfully completed
six grades of schooling in an "American-flag" school,
in which the primary language is not English, shall not
be denied the right to vote because of an inability to satisfy an English literacy test.6 Although the statute is
framed in general terms, so far as has been shown it
applies in actual effect only to citizens of Puerto Rican
background, and the Court so treats it..
The pivotal question in this instance is what effect the
added factor of a congressional enactment has on the
straight equal protection argument dealt with above.
The Court declares that since § 5 of the Fourteenth
Amendment 7 gives to the Congress power to "enforce"
The statute makes an exception to its sixth-grade rule so that
where state law "provides that a different level of education is presumptive of literacy," the applicant must show that he has completed "an equivalent level of education" in the foreign-language
United States sch ool.
7 Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendnient states that "The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the
provisions of this article."
6

.666

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN, J., dissenting ,

384 U. S.

the prohibitions of the Amendmeit by "appropriate"
legislation, the test for judicial review of any congressional determination in this area is simply one of rationality; that is, in effect, was Congress acting rationally
in declaring that the New York statute is irrational? Although § 5 most certainly does give to the Congress wide
powers in the field of devising remedial legislation to
effectuate the Amendment's prohibition on arbitrary 4tate
action, Ex parte -Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, I believe the
Court has.confused the issue of how much enforcement
power Congress possesses under § 5 with the distinct
issue of what questions are appropriate for congressional
determination and what questions are essentially judicial
in -nature.
When recognized state violations if federal constitutional -standards have occurred, Congress is of course empowered by §'5 to take appropiriate remedial measures
to redress and prevent the wrongs. See Strauderv. West
Virginia,-100 U. S. 303, 310. But it is a judicial question whether the condition with which Congress has
thus.'sought to deal is in truth an infringement of the
Constitution, something that is the necessary prerequisite
to bringing, the § 5 power into play. at all. Thus, in Ex
parte Virginia, supra, involving a federal statute making
it a federal crime to disqualify anyone-from jury ervice
because of race, the Court first held as a matter of constitutional law that "the Fourteenth-Amendment secures,
among other civil rights, to colored men, when charged
.with criminal offences against a State, an impartial jury
trial, by jurors indifferently selected or chosen without
discrimination against such jurors because of their color."
100 U. S., at 345. Only then did the Court hold that
to enforce this prohibition upon state discrimination,
Congress could enact a criminal statute of the type under
consideration. See also Clyatt v. United States, 197
U. S. 207, sustaining the constitutionality of the anti-

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

peonage laws, 14 Stat. 546, now 42 U. S. C. § 1994 (1964
ed.),'under the, Enforcement Clause of the Thirteenth
Amendment.
A more recent Fifteenth Amendment case also serves
to illustrate this distinction. In South Carolinav. Katzenbach, '383 U. S. 301, decided earlier this Term, we held
certain remedial sections of this Voting Rights Act of
1965 constitutional under the Fifteenth Amendment,
which is directed against deprivations of the right to vote
on account of race. In enacting those sections of theVoting Rights Act the Congress made a detailed investigation of various state pradtices that had been used to
deprive Negroes of the franchise. See 383 U. S- at 308315. In passing upon the remedial provisions, we reviewed first the "voluminous legislative history". as well.
as judicial precedents supporting the basic congressional
finding that the clear commands of the Fifteenth Amendment had been infringed by various state subterfuges.
See 383 U. S., at 309, 329-330, 333-334. Given the
exsten'e of the evil, we held the remedial steps taken
by the legislature, under"the Enforcement Clause of the'
Fifteenth Amendment to be a justifiable exercise of
congressional initiative.
Section 4 (e), however, presents. a significantly different -type of congressional enactment. The questioh
here is not whether the statute is appropriate remedial
legislation to cure an established violation of a constitu-,
tioinal commanid, but whether there lIas in fact been an
infringement of *that constitutional command, that is,
whether a particular state practice or, as here, a stattite
is so arbitrary or irrational as to offend the command of
-the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. "That question is one for the judicial'branch ultimat ly to determine. Were the rule ot 1 erwiseCongress"
cfualify this Courts constitutional deqto
would be able
cisibns under the Fourteenth- and Fifteenth Amendments,

OCTOBER TERM. 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

let alone those under other provisions of the Constitution,
by resorting to congressional power under the Necessary
and Proper Clause. In view of this Court's holding in
Lassiter, supra, that an English literacy test is a permissible exercise of state supervision over its franchise,
I do not think it is open to Congress to limit the effect
of that decision as it has undertaken to do by § 4 (e).
In effect the Court reads § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment as giving Congress the power to define the substantive scope of the Amendment. - If that indeed be
the true reach of § 5, then I do not see why Congres,
should not be able as well to exercise its § 5 "discretion"
by enacting statutes so as in effect to dilute equal protection and due process decisions of this Court. In all
such cases there is room for reasonable men to differ as
to whether or not a denial of equal protection or due
process has occurred, and the final decision is one of
judgment. Until today this judgment has always been
one for the judiciary to resolve.
I do not mean tosuggest in what has been said that a
legislative judgment of the type incorporated in § 4 (e)
is without any force whatsoever. Decisions on questions
of equal protection and due process are based not on
abstract logic, but on empirical foundations. To the extent "legislative facts" are relevant to a judicial determination, Congress is well equipped to investigate them, and
such determinations are of course entitled to due respect.'
In South Carolinav. Katzenbach, supra, such legislative
findings were made to show that racial discrimination in
voting was actually occurring. Similarly, in Heart of
Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States, 379 U. S. 241, and
Katzenbach v. McClung, 379 U. S. 294, this Court upheld
8 See generally Ka'st, Legislative Facts in Constitutional Litiga-

tion, 1960 The Supreme Court Review 75 (Kurland ed.); Alfange,
The Relevance of Legislative Facts in Constitutional Law, 114 U. Pa.
L. Rev. 637 (1966).

KATZENBACH v. -MORGAN.
641

HARLAN,

-J., dissenting.

Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 under the Commerce Clause. There again the congressional determination that racial discrimination in a clearly defined group
of public accommodations did effectively impede interstate commerce was based on "voluminous testimony,"
379 U. S., at 253, which had been put before the Congress and in the context of which it passed remedial
legislation.
But no such factual data provide a legislative record
supporting § 4 (e) by way of showing that Spanishspeaking citizens are fully as capable of making informed
decisions in a New York election as are English-speaking
citizens. Nor was thero any showing whatever to support the Court's alternativeargument that § 4 (e) should
be viewed as but a remedial measure designed to cure or
assure against unconstitutional discrimination of other
varieties, e. g., in "public schools, public housing and law
enforcement," ante, p. 652, to which Puerto Rican minorities might be subject in such communities as New York..
There is simply no legislative record supporting such
hypothesized discrimination of the sort we have hitherto
insisted upon when congressional power is broughit to
bear on constitutionally reserved state concerns. See*
Heart -of Atlanta Motel, supra; South Carolina v.
Katzenbach, supra.'
Thus, we have here not a matter of giving deference
to a congressional estimate, based on its determination
of legislative facts; bearing upu.n the validity vel'non of
a statute, but rather what can at most be called a legislative announcement that Congress believes a state law
to entail an unconstitutional deprivation of equal protection. Although this kind of declaration is of course
9

'here were no committee hearings or reports. eferring to this

section, which was introduced from the floor during 'debate on the
full Voting Rights Act. See 1" Cong. Rec. 11027,J.5666, 16234.

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HAMLAN,

J., dissenting:

384 U. S.

entitled to the most respectful consideration, coming as,
it does from a concurrent branch and one that is knowledgeable in matters of popular political participation, I
do not believe it lessens our responsibility to decide the
fundamental issue of whether in fact the state enactment
violates federal constitutional rights.*
In assessing the deference we should give to this kind
of congressional expression of policy, it is*relevant that
the judiciary has always given to congressional enactments a presumption of validity.' The PropellerGenesee
Chief v. Fitzhugh,. 12 How. 443,-.457-458. However, it
is also a.canon'of judicial review that state statutes are
given a similar presumption Butler v. Commonwealth,
10 How. 402,. 415. Whichever way this case is decided,
one statute will be rendered inoperative in whole or in
part, and although it has been suggested that this Court
should give somewhat more deference to Congress than
to a state legislature,1° such a simple weighing of presumptions is hardly a satisfying way of resolving a
matter that touches the distribution of state and federal
power in an area so sensitive as that of the regulation
of the franchise. Rather it should be recognized that
while the Fourteenth Amendnent is. a "brooding omnipresence" over all state, legislation, the substantive matters which it touches are all within the primary legislative competence of the States. Federal authority,
legislative no less than judicial, does not intrude unless
there has been a denial by state action of Fourteenth
Amendment limitations, in this instance a denial of equal
protection. At. least in the area of primary state concern a state statute that passes constitutional muster
under the judicial- standard of rationality should not be
permitted to be set at naught by a mere contrary con10 See Thayer, The Origin and Scope of the American Doctrine of
Constitutional Law, 7 Harv. L. Rev. 129, 154-155 (1893).

KATZENBACH v. MORGAN.
641

HARLAN,

671

J., dissenting.

gressional pronouncement unsupported by a legislative
record justifying that conclusion.
To deny the effectiveness of this congressional enactment is not of course to disparage Congress' exertion of
authority in the field of civil rights; it is simply to recognize that the Legislative Branch like the other branches of federal authority is subject to the governmental
boundaries set by the Constitution. To hold, on this
record, that § 4 (e) overrides the New York literacy-requirement seems to me tantamount to allowing the'
Fourteenth Amendment to swallow the State's constitutionally ordained primary authority in this field. For
if Congress by what, as here, amounts to mere ipse dixit
can set that otherwise permissible requirement partially
at naught I seeno reason why it could not also substitute
its judgment for that of the States in other fields of their
exclusive primary competence as well.
I would affirm the judgments in each of these cases. 1'

2"A number of other arguments have been suggested to sustain/
the constitutionality of § 4 (e). These are referred to in the Court's
opinion, ante, pp. 646-647, n. 5. Since all of such arguments are
rendered superfluous by the Court's decision and none of tihem is
considered by the majority, I deem it unnecessary to deal with them
save to say that in my opinion none of those contentions provides an
adequate constitutional basis for sustaining the statute.

