OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Curiam.

384 U. S.

REDMOND ET UX. v. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1056.

Decided May 23, 1966.

Solicitor General's motion to vacate and remand with instructions
to dismiss information granted, based on ground that federal obscenity statute violation charged -against petitioners, a married
couple who sent allegedly obscene private correspondence through
the mail in circumstances which were not aggravated, contravened
Government's prosecutorial policy.
Certiorari granted; 355 F. 2d 446, vacated and remanded to the
District Court.

John Jay Hooker, Jr., for petitioners.
Solicitor General Marshall for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for certiorari is granted. The Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the conviction of
petitioners, husband and wife, under an information
charging them with violating the federal obscenity statute, 18 U. S. C. ยง 1461 (1964 ed.), by having mailed undeveloped films of each other posing in the nude to an outof-state firm for developing, and having received through
the mails the developed negatives and a print of each.
In response to the certiorari petition, the Solicitor General has filed a motion requesting that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit be vacated and
the cause remanded to the District Court with directions
to dismiss the information. The ground of the motion
is that "the initiation of the instant prosecution was
not in accord with policies which had previously been
formulated within the Department [of Justice] for the
guidance of United States Attorneys." The policies referred to are set forth in a memorandum to United States

REDMOND v. UNITED STATES.
264

Per Curiam.

Attorneys, dated Augustj31, 1964. The memorandum
states, in pertinent part, that prosecution for mailing
private correspondence which is allegedly obscene "should
be the exception confined to those cases involving repeated offenders or other circumstances which may fairly
be characterized as aggravated." The Soli~itor General
states that there are no such exceptional circumstances
warranting a prosecution of petitioners: "They were not
repeated offenders. They had no record of involvement
with obscene materials or sex-related offenses and no
apparent opportunity for close association with young
people. No other aggravating circumstance appears to
be present."
In consideration of the premises and upon an independent examination of the record filed in this Court,
the motion is granted. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is accordingly vacated, the cause is remanded
to the District Court, and that court is directed to dismiss the information. See Petite v. United States, 361
U. S. 529.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART,

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur, would reverse this

conviction, not because it violates the policy of the Jus-"
tice Department, but because it violates the Constitution.

