OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
Opinion of the Court.

347 U. S.

WALDER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 121.

Argued November 30, 1953.-Decided February 1, 1954.

Because heroin had been obtained from petitioner through unlawful
search and seizure, its use in evidence was suppressed on petitioner's motion; and an indictment against him for its possession
was dismissed on the Government's motion. In his subsequent
trial for other illicit transactions in narcotics, petitioner testified
on direct examination that he had never purchased, sold or possessed any narcotics. In order to impeach this testimony, the
Government introduced the testimony of an officer who had participated in the unlawful search and seizure of the heroin involved
in the earlier proceeding and the chemist who had analyzed it.
Held: Petitioner's assertion on- direct examination that he had
never possessed any narcotics opened the door, solely for the purpose of attacking petitioner's credibility, to evidence of the heroin
unlawfully seized in connection with the earlier proceeding. Weeks
v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, and Agnello v. United States, 269
U. S. 20, distinguished. Pp. 62-66.
201 F. 2d 715, affirmed.

PaulA. Porter,acting under appointment by the Court,
argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Robert S. Erdahl argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor
General Stern, As8istant Attorney General Olney and
Edward S. Szukelewicz.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In May 1950, petitioner was indicted in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Missouri
for purchasing and possessing one grain of heroin.
Claiming that the heroin capsule had been obtained
through an unlawful search ar i seizure, petitioner moved

WALDER v. UNITED STATES.
62

Opinion of the Court.

to suppress it. The motion was granted, and shortly
thereafter, on the Government's motion, the case against
petitioner was dismissed.
In January of 1952, petitioner was again indicted, this
time for four other illicit transactions in narcotics. The
Government's case consisted principally of the testimony
of two drug addicts who claimed to have procured the
illicit stuff from petitioner under the direction of federal
agents. The only wftiess for the defense was the defendant himself, petitioner here. He denied any narcotics dealings with the two Government informers and
attributed the testimony against him to personal hostility.
Early on his direct examination petitioner testified as
follows:
"Q. Now, first, Mr. Walder, before we go further
in your testimony, I want to you [sic] tell the Court
and jury whether, not referring to these informers in
this case, but whether you have ever sold any
narcotics to anyone,
"A. I have never sold any narcotics to anyone in
my life.
"Q. Have you ever -had any narcotics in your
possession, other than what may have been given
to you by a physician for an ailment?
"A. No.
"Q. Now, I will ask you one more thing. Have
you ever handed or given any narcotics to anyone as
a gift or in any other manner without the receipt of
any money or any other compensation?
"A. I have not.
"Q. Have you ever even acted as, say, have you
acted as a conduit for the purpose of handling what
you knew to be a narcotic from, one -person to
another?
"A. No, sir."

OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
Opinion of the Court.

347 U. S.

On cross-examination, in response to a question by Government counsel making reference to this direct testimony,
petitioner reiterated his assertion that he had never purchased, sold or possessed any narcotics. Over the defendant's objection, the Government then questioned him
about the heroin capsule unlawfully seized from his home
in his presence back in February 1950. The defendant
stoutly denied that any narcotics were taken from him at
that time.' The Government then put on the stand one
of the officers who had participated in the unlawful search
and seizure and also the chemist who had analyzed the
heroin capsule there seized. The trial judge admitted this
evidence, but carefully charged the jury that it was not
to be used to determine whether the defendant had comnitted the crimes here charged, but solely for the purpose
of impeaching the defendant's credibility. The defendant was convicted, and the Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit affirmed, one judge dissenting. 201 F. 2d
715. The question which divided that court, and the
sole issue here, is whether the defendant's assertion on
direct examination that he had never possessed any narcotics opened the door, solely for the purpose of attacking
the defendant's credibility, to evidence of the heroin unlawfully seized in connection with the earlier proceeding.
Because this question presents a novel aspect of the
scope of the doctrine of Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383, we granted certiorari. 345 U. S. 992.
The Government cannot violate the Fourth Amendment 2-in the only way in which the Government can do
anything, namely through its agents-and use the fruits
1 This

denial squarely contradicted the affidavit filed by the de-

fendant it the earlier proceeding, in connection with his motion under
Rule 41 (e) to suppress the evidence unlawfully seized.
2 "The right of the ppople to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall
not be violated . .. .

WALDER v. UNITED STATES.
62

Opinion of the Court.

of such unlawful conduct to secure a conviction. Weeks v.
United States, supra. Nor can the Government make
indirect use of such -evidence for its case, Silverthorne
Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, or support
a conviction on evidence obtained through leads from the
unlawfully obtained evidence, cf. Nardone v. United
States, 308 U. S.338. All these methods are outlawed,
and convictions obtained by means of them are invalidated, because they encourage the kind of society that
is obnoxious to free men.
It is one thing to say that the Government cannot make
an affirmative use of evidence unlawfully obtained. It is
quite another to say that the defendant can turn the
illegal method by which evidence in the Government's
possession was obtained to his own advantage, and provide himself with a shield against contradiction of his
untruths. Such an extension of the Weeks doctrine
would be a perversion of the Fourth Amendment.
Take the present situation. Of his own accord, the
defendant went beyond a mere denial of complicity in the
crimes of which he was charged and made the sweeping
claim that he had never dealt in or possessed any narcotics.
Of course, the Constitution guarantees a defendant the
fullest opportunity to meet the accusation against him.
He must be free to deny all the elements of the case
against him without thereby giving leave to the Governinent to introduce by way of rebuttal evidence illegally
secured by it, and therefore not available for its case in
chief. 1;eyond that, however, there is hardly justification for letting the defendant affirmatively resort to
perjurious testimony in reliance on the Government's
disability to challenge his credibility.
3Cf. Michelson v. United States, 335 U. S. 469, 479: "The price
a defendant must pay foT attempting to prove his good name is to
throw open the .ntire subject which th; law has kept closed for his

OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
Opinion of the Court.

347 U. S.

The situation here involved is to be sharply contrasted
with that presented by Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S.
20. There the Government, after having failed in its
efforts to introduce the tainted evidence in its case in
chief, tried to smuggle it in on cross-examination by asking the accused the broad question "Did you ever see
narcotics before?"' After eliciting the expected denial,
it sought to introduce evidence of narcotics located in the
defendant's home by means of an unlawful search and
seizure, in order to discredit the defendant. In holding
that the Government could no more work in this evidence on cross-examination than it could in its case in
chief, the Court foreshadowed, perhaps unwittingly, the
result we reach today:
"And the contention that the evidence of the search
and seizure was admissible in rebuttal is without
merit. In his direct examination, Agnello was not
asked and did not testify concerning the can of cocaine. In cross-examination, in answer to a question permitted over his objection, he said he had
never seen it. He did nothing to waive his constitutional protection or to justify cross-examination in
respect of the evidence claimed to have been obtained
by the search ...

"

The judgment is
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

269 U. S., at 35.

Affirmed.
and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissent.

benefit and to make himself vulnerable where the law otherwise
shields him."
The underlying rationale of the Michelson case also disposes
of the evidentiary question raised by petitioner, to wit, "whether
defendant's actual guilt under a former indictment which was dismissed may be proved by extrinsic evidence introduced to impeach
him in a prosecution for a subsequent offense."
4Transcript of Record, p. 476, Agnello v. United States, 269

U. S. 20.

