Dec. 1865.]

THE CHESHIRE.
Statement of the case.

required to enable him to discharge his cargo, he sailed to
Buffalo, deposited the wheat there, subject to his own order,
and then notified consignees by telegraph that he should
libel it for freight and damage, unless paid immediately.
DECREE AFFIR]MED, WITH COSTS.

THE CHESHIRE.
1. The property of a commercial house, established in the enemy's country,
is subject to seizure and condemnation as prize though some of the
partners may have a neutral domicile.
2. The approach of a vessel to the mouth of a blockaded port for inquirythe blockade having been generally known-is itself a breach of the
blockade, and subjects both vessel and cargo to condemnation.

the Southern rebellion, and our proclamation of
of Savannah and other parts of the Southern
blockade
a
coast being then notorious to the world, the ship Cheshire,
with a miscellaneous and assorted cargo, was captured by a
war steamer of the United States, on the 6th of December,
1861, off Savannah bar, eight or nine miles eastward of TyDURING

bee Light. She was taken to the port of New York and
there libelled in the District Court as prize of war.
The evidence showed that the ship had been built in the
State of Maine in 1848, her American name having been
the Monterey; that she was owned by a house residing and
doing business in Savannah, and was employed in the cotton trade to Liverpool; that in May, 1861, after the port of
Savannah had been closed by the blockade set on foot under
the President's proclamation of April 19, 1861, that house
made a sale of her to Joseph Battersby, of Xlanchester, England; that her name wAs then changed, and in June, 1861,
that she broke the blockade of Savannah, carrying a cargo
of cotton to Liverpool.
Joseph Battersby, the purchaser, and who claimed her

THrE Cii SrIiRE.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

here, was then and at the time of the capture, a partner in
business with William Battersby in Savannah,where one of
them resided, the name of the firm being the same as that
of their Manchester house, William Battersby & Co.
The cargo was claimed by both the Battersbys.
The ship was loaded at Liverpool and sailed directly for
Savannah. The captain, however, had received instructions
at Liverpool, dated October 8, 1861, "to call off Savannah
merely for the purpose of inquiry, but on no account whatever to
attempt to enter a blockaded port." "In case the blockade is not raised proceed to .Nassau,N. P., and remain until
you receive orders from liessrs. William Battersby & Co., of
Savannah." The claim made in the case stated that this
contingent destination to Savannah had been made in consequence of confident predictions, well known, by high officers
of our government, that the rebellion would speedily be
quelled; and of the consequent presumption by the owners
of the vessel and cargo, that the blockade would probably
be raised by the time the vessel reached our Southern coast.
Some of the papers showed that Halifax, N. S., was a possible port of destination. The shipping articles represented
the voyage as "from Liverpool to Halifax, N. S., or Nassau,
N. P.," &c. The receipt of the shipping-master of the port
of Liverpool for fees, dated 30th of September, 1861, declared it for Halifax. The master swore: "On the voyage
during which we were captured, the Cheshire was bound
from Liverpool to Halifax, Nova Scotia, or Nassau. I was
to speak the blockading squadron, and if the ports were blockaded, I was to go to Nassau, or Halifax."
None of the papers of the ship, neither the clearance, bills
of lading, invoices, nor manifest, which declared the ship
bound for Nassau, nor the shipping articles, which declared
her bound for Halifax or Nassau, contained the slightest intimation of a purpose under any circumstances to enter the
port of Savannah.
The District Court, after argument and full consideration,
condemned both vessel and cargo, on the ground that they
were enemy's property and were captured in attempting to

Dec. 1865.]

Tim CHESHIRE.
Opinion of the court.

break the blockade of the port of Savannah. On appeal to
the Circuit Court the condemnation was affirmed, and the
case was now brought by the claimants before this court for
review.
Mr. Edwards, for the claimants, appellants in the ease; Mr.
Assistant Attorney-GeneralAshton, and 11E. Coffey, speial counsel, contra.
MNr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts established by the evidence in this case justify
the condemnation, we think, of the cargo as enemy's property. No principle is more firmly settled than that the
property of a commercial house, established in the enemy's
country, is subject to seizure and condemnation as prize
without regard to the domicile of the partners. The trade
of a house of this kind is essentially a hostile trade, and the
property employed in its prosecution is therefore treated as
enemy's property, though some of the partners may have a
neutral domicile.* Such trade tends directly to add to the
resources and revenues of the enemy, and, as observed by
Mr. Justice Story, "there is no reason why he who thus
enjoys the protection and benefits of the enemy's country
should not, in reference to such a trade, share its dangers
and losses. It would be too much to hold him entitled, by
a mere neutral residence, to carry on a substantially hostile
commerce, and at the same time possess all the advantages
of a neutral character."t
In this view it is unimportant whether the cargo was to
be delivered to agents at Nassau, subject to the order of the
house at Savannah, or be delivered directly from the Cheshire in the port of Savannah. In either case there was the
trade with the house situated in the enemy's country.
The evidence in the case also establishes, we think, with
equal clearness, the fact that the ship was attempting to
break the blockade when captured. She was loaded for
* The Friendschaft, 4 Wheaton, 107.
-The San Jose Indiano and Cargo, 2 Gallison, 284.

THE CHESHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Savannah; her cargo was intended for the branch-house of
the shippers; she sailed directly for that port; the owners
and officers of the ship were informed of the existence of
the blockade before leaving Liverpool; and there was no
act of our government, nor any act of the British government, nor had any event occurred in the progress of the
war, from which any inference could be drawn that the
blockade had ceased. The instructions to call off Savannah
merely for the purpose of inquiry, and to proceed thence to
Nassau upon ascertaining that the blockade was in force,
have, under these circumstances, the appearance of a device
to cover up a settled purpose to elude the blockade. They
create a strong impression to that effect, and this impression is strengthened by an examination of the ship's papers.
These papers contain no intimation of an intention to enter
the port of Savannah upon any contingency. They show
the destination of the ship to be either Nassau or Halifax;
they indicate no contingent intention of going anywhere
else. This concealment of the truth is itself a circumstance
calculated to awaken strong suspicion as to the real designs
of the ship; it is, in fact, primafacie evidence of fraudulent
intention.
In the case of The Carolina,* where a cargo was taken on
a voyage from Bayonne, ostensibly to Altona, but, in fact,
to Ostend, the ship's papers represented that the cargo was
to be delivered at Altona and Hamburgh; and the court
said, that if there had been any fair contingent, deliberative
intention of going to Ostend, that ought to have appeared
on the bills of lading; for it ought not to be an absolute
destination to Hamburgh if it was at all a question whether
the ship might not go to Ostend, a port of the enemy, and
that there was in this a fraudulent concealment of an important circumstance which ought to have been disclosed.
Of the same purport are all the authorities.t
* 3 Robinson, 75.
t See The Margaretta Oharlotte, Id. 78, note 1; The America, Id. 36;
The Neptunus, Id. 80; The Nancy, Id. 82; The Phoenix, Id. 186.

Dec. 1865.]

THE CHESHIRIE.
Opinion of the court.

Aside from these considerations the intention to break
the blockade is to be presumed from the position of the ship
when captured. As already stated, she knew of the blockade when she sailed from Liverpool; she had no just reason
to suppose it had been discontinued; her approach, under
these circumstances, to the mouth of the blockaded port for
inquiry was itself a breach of the blockade, and subjected
both vessel and cargo to seizure and condemnation. The
rule on this point is well settled, and is founded in obvious
reasons of policy. If approach for inquiry were ermissible
it will be readily seen that the greatest facilities would be
afforded to elude the blockade; the liberty of inquiry would
be a license to attempt to enter the blockaded port; and
that information was sought would be the plea in every case
of seizure. With a liberty of this kind the difficulty of enforcing an efficient blockade would be greatly augmented.
If information be honestly desired, it must be sought from
other quarters. In the case of the James Cooke,* the ship was
captured at the entrance of the Texel, and the court applied
this rule, observing that the approach of the ship to the
mouth of a blockaded port, even to make inquiry, was, in
itself, a consummation of the offence, and amounted to an
actual breach of the blockade.
In every view, therefore, in which this case can be considered, we are of opinion that the ship and cargo were
rightly condemned; and we, therefore, affirm the
DEOREE OF CONDEMNATION.
[See, as to the second point of this case-inquiry at a blockaded portsupra, p. 84, The Josephine.-REP.]

* Edwards, 263.

