BEARD V. FEDERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

relative and also a relative of one of the Simpsons, was a
contrivance to obtain more surely and easily the information
on which the proceedings in attachment could be founded.
The scheme was a failure, and Dall, Gibbon & Co. have no
just right to complain. They are in no proper sense the
losers by the conduct of Duff. The result would have been
the same if Jones had got the letters unopened, for he would
have told Simpson what he wanted; and it is easy to see
that, instead of responding to his request, the firm would,
in obedience to a plain sense of duty, have paid their just
debts to their own creditors.
On what basis, then, can this claim be sustained? The
examination of the record discloses none, and we are unable
to supply the omission.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and a
N EW VENIRE AWARDED.

BEARD v. FEDERY.
1. The act of August 31st, 1852, relating to appeals from the Board of Land
Commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in California,
created under the act of March 3d, 1851, provides that the filing of a
transcript of the decision and proceedings of the board with the clerk
of the District Court shall operate ip.so facto as an appeal on behalf of
the party against whom the decision was rendered, and that the attorney-general shall, within six months after receiving a certified transcript of such decree and proceedings, when the decision is against the
United States, cause notice to be filed with the clerk that the appeal
will be prosecuted, and on failure to give such notice that "the appeal
shall be regarded as dismissed." Under this actReld, that when the attorney-general gave notice that he would not prosecute the appeal, such appeal was for all legal purposes in fact dismissed, and the decree of the board took effect precisely as if no appeal
had ever been taken; and an order or decree of the District Court
giving leave to the claimant to proceed upon the decree of the board as
upon a final decree was a proper disposition of the case.
2. To give jurisdiction to the Board of Land Commissioners to investigate
and determine a claim to land alleged to have been derived from the

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD V. FEDERY.

479

Syllabus.
Spanish or Mexican governments, it is not necessary that the petition
of the claimant should aver that such claim was supported by any grant
or concession in writing; it is sufficient if the petition allege that the
claim asserted was by virtue of a right or title derived from either of
those governments. The right or title may rest in the general law of
the land.
3. All Mexican grants in colonization, under the decree of 1824 and the
regulations of 1828, were made subject to the approval of the Depart.
mental Assembly. Until such approval they were not definitively valid.
If not thus approved before the change of jurisdiction, it devolved
upon the United States, succeeding under the stipulations of the treaty
of cession to the obligations of the former government, to complete
what thus remained imperfect. By the act of March 3d, 1851, the
United States have declared the conditions under which they will discharge their political obligations to Mexican grantees.
4. The legislation of Congress requiring all claims to lands in California, by
virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican governments, to be presented to the Board of Commissioners created under
that act for investigation and settlement, and providing that all claims
which are not thus presented within a specified period shall be considered
and treated as abandoned, is not subject to any constitutional objection,
so far as it applies to grants of an imperfect character which require
further action of the political department of government to render them
perfect.
5. A patent of the United States issued upon a confirmation of a claim to
land by virtue of a right or title dlerived from Spain or Mexico is to be
regarded in two aspects,-as a deed of the United States, and as a record
of the action of the government upon the title of the claimant as it existed upon the acquisition of California. As a deed its operation is that
of a quitclaim, or rather of a conveyance of such interest as the United
States possessed in the land, and it takes effect by relation at the time
when proceedings were instituted by the filing of the petition before
the Board of Land Commissioners. As a record of the government it
is evidence that the claim asserted was valid under the laws of M31exico,
that it was entitled to recognition and protection by the stipulations of
the treaty; and might have been located under the former government,
and is correctly located now so as to embrace the premises as they are
surveyed and described. As against the government and parties claiming under the government, this record, so long as it remains unvacated,
is conclusive.
6. The term "third persons," mentioned in the fifteenth section of the act
of March d, 1851, against whom the decree and patent of the United
States are not conclusive, does not embrace all persons other than the
United States and the claimants, but only those who hold superior
titles, such as will enable them to resist successfully any action of the
government in disposing of the property.
7. In the Federal courts for the California circuit (which have hereir

BEARID

v.

FEDEIRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
adopted the practice prevailing in the State courts under the State act
regulating proceedings in civil cases), not only may distinct parcels of
land, if covered by one title, be included in one complaint or declaration, but, with a demand for these, may be united a claim for their
rents and profits, or for damages for withholding them.
8. Under this act, the provision as to the description by metes and bounds
of the lands sued for, is directory, only.
9. When the pleadings in an action of ejectment do not state the value of
the property in controversy, the value may be shown at the trial.
AFTER our conquest of California, in 1846, Congress, by
act of 3d March, 1851, "to ascertain and settle the private
land claims" in that State* constituted a board of commissioners, in the nature of a judicial body,before which, claims
to land there were to be investigated. Every person claiming lands there "by virtue of any right or title derived from
the Spanish or Mexican governments" was to present his
claim to this board with the documentary and other evidences of it: notice of depositions, when taken, were to be
given to the law officers of the United States. In case of
confirmation of the claim, an appeal was given the United
States to the District Court; in which case, says the act
(§ 10), that court shall proceed to render judgment upon the
pleadings and evidence in the case, and upon such further
evidence as may be taken by order of the said court. If the
decree in that court was adverse to the government, an appeal was given to this court. The act declares that "for all
claimsf ally confirmed by the said commissioners or by the

District Court, or the Supreme Court, a PATENT shall issue
to the claimant,"-but that such patent shall be "conclusive
between the United States and the said claimants only, and shall
not affect the interests of third persons." It declares moreover
"that all lands, the claims to which shall not have been presented to the said commissioners within two years after the
date of the act, shall be deemed, held, and considered as part
of the public domain of the United States."
One section of the act-the 16th-enacts that it shall be
"the duty of the commissioners to ascertainand report to the
* 9 Stat. at Large, 631.

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD V. FEDERY.

Statement of the case.

secretary of the interior the tenure by which the Hission
Lands* are held."
A subsequent statute,t that of August 81, 1852, and
amendatory of the former act, provides that, when a final
decision is rendered by the commissioners,
"It shall be their duty to have two certified transcripts pro.
pared of their proceedings and decision, and of the papers and
evidence on which the same are founded; one of which transcripts shall be filed with the clerk of the proper District Court,
and the other shall be transmitted to the Attorney-General of
the United States, and the filing of such transcript with the
clerk aforesaid shall ipso facto operate as an appeal for the party
against whom the decision shall be rendered; and if such decision shall be against such private claimant, it shall be his duty
to file a notice with the clerk aforesaid, within six months thereafter, of his intention to prosecute the appeal; and if the decision shall be against the United States, it shall be the duty of
the attorney-general, within six months after receiving said transcript, to cause a notice to be filed with the clerk aforesaid, that
the appeal will be prosecuted by the United States; and on a
failure of either party to file such notice with the clerk aforesaid, the appeal shall be regarded as dismissed."
Under the first act, Alemany, Bishop of Monterey, presented his petition to the commissioners for confirmation
of a claim which he made to certain lands described by him,
including church lands at the MHission of San Jos6, consisting of the church, churchyard, burial-ground, orchard, and
vineyard, with the necessary appurtenances; the whole embracing a little over nineteen acres of land. His petition
averred, in substance, that by the laws of Spain, from time
immemorial, and by the laws of the republic of IMexico at
the time of the cession of California to the United States,
the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church had the force
of law in all things relating to the acquisition, transmission,
use, and disposal of property, real or personal, belonging
*

Lands occupied by the Roman Catholic Church missions.

t 10 Stat. at Large, 99.
VOL. 111.

31

:BEARD V. FEDERY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

to the Catholic Church, or devoted to religious purposes, or
to the service of God; and that by the same-laws it was not
necessary that any grant of land for ecclesiastical or church
purposes should be proved by any deed or writing, public
or. private; but the right of the church to the property
devoted to religious purposes, &c., was always recognized as
regulated by the canon law. That the premises of which
he sought confirmation had been for a long term of time
devoted to religious purposes and uses, the public worship
of God, the administration of the sacraments, and sacrifice
of the church; according to the rites, ritual, and ceremonial,
of the said Catholic Church. That by the canon law, and
the laws of Spain and lexico, the title, control, and administration of this and all other church property of the same
description, absolutely essential to the religious uses and
purposes above mentioned, was vested in the bishop and
clergy of the diocese, who, for such purposes, were regarded
as a body corporate; that the Catholic Church, at the date
of the conquest and cession of California to the United
States, had been in the actual and undisturbed possession of
the premises in question since the year 1797; and that for the
purpose of enabling him to hold the property, and rightly
administering it for the use of the church, he, the petitioner,
had been made a corporation sole by the State of California,
under the title of ":Bishop of lonterey."
The board confirmed the claim of the bishop. The United
St tes appealed to the District Court. Subsequently, however,
the attorney-general gave notice that "an appeal would not
be prosecuted in the case, and the District Court, on the
16th Mlarch, 1857, at a stated term, ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the claimant have leave to proceed under the
decree of the United States Land Commission, heretofore
rendered, in his favor, as afinal decree."
Thereupon apatent issued to the bishop,from the United States.
It recited the bishop's petition, the decree of confirmation
by the board in his favor, the appeal by the United States,
and the notice that it would not be prosecuted, and in usual
form gave and glanted the lands to the bishop and his sue.

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD V. FEDERI.

Statement of the case.

cessors, in trust, &c., having about it every circumstance of
formality.
Of the same lands, thus the subject of confirmation and
patent to the Bishop of Monterey, one of the governors of
California, Pio Pico, on the 20th of June, 1846-Mexico
being then invaded by the United States, but the authority
and jurisdiction of the Mexican officers not having yet
terminated* -made
a grant to a certain Castenada and
others. The grant recited on its face that the governor had
been authorized previously, by the Departmental Assembly,
"to alienate the iissions, with the end of preventing their
total ruin, and providing the government with the resources
which it then immediately for its exigencies required."t
Neither the said grant, however, nor any claim founded thereon, had ever been submitted for confirmation to the Board
of Land Commissioners; and neither the grant nor any copy
or counterpart or record of it, or any paper relating to it,
existed or was to be found among the archives of the Mexican government; though the parties who held under it
asserted and declared themselves able to prove that it was
executed on the day it bore date, and that the considerationmoney named in it, $8000, had been on that day paid.
Upon this state of titles, as they appeared from deeds
produced or offered, one Federy, claiming title through the
patent to the Bishop of Ionterey, brought ejeetment, i
the Circuit Court for the Northern District of California,
against Beard, who relied on the title derived under the
deed of Governor Pico.
In the State courts of California-their practice in common-law cases being adopted essentially in the Federal
tribunals there-a statute allows a plaintiff to unite in the
same complaint claims "to recover specific real property,
with or without damages for the withholding thereof, or for
* They terminated 7th July, 1846.

See United States v. Yorba, 1 Wal-

lace, 423.
t For an interesting exhibition of the various documents issued by the
Governor of California, in the exigent moment here spoken of, see Unitea
State2, v. Workman, 1 Wallace, 753-4

BEArD

v.

FEDERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff.

waste committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the
same;" though the same statute -provides that such property
"shall be described with its metes and bounds." In this case
the declaration (or complaint, as it is called in California)
demanded three parcels of land, describing one by metes
and bounds; one as "having two springs of water thereon,
and lying outside of the adobe wall which inclosed a garden
and orchard" previously described; and the third as having
"a mill-dam and a pond or reservoir of water thereon, lying
to the north or northeast, or thereabouts, of the said adobe
wall."
The plainti-ff, in the same action, demanded judgment for
possession of the premises, for mesne profits, stated to be
$5000 a year, and for costs and damages, the last alleged
at $1000. On the trial, the claim for mesne profits was
stricken out; but it was then mutually admitted that the
value of the first item of the three parcels claimed, and.the
only one recovered, was $2500.
After judgment for the plaintiff for one of the parcels,
the case came here on error taken by the defendants. Several points were made in their behalf. They were these:
.Mr. Wills argquing in smpport of them:
1. That under the 10th section of the act of 1851-which
says, in terms, that on an appeal from the commissioners to
the District Court, that court shall proceed to render judgment upon the pleadings and evidence in the case-it was
the duy of that court to proceed and render judgment; that,
upon the refusal of the attorney-general to prosecute the
appeal, the court should have disrnissedthe appeal or affirmed
the decree of the board; that, having done neither, the case
was still pending undetermined, and consequently that there
had been no decree on which a patent could issue.
2. That the petition of the Bishop of Monterey to the
commissioners did not show that he claimed "by virtue of
any right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican
government;" on the contrary, that it showed that the missionaries of the Roman Church had had but a permissive
possession-though a long, peaceful, and unquestioned one

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD v. FFDER.Y.
Argument for the plaintiff.

under government protection-and, therefore, did not show
righ or title; but, on the contrary, showed affirmatively no
right, 2o title. Precedents could be cited in support of this
view.* Moreover, the 16th section of the act under which
the commissioners sit required them "to ascertabt and report" to the secretary of the interior the tenure by which
the mission lands were held, and by strong inference deprived them of power to pass upon the validity of the claim
of the church to them. The lands in question were confessedly of this class. The board, then, had acted on a
case without its jurisdiction; and its action was void. The
patent founded on its void action was also and equally void.
The case fell within Paterson v. Wian, in this court.t
3.That the grant by Governor Pico-having been, not a
grant in colonization, but a sale, according to a recital on
its face, made by order of the Departmental Assembly; a
sale, too, to save the nation in a crisis of supreme needvested a good title in the parties under whom Beard claimed,
anteriorly to the patent to the Bishop of xMonterey; a title
not to be divested by any title subsequent to the conquest.
The fact that this grant by Governor Pico was not submitted
to the commissioners within -two years from the Id March,
1851, was unimportant. The act never meant to destroy
titles complete and fully existing anterior to the conquest.
4. That if the commissioners could pass upon tie claim
of the church to these lands, yet, by the terms of the act of
MNarch , 1851, the patent is "conclusive between the United
States and the claimants only," and does not affect the interests of tldrd persons; language which is plain, and conformable to the principles of common law, which deprives
no man of his property unless upon hearing. The paten'
is, therefore, not evidence against the defendants for any
purpose, and as between them and the plaintiff the whole
subject of title was open.
The plaintiff, therefore, having offered no legal evidence of
Nobile v. Redman, 6 California, 225; United States v. Cruz Cervantes,
18 Howard, 553.
t"11 Wheaton, 380.

:BEARD V. FEDERY.

[Sul. CtL

Opinion of the court.

title, as against the defendants, they should have had judgment.
,A party who had no title, under any right or title derived
from Spain or Mexico, acquired none as against third partiea
by apatent from the United States. A patent in such a case only
protected the claimant against the United States. Hlis original
title or possession must be shown, as against all others.
5. That the two last parcels of land were not described
with sufficient certainty; and that the complaint united in
one count three distinct causes of action; and united, also, a
claim for damages for the rents and profits and detention of
the land, with a claim to recover possession; a position which
was apparently taken by Mr. Wills without knowledge
that the Federal court in California had adopted the State
rule of practice in this matter as its own; a fact which the
learned judge of the tenth circuit announced from the bench
to him, arresting argument on that point.
6. That by striking out from the complaint or declaration
the claim for the rents and profits, the court had lost jurisdiction of the case, the argument hereon being that the
facts necessary to give jurisdiction must appear affirmatively
in the pleadings; that here the value of the land, as shown
in the pleadings, was made to depend on the amount of
damages, viz., $1000, and the claim for mesne profits $5000;
that these having been both stricken out, left the court,
under the pleadings, without jurisdiction, and that this defect
of the pleadings could not be supplied by proof or admissions made on the trial.
.r. Carlisle,who argued the case thoroughly on principle and
precedents, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in the court below deraigned his title by various mesne conveyances from Joseph S. Alemany, Catholic
bishop of Monterey, to whom a patent, embracing the premises in controversy, was issued by the United States. The
patent is in the usual form, and purports on its face to be

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD V. FEDERY.

Opinion of the court.

issued under the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and
settle private land claims in the State of California. It recites that the bishop presented his claim to the board of
commissioners created under that act, for confirmation; that
the board, by its decree, rendered on the 18th of December,
1855, confirmed the claim; that an appeal was taken on behalf of the United States to the District Court; and that the
attorney-general, having given notice that the appeal would
not be prosecuted, the District Court, by its decree, gave
leave to the claimant to proceed upon the decree of the
board as upon a final decree. Upon this form of the decree
of the District Court, thus recited, the defendants below objected to the introduction of the patent, and the objection is
pressed in this court. Their position is, that under the tenth
section of the act of 1851 it was the duty of the District
Court to proceed and render judgment upon the pleadings
and evidence in the case; that, upon the refusal of the attorney-general to prosecute the appeal, the court should have
dismissed the appeal or affirmed the decree of the board;
that, having done neither, the case is still pending undetermined, and consequently there has been no decree on which
a patent could issue.
The objection is a very narrow one, and does not merit
the attention which it has received from counsel. Its answer is found in the amendatory act of August 31st, 1852.
That act provides that when a final decision is rendered by
the commissioners they shall prepare two certified transcripts
of their proceedings and decision, and of the papers and evidence upon which the same were founded, one of which
shall be filed with the clerk of the proper District Court,
and the other shall be transmitted to the attorney-general;
that the filing of the transcript with the clerk shall operate
ipso facto as an appeal on behalf of the party against whom
the decision is rendered; and, if the decision be against the
United States, that it shall be the duty of the attorney .'teneral, within six months after receiving the transcript, to cause
a notice to be filed with the clerk that the appeal will be
prosecuted; and, on failure to give such notice, "the ap-

BEARD

v.

FEDERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

peal," says the statute, "shall be regarded as dismissed."
If it can be regarded as dismissed, it is for all legal purposes
in fact dismissed. Here the attorney-general did not allow
his intention to be drawn from his silence; he announced it
at once. The decree of the court authenticates by its record
the refusal of the attorney-general, not leaving this fact open
to contestation by oral proof. The form of the decree is the
usual one adopted in such cases, and probably a large number of patents issued to parties in California contain a similar clause. By the action of the attorney-general the decree
of the board took effect precisely as though no appeal had
ever been taken, and it certainly cannot constitute any valid
objection to the decree of the court that it declares in terms
the effect which the law gave to such action.
After the patent was admitted in evidence the defendants
produced the petition of the claimant to the Board of Land
Commissioners, and insisted that it showed a want of jurisdiction in the board in this, that it did not set forth any
right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government. The position of the defendant appears to have been,
that the claim of the bishop was invalid because it did not
rest upon, or was not sustained by, any direct grant or concession in writing.
The petition sets forth two sources of title, one founded
on the laws of Spain and Mexico, and the other on continued
possession of the property for a period exceeding half a century. It avers that, at the time of the conquest and cession
of California to the United States, the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church was in force as the law of Mexico, as
it had been previously of Spain when Mexico was a dependency thereof, in all things relating to the acquisition, transmission, use, and disposition of property, real and personal,
belonging to the church, or devoted to religious uses; that,
by the laws of Spain and Mexico, it was not necessary that
a grant of land for ecclesiastical or church purposes should
appear by deed or writing, public or private, but that the
right of the church to such property was always recognized
as regulated by the canon law; that the premises in ques

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD

r.

FEDERY.

Opinion of the court.

tion, being church lands at the mission of San Jos6, consisting of the church, churchyard, burial-ground, orchard, and
vineyard, with the necessary buildings and appurtenances,
the whole embracing a little over nineteen acres of land,
had for a long period been devoted to religious purposes
and uses; that, by the canon law and the laws of Spain and
Mexico, the title, control, and administration of all ecclesiastical and church property was vested in the bishop and
clergy of the diocese, who, for such purposes, were regarded
as a body corporate; and that the Catholic Church, at the
date of the conquest and cession of California to the United
States, had been in the actual and undisturbed possession of
the premises in question since the year 1797.
These averments clearly present a case within the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners. They show "a claim
by virtue of a right or title derived from the Spanish or
Mexican government," which is all that is required by the
act of 1851. That act does not define the character of the
right or title, or prescribe the kind of evidence by which it
shall be established. It is sufficient that the right or title is
derived frora the Spanish or Mfexican government, and it
may in some instances rest in the general law of the land,
as is the ease usually with the title of municipal bodies,
under the Spanish and Mexican systems, to their common
lands.
The board having acquired jurisdiction, the validity of the
claim presented, and whether it was entitled to confirmation,
were matters for it to deternine, and its decision, however
erroneous, cannot be collaterally assailed on the ground that
it was rendered upon insufficient evidence. The rule which
applies to the judgments of other inferior tribunals applies
here,-that when it has once acquired jurisdiction its subsequent proceedings cannot be collaterally questioned for mere
error or irregularity.
The grant of Pio Pico, bearing date on the 20th of June,
1846, under which the defendants below claimed title to the
greater part of the premises in controversy, was rightly exeluded. With the offer of the grant the defendants admitted

BEARD

v.

FEDERY.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

that it had never been presented to the Board of Land Commissioners for confirmation, and had never been confirmed.
The court treated the grant as one in colonization. All such
grants, it is a matter of common knowledge with the profession in California, were made subject to the approval of the
Departmental Assembly. Until such approval they were
not definitively valid; and no such approval was obtained
of the grant in question previous to the 7th of July following, when the jurisdiction of the Mexican authorities was
displaced, and the country passed under the government of
the United States. It remained for the new government
succeeding to the obligations of the former government to
complete what thus remained imperfect. By the act of
March 3d, 1851, the government has declared the conditions under which it will discharge its political obligations
to Mexican grantees. It has there required all claims to
lands to be presented within two years from its date, and
declared in effect that if, upon such presentation, they are
found by the tribunal created for their consideration, and by
the courts, on appeal, to be valid, it will recognize and confirm them, and take such action as will result in rendering
them perfect titles. But it has also declared in effect, by the
same act, that if the claims be not thus presented within the
period designated, it will not recognize nor confirm them,
nor take any action for their protection, but that the claims
will be considered and treated as abandoned. It is not
necessary to express any opinion of the validity of this legislation in respect to perfect titles acquired under the former
government. Such legislation is not subject to any constitutional objection so far as it applies to grants of an imperfect character, which require further action of the political
department to render them perfect.
The Circuit Court, as already stated, treated the grant as
one in colonization. This was the most favorable view for
the defendants, for if the recitals that it was made upon a
sale of mission lands, and upon authority conferred by the
Departmental Assembly, are to determine its character, it is
without any efficacy in passing the title. It is simply a void

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD v. FEDERY.
Opinion of the court.

instrument, and falls directly within the decision of this
court in the United States v. Workman.* In that case the
powers of the Departmental Assembly in the alienation of
lands were very fully and elaborately considered, and particularly its asserted power to authorize the governor to sell
the mission lands, and it was held that this body could not
confer any power upon the governor, and that its own power
was restricted to what was conferred by the laws of colonization, which was simply to approve or disapprove of grants
regularly made by the governor under those laws.
This grant being laid out of the case, the only question
for determination is, whether the defendants constitute third
persons within the meaning of the fifteenth section of the
act of March 8d, 1851. That section provides that the decree of confirmation and patent shall be conclusive between
the United States and the claimants only, and shall not
affect the interests of third persons. The position of the
defendants is, that as against them the patent is not evidence for any purpose; that as between them and the plaintiff the whole subject of title is open precisely as though no
proceedings for the confirmation had been had, and no patent
for the land had been issued. Their position rests upon a
misapprehension of the character and effect of a patent
issued upon a confimation of a claim to land under the laws
of Spain or Mexico.
In the first place, the patent is a deed of theUnited States.
As a deed, its operation is that of a quit-claim, or rather of a
conveyance of such interest as the United States possessed
in the land, and it takes effect by relation at the time when
proceedings were instituted by the filing of the petition
before the Board of Land Commissioners.t
In the second place, the patent is a record of the action
*ofthe government upon the title of the claimant as it existed
upon the acquisition of the country. Such acquisition did
not affect the rights of the inhabitants to their property.
They retained all such rights, and were entitled by the law
-x 1 Wallace, 745.

t Landes v. Brant, 10 Howard, 373.

BEARD V. FEDERY.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

of nations to protection in them to the same extent-as under
the former government. The treaty of cession also stipu•lated for such protection. The obligation, to which the
United States thus succeeded, was of course political in its
character, and to be discharged in such manner and on such
terms as they might judge expedient. By the act of March
3d, 1851, they have declared the manner and the terms on
which they will discharge this obligation. They have there
established a special tribunal, before which all claims to land
are to be investigated; required evidence to be presented
respecting the claims; appointed law officers to appear and
contest them on behalf-of the government; authorized appeals from the decisions of the tribunal, first to the District
and then to the Supreme Court; and designated officers to
survey and measure off the land when the validity of the
claims is finally determined. When informed, by the action
of its tribunals and officers, that a claim asserted is valid and
entitled to recognition, the government acts, and issues its
patent to the claimant. This instrument is, therefore, record evidence of the action of the government upon the title
of the claimant. By it the government declares that the
claim asserted was valid under the laws of Mexico; that it
was entitled to recognition and protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might have been located under the
former government, and is correctly located now, so as to
embrace the p5remises as they are surveyed and described.
As against the government this record, so long as it remains unvacated, is conclusive. And it is equally conclusive
against parties claiming under the government by title subsequent. It is in this effect of the patent as a record of the
government that its security and protection chiefly lie. If
parties asserting interests in lands acquired since the acquisition of the country could deny and controvert this
record, and compel the patentee, in every suit for his land,
to establish the validity of his claim, his right to its confirmation, and the correctness of the action of the tribunals and
officers of the United States in the location of the same, the
patent would fail to be, as it was intended it should be, an

Dec. 1865.]

BEARD V. FEDERY.

Opinion of the court.

instrument of quiet and security to its possessor. The
patentee would find his title recognized in one suit and
rejected in another, and if his title were maintained, he
would find his land located in as many different places as
the varying prejudices, interests, or notions of justice of
witnesses and jurymen might suggest. Every fact upon
which the decree and patent rest would be open to contestation. The intruder, resting solely upon his possession, might
insist that the original claim was invalid, or was not properly located, and, therefore, he could not be disturbed by
the patentee. N~o construction which will lead to such results can be given to the fifteenth section. The term "third
persons," as there used, does not embrace all persons other
than the United States and the claimants, but only those
who hold superior titles, such as will enable them to resist
successfully any action of the government in disposing of
the property.
It only remains to notice the objections taken to the complaint in this case. They are advanced in misapprehension
of the system of pleading and practice which prevails in the
State of California. The system is there regulated by statute, and differs in many important particulars from the system which existed at the common law. There the ancient
forms of action are abolished. In every case the plaintiff"
must state, in ordinary and concise language, his cause of
action, with a prayer for the relief to which he may deem
himself entitled. The fictions of the action of ejectment at
common law have no existence. The names of the real contestants must appear in the pleadings. The complaint,
which is the first pleading in the action, must allege the
possession or seizin of the premises, or of some estate therein, by the plaintiff, on some day to be designated, the subsequent entry of the defendant, and his withholding the
premises from the plaintiff. No other allegations are required, where possession of the property alone is demanded.
But in the same action there may be united a claim for the
rents and profits, or for damages for withholding the prop

[Sup. Ct.

BEARD v. FEDERY.
Opinion of the court.

erty, or for waste committed thereon.* Distinct parcels of
land may also be included in the same complaint where
they are covered by the same title, and the action equally
affects all parties. The property should be described, if
practicable, by metes and bounds; but this is not essential.
The provision of the statute on the subject is only directory,
its object being to insure such particularity of description,
as to enable the officer, who may be charged with the execution of a judgment for the possession, to ascertain the
locality and extent of the property. A description by name,
where the property is well known, will often answer equally
with the most minute description by metes and bounds.t
This brief statement of the system of pleading and practice existing in California will furnish the answer to the
several objections urged. That system, with some slight
modifications' has been adopted by rule of the Circuit Court
of the United States in common-law cases.
When by the consent of parties on the trial the claim for the
rents and profits was stricken from the complaint, the court
did not lose jurisdiction of the case, because the value of
the property did not appear by any allegations of the pleadings. It was admitted that the first parcel, the only one
recovered in the action, was of the value of twenty-five
hundred dollars. This was sufficient, for it has long been
the settled practice of the courts of the United States in
actions where the demand is not money, and the nature of
the action does not require the value of the property in controversy to be stated, to allow the value to be proved at the
trial.1
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

*

Act regulating proceedings in civil cases,

64.

t Castro v. Gill, 5 California, 40; Doll v. Feller, 16 Id. 432; Payne a
Dewey v. Treadwell, 16 Id. 243.
t Ex arMe Bradstreet, 7 Peters. 647.

