Oee. 1865.]

THE BINGHAMNTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

peals on application to the District Court, and giving security, if required, for prosecution.
This act makes no provision concerning returns to this
court, and none concerning citations; nor does it impose
any ]imitation of time within which appeals may be allowed.
But we cannot suppose that Congress intended no regulation of these appeals in these important respects. It had
already prescribed regulations for the most usual invocation
of appellate jurisdiction; and when it provided for appeals
in these land cases from the District Court for California, it
had, doubtless, these regulations in view. We think, therefore, that the appeals authorized by this section must be regarded as appeals subject to the general regulations of the
acts of 1789 and 1803. If we held otherwise; we should be
obliged to sanction appeals taken at any term, and brought
here at any time after final decision; or to confine the right
of appeal to the term of the District Court in which the decision complained of was made. We cannot ascribe to Congress either intention.
The appeal before us, therefore, must be considered as
having been made subject to those regulations, and must be
dismissed for want of conformity to them by the appellant.
MOTION GRANTED.

THE BINGHAITON BRIDGE.
1. Where a party to a suit sets up that under one statute a State made a
contract with him, and that by a subsequent statute it violated the contract, and the highest court of law or equity of a State has held that
such subsequent act was a valid act and decreed accordingly, the jurisdiction of this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
attaches.
2. The statute of a State may make a contract as well by reference to a
previous enactment making one, and extending the rights, &c., granted
by such enactment to a new party, as by direct enactment setting forth
the contract in all its particular terms. And a third contract may be
made in a subsequent statute by importation from the previously im-

52

THE

B NGHAMION

BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ported contract, in the former statute, and a fourth contract by impor.
tation from a third.
The doctrine applied by the court to a somewhat nice case before it.
3. An enactment by a State, in incorporating a company to build a tollbridge and take tolls fixed by the act, that it should not be lawful for
any person or persons to erect any bridge within two miles either above
or below the bridge authorized, held to be within the case of the
Dartmouth College v. Woodward (4 Wheaton, 625), and a contract inviolable; this though the charter of the company was without limit as
to the duration of its existence.
4. A clause in a statute " that it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to erect a bridge within a distance of two miles" means, not only
that no person or association of persons shall erect such a bridge without legislative authority; but that the Legislature itself will not make
it lawful for any person or association of persons to do so by giving
them authority.
THE legislature of New York was desirous in early times
to have turnpike communications from the Chenango River,
in the interior of the State, as the river approaches the Pennsylvania line, to the Hudson River at and below Newburgh,
on that stream. Roads from the one river to the other by
the routes contemplated had to cross the east branch of the
Susquehanna, the east and west branches of the Delaware,
and it was proposed also to make a bridge westward across
the Chenango River itself. Accordingly, on the 6th of April,
1805, the legislature passed an act to establish a "turnpike
corporation," as it was called, for these purposes. The act
was a very long one-forty-two sections-and for the purpose of a subdivision of labor, created in fact some four or
five corporations. Among them a company for the purpose
of building, by subscription of capital, bridges over the west
and east branches of the Delaware River, was incorporated
by the name of "The President and Directors of the -Delaware Bridge Company." The sections of the act relating
to this company, fifteen in number, besides incorporating
company infoin, with the usual incidents, "continual succession," "suing," &c., gave it the right of purchasing,
holding, and conveying any estate, real and personal, necessary to fulfil the eid and intent of the corporation. They
prescribed the mode of organizing the company, the kind of

Dec. 1865.]

THE

BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

bridge to be built, the places where toll-gates should be put,
the amount of tolls to be taken after the judges of Delaware
County should declare that the bridge was finished, the duty
of care and superintendence of the bridge, and the penalty
(forfeiture of charter) of neglect to repair or rebuild it if out
of order or carried away; the punishment to be inflicted on
any one who wilfully injured it, &c., &c.
Power was given to the directors to increase the stock of
the company from time to time, after the original capital
had been expended, as the exigency should in their judgment require, by assessments on the old shares, and to
collect it, with a right of forfeiture of the old shares, if not
paid, and shares in the corporation were made personal
property.
The 31st section enacted:
"It shall not be lawful for any person orpersons to erect any bridge,
or establish any ferry across the said west and east branchesof .Delaware Bliver, within two miles either above or below the bridges to be
erected and maintained in pursuance of this act." . . . "Povided,
nevertheless," the act went on to say, "that nothing herein con-

tained shall be construed to prevent any person, residing within
two miles of the said bridges, from crossing the said river to or
from his or her own house or land with his or her own boat or
craft, without being subject to the payment of any toll."
An additional-the 36th-section provided that, at the
expiration of thirty years, the bridge should become the property
of the people of this State.

So far as regards the -DelawareBridge Company.
A subsequent part of the same act-its 38th section-incorporated another company-a single company-" The
5 sqaehaima Bridge Company," for the purpose of erecting
&
a bridge across the Susquehanna, at what was then called
Oquaga, and since Windsor; and also for erecting a bridge
at Chenango Point, the now village of Binghamton.
This section enacts, among other things, that the persons
named, their successors and assigns,
"Shall be and are hereby created a body politic, and by the

THE

BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.
name of ' The Susquehanna Bridge Company,' their successors
and assigns shall be and hereby are invested with all and singular
,the powers, rights, privileges, irmunities, and advantages, and shall
be subject to all the duties, regulations,restraints,and penalties which
are contained in the foregoing incorporationof the -DelawareBridge
Coinpany; and all and singular the.provisions, sections, and clause
thereof,not inconsistentwith the particularprovisionshereincontained,
shall be and hereby arefully extended to the president and directors
of this incorporation."
The charters of these bridge companies-inserted, as already mentioned, in the body of the act incorporating the
road-were prefaced by this preamble.
"Whereas, the foregoing road incorporation cannot be sufficiently carried into effect, or the public convenience fully promoted, if durable and permanent bridges across the Susquehanna
and Chenango rivers, and the east and west branches of Delaware River, at the several places of intersection of the said
roads, are not at the same time erected and maintained. And
whereas, by reason of the great expense necessarily to be incurred in erecting and maintaining such bridges, on account of
the size and rapidity of those streams, and the extraordinary
freshets and frequent obstructions happening in those rivers, to
which such bridges will be exposed, and which will endanger
their permanency and durability, and may call forth a frequent
renewal of the whole capital required for rebuilding such bridges,
and therefore require a power,(not contained in the foregoing
incorporations) of calling from the stockholders, from time to
time, such sums as shall be required for upholding such bridges,
and which equally forbid the policy incorporated in the foregoing incorporations, that said property shall revert to the
State; and whereas it is suggested that it will be most expedient
for the purposes aforesaid to make two separate and distinct
bridge incorporations, with powers adequate to the accomplishment thereof in the best possible manner. Therefore,
"Section 23. Be it enacted," &c.
On the 1st*April, 1808, the Susquehanna and Chenango
bridges not being yet built, another act was passed amendatory of the old one. It ran in substance thus:

Dei. 1865.1

. THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

"Section 3. Be it enacted, That the incorporation of the Susquehanna Bridge Company shall hereafter be deemed and con.
sidered to exist for the sole purpose of erecting and maintaining
a toll-bridge, under their said charter, across the Susqi'ehanna

River at Oquaga, under all its present provisions, except the linitation of its duration of thirty years, which said limitation shall be
and hereby is repealed; and that the time within which it shall be
built shall be and hereby is extended to four years from the
passing of this act.
"ASection 4. And be itfurther enacted, That for the purpose of
erecting and maintaining a toll-bridge across the Chenangb River,
at or near Chenango Point, the present stockholders of the Susquehanna Bridge Company, or such others as shall associate for
that purpose, shall be and hereby are created a body corporate,
in fact and in name, by the name and style of ' The Chenango
Bridge Company,' and as such to have perpetual succession,
under all the provisions, regulations, restrictions,clauses, and provisions* of the before-mentioned Susquehanna Bridge Company."
Under this last section, several persons consociated themselves, in 1808, under the name of the Chenango Bridge
Company, and built a toll-bridge at Chenango Point, about
on e hmd-'ed rods above the point at which that st'ean 'm(eyges
tsquehama.
itself and is lost in the larger and snore hnpoS'tant
In 1805, when the first act was passed, Chenango Point
had but two or three houses, was a small place every way;
hard, comparatively, of access; and with a surrounding region sparsely populated. Matters were not much different
in 1808 when the second one was passed. In the course of
fifty years, the condition of things had changed. Population had increased. The New York and Erie and other
railways ran near the place. Villages had sprung up around.
In 1854, several persons, "inhabitants of the village of Binghamton and its vicinity," presented a petition to the legisThis act of 1808, as given in the printed copies of the record before the
court, read as given above with the word "provisions" inserted twice. In
one of the opinions given below and submitted in the argument here, the
act was cited as reading, "under all the provisions, regulations, restricting
clauses, and provisions.?

THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lature of NTew York, praying for the passage of an act
authorizing an additional bridge. Their petition set forth:
"That the said village, situated at the confluence of the Susquehanna and Chenango Rivers, has a population of about ten
thousand persons. That it covers the point between the rivers,
and extends to the opposite side of both. That since the construction of the New York and Erie Railroad, which crosses the
Chenango River about one mile from the mouth, the village has
rapidly extended up said river, on both sides, and has largely
increased, particularly upon the westerly side.
"They represent that the depots of all the railroads are on
the easterly side of the Chenango, above where it is proposed
to place the new bridge; that the said railroad depots occasion
much travel to and from them, to and from the westerly side of
the Chenango River, and that those who would cross in the
vicinity of said depots are compelled to go nearly one-half mile
down the Chenango River, and up it again on the other side, to
and from the depots, thus losing nearly one mile of travel upon
every such occasion. That a large volume of travel constantly
passes over said old Chenango bridge, so great that it is frequently blocked up, by waiting for some to pay toll and otherwise, to the hindrance of travellers and citizens, and especially
upon public days and funeral occasions. That all the churches,
except the Catholic, are situated, and the principal business
streets are upon the eastetly side of the Chenango, and that the
new, and hereafter to be principal public cemetery is situated
upon the westerly side of the Chenango, about one mile above
the old bridge. That the river is subject to high freshets and
ice floods, and that in case the present bridge across the Chenango should be carried away there would be no means but a
railroad bridge, where travel is not permitted, of reaching said
churches, nor the business street from the westerly side of the
Chenango, or the cemetery from the easterly side, nor could
numerous citizens who reside upon the westerly side of the Chenango reach their places of business. That by reason of the
great amount of travel over the present bridge and other causes
it i6 frequently out of repair, so that only one side of it can be
used, and at such times it is passed only with great delay and
difficulty."

Dec. 1865.]

THE

BINGIIAMTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

The legislature of New York accordingly, by "An act
to incorporate the Binghamton Bridge Company," passed
April 5, 1855, granted a charter to another bridge company,
who built a bridge a few rods above the old one. This'
greatly diminished and seemed likely to destroy its tolls,
which had been for a long time profitable.
The old bridge company now accordingly filed a bill in
the Supreme Court of New York to enjoin the new rival.
The bill-resting itself, of course, on the postulate that the
rights given by the act of 1805 to the Delaware Bridge
Company were imported by the 38th section of it into that
of the Susquehanna Company of that act; that these again,
thus imported, were translated (with the thirty-years restriction only thrown off) into the third section of the act of
1808, and that these last were carried finally into the fourth
section of this new act--insisted that these various enactments made an "absolute, unconditional, and unlimited
co tract" with them that no bridge should ever be built over
the Chenango River within two miles of theirs, either above
or below it.
The answer denied the contract set up.
The Supreme Court of New York dismissed the bill. On
appeal, the Court of Appeals, the highest court of the State
of law or equity in which a decision of the matter could be
had, affirmed the decree. The case was now brought here
for review; the matter coming here, of course, under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which provides
that a final judgment or decree in the highest court of law
or equity in a State, "where is drawn in question the validity of
a statate of may Sate on the ground of its being repgnait to the
CbWstlution of the Uited States, and the decislon is il favor of
such validity, may be examined and reviewed in this court;"
and the allegation being that the act of April 5, 1855, incorporating the new bridge company, was contrary to that clause
of the Constitution of the United States which ordains that
"no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts."
The certificate from the Coort of Appeals declared that

THE

BINGHAMITON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the question raised by the Chenango Bridge Company, appellants in the case was:
"That the said act of April 5, 1855, was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States; and the question decided by
this court, in order to induce the judgment of this court, was, that

the said act of April 5, 1855, was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and that said act of April 5, 1855, is
held valid and binding by this court, notwithstanding said act
was drawn in question in this cause, and the question clearly
raised therein that said act was void as aforesaid."
It was then "ordered that the record and proceedings be
remitted to the Supreme Court," here to be proceeded upon
according to law.
Three questions were made here:
1st. A preliminary one, not very much pressed, whether
the certificate gave this court jurisdiction under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act?
2d. Did the acts of 1805 and 1808 give the complainants
an exclusive and perpetual privilege against anybody; either
individuals or legislature?
8d. Supposing that under the expression "it shall not be
lawful for any person or persons to erect any bridge" it gave
them such privilege as against individuals, did it give them
such right as against the legislature also?
[To understand fully the argument on this third point, it
must be stated, that it was assumed in the argument by the
Chenango company's counsel, and was stated as a fact in
some of the opinions below, that in 1797 an act was passed
providing for the opening and construction of highways and
bridges, by superintendents and commissioners of highways;
and that in the same year provision was made to authorize
and regulate ferries within the State-forbidding the establishing and use of any ferry, for profit and hire, unless
duly authorized, and conferring authority upon the courts
of common pleas in each county of the State to grant
licenses for keeping ferries, as many and to such persons as
the court shall think proper.]

Dec. 1865.]

THE

BINGHA1TON BRIDGE.

Argument for the new bridge.

11P..D. . _Dielenson, for the Binghawtona Bridge Conipany ,
and q a;nst the jarisdetionand excelusie pivileges.
I. Whatever the certificate may state, it is obvious that the
real question below was whether the acts of 1805 and 1808
made a contract exclusive as against the State. Supposing
such a contract, there could be no doubt that the act of
1855 impaired it. The decision below was that they did
not make it. The decision then was an adjudication of a
State court upon a statute of the State; and construing it.
Such a case is not one within the 25th section. It may be
said, however, that this point has been otherwise adjudicated
in Bridge P'opretors v. H:obokcen Conpa)y.* If that is so,
there remain other grounds for dismissing the case.
The certificate states that "iii order to induce the judgment of tMis" (the Supreme Court of the United States), the
question decided below, was thus and so. Can cases thus
be decided in a particular manner, for the purpose of bringing them here, under the 25th section, and then be cerltfled
into jurisdiction? The purpose of the act was not to have
anything brought here which was not decided for the purposes of justice in the case; cases decided merely to get a
review by this tribunal, however decided, are not proper
matters for its jurisdiction. Jurisdiction cannot be "manufactured," and authority thus given, even to this court, to
review the legislation and judicial proceedings of a State,
which ordinarily belong to the State courts alone, and should
rest there.
II. We concede that the legislature may, by a clear manifestation of its intention to do so, make dispositions of matters which are proper subjects of its disposition. It may sell
all which is the subject of bargain. But its sovereignty cannot be vended in poepetuo. One legislature cannot place
the sovereignty of the State or any portion of it beyond the
reach of all succeeding ones.
A disposition of that in which the supremacy of govern.
meut rests, is an assumption of power not legislative in its
* I Wallace, 116.

60

THE BINGHAMTOx BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the new bridge.

nature and is void. The legislature here has disposed of
the right of passing a great river for four miles. If it can
dispose of it for four miles, it can do so for a hundred, and
when the principle is admitted, what is to curb it but the
slender rein of legislative discretion? The Chenango, from
its source to its mouth, is nearly a hundred miles in length.
If the legislature had extended the restriction over the
whole, the question in all its legal relations would have been
the same. This shows to what point the doctrine leads. A
State is the guardian, not the broker of its people's rights;
the protector, not the auctioneer of their property. It is invested with great and awful powers, and must necessarily
be so; but among them all there is no power to oppress.*
The Dartmouth College case may perhaps be invoked
against these views and in support of the pretensions of the
other side. If it sustain such pretensions-grants of the
State sovereignty from the control of successive legislatures
forever-we deny its authority in this day.
But in truth there is no relation whatsoever between it
and the case at bar. In the college case a royal charter had
been granted to a number of persons, incorporating them as
a religious and literary institution. Large donations were
made to it. It had the power to fill vacancies in the board
of its trustees, to manage its funds, &c. The legislature
largely increased the number of trustees, and provided a
different mode for the appointment of persons to have charge
of the trust funds, &c. The court found no difficulty in
holding that a contract had been made and its obligations
violated. But suppose that the charter had said "it shall
not be lawful to erect any other college in New Hampshire,"
would such an enactment-in injury of education and of
public right forever-have been held binding?
If the provident principles of government which we have
asserted be questioned, the principle of law will not be ques* See this matter strongly put by counsel, ar7guendo, in Bridge Prop7ietors
v. Hoboken Co.. 1 'Wallace, 131.-REP.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BINGIIAMTON BEIDGE.
Argument for the new bridge.

tioned, that all statutes which seek to abridge the power of
legislation, to prohibit the exercise of common-law right and
oppress the people, which confer monopolies or impose restraints or penalties, are to be construed strictly against those
asserting the exclusive right and favorably for the public.
The rule is one that has been imbedded from early days in
the English law.* It has been declared with force, by Sir
William Scottt and by Lord Tenterden,t as existing equally
in these.
Now "it would present," as Taney, C. J., said, in a wellknown case,§ "a singular spectacle, if while the courts
of England are restraining within the strictest limits the
spirit of monopoly, and excluiive privileges in the nature
of monopolies, and confining corporations to privileges
plainly given them in their charter, the courts in this country should be found enlarging these privileges by implication, and construing a statute more unfavorably to the public
and to the rights of the community than would be done in
an English court of justice." There, after premising that
those who accept charters have full opportunity to examine
and consider the provisions before they invest their money,
he adds: "And if individuals choose to accept a charter in
which the words are susceptible of different meanings; or
might have been considered by the representatives of the
State as words of legislation only, and subject to future revision and repeal, and not as words of contract; the parties
who accept it have no just right to call upon this court to
exercise its high power over a State upon doubtful or ambiguous words, nor upon any supposed equitable construction or inferences based upon other provisions in its acts of
incorporation."
In Dartmouth College v. Woodward,1j Marshall, 0. J., says:
"On more than one occasion this court has declared, that in
* See authorities cited by counsel arguendo, in Bridge Proprietors v. Ho.
boken Co., 1 Wallace, 134.
t Ib.
$ Stourbridge Canal Co. -v.Wheeley, 2 Barnewall & Adolphus, 793.
J The Charles River Bridge v. The Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 544.
114 Wheaton, 625.

62

THE BINGHAMTON BrIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the new bridge.

no doubtful case would it pronounce a legislative act contrary to the Constitution."
In a great Pennsylvania case,* Black, C. J., says: "When
the State means to clothe a corporate body with a portion
of her sovereignty, and to disarm herself to that extent of
the power that belongs to her, it is so easy to say so, that we
will never believe it to be meant when it is not said. In the
construction of a charter, to be in doubt is to be resolved,
and every resolution which springs from doubt is against
the corporation. If the usefulness of the company would
be increased by extending privileges, let the legislature see
to it, but remember that nothing but plain English words
will do it."
Iow, considering this question by the light of these general principles of government, or even by the general principles of the more restricted science of municipal law, has
there been a perpetual exclusion of right, even as against
individuals, to build?
The view taken by the Chenango Bridge Company is set
out (supra, p. 57). It need not be here repeated. But we
deny that the "exclusive right," whatever it may have been,
in the Delaware charter, could have been extended to the
Chenango bridge by any phraseology, such as the claim here
rests on.
It will be observed (supra,pp. 52-3), that in incorporating
the Delawarecompany, the act of 1805 sets forth the grant of
'the usual corporate powers specifically. These themselvescontinual succession, suing, &c., are, we submit, "powers,
rights, privileges, immunities, and advantages." But the
act gives to the Delaware company not only these "powers,
rights, privileges, and immunities," usually incident to corporations, but it gives, also, a right to purchase, hold, and
convey real estate; not an incidental right to the creation of a
corporation as such; and, over and above this, a power to
the directors to increase the stock indefinitely, and to enforce
payments for new stock by forfeiting old. When the Susque* Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. Canal Commissioners, 21 Pennsyl-.
vania State, 22.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.
Argument for the new bridge.

7?anna company comes to be incorporated by a subsequent
section, the act does not proceed again in extenso, and give
to it all these things; but says that the new company is
invested with the powers, privileges, immunities, and advantages, &5., of the former company. This, of itself, we
presume, would be conceded to be insufficient to give the
exclusive privilege of the two miles; for the expression can
be fed by the already mentioned ordinary and extraordinary
powers given to the Delaware company. The right set up
must rest upon the fact that the "provisions, sections, and
lclases, not inconsistent," &c., contained in the incorporation
of the Delaware company in the act of 1805, are "extended"
to the second one, the Susquehanna company, of that same
act. Still we submit that the intention was but to invest
the Susquehanna company with the powers, rights, and privileges pertaining to a bridge corporation, as such, and
similar to those which had just been given to the Delaware
company; subjecting it to like duties, regulations, and restraints. All the provisions of the act in respect to the
Delaware Bridge Company which related to its corporate
powers; the manner of organization; the kind of bridge to
be erected, and when to be completed; the right to erect
gates at either end of the bridges, and demand and receive
tolls; the neglect to repair or rebuild, which was to work a
forfeiture of the charter; the duties enjoined in respect to
the care and superintendence of the bridges, and the penalties imposed and to be enforced, were made applicable to
the Susquehanna Bridge Company, and the section incorporating it should read as though theso provisions were literally embodied in it also. The expression, too, "are fully
exleided to it," is peculiar. The provisions, clauses, &c.,.
of the first company's charter are not declared to be made
part of the second company's also (which it is here contended
that by the expression used they were made); but are only
"extended" to it. Is it not plain that language was used in
the act-drawn, we may assume with certainty, by the agents
of the corporations-which did not express in a clear manner
that that was granted which it is now pretended was granted?

THE

BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the new bridge.

But this clause about the two miles, the prohibitory clause,
in the Delaware charter, expressly includes the east and west
branches of the Delaware; two branches, therefore. The
Chenango River is but a single stream, and this clause, therefore, must be regarded as "inconsistent and inapplicable"
to it. This clause was inapplicable in another respect. The
Chenango River extended but about one hundred rods below
the point where the plaintiffs contemplated erecting, and
where they did actually erect their bridge. The grant, therefore, as construed by the Chenango company, assumes that
the river was of one kind, when it was in fact of another,
bifurcated when it was single; and assumes, also, as a fact,
that which was neither a fact nor a physical possibility, while
the rivers ran together as nature made them do.
Conceding, however, that, under the act of 1805, the restrictive clause did apply for thirty years; we deny that it ever
applied at all to the new Chenango Bridge Company, under
the act of 1808. Under this last act, the former Susquehanna Bridge Company is divided into two companies; one,
with the old name, to build a bridge across the Susquehanna;
another, with the name of the Chenango Bridge Company,
to build a bridge across the Chenango. Let us con-column
the language of the old and new charters, as respects the
Susquehanna company.
UNDER THE OLD CHARTER, 1805.

UNDER THE NEW CHARTER,

The Susquehanna Bridge Corn1808.
pany is hereby invested " with all
The incorporation of the Susqueand singular the powers, rights, p2ihanna Bridge Company shall herevileges, immunities, and adiantages, after be deemed and considered to
. . . which are contained in the
exist for the sole purpose of erecting
foregoing incorporation of the Delaand maintaining a toll-bridge, under
ware Bridge Company; and all and
their said charter, across the Susquesingular the PROVIsIONS, sections,
hanna River, at Oquaga, under all
and clauses thereof not inconsistent
its present PRovisioNs, except the
with the particular provisions herein
limitation of its duration of thirty
contained, shall be and hereby are
years, which said limitation shaUl be
fully extended to the president and
and hereby is repeated.
directors of this corporation."

Not a word in the new charter about either "powers,
rights, privileges, immunities, or advantages." The new

Dec. 1865.']

THE BImGHAMTON IRIDGE.
Argument for the new bridge.

company exists under the old "provisions" only. Even the
terms "sections and clauses" are omitted. In existing with
this word "provisions," it exdsts with the same word which
in the former charter was coupled with the words, "powers,
rights, privileges, immunities, and advantages;" as also with
the words, "sections and clauses;" and which in that former
act, of course, were used to express something more and other
than is expressed by the term "provisions." W-hen we come
to the section under which the Chenango Bridge Company
is incorporated, it is worse for the compl.inants' cause even
than this. Again let us con-column:
SUSQUEHANNA

CHEITANGO BRIDGE COMPA-,_

BRIDGE COMPA-NY,

1808.
The present stockholders, &c., or
such others, &c., "are created a
body corporate, by the name of the
Chenango Bridge Company, and as
such have perpetual succession, under all the provisions, reguatiors,
restricitfo2s, clauses, and provisions
of the before mentioned Susquehanna Bridge Company."

1808.
"The incorporation of the Susquehanna Bridge Company shall hereafter be deemed to exist for the sole
purpose of erecting and maintaining a toll-bridge, under their said
charter, across the Susquehanna
river, at Oquaga, under all its presentp rovls;ons, except the limitation
of its duration of thirty years."

Everything like the valuable old "powers, rights, privileges, immunities, and ADVANTAGES" gone! clean 'gone!
"Regulations," restrictions, clauses (or restricting clauses?),
and provisions have assumed their place; and the term
"provisions," to which these restrictive e:xpressions are
added, remains the forlorn hope of a monopoly. Now,
though the word "provision" is sometimes used as synonymous with enactment, it is .not philologically so used well.
In its true meaning it expresses restriction. It comes from
Pro, before, and video, to see; and implies foresight; prudence with respect to futurity; a sense inconsistent with
granting away forever the right of a whole people to cross a
stream running through one of the best and most populous
parts of a great State, and to the increase in population of
which no limits could be fxed; a sense equally inconsistent
with that of its consociated terms-" regulations, restrictions, clauses (or restricting clauses and provisions?)," its
VOL. 11.

5

THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the new bridge.

companions in phraseology; eompanions, by whom words as
well as people are often best known.
We insist, too, that the Chenango company was modelled
after the then existing Susquehanna company-the Susquehanna
company of the act of 1805-and not after it as the bill pending proposed to make it. The "regulations, restrictions," &c.,
of the Susquehanna company, under which the Chenango
company was incorporated, were thus the legal, existing regulations and restrictions upon the statute-book, including
the tdrty years' limitation. The expression, "before mentioned
Susquehanna company," used in the act of 1808, and subject to whose provisions, regulations, &c., the new Chenango
company was incorporated, does not mean the Susquehanna
company as the proposed act designed to make it. That
might be true, if there had never yet been- any such company as the Susquehanna company; but it would be true
only because the expression could not otherwise be satisfied.
But here there was already existing a completely organized
and well-known company of that name, subject to provisions, regulations, &c., in esse and defined. Thus construed,
the act of 1808, as to these charters, would read as follows:
"The Chenango company shall be made as the Susquehanna
company now is by law. The thirty years' limitation, now
on the ' harter of the Susquehanna, is hereby repealed."
If this is so, instead of having a monopoly, the Chenango
bridge has for the last twenty years been the property of the
people of New York; has for all that time been imposing
its exactions upon travel by usurpation; and its corporators
now, instead of seeking to prevent and destroy other facilities for transit, demanded by public convenience, and to
levy contributions upon wayfarers through all time, should
be answering a quo warranto, filed by the attorney-general,
and refunding to the people the tolls its corporators have
collected without right.
It must be remembered that the legislative provision
which the Chenango company set up as a "contract," was
originally placed in the Delaware charter, when its duration
was limited, in a separate section, to tirty years; that the

Dc. 1865.]

THE BINGHAMTON BrlDGE.

67

Argument for the new bridge.

Susquehanna charter was borrowed from the Delaware charter, te tdtj years' iwedtation inaeuded; that, as contended by
the complainant in error, by a single stroke of subsequent
legislation, the Chenango charter was spoken into its present existence; that both the Susquehanna and Chenango
charters, in this same bill, gained separate and independent
being; that they severally retained the exclusive right of
the Delaware charter for "two miles above and below"
their bridges to be constructed respectively, &c., and that
both and each esecapedftom Mie )mitetiontogether, and gained
an eternity of existence and an endless contract!
Does any one believe that any such thing was understood
by the legislature ? Does not this importation and reimportation of legislative enactment, so strangely carried out
to make a contract, have the aspect of contrivance to obtain
a contract without the legislature being aware that one
was given? Why are the plain words of the earlier act"powers, rights, privileges, immunities and advantages"departed from, and the whole attempted to be got in under
the term "provisions," &c. ? Has there been any want of
clear and round dealing on the part of the Chenango company? If the contract set up has been made by what Rogers,
J., in the Pennsylvania case of Ln bertsol? v. .Hogt'a,* called
"the covert design of the draughtsman," the observations of
that judge in that ease may be referred to fbr the weight that
is due to the enactment. Certainly, at least, this legislative
phraseology, called a contract, coming down to the Chenango
charter under such circumstances-such a multiplicity of
provisions, mixed up with near half a dozen corporations,
some coming, some going-such a confusion of legislative
tongues-such a jargon of tangled phrases-present reasons
why the language set up as a contract should, in its application to the Chenango charter, and in its meaning, if placed
there, be read with more than ordinary care, and be construed according to the strictest rules relating to legislative
contracts and perpetual monopolies.
2 Pennsylvania State, 24,

68

TiE BI3GHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the new bridge.

Supposing, however, that the phrase, "it shall not be lawful," &C., does apply to the Chenango bridge, does it make
a contract? Is it not mere legislative enactment, subject
to repeal like any other statute? It has neither consideration, nor mutuality, nor form, nor substance, nor any other
element of a contract. The words, indeed, are as common
in legislation as the words "be it enacted" and "be it fur.
ther enacted." The phrase "it shall be lawful," or "it
shall and may be lawful," and "it shall not be lawful," may
be found upon almost every page of our statute and session
laws, commencing with our colonial legislature and coming
down to the last session. The former phrase runs through
the entire act now under consideration. One is employed
to grant liberty to any person or persons, and the other to restrain them. So these phrases are employed and understood.
The State by the expression used but incorporates the petitioners with certain rights, and authorizes them to erect and
maintain a bridge and collect tolls, and volunteers a provision that competition within two miles shall not be lawful.
The corporators neither pay, nor agree to pay anything;
they neither do nor agree to do anything in consideration of
the charter. They may erect a bridge or not erect it; when
erected they may maintain it or not maintain it; if destroyed
by decay or casualty, they may re-erect or not re-erect as
they choose; in short, the corporators are not bound to do
anything. They were not bound to erect it originally, and
may now abandon it any day, and at their own convenience
or caprice, regardless of the public interests or wishes.
Should it be carried away by flood or destroyed by fire or
become wasted by decay and be suffered to remain, what
adequate remedy would the people of the State have upon
their side of the "contract?" and what would be theform of
action ?
M. But conceding that it was "not lawful for any person
or persons," of their own right or by authorization from the
county boards or courts to erect a bridge over this stream
within two miles of the complainants' bridge above or below

Dee. 1865.]

Tm] BINGHAM1TON BRIDGE.
TE
Argument for the new bridge.

that of the complainants', does the legislature bind and
prohibit itsef from erecting a bridge, both directly and by
delegation through charter to others?
The Chenango, as is matter of common knowledge, is a
fresh-water stream, where the tide does not ebb and flow,not navigable except for arks and rafts in freshets, and was
to all intents and purposes a pnivate river, subject to the public easement as'a highway. The riparian proprietors might
establish bridges or ferries at such points as they pleased,
unless restrained-by legislation; and, the statutes of New
York, as early as 1797, had authorized the construction'of
highways and bridges by saperbdendeat and cojiwesioners;
bad forbidden the use of ferries for hire, unless duly authorized, and had given eo arts of common pleas power to license
them at such points as they might think proper. The provision of the 31st section, in the charter, declaring that it
should not be lawful for any person or persons to erect any
bridge or establish any ferry within two miles of the bridge,
&e., applied to the superintendents and commissioners of
highways, and to the courts of common pleas, and to private
persons. And that this is so is shown by the peovis'o to the
O'st section, excepting persons residing within two miles of the
said bridges and crossing to or from their own land in their
own boats. There were thus sufficient persons and officers
and public authorities to satisfy fully the restriction clause
in the section without extending its operation to the State
or to the legislative authority. For without the provision,
the superintendent of highways for the county, and the commissioners of highways of the town and towns contiguous to
the Chenango River, might have laid out highways and
constructed bridges across the river at such places as they
deemed proper; and the court of common pleas might have
allowed ferries to be established across the same, so as entirely to destroy the plaintiffs' franchise.
That such enactments as this one-there being no exclusion of the power of the legislature-operate to exclude itd;'dal.s aind eorpoqrtions only,-that they do not prohibit the
lecgislature from the exercise of its sovereign authority in

TAE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the new bridge.

granting further facilities when required by public necessities, and that the enactment may be repealed and modified
at the pleasure of the legislature, has been adjudged in numerous cases in New York. We present one, Thompson v.
.N¥w York and Harlem Railroad Co.,* decided by one of the
best equity lawyers in New York. In that case the plaintiff's charter contained a clause like that of the Chenango
bridge charter, declaring that "it shall not be lawful for any
person or persons whatsoever to erect or cause to be erected,"
&c. The defendants erected a bridge under a subsequent
actof the legislature within the prescribed limits, and upon
bill filed for relief, Vice-Chancellor Sandford, upon a review
of all the cases held, that the act of giving the plaintiffs charter "did not declare that the legislature would not permit
the erection of another bridge," &c., and that it might lawfully grant the new charter. Other cases are to the same
point.t
Cases may, no doubt, be found in this and other States,
where it has been held, that when the legislature had made
a contract in terms exchding itself from authorizing a rival
work within defined limits, that a law authorizing such rival
work within prescribed limits would be unconstitutional,
and that the privileged corporation could have relief against
it in equity. Such was The Boston & Salem Railroad v. The
Salem & Lowell Railroad.t The legislature, as Shaw, 0. J.,
declares, there put in plain terms a restraint on itself.
But not one case of respectable authority can be found,
which holds that a legislative contract, disposing of a State's
sovereignty, can be recognized by implication from a series
* 3 Sandford's Oh. 625.

t See Moh:;wk Bridge Co. v. The 'Utica and Schenectady Railroad, 6
Paige, 554; Lansing v. Smith, 4 Wendell, 9; Oswego Falls Bridge v.
Fish, 1 Barbour's Chancery, 547; all in point. On the general subject, see
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 544; East Hartford v.
Hartford Bridge Co., 10 Howard, 511; 'est
River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6
Id. 529; Tuckahoe Canal v. James River, 11 Leigh, 42; Gould v. Hudson
River Railroad, 2 Selden, 522.
1 2 Gray, 9.

Dec.1865.]

THE BINGttAAITO

BRIDGE.

Opinion of the court.

of tangled phrases, doubtfully expressed, perhaps artfiully
contrived; or that mere every-day legislative phraseology
constitutes a contract.
We have denied (supra,p. 59) that a contract to surrender
the sovereignty of the State forever could, under any form,
be enacted by legislation that will bind for future time the
State's representatives. To that view we hold. If, however, courts will but adhere to their own salutary prece.
dents, so often laid down-and from the facility with which
great franchises are now obtained from our legislators by
designing men, becoming every day more salutary-not to
spell out of language, suitable and intended for mere legislative enactments, contracts which sap the foundation of
common rights, fetter the State, and make her the servant
of her own creation-the evil done by anything that is
actually enacted will probably be small.
The complainants have no doubt suffered loss. But it is
not every loss suffered that gives a remedy. There is a very
ancient head of the law known as dcinntrn, absque ijw.'i ;
and it is precisely that loss which these complainants have
encountered.*
Xr. lygatt, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.t
The Constitution of the United States declares that no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; and the 25th section of the Judiciary Act provides,
that the final judgment or decree of the highest Zourt of a
State, in which a decision in a suit can be had, may be examined and reviewed in this court, if there was drawn in
question in the suit the validity of a statute of the State, on
the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, and the decision was in favor of its valid; ty.
The plaintiffs in error brought a suit in equity in the
Supreme Court in New York, alleging that they wt re
Radcliff's Executors v. The Mayor of Brooklyn, 4 Comstoc, 19J

SNelson, J., not sitting, being indiposed.

THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup.

Ct

Opinion of the court.

created a corporation by the legislature of that State, on the
first of April, 1808, to erect and maintain a bridge across
the Chenango River, at Binghamton, with perpetual succession, the right to take tolls, and a covenant that no other
bridge should be built within a distance of two miles either
the nature of a
way from their bridge; which was a grant 'in
contract that cannot be impaired. The complaint of the bill
is, that notwithstanding the Chenango Bridge Company
have faithfully kept their contract with the State, and maintained for a period of nearly fifty years a safe and suitable
bridge for the accommodation of the public, the legislature
of New York, on the fifth of April, 1855, in plain violation
of the contract of the State with them, authorized the defendants to build a bridge across the Chenango River within
the prescribed limits, and that the bridge is built and open
for travel.
The bill seeks to obtain a perpetual injunction against the
Binghamton Bridge Company, from using or allowing to
be used the bridge thus built, on the sole ground that the
statute of the State, which authorizes it, is repugnant to
that provision of the Constitution of the United States which
says that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. Such proceedings were had in the inferior
courts of New York, that the case finally reached and was
heard in the Court of Appeals, which is the highest court
of law or equity of the State in which a decision of the suit
could be had. And that court held that the act, by virtue
of which the Binghamton bridge was built, was a valid act,
and rendered a final decree dismissing the bill. Everything,
therefore, concurs to bring into exercise the appellate power
of this court over cases decided in a State court, and to support the writ of error, which seeks to re-examine and correct
the final judgment of the Court of Appeals in New York.
The questions presented by this record are of importance,
and have received deliberate consideration.
It is said that the revising power of this court over State
adjudications is viewed with jealousy. If so, we say, in the
words of Chief Justice Marshall, "that the course of the

P~ec. 1,0,65.]

THE BIXGrAITAro

B rDGE.

Opinion of the court.

judicial department is marked out by law. As this court
has never grasped at ungranted jurisdiction, so it never will,
we trust, shrink from that-which is conferred upon it." The
constitutional right of one legislature to grant corporate
privileges and franchises, so as to bind and conclude a succeeding one, has been denied. We have supposed, if anything was settled by an unbroken course of decisions in the
Federal and State courts, it was, that an act of incorporation
was a contract between the State and the stockholders. All
courts at this day are estopped from questioning the doctrine. The security of property rests upon it, and every
successful enterprise is undertaken, in the unshaken belief
that it will never be forsaken.
A departure from it ow would involve dangers to society
that cannot be foreseen, would shock the sense of justice of
the country, unhinge its business interests, and weaken, if
not destroy, that respect which has always been felt for the
judicial department of the Government. An attempt even
to reaffirm it, could only tend to lessen its force and obligation. It received its ablest exposition in the case of DortMo'dth Coeye v. Woodward,* which case has ever since been
considered a landmark by the profession, and no court has
since disregarded the doctrine, that the charters of private
corporations are contracts, protected from invasion by the
Constitution of the United States. And it has since so often
received the solemn sanction of this court, that it would
unnecessarily lengthen this opinion to refer to the cases, or
even enumerate them.
The principle is supported by reason as well as authority.
It was well remarked by the Chief Justice, in the Dartmouth
College case, "that the objects for which a corporation is
created are universally such as the Government wishes to
promote. They are deemed beneficial to the country, and
this benefit constitutes the consideration, and in most cases
the sole consideration for the grant." The purposes to be
attained are generally beyond the ability of individual enter*

4 Wheaton, 418.

74

TE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

prise, and can only be accomplished through the aid of
associated wealth. This will not be risked unless privileges
are given and securities furnished.in 'an act of incorporation.
The wants of the public are often so imperative, that a duty
is imposed on Government to provide for them; and as experience has proved that a State should not directly attempt
to do this, it is necessary to confer on others the faculty of
doing what the sovereign power is unwilling to undertake.
The legislature, therefore, says to public-spirited citizens:
"If you will embark, with your time, money, and skill, in
an enterprise which will accommodate the public necessities,
we will grant to you, for a limited period, or in perpetuity,
privileges that will justify the expenditure of your money,
and the employment of your time and skill." Such a grant
is a contract, with mutual considerations, and justice and
good policy alike require that the protection of the law
should be assured to it.
It is argued, as a reason why courts should not be rigid
in enforcing the contracts made by States, that legislative
bodies are often overreached by designing men, and dispose
of franchises with great-recklessness.
If the knowledge that a contract made by a State with
individuals is equally protected from invasion as a contract
made between natural persons, does not awaken watchfulness and care on the part of law-makers, it is difficult to
perceive what would. The corrective to improvident legislation is not in the courts, but is to be found elsewhere.
A great deal of the argument at the bar was devoted to
the consideration of the proper rule of construction to be
adopted in the interpretation of legislative contracts. In
this there is no difficulty. All contracts are to be construed
to accomplish the intention of the parties; and in determining their different provisions, a liberal and fair construction
will be given to the words, either singly or in connection with
the subject-matter. It is not the duty of a court, by legal
subtlety, to overthrow a contract, but rather to uphold it and
give it effect; and no strained or artificial rule of construction is to be applied to any part of it. If there is no ambi-

Dec. 1805.]

THE BINGHAMITON BRIDGE.
Opinion of the court.

guity, and the meaning of the parties can be clearly ascer.
tained, effect is to be given to the instrument used, whether
it is a legislative grant or not. In the case of the Charles
river bridge,* the rules of construction known to the English common law were adopted and applied in the interpretation of legislative grants, and the principle was recognized,
that charters are to be construed most favorably to the State,
and that in grants by the public nothing passes by implication. This court has repeatedly since reasserted the same
doctrine; and the decisions in the several States are nearly
all the same way. The principle is this: that all rights which
are asserted against the State must be clearly defined, and
not raised by inference or presumption; and if the charter
is silent about a power, it does not exist. If, on a fair reading of the instrument, reasonable doubts arise as to the
proper interpretation to be given to it, those doubts are to
be solved in favor of the State; and where it is susceptible
of two meanings, the one restricting and the other extending the powers of the corporation, that construction is to be
adopted which works the least harm to the State. But if
there is no ambiguity in the charter, and the powers conferred are plainly marked, and their limits can be readily
ascertained, then it is the duty of the court to sustain and
uphold it, and to carry out the true meaning and intention
of the parties to it. Any other rule of construction would
defeat all legislative grants, and overthrow all other contracts. What, then, are the rights of the parties to this
controversy ?
In 1805 the State of New York passed an act, in fortytwo sections, creating five different corporations. The main
purpose of the act was, at that early day, to secure for the
convenience of the public good turnpike roads; but the
!country was new; the undertaking hazardous; the roads
crossed large and rapid streams, and the legislature, in itt
wisdom, thought proper to create two separate and distinci
bridge incorporations, with larger powers than were conferred on the turnpike corporations.
'- 11 Peters, 544.

Tim BIxGOA3ITON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The preamble to the 23d section declares the motives and
purpose of the legislature. Heavy freshets and dangerous
obstructions to which the streams were subject seemed likely
to endanger the permanency of the bridges, and to require
frequent renewals of the whole capital; and it was thought
but just that the corporations for erecting the bridges
should be relieved from the policy of reversion, which attached to the corporations for constructing the turnpike
roads, and that full powers, adequate to the execution of the
work in the best manner, should be assured to those citizens who would successfully accomplish the building of the
bridges. It is impossible to read this recital, and escape the
conclusion that the legislature thought the enterprise did
not promise present remuneration, and that large powers
and exclusive privileges must be given, to get the stock
taken and the bridges built. It is evident that what was
then considered a great scheme of internal improvement,
was in the mind of the legislature. Such a scheme was,
at that early period in the history of the State, not of
easy solution. It required more energy and foresight, and
involved greater hazard, in the commencement of this century, to build turnpike roads through an unbroken wilderness, and erect bridges over dangerous streams, than it
would now to checker the surface of a State with railways.
These considerations are great helps, in arriving at a correct
knowledge of the intention of the legislature, and in giving
a proper construction to the grants that were made. For it
should never be lost sight of, that the main canon of interpretation of a contract, is to ascertain what the parties
themselves meant and understood. In order to connect
the turnpike roads, it was necessary to cross the east and
west branches of the Delaware, the Susquehanna, and Chenango rivers. These streams were all in the same category.
The work of improvement was incomplete until each was
spanned with substantial bridges; and there is nothing to
show that the dangers apprehended, and which formed the
inducements to the grant of large powers, did not apply to
all of them alike Fifteen sections of the act are devoted

Dec. 1865.]

THE

BINGHAMTON BrIDGE.
Opinion of the court.

to the creation of the Delaware Bridge Company, for the
purpose of erecting bridges over the east and west branches
of the Delaware River, with the usual faculties, powers, and
incidents of a corporation, and subject to the usual duties,
regulations, restraints, and penalties. The duration of the
company was limited to thirty years, and competing bridges
or ferries, within the prescribed limits of two miles above
and below, were forbidden. These were important privileges, and justified by the peculiar circumstances of the
country; and it is easy to see that without them prudent
men would not have engaged in the enterprise. The Delaware Bridge Company having been constituted with great
minuteness of detail, a few words and a single section
sufficed to bring into existence the Susquehanna Bridge
Company. The thirty-eighth section of the act created the
latter corporation, to erect and maintain toll-bridges across
the Susquehanna and Chenango rivers, at certain localities;
and further, declared that the "Susquehanna Bridge Company be, and hereby are, invested with all and singular the
powers, rights, privileges, immunities, and advantages, and
shall be subject to all the duties, regulations, restraints, and
penalties which are contained in the foregoing incorporation
of the Delaware Bridge Company; and all and singular the
p'oc;isioas, sections, and elauses thereof, not inconsistent with
the particular provisions therein contained, shall be, and
hereby are, fully extended to the president and directors of
this corporation."
No one can read the entire act through, and fail to perceive that the legislature intended to create two bridge incorporations, exactly similar in all material respects. Protection
was alike .necessary to both; the public wants required both;
the scheme of improvement embraced both; the danger of
present loss applied to both; and there were the same motives to give valuable franchises to both.
The inquiry, then, is, has the legislature used language
that clearly conveys that intention? and on this point we
entertain no doubt.
It is not questioned that the provision limiting the Dela.

THE

BINGHAMToi

BRIIGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ware charter to thirty years was carried into the Susquehanna charter; but it is denied that the prohibition against
competition was also imported.
The clause in the Delaware charter on that subject is in
the following words: "that it shall not be lawful for any
person or persons to erect any bridge, or establish any ferry
across the said west and east branches of the Delaware
River, within two miles, either above or below the bridges,
to be erected and maintained in pursuance of this act."
This was, undoubtedly, a covenant with the Delaware company that they should be free from competition within the
prescribed limits. It is argued, because the east and west
branches of the Delaware are named, that the prohibition
was not intended to reach the Susquehanna company. But
this construction is narrow and technical, and would defeat
the very end the legislature had in view. It is true there
were certain minor provisions in the Delaware charter which
were peculiar to it, and of course it would be absurd to suppose that they were transferred, or intended to be transferred
to the Susquehanna company; but, by the terms of the law,
whatever provisions were applicable, were extended to the
latter company. It is easy to see that the legislature never
meant that the judges of Delaware County, who were to visit
and inspect the Delaware bridges, should also visit and inspect the Susquehanna, because there were similar officers
in Tioga County, where the Susquehanna bridges were
located. But the privilege against competition was applicable to both corporations, and, in the unsettled state of the
couutry, necessary to the existence of both, for the legislature well knew, that it would be madness for adventurers to
build toll-bridges in a new country, where travel was limited
and settlers few, if the right was retained to authorize other
adventurers to build other bridges, so near as to divide even
that limited travel. The form adopted in making the grants
has weight, in arriving at the true legislative intention, and
it is worthy of consideration, that it is not unusual in the
legislation of this country to grant vast powers in a short
act, by relerring to and adopting the provisions of other

1'ee. 1865.]

THE BINGHAMTON BRIDGE.
Opinion of the court.

corporations, of like purposes. In fact, some of the great
enterprises of the day have sprung into existence and distributed their blessings by virtue of legislation similar to
that which created the Susquehanna Bridge Company. The
object is apparent, not to encumber the statute-book by useless repetition and unnecessary verbiage. The legislature
of New York, at great length, and with commendable care
and circumspection, incorporated the Delaware company, and
then, to avoid repetition, gave to the Susquehanna company
all the rights and advantages which, in the same act, were
conferred on the Delaware corporation. This wcs enough;
but in fear of cavil, and to avoid any misconstruction, and
out of superabundant caution, it was declared that all the
provisions, sections, and clauses in the Delaware charter,
not inousistent with the particular provisions of the Susquehanna charter, should be fully extended to the president
and directors of the latter corporation. There were no inconsistencies between the two corporations, except such as
would arise fiom difference in locality, and in every other
respect the corporations were alike. Each was to bridge
two streams, and each needed, and did receive the fostering
care of the legislature. When it is conceded, as it must be,
that a franchise which prohibits competition is an advantage,
and that it was enjoyed by the Delaware company, and that
there is nothing in the peculiar provisions of the Susquehanna charter which prevents that company from enjoying
it, then it is conferred, and there is an end to controversy.
The history of the subsequent legislation of the State, on
the subject of these bridges, is explanatory of the intention
of the legislature of 1805, and confirmatory of the view
already taken. In 1808, the Susquehanna and Chenango
bridges were not built, and longer time and greater privileges were required to insure the success of that enterprise.
The legislature, in fear that the scheme of internal improvement, which was not complete without the bridges, would
fail, furnished still greater inducements to the parties prcposing to erect them. The thirty years limitation was repealed, and the charter made perpetual, and the time limited

THE ]BINGHAMITOx BRIDGE.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for building the bridges was extended four years. And these
provisions of the Susquehanna charter, which were thus altered, and treated by the legislature of 1808 as belonging
to it, were, if part of it, imported from the Delaware charter. Can it be supposed, when the Susquehanna company
was demanding higher privileges in order to live., that it
was the intention of the legislature to deprive it of the right
to shut out competition, with which the Delaware company
was invested, and which was nearly as valuable as the right
to take tolls ?
The intention of the legislature was manifest to confer on
the Susquehanna corporation all the advantages enjoyed by
the Delaware company that were applicable to it, and consistent with the different locality it occupied; and the lan.
guage used, in our opinion, gives effect to that intention!
and the two-mile restriction is as much a part of the chartei
of the Susquehanna company, as if it had been directly i5.
serted in it. It is argued that the restriction cannot appl 3
to the Chenango bridge, because it is located less than twc
miles from the confluence of the Chenango IRiver with the
Susquehanna. But the restriction is for two miles, eithei
above or below the bridges, and is applicable to a bridge
built above and within the prohibitory limits, although o
question might arise, whether it was extended to a bridge
which was built below the junction of the streams. The
Susquehanna company, by the original charter, was to erect
bridges over both the Susquehanna and Chenango rivers;
but, with the amendments which were made in 1808, it
was declared to exist for the sole purpose of building and
maintaining a bridge over the Susquehanna, while at the
same time the privilege of bridging the Chenango was given
-to"The Chenango Bridge Company," a new corporation,
created with the same faculties and franchises, and subject
to the same duties and restrictions as the Susquehanna corporation.
The construction which has been given by us to the
Susquehanna charter is necessarily a solution of all questions pertaining to the charter of the Chenango Bridge

Dee. 1865.]

THE

BINIGIIAMTON

DRIDE.

Opinion of the court.

Company. The legislature, therefore, contracted with this
company, if they would build and maintain a safe and suitable bridge across the Chenango River, at Chenango Point,
for the accommodation of the public, they should have, in
consideration for it, a perpetual charter, the right to take
certain specified tolls, and that it should not be lawful for
any person or persons to erect any bridge, or establish any
ferry, within a distance of two miles, on the Chenango River,
either above or below their bridge.
Has the legislature of 1855 broken the contract, which
the legislatures of 1805 and 1808 made with the plaintiffs?
The foregoing discussion affords an easy answer to this
question. The legislature has the power to license ferries
and bridges, and so to regulate them, that no rival ferries
or bridges can be established within certain fixed distances.
No individual without a license can build a bridge or establish a ferry for general travel, for "it is a well-settled
principle of common law that no man may set up a ferry for
all passengers, without prescription time out of mind, or -a
charter from the king. He may make a fbrry for his own
use, or the use of his family, but not for the common use of
all the king's subjects passing that way, because it doth in
consequence tend to a common charge, and is become a
thing of public interest and use; and every ferry ought to
be under a public regulation."* As there was no necessity
of laying a restraint on unauthorized persons, it is clear that
such a restraint was not within the meaning of the legislature. The restraint was on the legislature itself. The plain
reading of the provision, "that it shall not be lawful for any
person or persons to erect a bridge within a distance of two
miles," is, that the legislature will not rnake it lawful by licensing any person, or association of persons, to do it. And
the obligation includes a free bridge as well as a toll bridge,
for the security would be worthless to the corporation if the
right by implication was reserved, to authorize the erection
I- Hargrave's Law Tracts, oh. ii, 16; The Enfleld Toll Bridge Co. v. The
Hartford and New Haven Railroad Co., 17 Connecticut, 63; Hooker v.
Cummings, 20 Johnson, 100; Bowman v. Wathan, 2 McLean, 883.
VOL. III.

6

82

THE BINGHATMTO

BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

of a bridge which should be free to the public. The Binghamton Bridge Company was chartered to construct a bridge
for general road travel, like the Chenango bridge, and near
to it, and within the prohibited distance. This was a plain
violation of the contract which the legislature made with
the Chenango Bridge Company, and as such a contract is
within the protection of the Constitution of the United
States, it follows that the charter of the Binghamton Bridge
Company is null and void.
DECREE of the Court of Appeals of New York reversed,
and a mandate ordered to issue, with directions to enter a
judgment for the plaintiff in error, the Chenango Bridge
Company, in conformity with this opinion.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, and Justices FIELD and GR1ER
dissented. The latter delivering an opinion, as follows:
I feel unable to concur in the opinion of the majority of
my brethren, which has just been read. The general principles of law, as connected with the question involved in
the case, are, no doubt, correctly stated, as to the strict construction of statutes as against corporations claiming rights
so injurious to the public.. My objection is, that they have
not been properly applied to the case before us.
The power 6f one legislature to bind themselves and their
posterit-y, and all future legislatures, from authorizing a
bridge absolutely required for public use, might well be denied by the courts of New York; and as a construction of
their own constitution, we would have no right to sit in
error upon their judgment. But assuming a power for one
legislature to restrain the power of future legislatures, those
who assert that it has been exercised should prove their assertion beyond a doubt. Such intention must be clearly
expressed in the letter of the statute, and not left to be discovered by astute construction and inferences. Although
an act of incorporation may be called a contract, the rules
of construction applied to it are admitted to be the reverse
of these applied to other contracts. Yet the opinion of the

Dec. 1865.]

Tim JOSEPHINE.
Syllabus.

court, while admitting the rule of construction, proceeds on
a contrary hypothesig, and with great ingenuity, and astute
reasoning, has given a construction most favorable to the
monopolist, and injurious to the people.
The judgment given by the majority of my brethren regards the general language of the act of incorporation as
first bringing to the Seisque]iarnacompany a provision that
"it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to erect
ony bridge," &c., across the east and west branches of the
Ddc'ware: as then bringing this specific clause into the charter of the Chenango company, and applying it to the Clieioligo river (a river with but a shzgle stream); making it,
moreover, apply to that stream for two miles, indeed, above
the bridge, but for three-quarters of a mile only below -it,
the river's entire extent in that direction, and finding the
complement of the "two miles," in a mile and a quarter of
the river Susquehanna, into which the Chenango falls and
is lost. While withal, by like construction only, the original
limitation of thirty years disappears, and the charter becomes perpetual.
This mode of interpreting a legislative grant appears to
me irrational, and beyond the most liberal construction that
has been given to that class of enactments. Indeed, the
fhct that it required so ingenious and labored an argument
by my learned brother to vindicate such a construction of
the act seems to me, of itself, conclusive evidence that the
construction should not be given to it.
[See infra, p. 210, Turmpike Co. V. Te State.-REP.]

THE JOSEPHINE.
1. The case of the Baigorry (2 'Wallace, 474), deciding that the blockade of
the coast of LouiLana, having no direct communication with the port

of New Orleans by navigation, was not terminated by the proclamation of May 12, 1862, discontinuing the blockade of that port-affirmed.
2. If a vessel is found without a proper license near a blockading squadroi',

