THE BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

8. Fifth question is, whether moneys received on deposit
in any one month, and invested during the same month, are
deposits within the meaning of said acts, so as to render the
complainants liable to pay a tax thereon for such month.
Moneys received, as already explained, whether invested or
not, are deposits within the meaning of the acts of Congress,
and if so, then it is clear that the amount, whatever it may
be, is liable to taxation as soon as it is received by the bank,
because when received by the bank, it becomes deposits,
and continues to be such till it is repaid to the depositor.
An affirmative answer must also be certified to this question.
No answers will be certified to the first two questions,
because the court is of the opinion that those given to the
others are sufficient to dispose of the cause.
ANSWERS ACCORDINGLY.

GRIER and NELSOI, JJ., dissented; FIELD, J., who,
as already said, had not sat in the case, took no part in the
judgment.

THE BERMUDA.
1. No trade honestly carried on between neutral ports, whether of the same
or of different nations, can be lawfully interrupted by belligerents; but
good faith must preside over such commerce: enemy commerce under
neutral disguises has no claim to neutral immunity.
2. Neutrals may establish themselves, for the purposes of trade, in ports
convenient to either belligerent; and may sell or transport to either such
articles as either may wish to buy, subject to risks of capture for violation of blockade or for the conveyance of contraband to belligerent
ports.
S. Goods of every description may be conveyed to neutral ports from neutral
ports, if intended for actual discharge at a neutral port, and to be brought
into the common stock of merchandise of such port; but voyages from
neutral ports intended for belligerent ports are not protected in respect
to seizure, either of ship or cargo, by an intention, real or pretended, to
touch at intermediate neutral ports.
4. Neutrals may convey to belligerent ports, not under blockade, whatever
belligerents may desire to take, except contraband of war, which is

Dec. 1865.]

THE BERmUDA.
Statement of the case.

always subject to seizure when being conveyed to a belligerent destination, whether the voyage be direct or indirect; such seizure, however,
is restricted to actual contraband, and does not extend to the ship or
other cargo, except in cases of fraud or bad faith on the part of the
owners, or of the master with the sanction of the owners.
5. Vessels conveying contraband cargo to belligerent ports not under
blockade, under circumstances of fraud or bad faith, or cargo of any
description to belligerent ports under blockade, are liable to seizure
and condemnation from the commencement to the end of the voyage.
6. A voyage from a neutral to a belligerent port is one and the same voyage,
whether the destination be ulterior or direct, and whether with or without the interposition of one or more intermediate ports; and whether to
be performed by one vessel or several employed in the same transaction
8
and in the accomplishment of the same purpose.
7. Destination alone justifies seizure and condemnation of ship and cargo in
voyage to ports under blockade; and such destination justifies equally
seizure of contraband in voyage to ports not under blockade; but, in
the last case, ship and cargo not contraband are free from seizure, except
in cases of fraud or bad faith.
8. Circumstances, such as selection of master, control in lading and destination, instructions for conduct of voyage, and other like acts of ownership by an enemy, may repel, in the absence of charter-party or other
explanation, presumptions of ownership in a neutral arising from registry or other documents, and will warrant condemnation of a ship captured in the employment of enemies as enemy property.
9. Spoliation of papers, at the time of capture, under instructions and without explanation by production of the instructions, or otherwise, warrants the most unfavorable inferences as to employment, destination,
and ownership of the captured vessel.

from a decree made by the District Court for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, regarding the steamship
Bermuda and her cargo, captured during the rebellion by
the government wtr-vessel Mercedita, and sent into Phila
delphia, and libelled there and proceeded on in prize.
The allegations of the captors were, that the vessel was
enemy's property, and with her cargo-largely composed
of munitions of war-had been intending, either directly or
by transshipment, to break the blockade, then established by
our government, of the southern coast, and that both she
and her cargo were, on these and other grounds, subject to
be captured and condemned.
The case was interesting, partly from the value, larger
than common, of the ship and cargo, but more particularly
APPEAL

THP BRRMUDA.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

from the fact, that while many and strong indications of a
general sort pointed at once to the truth of the allegations
of the captors, blockade-running had been brought, by our
adventurous English kinsfolk, during the Southern rebellion, to so much of a science; true purposes, by the aid of
intermediate neutral ports of their own, had come to be so
very well disguised; the final general destination of the cargo
in this particular voyage was left so skilfully open, and the
capture was so confessedly in neutral neighborhoods, that
it was not quite easy to prove, with that certainty which
American courts require, the intention, which it seemed
plain must have really existed. Thus to.prove it, required
that truth should be collated from a variety of sources,
darkened or disguised; from others opened as the cause
advanced, and by accident only; from coincidences undesigned, and facts that were circumstantial. Collocations
and comparisons, in short, brought largely their collective
force in aid of evidences that were more direct.
The history of things, as they appeared on one side and
on the other respectively, was in substance thus:
On the co.ptor's side. The vessel herself had been built at
Stockton-upon-Tees, in 1861. In August of that year, a
certain Edwin Haigh made the declaration of ownership
required by the British Merchants' Shipping Act of 1854.
He described himself as a "natural, born British subject,"
of Liverpool, "and entitled to be registered as owner;" swearing, according to the usual form, that no other person "qaualifled to be owner of British ships is entitled as owner to any
interest whatever."* E. L. Tessier, a South Carolinian,
* It was, perhaps, a noteworthy fact that, in most of the affidavits, &c.,
about the ownership, the language was of a sort that did not necessarily
involve an unqualified assertion of real and equitable ownership, as distinguished from the legal title and ownership on the registry, which the
British statutes, like our own, largely look to. One of the documents, for
example, said: "Your memorialist is a British subject and sole registered
owner" of the ship Bermuda, &c. In another, Mr. Haigh styles himself,
"shipowner and merchant." In another, he thought that certain contraband things found on board should not affect his position "as owner of
the vessel," &c. &c.

Dec. 1865.]

Tim BER-MIUDA.
Statement of the case: Captors' side.

was stated to be master of the ship. It was not denied that
taigh was a British subject. On the day after her registry,
as appeared by a document from the Liverpool customs,
entitled, "Certified Copy, Transaction subsequent to registry," Hlaigh executed a power of attorney, or "certificate,"
as it was called, to Allan Stuart Hencle and George Alfred
Trenholm, both of Charleston, South Garolna, merchants,
"jointly or severally to sell the ship, at any place out of the
kingdom, for any sum. he or they may deen s{ffieient, within
iwdee months from the date of the certificate." There was no
evidence that this power had ever been revoked or returned.
Trenholm was a member of the firm of Frazer, Trenholm
& Co., of Liverpool, a firm which, with its branch house,
John Frazer & Co., of Charleston, was one of the firms most
largely engaged in rendering aid to and sustaining the rebellion, by fitting out blockade-runners, and corsairs to injure American commerce. They were also the disbursing
agents of the rebel confederation in England, and they had
several vessels, the Ella, Helen, Herald, Economist, Albert,
and others, forming a sort of" line" between Liverpool and
Charleston, which carried on blockade-running, with the
aid of agents at Bermuda and Iassau, N. P., intermediate
British neutral isles. The firm was composed of Frazer &
Trenholm, as also of a certain Prioleau, one Welsman, and
a J. 1R. Armstrong; the first four being South Carolinians;
and the last, alone, a British subject.
In possession of the registry and power of sale already
mentioned, the Bermuda sailed for Charleston, then a port
in rebellion and under blockade, in August, 1861. For
some reason not stated, and inferable only, she ran into
Savannah instead-a port also in rebellion and under blockade-running out again and back to Liverpool in the autumn
of that year. Her master was now changed. Captain Tessier was transferred to the Bahama, which afterwards became notorious in the United States as having carried
armament to the rebel corsair Alabama, sunk off the coast
of Xormandy by the United States ship of war Kearsarge. A
certain Westendorff was put on the Bermuda. The British

[Sup. CL,

THE BERMUDA.
Statement of the case: Captors' side.

statutes, however, requiring a recommendation to authorize
a license to any one as captain, .Frazer,Trenholm & Co., in
December, 1861, declared that they had known Westendorif
for ten years; that he served under an experienced ship
master, sailing out of Charleston,and that he had afterwards
commanded one of their ships. Among these was the Helen,
a blockade-runner. Westendorff was, accordingly, legally
licensed by the- British merchant authorities captain of the
Bermuda.
By the practice of the British ports, it is usual to indorse
the address of the captain licensed on the back of his certificate of license. This indorsement on Captain Westendorf's
ran thus:
"Address of bearer: Messrs. Frazer, Trenholm & Co., Liver]Pool."
Being brought round from West Hartlepool, on the east
coast of England, the Bermuda now prepared for another
voyage. Ostensibly it was to Bermuda. The cargo consisted of various things, some of which would have been
useful enough at Bermuda, but which-cut off as the place
had been by the blockade from commerce-were supremely
desired at Charleston; such as tea, coffee, drugs, surgical
instruments, shoes, boots, leather, saddlery, &c. Among the
dry-goods were five cases of lawns, each having a card upon
it, representing a youth gallantly mounting a parapet, and
bearing onward the "FLAG OF THE CONFEDERATE STATES,"
which in all its colors was spread to the breeze.
There were found, also, several cases of military decorations, &c.; epaulettes for all grades; stars for the shoulderstraps of officers of rank; bugles, crossed swords and cannons for different sorts of cap fronts; swords for staff and
line officers; chapeaux de bras; embroidered wreaths, "without U. S. on;"* various sizes of military buttons for coats
and vests; some with the palmetto tree; belts with the
same designations; other buttons and belts with the letters
S. C.; L.;t T.;j &c., and with eagles surrounded by eleen
* So labelled.

Louisiana ?

$ Texas, or Tennessee?

Dec. 1865.]

TiiE

B ERMUDA.

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

stars; palmetto trees embroidered on blue cloth, &c.; sash
buckles, with the arms of Georgia, of South Carolina, &e.
Among the cargo were several cases of cutlery, which was
stamped as
":Manufactured expressly for John Treanor & Nephew, Savannah, Ga."

It embraced a variety of articles, stamped with portraits
and legends, thus:
11JEFF. DAVIS,

OUR FIRST PRESIDENT.

The right man in the right place."

Others presented a military figure, emblazoned
"GENERAL

BEAUREGARD.

He lives to conquer."

Others represented a bull running after a man, with soldiers chasing; and over the bull this motto:
" ON TO WASHINGTON 1

BULL RUN."

The blades of these were stamped,
"Courtney & Tenant, Charleston, S. C."

Several cases of double-barrelled
stamped as

guns were found,

"3anufactured for J. E. Adger, of Charleston."

There was also a large amount of munitions of war; five
finished Blakely cannon in cases, with carriages; six cannon
-some cast, some wrought-not in cases; some thousand
shells, varying from seven to a hundred and twelve pounds
each, and fuses for them. Three hundred barrels, seventyeight half-barrels, and two hundred and eighty-three quarter-barrels of gunpowder, seven hundred bags of saltpetre;
seventy-two thousand cartridges, two and a half million percussion caps, two cases of Enfield rifles, twenty-one cases of
swords, marked N. D. (navy department?), seven cases of
pistols, and a variety of like or accessory things; in all about
eighty tons weight. In addition to these was a large amount
of army blankets, army cloths, kerseys, vulcanized cloth,
with fifteen hundred yards of adhesive plaster; these last
large enough to be invoiced at $62,500.
Numerous letters of friendship and business were found

THE

[Sup. Or.

BERMUDA.

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

in the vessel from people abroad to different persons in the
rebel States, Mrs. Trapman, Mrs. Trenholm, Mrs. Rose, Mr.
T. M. Hencle, Mr. C. F. Hencle, Mr. John Hencle, &c.; also
live numbers of the Times, sent by some person in England
to his friend in the South; also a book by one Spence, published by Richard Bentley, INew Burlington Street, London,
showing the bad effects which the American Union had had
on the national character and policy, and that "secession"
was "a constitutional right;" several passages being marked
in rnargine, apparently as if to invite attention specially to
them.
A few memoranda, also, were found aboard ;-requests
apparently from persons in Charleston to Captain Westendorff to buy things for them in England, and bring them
through the blockade. A part of one may serve for illustration ;-it having been evidently by some lady.
MEMORANDUM.

2 pair ladies' kid gloves, silver-gray color.
2 c
"
"
tea color.

"CHAMLESTOI,

I

18

Best quality.
ashes of rose, light and Size 61.
dark.
2 "
"
gaiters, best kid, stout soles, soft upper, 3 full.
1 ladies' paras6l, best silk, color drab or ashes of rose.
j pound black sewing silk, fine. If it can be had of mixed
colors, get pound of best qualities.
I pair lady's scissors, ordinary size, and some needles of best
make.
M. S. D.
Get the best quality of everything."
2

"

"

"

J

One of the memoranda, which like the other was a lady's,
and contained an order for gloves,-" dark-colored kid"concludes:
"1May God bless Captain W., and protect him, and bring him
in safety back to his family, church, and friends, is our prayer
for him."
On the vessel were several persons, called in various let.

Dec. 1865.]

521

THE BERMUDA.
Statement of the cask: Captors' side.

ters "government passengers;" being in fact "artists" sent
from Scotland. An account of them was given in certain
letters found on the vessel: some addressed to a certain Mr.
Morris, "lithogrlapher," in Charleston, who it appears had
safely ran the blockade not long before. In different parts
they ran thus:
STATIONERY DEPARTIENT,
80 BISHOPSGATE WITHIN, 26 LEADENHALL STREET,

LONDON, February 12, 1862.
DEAR MORRIS:

I was very much pleased to hear that you managed to escape

the vigilance of the Yankee vessels in getting into Charleston,
and from the accounts I have heard, should think you had a very
varrow escape.
A commissioner (Major Ficklin) from the Confederate govemient has been over here, and has sent a lot of printers and
engravers, and presses, and paraphernalia complete, which he
obtained from Scotland. He served me very shabbily and ungentlemanlike. I had many interviews with him, and gave him
all necessary information; furnished him with a list of requirements, compromising myself with several workmen, and put
myself to many inconveniences. He admitted my price being
proper and correct, and led me to believe he would give me his
order, but having got out of me all he could, he then intrusted the
order with another house. I hardly think that fair, after promising to trust me with it and within a few weeks of its execution.
Me, ia .gland, do not think the North can hold on much
longer, the financial state being such as to induce us to hope that
two or three months will settle your present deplorable state.
We inclose our catalogue, which may guide you; and we make
and can buy paper of all kinds as well as any London house;
so could execute your order for foolscap loan paper, with watermark C. S. A., as shipped you, at 42s. per ream double, equalling two reams single.
Trusting soon to hear of you, I am yours,
C. STRAKER.

This "lot of printers and engravers" which Major Ficklin
had obtained in Scotland, embarked, under the charge of one
George Dunn, on the Bermuda, on this voyage, the whole

Tim BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

party being entered on the crew list as common sailors.
They appeared to have taken their "paraphernalia complete" with them. There were at least 26 boxes marked
P. 0. D. (post-office department?), with immense numbers
of" Confederate States" postage stamps; "printing ink for
postage stamps;" copper-plates with 400 dies for printing at
each impression 400 rebel postage stamps; also 200,000 letter envelopes; some "American-shape," "official blue," &c.;
many reams of fine white bank-note paper, watermarked

C. S. A.
intended obviously for "Confederate States" bank notes or
bonds-" foolscap-loan-paper;" and the same apparently
which is referred to and so styled in the concluding paragraph of the letter of Mr. C. Straker, of London, to his friend
and correspondent Morris, quoted on the preceding page,
"as shipped you at 42s. per ream double, equalling two
'reams single." All this stationery having gone with the
captured vessel to the port of Philadelphia, was there sold.
So among the persons that embarked on the Bermuda, at
Liverpool, were certain gentlemen, residents of Charleston,
but perfectly well known in circles of gentility, both North
and South, before the rebellion began. Among these, as
was specially noted by the counsel of the captors, was the
late amiable Mr. John Julius Pringle, a well-known gentleman of education and fortune, resident in South Carolina
during the winter, but at Newport, Rhode Island, in summer. Mr. Pringle, with his two sons, Mr. Joel Poinsett
Pringle and Mr. John Julius Pringle, Jr., with Mr. Arthur
Huger, all of whom the rebellion found in Europe, and
whose unquestionable wish and purpose was to return to the
Souith, were entered on the shipping list as common sailors,
and by disguised names. The nature of a shipping list and
some of the regulations under which as ordinary seamen
[0. S.] these gentlemen came, appear by presenting original
instruments themselves. The gentlemen's names on the list
are in italics.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BERMUDA.
Statement of the case: Captors' side.

-,3u2!9

.o in

'
z

j u 2uidduq
"

. . .D

IE

E- 4E
jo lon!s f'luomatpua
S

10

0= 0=

00

0

0

0>

-1

T-4

EE EE

0C.

%4 0

'

0

-

-

00

0

0p0

pavoq uo

0~.

0

9F

00

.0
(D-.
.0

ID

.00

0

CS

0

0

I,,C1 0c
CII 1:
Cl - l

w

n

Q.
T

r40

0
0

.,
E(N

0

r-

-

0

0

Tim BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case: Captors' side.
REGULATIONS FOR MAINTAINING DISCIPLINE,
Sanctioned by the Board of Trade, in pursuance of the ferchants' Shijoing
Act, 17 ,t 18 Vict. c. 104.

No.

1
2
3
4
5
6

7
S
9
10

OFrracE.

Amount of fine or
punishment.

Shipping masor initials.

One day's pay.
Quarrelling, or provoking to quarrel,
One day's pay.
Swearing, or using improper language,
Carrying a sheath-knife .......
..
One day's pay.
.Two
days' half alDrunkenness. First offence ......
lowance provisions.
Two days' pay.
Second offence, .
Not attending divine service on Sunday, unless prevented by sickness or duty of the

E

One day's pay.
...
...........
ship. ....
Interrupting divine service by indeecrous
. One day's pay.
conduct ..............

Not being cleaned, shaved, and washed on
One day's pay.
.........
Sundays.......
One day's pay.
.
Washing clothes on a Sunday, ....
Secreting contraband goods on board, with
One month's pay.
.
......
intent to smuggle ....

IV

Of the ship's real company, the master, Westendorff, the
first mate, and the master's brother (calling himself and shipped as a hand, but acting as clerk) and three seamen, were
citizens of South Carolina; and the second mate, the carpenter, and cook belonged to other States in rebellion.
There were forty-five bills of lading, of which thirty-one
were for goods shipped by Fraser, Trenholm & Co. The
whole of the cargo was shipped under their direction; and
according to the bills of lading it was to be delivered at Bermuda, "unto order or assigns." No consignees were named
on the bills.
Several of the persons connected with the ship or otherwise, and who were examined in preparatorio, appeared to
regard her as owned by Fraser, Trenholm & Co. Thus the
chief engineer, when thus asked to whom she belonged,
snswered: "To the best of my knowledge, Fraser, Trenholm & Co. are the owners." Heenan, a fireman, said: "I
have understood that Fraser, Trenholm & Co. are the
owners." Noble, another fireman: "The owners of the captured vessel, to the best of my knowledge and belief, are
Fraser, Trenholm & Co." And Pierson, a third one, said:

THE BERMUDA.

Dec. 1865.]

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

"At Liverpool, it was the common talk that Fraser, Tren.
holm & Co., of Liverpool, owned the captured vessel." A
letter of one of the mates, found on board and written to
some friend,* seemed to speak of them in the same way.
So, too, Tessier, the old captain, writes to Westendorfi his
successor, thus:
STOCKTOr-oN-TEEs, 20th Feb., 1862.

DEAR WESTENDORFF:

Will you do me a favor? Opposite the Brumley Moore Dock
wall there is a boot-maker of the name of Warner. As you are
passing.by, will you have the kindness to step in and inquire
whether a pair of sea-boots I ordered have been sent to the
office of our owners. If they have, please request 31r. Griffiths,
head-porter of Frazer, Treinholm & Co., to forward them to me.
Captain MNitchell must have had a trying time since he sailed.
I hope he kept her well to the southward after leaving the
channel. To take the H. [erald?] across the Atlantic, at this
season, will require some working.
With sincerest regards, I remain ever yours respectfully,
E. L.

TESSIER.

Certain correspondence between Fraser, Trenholm & Co.
and their branch house, &c., was specially relied on by the
captors to show that the British subject Haigh was not the
owner, and that the firm of Fraser, Trenholm & Co. was.
Thus it appeared that, on the 16th of January, 1862, the
Liverpool house of Fraser, Trenholm & Co. write to the
Charleston branch, John Fraser & Co., that they had despatched the ship "Ella" with a cargo to Butterfield, Bermuda, and that she would be followed by the steamer Bermuda with goods.
They now write as follows:
[,,Ella."]
LIVERPOOL, 23d January, 1862.

MESSRS. JNO. FRASER & Co., Charleston.
DEAR FRIENDS: Referring to our respects of 16th

inst., we now
hand inclosed bills lading of the cargo per ship Ella, and copies
of invoices.
* See i4ra, p. 528. "I have secn the owners. All fudge what he told me.
31r. Pteleau (principalman) came up to me," &e.

THE BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

These goods are all shipped by our friends here; but the dispo.
sition of them there is left entirely to you, and in any market to which
you may please to direct them.
The bills of lading are indorsed to your order, or that of your
authorized agent. Captain Carter is an intelligent shipmaster,
and we believe a good man of business; any communication for
him, if you do not find it expedient to send an agent to Bermuda, should be sent under cover to Mr. N. T. Butterfield,
Hamilton, Bermuda. Captain Carter is instructed to proceed
to Bermuda, and there await your instructions. The ship is
now in the river ready for sea.
The "Albert" sailed yesterday for Nassau, and will proceed,
after landing her cargo, to Rio for a cargo of coffee, with which
she is to return to Nassau for orders.
We remain yours, very truly,
FRASER, TRENHO.LM & CO.

[" Bermuda."]
LrvERPoOL, 28th February, 1862.
MESSRS. JNO. FRASER & CO.,

(or their authorized agent,)
Hamilton, Bermuda.
DEAR Sins: The letters we have written by this opportunity,
with invoices and bills of lading of the cargo of the ship, are
-very full in every particular, and we think will greatly facilitate
the delivery and also the transshipment,should this be determined
upon. We think that care should be taken to prevent the loss of any
of the invoices or bills of lading; but should this unfortunately
happen, duplicates can be furnished hereafter, which would,
however, involve much delay and great inconvenience in the
delivery of the goods; and without the invoices there would
necessarily be much embarrassment in effecting sales.
In case of there being an opportunity of sending the letters
forward with the invoices and bills of lading, we cannot too
strongly impress upon you the adoption of the most certain means of
preventing any of them falling into improper hands.
Yours, truly,
FRASER, TRENHOLM & CO.

On the 1st of April, 1862, the Charleston house write to
Butterfield thus, having by previous letter informed him of

Dec. 1865.]

THE BER MUDA.
Statement of the case: Captors' side.

their being advised that the Ella was despatched, and that

she would be followed by the Be)rauda.
CHARLESTON,

April 1, 1862.

We suppose that the steamer Bermuda may be with you ere
this; and the ship Ella.
We will thank you to request the masters to act as follows, viz.:
Captain Westendorff to take in the tea and other light articles
per Ella (if he has room for them), and proceed to Nassau, re-

porting himself, on arrival there, to Messrs. Hly. Adderly & Co.
Captain Carter to keep in his cargo and wait further orders
from us. They will reach him, we think, very shortly.
Yours respectfully,
JNo. FRASER & CO.
.IT.

T. BUTTEREIELD, Esq.,
Hamilton, Bermuda.

Butterfield, who received this letter nineteen days after
it was written, immediately sent it to Captain 'Westendolf,
at St. George's. Westendorff acted on it at once. He

took the new articles aboard, and the artists having got
out from his ship-though he refused, as involving him in too
great a responsibility in the face of his new orders, to deliver
to Dunn the printing-presses and working apparatus consigned with the party under him to Bermuda-he proceeded
from St. George's towards Nassau, on the 23d of April.
Mr. Pringle and the other South Carolina gentlemen were
aboard. On the 27th the vessel was captured. He had arrived at Bermuda on the 19th March, and was accordingly
there about five weeks. His cargo was not touched while
there.
Among the papers taken on board the Bermuda was an
unfinished letter, without signature, and apparently written
by an engineer of the Bermuda to a friend (another engineer it was said) at Stockton-upon-Tees. It ran thus:
L=VERPOOL, WELLINGTON

DocK, February 16, 1862.

AIR. A. GRAY, Stockton-on-Tees:

We are all the talk of Liverpool at present, taking in those
large rifled cannon (without cases), and large lots of ammunition

Tini BERMIUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case: Captors' side.

and materials of war. In American circles our fate is discussed
pretty freely; they have us taken, imprisoned, and hung already.
Our Hartlepool friend, Mr. Detective Maguire,-," has got a job
here again; is regularly to be seen on the quay, to take'a look
of what is going on board. They put the custom-house inspectors to a great deal of trouble, because they are coming down
. The inevery day, opening boxes and eases-to satisfy 5spector said to me yesterday, that there existed great jealousy
on account of our cargo; but fortunately they cannot stop us.
We are on a lawful voyage; people won't believe it here; they
are bound to think we are for running the blockade again.
Our tender left yesterday; don't be at all surprised we have got
a tender; they bought a light draft-boat at Dublin, used to run
the mail once, called the Herald; length, 280 feet; deep water
line, 10 feet; light, 5}; side-width, 225; horse, nominal, used to
press up to 28 pounds; got her boilers stayed, strengthened, and
soforth; strains up to 20 pounds now; average speed, 181 knots
per hour; razeed all her lower cabins, to make cargo spaece;
shipped crew for twelve months, for some port or ports south
of lason and Dixon's line. Three captains on board; one an
Englishman, nominal; another, an experienced coast pilot from
the Potomac to Oharleston; another, ditto, ditto, from Charleston to the San Juan River in Texas. If the Yankees reach her,
they are smarter than I give them credit for. She awaits our
arrivalin Bermuda; goesfirst into Charleston,though, to see about
the stone fleet. Don't tell Tessier I gave you the information;
he'll write straight to the owners, and tell them I am a traitor,
and blabber out secrets; I know him. I have seen the owners;
all fudge what he told me. Mr. Preleau (principal man) came
up to me; shook hands; said was glad to see me. I said, I hope
I didn't incur your displeasure by remaining in the Bermuda.
Answer. Not at all.
The record showed that, after hib arrival at Bermuda,
Mitchell, captain of the Herald, drew a bill on Fraser, Trenholm & Co., at Liverpool, in favor of Westendorif, captain
* This was obviously a person employed by the United States, to see
what vessels were engaged in giving aid to the rebellion. He had been
watching, it appears, the vessel befbre she was brought round to Liverpool.
-- rL.

Dec. 1865.]

Tim BERMUDA.
Statement of the case: Claimants' side.

of the Bermuda, for X258, to be charged to the account of
the Herald; showing that Captain Westendorff advanced to
the Herald that amount.
So to one Farrelly, a person on the Bermuda, and appar.

ently a candid, though not a much educated witness, testified:
"At Bermuda there was a steamer called the Herald, which
we understood was intended to run the blockade; but the captain who brought the steamer out from England refused to run
it. The talk at Bermuda was that there were other captains
on board the Herald, and that they were trying to get one of
these captains in command. It was also the talk that the
Herald was connected with our ship."
At the time of the capture, and after the vessel was
boarded, the captain's brother, by his order, threw overboard two small boxes and a package, which he swore that
he understood contained postage-stamps, and a bag, which
he understood contained letters, and which he was nstfrueted'
to destroy i) case of capture. Mr. Huger also destroyed a
number of letters, which he swore were private letters, iutrusted to him by Americans in Europe.
Such essentially was the case on the captors' side.
On the other side the case existed thus:
As to the place where the vessel was captured.-When captured, the Bermuda was not far from the eastern coast of
Great Abaco Island, an English colony, and steering along
the coast, not in the route to any of our ports, but in a southwestwardly direction, and, as was alleged, between Abaco and
Eleuthera (another English island), to New Providence (Nassau), a third English colony. She was captured within sight of
British land, within the range of the Abaco light. The distance was from five to seven miles froma the shore; exactly
how far was not sufficiently shown. The British flag was flying at the time of the capture, and was not hauled down until
the prize was taken a distance of twenty or thirty miles
further out to sea. There was, perhaps, but slight evidence,
VOL. I1.

34

THIE BERMIUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease: Claimants' side.

certainly slight direel evidence, to show that her immediate
destination wis to any blockaded port. Being on the eastern
side of the Bahama group, she was, in a straight line, as
was said at the bar, 160 miles from Florida, 410 miles from
Savannah, 430 miles from Charleston, and 480 miles from
Wilmington, N. C. The Mercedita was cruising near the
Abaco entrance to Nassau; and it was asserted, and perhaps
rather made to appear, that orders had at one time been
given, or rather, maybe, understood to be given, to capture
the Bermuda wherever found on the high seas between England and the United States. A previous conclusion, derived
from our agents in England and from trustworthy evidence,
quietly collected by orders of our government, had possibly
existed on the part of the government that the vessel was
built for the very purpose of running the blockade.*
As to ownershi.-Taigh, who had been desirous to make
the British government interpose, as for a capture within
neutral territory, and who had made claim in the court
below as owner, in a paper prepared by him to induce
the British government to interfere, swore that he was "the
sole registered owner" of the vessel; that she was bound to
Bermuda, with instructions to deliver her cargo there to one
N. T. Butterfield, and to ship a homeward cargo for Great
Britain; that it was "not intended that she should attempt
to break the blockade," &c.; that, on the arrival of the ship
at Bermuda, the consignee of the cargo was desirous that it
should be carried to Nassau, and made an arrangement with
the master to have it carried with some additional cargo, the
particulars of which he, Hlaigh, had not been informed of.
So Captain Westendorff, in previously asking to make
claim to the vessel and cargo for the parties whom he asserted were interested, swore that Haigh was "the true,
lawful, and bonafide owner" of the vessel, and that no other
person was owner of or interested in her; and that the vessel
had no destination either for herself or cargo when she left
Liverpool, except for Bermuda in the first instance, and ulti* See supra, p. 528.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BER'MUDA.

531

Statement of the ease; Claimants' side.

mately for Nassau; that he, the captain, was directed to
receive instructions and place himself under the care of
N. T. Butterfield, of Hamilton, in the island of Bermuda
named ;* that the cargo was shipped and owned by British
subjects and on British account, and not fbr or on account
of or for the use of any person in the insurrectionary States;
and that, if restored, it would belong to British subjects, and
not to them; and that neither vessel nor cargo, nor any part
of it, was intended for the insurgents; and that the vessel
.3 offdid not intend to violate the blockade anywhere.
davit was as direct oandfll as possible.
So Armstrong, the British partner in the firm of Trenholm, Fraser & Co., by writing filed, swore that "the said
firm, acting as agents for Mr. Edwin Haigh, owner of the
British ship Bermuda, procured for her from various shippers a full cargo;" that the steamer sailed hence for Bermuda; that the cargo laden here was intended to be discharged at Bermuda or Nassau; and that a return cargo had
been provided by her consignees at Nassau; that the general
management of the steamer had been placed in the hands
of his firm "by the owner," but that no charter-party was
entered into, "this not being customary under such circumstances."
As to infent to run tMe blocade.-In addition to what was
above sworn, Harris, a member of the firm of Adderly &
Co., in Nassau (the correspondents of Fraser, Trenholm &
Co.), declared, on oath, that when the Bermuda was consigned to them from the island of Bermuda, the instructions
then given to them were, that, on the arrival of the ship at
Nassau, the cargo laden on her should be landed, and the
ship again laden with a cargo to be delivered at some port i,/
.Earope; and he swore "that it was the intention of the firm
of Adderly & Co. to carry out strictly these instructions, and
that there was never any intention that the ship should run
the blockade of any of the southern ports of America; but
See, however, the letter of instructions, inJfra, p. 535.

THE B ERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case: Claimants' side.

that the vessel, at the time when she was taken and cap.
tured, was, so far as the instructions of the firm went, in the
bonafide prosecution of a voyage from the island of Bermuda
to these islands, with a cargo which was to be delivered here."

As respected the rower of attorney, or "certificate,"

to sell,

Haigh, in a letter, "per J. R.A.," to his agent a.t Philadelphia, represented, by way of explanation, that "it was given
on the first voyage of the Bermuda, as would be seen by
the date, and was intended to apply to that only." " On the
vessel's return," he adds, "I endeavored to sell her, but could
neither do this nor cancel the power until the document was
returned from Charleston, whither it had been sent. This
my agents have hitherto failed to do, owing, seemingly, to
the interruption of communications."
"The registry of such power of attorney," he concluded,
"is compulsory, and a copy can be obtained from the customs authorities by any one who pays the trifling fee necessary."
In another paper he gave an account thus:
"In August, 1861, being then the sole registered owner of the
steamship Bermuda, I was in hopes that the blockade imposed
by the Northern government of the United States against the
southern ports might be raised by reason of intervention, arrangement, or otherwise, and I accordingly caused the said
steamship to be sent on a voyage to Charleston, in South Carolina.
"I was also desirous that the said steamship should be sold at
Charleston, or any other port of the United States, if the opportuuity should offer and a sufficient price could be got for her. I
accordingly executed a certificate of sale authorizing Mr. Hanckel and Mr. Trenholm, of Charleston, jointly or severally, to
carry into effect any desirable sale.
"I am informed and believe that the said steamship, in the
prosecution of her voyage, was not warned off by any of the
blockading cruisers, and that she entered the port of Savannah
without meeting with any of such cruisers, or having the opportunity of ascertaining whether the said blockade was in fact still
"mforce, and there discharged her cargo.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BERMUDA.
Statement of the case: Claimants' side.

"In the month of January last the ship returned to England
without having been sold, but the certificate of sale was not
returned to me.
"In the month of February last, 1862, seeing that the blockade
had become effective, and that there was little hope of its being
raised, I caused the ship to be loaded for Bermuda or Nassau;
,and, as there was no intention ofthe said ship entering any of
the blockaded ports, I caused application to be made to the
registrar of shipping at Liverpool, to grant a new certificate of
sale to some parties at Bermuda or Nassau, with a view to her
sale at either of those British ports; but the said registrar declined to issue such new certificate unless the old certificate
should be first given up to him cancelled.
"The old certificate has never been returned to me, probably
by reason of the difficulty of communication between the Southern States and Great Britain; but it was virtually revoked and
annulled in the month of February last, all intention of entering
any of the Southern ports of the United States being then abandoned.
"EDWIN

HAIGH."

L? regard to the 'n ditions of war, Blakely, late a captain in
her Mlajesty's service, butwho was now "a cannon manufacturer and merchant," swore that in shipping the cannon,
shells, fuses, limbers, &c., aboard, which, it appeared, was
his part of the cargo (and which he interposed in the District
Court to claim), he intended part for the government of
Hayti and the rest "for sale at Bermuda or Nassau, in the
usual course of business, to any person willing to purchase
the same," that he bad shipped the goods for Bermuda in
the first instance, the steamer being bound for that port, but
having been informed that Nassau, N. P., offered better opportunities, he desired them to be forwarded thence to Nassau, instructing his friends there, the Mlessrs. Adderly & Son,
to sell those not intended for Hayti "to aniy persons willing
to become purchasers, whether Federals, Confederates, or
others, according to the prices which they might respectively
offer."

[Captain Blakely, however, did not, nor did the Messrs.

THE ]BERAIUDA.

[Slip. ct.

Statement of the case: Claimants' side.

Adderly, though they made oaths in the case,* produce either
originals or copies of these letters.]
It is to be noted, also, that the cargo was by no means
confined to munitions of war and such articles already mentioned as were plainly destined for the rebel States. A large
part of it consisted of British dry goods and of groceries
generally.
As respected the "government passengers" (the engravers or
artists), who undoubtedly wished to run the blockade and
get to Charleston, it appeared that they all got out at Bermuda, and that none of them rejoined the vessel when she
went to Nassau.
So in regard to 31r. Pringleand the South Carolina gentlemen,
registered by disguised names as common sailors, and brought
under obligation not to quarrel, swear, carry sheath knives,
interrupt divine service by indecorous conduct, &c., &c.,
under penalty of forfeiting more or less pay, the explanation
given by Captain Westendorif was, that when they expressed
their wish to embark he was on the point of sailing; and
that they were put on the crew list in order to get round the
*British statutes, which required that before a vessel took
passengers she should be inspected; an operation which
would have required a week's time. All these gentlemen
swore that they knew of no purpose on the vessel's part to
violate the blockade. The testimony of Mr. Pringle was
positive about this.
To the fifth interrogatory, in preparatorio,he answered as
follows:
"The said vessel sailed from Liverpool on her present voyage
and was bound to Bermuda alone, and was not to run any blockade;
so I was assured by the agents, the Messrs. Fraser, Trenholm &
Co., of Liverpool, who are a branch house, I believe, of John
Fraser & Co., of Charleston, S. C."
All the gentlemen, and several of the artists, in fact,
while testifying distinctly their wish and intention to get
* See supra, p. 531.

THE B ERMBUDA.

Dec. 1865.]

Statement of the case: Claimants' side.

into the Southern States, testified that they did not expect
to get there on this vessel. Indeed, on arriving at Bermuda.
they prepared and offered to the captain
A TESTIMONIAL OF PARTING THANKS.
"ON BOARD THE STEAMSHIP BERMUDA,
20th MIarch, 1862.

"DEAR SIR: The undersigned, passengers on board your vessel
from Liverpool to Bermuda, beg leave, before parting with you,
to express their thanks for the kind treatment and unceasing
attention which we have received at your hands. Your efforts
to add to our comfort and make our time pass pleasantly has
served in a great measure to destroy the monotony of a sea
voyage. We also take much pleasure in assuring you that the
strict attention we have observed you paid to the management
of your fine ship has been such as to make us feel always a perfect security and confidence under your care. With our best
wishes for your future prosperity,
We are, dear sir, yours, respectfully,

J. 5. PRINGLE,

W. E. SPARKM31AN,

GEORGE DUNN,
JAMES 11CHUGH,
GEORGE HENRY KEELING,
J. J. PRINGLE, JR.,
J. POINSETT PEINGLE,

W3M. G. E31BLETON,
P. GELLATLY,
J. MC0FARLAND,
ARTHUR HUGER,
JNO. GEMMELL."

It was not pretended that any of these passengers had
concealed their true character from the captain, or in any
way changed at any time their ordinary dress; or that they
had made concealments of any sort.
The following, in material parts, was the letter of instructions, which, when the vessel set sail from Liverpool, the
captain received:
"LIVERPOOL, 28th February, 1862.
"CAPTAIN

C. W. WESTENDORFF,
Steamship Bermuda.

"DEAR SIR: You will proceed hence to the port of Harnilto,
Bermuda, and there deliver your cargo, as per bills of lading.

[Sup. CL

THE BERMUDA.
Argument for the claimants.

Inclosed is a letter of introduction to Mr. N. T. Butterfield, who
will assist you in the purchase of coals and in the disbursements
of your ship. The bills inclosed (X500) on the Bank of Liverpool,
will furnish you the means of paying your disbursements in
Bermuda.
"Instructions will follow you as to a return cargo for your ship.
If you should have any surplus funds after paying the accounts
of the ship, you will bring them in British gold; but should you
require more money than the bills herewith will furnish you, we
authorize you to value upon us at short sight for what may be
wanted, and Mr. Butterfield will assist you in negotiating your
bill upon us.
"Our fiends in St. John, N. B., are Messrs. W. & R. Wright,
and in Nassau, N. P., Messrs. Henry Adderly & Co.; and in case
of having to take cargo from Bermuda to either of these ports, you
will call upon them.
"We are, dear sir, yours truly,
"FRASER, TRENHOLM & CO.,

"1Agents of the owner."

There was no conceaiment, apparently, as to anything on
board. Everything was fairly entered on the bills of lading
and manifest. The crew were shipped, it seemed, for a
term not exceeding twelve months, from Liverpool to Bermuda, thence, if required, to any ports or places in the
West Indies, British North America, United States, and back
to the United Kingdom. The wages, if fairly set down,
seemed to be at a rate not exceeding that of ordinary voyages
in peaceful times, without special risk.
The court below condemned the vessel and the part of her
cargo which consisted of munitions of war; reserving judgment as to the rest. Appeals were now taken here by Mr.
Haigh and Captain Blakely. The case was twice elaborately
and very well argued, both on reason and authorities, once
at the last term and again at this.
Mr. G. 31 Wharton and Mr. W. B. Reed, on both arguments,
for these appellants: There is really no sufficient evidence of
enemy ownership of the vessel. Such ownership is denied
positively by numerous respectable persons on oath. The

Dec. 1865.1

T uE BE~ituDA.
Argument for the claimants.

control which John Fraser & Co., of Charleston, had over
the voyage of the ship, did not clothe them with any ownership, even in a prize court. That control must be treated as
confined to a direction of the ship within the limits of her
prescribed voyage, and if that voyage did not include a trip
to any blockaded port, or to any port of the enemies of the
United States, it cannot affect injuriously the neutral owners.
The power of attorney from Mr. Hlaigh, was not accompanied with any interest in the attorney. Any sale under it
must have been for the use of the principal, and all money
received under it would have been the funds of the principal.
The power had no reference to the then voyage of the Bermuda. It was an unexecuted one and capable of revocation.
If the Bermuda were not, on the voyage in question, destined to a Southern port, the execution of the power would
either have been impracticable, or could only have been
carried into effect through correspondents in some neutral
territory.
Neither is there any sufficient evidence that the vessel
meant to run the blockade. Her instructions were to go to
Bermuda, to deliver her cargo there, and to bring back a return in British gold; and while there was a provision made
for the possibility of carrying the cargo to Nassau, there was
none for a destination beyond. The vessel was captured in
her direct course to a port confessedly neutral. The artists,
who, all admit wished to get to the Southern States, left the
vessel when she got to Bermuda. They left her, because on
be)- they could not get to our Southern States. Mr. Pringle,
and his friends who embarked at Liverpool, it is as plain,
originally expected to go on tids vessel to Bermuda only;
and though they went on her to Nassau afterwards, it was
in the expectation of finding some other conveyance thence
to Charleston. The testimony of Mr. Pringle, whose accuracy no one who knew him will question, is positive that
the parties knew of no purpose to run the blockade. The
unsigned letter attributed to an engineer of the Bermudaand which will be relied on to support a condemnation-disproves intent to run a blockade. After saying that a detee.

538

THE BERIUDA.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

tive was watching them, and that great jealousy existed on
account of the cargo, it declares: "Fortunately they cannot
stop us. We are on a lawful voyage. Poople won't believe
it. They are bound to think we are for running the blockade." And this foregone conclusion about the Bermuda,
which it seems was conveyed here by detectives when she
was on the stocks, has been one of the worst impediments to
justice in our case. The government had ordered the Bermuda to be captured wherever found.* It is assumed, without proof, that the vessel belonged to Fraser, Trenholm &
Co.; and then inferred as an irresistible conclusion that they
could not own any vessel and not set her to breaking a
blockade.
It being impossible to fix unlawful enterprise on the Bermuda, it will be said that the purpose was to transship the
Bermuda's cargo at Bermuda or Nassau? That is easy to
conceive of and to suggest, and even to aver. But conception, suggestion, and even averment are of no weight. Does
the evidence prove such a purpose? We say that it does not.
It will be argued that the "H
Herald" was to perform this
office for the Bermuda. The only thing which gives countenance to such an idea is the unsigned and not very trustworthy letter said to have been written by the Bermuda's
engineer. The inference is a strained one which gets this
purpose of the Herald from that scrawl; one which, moreover, declares on its face that the voyage on which the Bermuda was about to sail, was a "lawful voyage :" which,
would it be if the Herald went as a tender to transship?
The one or two memoranda found on board and said to
have been for Captain Westendorff are of the least possible
significance. If there be anything in them which shows
that they were orders to bring articles through the blockade-which there is not at all as respects the largest-there
is assuredly nothing which proves that Captain Westendorfi
See correspondence of Lord Lyons and Mr. Seward, in August, 1862,
after the capture, in which these general orders referring to a list were rescinded. (Parliamentary papers, lo. 5, 1863.)

Dec. 1865.]

THE BERINIUDA.
Argument for the claimants.

did execute them, or ever meant to execute them, especially
to execute them for this voyage or by this ship.
That portions of the cargo-the cutlery, &c.-were intended to invite purchasers at Bermuda for the Southern
States may be; but that does not prove enemy ownership
in this vessel or her intent to run the blockade. The articles at best were but a fraction, and not a large one, of the
cargo; and after having mingled with the stock of the com-

merce of Bermuda-or INassau,-sold, bond fide, to British
subjects there-would have found purchasers from the
Southern States, of which class of persons the islands had
many.
As to the cannon and other munitions of war-sent by
Captain Blakely-his affidavit in explanation is clear, reasonable, and sufficient. Federals and Confederates to him
were both alike. He was any man's customer in a war.
The fact that Mr. Pringle and his friends, as well as the
artists, were entered on the crew list as sailors is abundantly
explained by Captain Westendorff. They had not disguised
themselves when captured; nor at any time. Indeed there
was no concealment as to any part of the cargo. Everything
was on the bills and manifests.
The counsel for the claimants then submitted these points
of law, which they enlarged upon, enforced, and applied:
1. If the Bermuda were on a voyage, at the time of her
capture, from the port of Bermuda, a neutral port, to the
port of Nassau, another neutral port, being then a British
vessel and owned by a British subject, she was not liable to
capture. In order to render her so liable to capture, under
these circumstances, she must have been actually on a voyage
to Charleston, or some other blockaded port of the Southern
States, with an intent to run the blockade.
2. There can be no legal blockade by a belligerent of any
other than a hostile port. There can be none of a neutral
port. The Bermuda was, therefore, at perfect liberty to
navigate to and fro among the British West India islands,

540

THE

BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

so far as the question of blockade is concerned, unless she
were actually on a voyage to a blockaded port of our country.
No blockade of a Southern port could be lawfully extended
so as to embrace the waters lying between or about the West
India islands.
8. There can be no proper legal assertion of a continued
voyage of which Nassau was but an intermediate port, unless
the evidence shows (which it does not) that the Bermuda
was on her way to a blockaded port, vid Nassau. Every
voyage must have a terminus a quo and a trminvs ad quem;
the latter of which, under the evidence, was a port of discharge in the United Kingdom; and no part of the evidence
shows that the Bermuda herself was to proceed as a part of
her voyage to any blockaded port. It was no breach of the
blockade of any such port to intend to land her cargo, either
at Bermuda or Nassau, even though some other vessel was
afterwards to endeavor to carry on the cargo to Charleston,
provided the Bermuda herself was to return to England.
4. What the voyage of the Bermuda was, is a question of
fact to be deduced from all the evidence in the cause. The
shipping articles which described it with particularity, are
persuasive evidence of the voyage on which the Bermuda
started fiom Liverpool. The letter of instructions to the
captain at that place, is in accordance with the shipping articles. The legal construction of those documents is, that
the violation of a blockade was not embraced by them; and
that if, after arriving at Bermuda the ship should be ordered
to a port of the United States, some open port, and not a
blockaded port, must have been intended. The instruction
to the captain which he received at Bermuda to proceed to
Nassau, exhausted the power which the verbal charterers of
the ship had over her; and after leaving Nassau under the
terms of the voyage, she could only be brought back to the
United Kingdom.
5. British merchants, as neutrals in our present war, had a
perfect right to trade, even in military stores, between their
own ports, and to sell at one of them, even to an enemy of

Dec. 1865.]

THE BERMUDA.

Argument for the claimants.

the United States, goods of all sorts, although with a knowledge that the purchaser bought them with a view of employing them afterwards out of the neutral territory in war
against us. A neutral may sell in his own territoryto either
belligerent, munitions of war; the only exception, so far as
England and America are concerned, being a prohibition
against fitting out vessels of war, or warlike expeditions, in
the neutral country, against one of the belligerents.
6. The question of contraband of war cannot arise withi
respect to any portion of the Bermuda's cargo, unless she
were on a voyage to a blockaded port. It is not necessary in
law to show that it was part of the intention of the shippers
of the cargo to land and sell it at Nassau. If it was intended
to be stored there, and the voyage of the Bermuda to terminate at that place, except as regards her return to England,
no question of contraband can arise in the cause.
7. Spoliation of papers is cause of condemnation, and excludes further proof only as against the party committing it,
if interested in the vessel or cargo. Against a party not
committing the spoliation, and not authorizing it, nor interested in the act, it neither excludes further proof, nor is
it damnatory where other circumstances are clear.
8. There is no proof in the cause that any spoliation of
papers was authorized by Mr. Haigh, or conduced to his
benefit as owner of the ship; nor is there any evidence of
the spoliation of any papers which might properly be considered as proprietary documents.
9. The capture of the Bermuda was unjustifiable; because, first, it was made within the range of modern cannonshot from British territory; second, it was made within a
space embraced by a line drawn due south from the nearest
headland on the island of Abaco, above the place of capture;
third, because it was made, not on the open sea, but in
waters constituting channels between islands belonging to
Great Britain, a neutral power; -and fourth, because it was
made before actual search, and under a general authority to
seize certain vessels wherever found.

THE BER'MUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

On each of these points, we conceive that authorities
sustain us.*
After rument, on the other side, by Mr. Speed, A. G.,
and by 1r. Coffey, special counsel of the captors, who argued
the case thoroughly every way-on the facts, on principles
of public law, and on English and American precedentsThe CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These appeals were very fully and ably argued at the last
term; and, because of the desire of the court to have all the
aid that counsel could give in the examination of the important questions of fact and law presented by the record,
were ordered to be reargued at this term. Under this order
they have been again thoroughly and exhaustively discussed,
and have since received our most deliberate consideration.
The questions arising upon the ownership of .the steamship, will first be disposed of.
She was built in 1861, on the eastern coast of England, at
Stockton-upon-Tees. On the 1st of August in that year,
Edwin Haigh made the declaration of ownership required
by the British Merchants' Shipping Act of 1854.t In this
* On the first three points the counsel cited The Ada, Daveis, 407; The
M1oss, Gilpin, 219; The Steen Bille, cited in Dean op Blockade (Introduction), p. xii; The Jonge Pieter, 4 Robinson, 65; The Stert, Id. 53; The
Maria, 5 Id. 325; The Thomyris, Edwards, 17.
On the 5th and 6th points: Hautefeuille, Des Droits et des Devoirs des
Nations Neutres, tome iii, pp. 222-3; The Imina, 3 Robinson, 167; The
Hendrick and Alida, 1 Hay & Marriot, 96;
heaton's International Law,
668; The Jacob, 1 Robinson, 90; The Tobias, 1 Id. 329; The Franklin, 3
Id. 217; The Neutralitet, 3 Id. 295.
On the 7th and 8th: The Rising Sun, 2 Robinson, 104; The Hunter,
1 Dodson, 480; The Pizarro, 2 Wheaton, 227.
On the 9th: the question of immunity from capture within actual range
of modern cannon-shot-one of the points assumed here-was discussed very
interestingly, and with great ingenuity and learning; but it all having been
on the assumption of a case not regarded by the court as proved, the authorities are not presented.
t 22 British Statutes at Large, 267, 351, 352.

Dec. 1865.]

BnrMUDA.
Dec. 65.]T
Opinion of the court.

declaration he described himself as a natural born British
subject, asserted himself to be the sole and exclusive owner,
and named E. L. Tessier as master. Upon this declaration
a certificate of registry was issued the next day, which repeated the statement that Hlaigh was owner, and Tessier
master; and on the following day, the 2d of August, a joint
and several power of attorney to sell the ship, at any place
out of the kingdom, at any time within twelve months, and
for any price thought sufficient by the attorneys, or either
of them, was given by Haigh to A. S. Hanckel and G. A.
Trenholm, of Charleston, in South Carolina. 'With these
papers the steamship was despatched to Charleston, on her
first voyage; but finding, probably, the entrance of that port
too dangerous, ran successfully the blockade of Savannah,
and returned to England in January, 1862, after an absence
of about five months.
The power of sale was sent to Charleston, and remained
there. ilaigh asserts that this power was intended only for
the first voyage; was given because he wished to have the
steamer sold in Charleston, or in some other port of the
United States, if opportunity should offer, and a sufficient
price could be obtained; and was afterwards virtually revoked when he abandoned the idea of sending her again to
any southern port.
It is unfortunate for the credit of these statements, that
the power was given to enemies of the United States, resident in Charleston, without access to any loyal port except
by running the blockade; that it was not limited by its terms
to the first voyage, but, on the contrary, was to continue in
force twelve months; that it contained no provision insuring
a sufficient price, but left that matter, so important to a real
owner contemplating a real sale, to the decision of the attorneys, or either of them; and that there is no evidence in
the record of any actual revocation of the power, or of any
attempt to revoke it, and none, except Haigh's assertion,
that the purpose of again sending the ship to a rebel port
was ever abandoned.
These first acts bring the ownership into doubt. Haigh

544

THE BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

may have been then the true owner; but it is certainly
strange that he was in such haste to remove her from his
own neutral control, and place her absolutely in the power
and at the disposal of the enemies of the United States.
After her return to England a new voyage was planned
for the Bermuda, and Fraser, Trenholm & Co., under whose
direction, probably, the first voyage was made, now appear
conspicuously in her concerns.
Of the members of this firm, Fraser and Trenholm were,
doubtless,.citizens of South Carolina; so also were, probably,
Prioleau and Wellsman, who are mentioned as partners.*
The only partner whose declaration that he was a British
subject appears in the record was J. R. Armstrong. The
Liverpool house thus composed was a branch of the house of
John Fraser & Co., of Charleston, and was employed as a depositary and agent of the rebel government at Richmond.t
It was under the direction of this firm that the Bermuda
was loaded at Liverpool in February, 1862.
Her former master, Tessier, had been transferred to the
Bahama, then at Stockton-on-Tees, but destined to become
notorious three months later by her employment, under Tessier, in the conveyance of guns and munitions to the Alabama.T In his place, Westendorff had become master of the
Bermuda. This person, a citizen of South Carolina, arrived
in Liverpool from Charleston in December, in command of
the Helen, a ship belonging to John Fraser & Co. Through
Fraser, Trenholm & Co., he obtained the official certificate
of competency necessary to enable him to take command of
the Bermuda, and was appointed master, probably by them,
on the 17th January. On the day before this appointment,
Fraser, Trenholm & Co. had advised John Fraser & Co. of
the despatch of the ship Ella with a cargo to Bermuda Island,
to be followed by the steamship Bermuda with goods. The
letter containing the advice is not in the record, but the fact
appears from a letter of John Fraser & Co. to N. T. Butterfield at Bermuda, relating to these vessels and their cargoes.
* Diplomatic Correspondence, 1863, Part 1, App., p. lxxii.

t lb., 1863, Part I, p. 90.

$ lb., 224, 304, and App., lxxv.

Dec. 1865.]

THE BEMUIDA.
Opinion of the court.

The Bermuda, tt the date of the Liverpool letter, was
lying at a port on the eastern coast, but was at once brought
round to Liverpool to receive her cargo.
Her whole lading was under the direction of the Liverpool
firm. iaigh was not known in it; while, on the other hand,
Fraser, Trenholm & Co. were regarded as owners by many
persons on the ship, and by others who certainly were not
ill-informed. Thus Tessier, then in command of the Bahama,
writing to Westendorff on the 20th February, spoke of
Fraser, Trenholm & Co. as "our owners." And so Graham,
chief engineer of the Bermuda, deposed on the preparatory
examination, "-To the best of my knowledge and belief,
Fraser, Trenholm & Co. of Liverpool, England, are the
owners of the captured vessel." The depositions of Heenan,
Noble, and Pierson, firemen on board, were to the same
effect.
Against this evidence are the declaration of Haigh, the
deposition of Westendorff, and the affidavit of Armstrong,
all affirming ownership in Haigh.
Thus stood matters in relation to ownership when the
Bermuda left Liverpool on the 1st of March. She was controlled absolutely, in all respects, by Fraser, Trenholm &
Co., and they were quite generally regarded as her owners.
They, on the other hand, assert that Haigh was the real
owner, and that they were acting as his agents; admitting,
however, that they had no charter, and no written authority
to represent him.
On the day before sailing, Fraser, Trenhoim & Co. addressed a letter to the master, Westendorff, directing him to
proceed to the island of Bermuda, and deliver his cargo
according to the bills of lading. After some general directions as to money for disbursements and other matters, the
letter concludes with the infbrmation that "the friends" of
the firm "in Nassau, New Providence, are I. Adderly &
Co.," and with a direction to "call on them, in case of having
to take cargo from Bermuda to that port."
Mhat other
special instructions were given to Westendorff, at Liverpool,
the record does not disclose. Every hill of lading required
OL. III.

85

THE BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the cargo mentioned in it to be delivered at Bermuda, to
order or assigns. It is clear that the ship was to go to Bermuda, and not beyond, unless something not specified should
occur; and the cargo was to be delivered there and not elsewhere, except in the same contingency, to the order of
somebody not named.
The ship arrived at the port of St. George's, in Bermuda,
on the 19th or 20th March, and remained there five weeks
waiting for orders.
And here we may expect to learn who was the unnamed
party to whose order the cargo was to be delivered, and what
was the contingency in which it was to be taken from Bermuda to another port.
Haigh asserts, and so does Westendorff, that the unnamed
consignee was one Butterfield, a resident of Hamilton, one
of the ports of Bermuda, and that Butterfield, as consignee
of the cargo, being desirous to have it carried on to INassau,
"made an arrangement with the master to that effect."
Nothing in the proofs supports, but everything contradicts,
this. Butterfield is nowhere named in any paper as consignee; we find no instructions anywhere given to deliver
the cargo to him; nor was it by his direction or arrangement
that the cargo was sent forward from Bermuda to Nassau.
The real state of facts is disclosed by the letters of Fraser,
Trenholm & Co. to John Fraser & Co., and of John Fraser
& Co. to N. T. Butterfield, considered in connection with
some other matters in the record. On the 23d January,
1862, the branch house at Liverpool wrote to the Charleston
house, giving advice of the immediate despatch of the ship
Ella to Bermuda with a cargo consigned to John Fraser &
Co., or their authorized agent, with authority to dispose of
it in any market they should select. This letter suggested
that if the Charleston house should not think best to send
an agent to Bermuda, any communication for the master of
the Ella should be sent, under cover, to Butterfield, and
added, that the master was instructed to await orders at
Bermuda. On the 28th of February the Liverpool firm
directed another letter to John Fraser & Co., or their au-

Dec. 1805.]

THE

BERMUTDA.

Opinion of the court.

thorized agent at Bermuda, in which they spoke of the "invoices and bills of lading" of the cargo of the Bermuda as
"very full, and as suited to facilitate greatly the delivery and
also the transshipment, should this be determined upon."
The letter goes on to say that, "should the loss of any of the
invoices or bills of lading unfortunately happen, duplicates
can be furnished hereafter," but strongly urges, "in case of
an opportunity to send them forward with the letters, the
adoption of the most certain measures of preventing any of
them falling into improper hands."
These letters show what unlimited control John Fraser &
Co. were expected to exercise over the ship and cargo of the
Bermuda; and that control was exercised.
They had been advised of the coming both of the Ella and
Bermuda by the letter of the 16th of January, and on the
1st of April they wrote to their correspondent, Butterfield,
saying: "We suppose the steamer Bermuda may be with
you ere this, and the ship Ella. We will thank you to request the masters to act as follows, namely: Captain Westendorff to take in the tea and other light articles per Ella, if
he has room for them, and proceed to Nassau, reporting
himself, on arrival there, to Nfessrs. Henry Adderly & Co.;
Captain Carter to keep in his cargo, and wait further orders
from us. They will reach him, we think, very shortly."
This direction was received at Hamilton, where Butterfield resided, on the 19th of April, and was forwarded the
same day to Westendolf, at St. George's, and was implicitly
obeyed. Captain Westendorff even refused to allow certain
printing presses and materials, which formed part of his
cargo, to be landed at Bermuda, though requested to do so
by George Dunn, the person who seems to have had them
in charge, and though the bills of lading expressly required
that they should be delivered at Bermuda. He said that the
bills were "signed to be delivered to order;" that "the responsibility" of delivery to Dunn would be too great, unless
he received instructions to that effect.
No ownership could give more absolute control than was
exercised over the ship and whole cargo by John Fraser &

Tim

BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Co. That control and the action of the master leave no
doubt that they were the unnamed party to whom the cargo
was to be delivered, and whose orders the Bermuda was to
await; nor can there be any doubt that Westendorff had
instructions to obey, absolutely and in all things, their directions, both as to ship and cargo.
Whether the cargo was to be transshipped, or to be carried
on to Charleston without transshipment, was probably left
to be determined by circumstances after arrival at Nassau.
It appears from letters and papers in the record that a
light draft steamship, named the Herald, was connected
with the Bermuda as a tender; and it seems that it was to
transshipment into that steamship that Fraser, Trenholm &
Co. referred in their letter of January 28.
There is not much about the Herald in the record; but
what we find is instructive. A letter, dated Liverpool, February 16, 1862, without signature, but addressed to one of
the engineers of the Bahama, and written, probably, by one
of the engineers of the Bermuda, says: "Our tender left
yesterday; don't be at all surprised that we have got a
tender. They bought a light draft boat at Dublin, used to
run the mail once, called the Herald." The writer proceeds
to describe this tender as "two hundred and eighty feet in
length," drawing "ten feet heavy, and five and a half feet
light;" with "her boilers stayed and strengthened;" with
"an average speed of eighteen and a half knots;" with "all
her lower cabins razeed to make cargo space;" with "a
crew shipped for twelve months, for some port or ports south
of Mason's and Dixon's line;" with "three captains on
board: one an Englishman, nominal; another, an experienced coast pilot from the Potomac to Charleston; and
another, the same from Charleston to San Juan." This
correspondent expresses the opinion, that "if the Yankees

catch her, they are smarter than he gives them credit for;"
and adds, "1she waits our arrival at Bermuda," "but goes
into Charleston first, to see about the stone fleet." The
letter of Tessier to Westendorff, written four days later and
already cited, speaks of the Herald as on her voyage across

Dec. 1865.]

Tim BERMUDA.
Opinion of the court.

the Atlantic, under the command of Captain Mitchell. There
is a statement, too, in the deposition of Farrally, one of the
firemen of the Bermuda, that the Herald was at Bermuda
with several captains, while the steamship was there, and
was understood to be intended to run the blockade; and
that it was "the talk that the Herald was connected with
our ship." It appears, also, from a bill of exchange drawn
b MNitchell, master of the Herald, on Fraser, Trenholm &
Co., that 'Westendorff supplied funds for that steamer at
Bermuda.
This bill must have been drawn under instructions, and
the fact strongly confirms what other parts of the record
disclose of the connection between the two vessels.
The attendance of the Herald was, doubtless, to facilitate
transshipment, should transshipment be directed by John
Fraser & Co., and to secure the conveyance of the cargo to
its ultimate destination.
Why no transshipment took place at Bermuda; whether
transshipment was intended at Nassau; whether the Herald
visited Charleston during the detention of 'Westendorff's
ship at St. George's; whether it was finally concluded that
the Bermuda herself should attempt to run the blockade,
are matters thus far left in doubt.
The Bermuda sailed from St. George's on the 23d of April,
and was captured on the 27th.
At the time of capture, two small boxes and a package,
supposed to contain postage-stamps, were thrown overboard,
and a bag, understood to contain letters, was burned. The
bag was burned by the captain's brother, and under the
orders of the captain, after the vessel had been boarded by
the captors. It was burnt, as Westendorff says, in pursuance
of his instructions. One of the passengers, also, burned a
number of letters, which, he says, were private.
The instructions, in pursuance of which this destruction of
papers was made, are not produced; nor is any explanation
of this spoliation offered. The instructions were, doubtless,
given by John Fraser & Co., in view of the contingency of
capture, and were in accordance with the suggestion of

THE B ERMUDA.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

Fraser, Trenholm & Co.'s letter of the 28th of February,
that -the most certain measures should be adopted to prevent any of the bills of lading or invoices falling into improper hands. They, doubtless, included directions for the
destruction of all compromising papers, and among them
of the instructions themselves. If they had been preserved
and produced, it is not unlikely that they would have disclosed the real ownership of the vessel, the true nature of
her employment, and the actual destination of both ship
and cargo.
This spoliation was one of unusual aggravation, and warrants the most unfavorable inferences as to ownership, employment, and destination.
All these transactions, prior to capture, and at the time
of capture, repel the conclusion that Haigh was owner.
Not a document taken on the ship shows ownership in him
except the shipping articles, and these were false in putting
upon the crew list employees of the rebel government and
enemy passengers-the last under assumed names. He was
permitted to put into the cause his original declaration of
ownership of August 1, 1861, by way of further proof; but
we cannot give much weight to this, in view of the " Certificate of Transactions subsequent to Registry," which
shows his execution of the power of sale to Hanckel & Trenholm. After giving that power, there is no indication that
he performed a single act of ownership. No letter alluded
to him as owner. N~To direction relative to vessel or cargo
recognized him as owner. All the papers and all the circumstances indicate rather that a sale was made in Charleston under the power, by which the beneficial control and
real ownership were transferred to John Fraser & Co., while
the apparent title, by the British papers, was suffered to
remain in Iaigh as a cover.
The spoliation makes the conclusion of ownership out of
Haigh and in John Fraser & Co. wellnigh irresistible. Would
the master have obeyed such instructions from John Fraser
& Co., if he bad been really appointed by Haigh, and was
really responsible to him as owner? We are obliged to

Dec.1865.]

Tim :BERMUDA.
Opinion of the court.

think that the ownership of Haigh was a pretence, and that
the vessel was rightly condemned as enemy property.
We will next consider the questions relating both to vessel
and cargo, which join arising from employment in the trade
and under the direction and control shown by the record,
assuming for the moment that Iaigh was owner.
How, then, was the Bermuda employed? In what trade,
and under what control and direction?
The theory of the counsel for Haigh is that she was a
neutral ship, carrying a neutral cargo, in good faith, from
one neutral port to another neutral port; and they insist
that the description of cargo, if neutral, and in a neutral
ship, and on a neutral voyage, cannot be inquired into in
the courts of a belligerent.
We agree to this. Neutral trade is entitled to protection
in all courts. Neutrals, in their own country, may sell to
belligerents whatever belligerents choose to buy. The principal exceptions to this rule are, that neutrals must not sell
to one belligerent what they refuse to sell to the other, and
must not furnish soldiers or sailors to either; nor prepare,
nor suffer to be prepared within their territory, armed ships
or military or naval expeditions against either. So, too,
except goods contraband of war, or conveyed with intent to
violate a blockade, neutrals may transport to belligerents
whatever belligerents may agree to take. And so, agaiu,
neutrals may convey in neutral ships, from one neutral port
to another, any goods, whether contraband of war or not,
if intended for actual delivery at the port of destination, and
to become part of the common stock of the country or of
the port.
It is asserted by counsel that a British merchant, as a
neutral, had, during the late civil war, a perfect right to
trade, even in military stores, between their own ports, and
to sell at one of them goods of all sorts, even to an enemy
of the United States, with knowledge of his intent to employ
them in rebel war against the American government.
If by trade between neutral ports is meant real trade, in

Tim

BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the course of which goods conveyed from one port to another become incorporated into the mass of goods for sale
in the port of destination; and if by sale to the enemies
of the United States is meant sale to either belligerent,
without partiality to either, we accept the proposition of
counsel as correct.
But if it is intended to affirm that a neutral ship may
take on a contraband cargo ostensibly for a neutral port, but
destined in reality for a belligerent port, either by the same
ship or by another, without becoming liable, from the commencement to the end of the voyage, to seizure, in order to
the confiscation of the cargo, we do not agree to it.
Very eminent writers on international maritime law have
denied the right of neutrals to sell to belligerents, even
within neutral territory, articles made for use in war, or to
transport such articles to belligerent ports without liability
to seizure and confiscation of goods and ship. And this is
not an illogical inference from the general maxim that
neutrals must not mix in the war. International law, however, in its practical administration, leans to the side of commercial freedom, and allows both free sale and free conveyance by neutrals to belligerents, if no blockade be violated,
of all sorts of goods except contraband; and the conveyance,
even of contraband goods, will not, in general, subject the
ship, but only the goods, to forfeiture.
We are to inquire, then, whether the Bermuda is entitled
to the protection of this rule, or falls within some exception
to it.
It is not denied that a large part of her cargo was contraband in the narrowest sense of that word. One portion was
made up of Blakely cannon and other guns in cases, of howitzers, of cannon not in cases, of carriages for guns, of shells,
fuses, and other like articles-near eighty tons in all; and
of seven cases of pistols, twenty-one cases of swords, seventy
barrels of cartridges, three hundred whole barrels, seventyeight half-barrels, and two hundred and eighty-three quarterbarrels of gunpowder. Another portion consisted of printing-presses and materials, paper, and Confederate States

Dec. 1865.]

THE

BERMUDA.

553

Opinion of the court.

postage stamps, and is described in a letter, found on board,
as "presses and paraphernalia domplete," "obtained from
Scotland by a commissioner of the Confederate government,'
and sent with a "lot of printers and engravers." The names
of these printers and engravers, or at least the names by
which they were known on board, are in the crew list; but
*Westendorff, in a letter already referred to, calls them his
"government passengers;" and all the facts connected with
this part of the cargo indicate that it actually belonged to
the rebel government and was intended for its immediate
use. Other very considerable portions of the cargo were
also contraband within the received definitions of the term.
The character of this cargo makes its ulterior, if not direct, destination to a rebel port quite certain. And there
is other evidence. The letters of Fraser, Trenhoim & Co.
make distinct references to the contingency of transshipment;
and the evidence shows that the Herald was sent over with
a view to this. The consignment of the whole cargo was to
order or assigns-that is to say, as we have seen, to the
order of John Fraser & Co. or assigns, and is conclusive, in
the absence of proof to the contrary, that its destination was
the port in which the consignee resided and transacted business.* There is much other evidence leading to the same
conclusion; but it is needless to go further.
It makes no difference whether the destination to the rebel
port was ulterior or direct; nor could the question of destination be affected by transshipment at Nassau, if transshipment was intended, for that could not break the continuity
of transportation of the cargo.
The interposition of a neutral port between neutral departure and belligerent destination has always been a favorite
resort of contraband carriers and blockade-runners. But it
never avails them when the ultimate destination is ascertained. A transportation from one point to another remains
continuous, so long as intent remains unchanged, no matter
what stoppages or transshipments intervene.
Grove v. O'Brien, 8 Howard, 439; Lawrence v. Yinturn, 17 Id. 106.

THE

BERMIUDA.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This was distinctly declared by this court in 1855,* in reference to American shipments to Mexican ports during the
war of this country with Iexico, as follows: "Attempts
have been made to evade the rule of public law by the interposition of a neutral port between the shipment from the
belligerent port and the ultimate destination in the enemy's
country; but in all such cases the goods have been condemned as having been taken in a course of commerce rendering them liable to confiscation."
The same principle is equally applicable to the conveyance of contraband to belligerents; and the vessel which,
with the consent of the owner, is so employed in the first
stage of a continuous transportation, is equally liable to capture and confiscation with the vessel which is employed in
the last, if the employment is such as to make either so
liable.
This rule of continuity is well established in respect to
cargo.
At first, Sir William Scott held that the landing and warehousing of the goods and the payment of the duties on importation was a sufficient test of the termination of the original voyage; and that a subsequent exportation of them to
a belligerent port was lawful.t But in a later case, in an
elaborate judgment, Sir William GrantJ reviewed all the
cases, and established the rule, which has never been shaken,
that even the landing of goods and payment of duties does
not interrupt the continuity of the voyage of the cargo, unless there be an honest intention to bring them into the
common stock of the country. If there be an intention,
either formed at the time of original shipment, or afterwards, to send the goods forward to an unlawful destination,
the continuity of the voyage will not be broken, as to the
cargo, by any transactions at the intermediate port.
There seems to be no reason why this reasonable and settled doctrine should not be applied to each ship where several
* Jecker v. Montgomery, 18 Howard, 114.

t

The Polly, 2 Robinson, 369.
1 The William, 5 Id. 395; 1 Kent's Commentaries, 84, note

Dec. 1865.]

TnE

BERMUDA.

Opinion of the court.

are engaged successively in one transaction, namely, the conveyance of a contraband cargo to a belligerent. The question of liability must depend on the good or bad faith of the
owners of the ships. If a part of the voyage is lawful, and
the owners of the ship conveying the cargo in that part are
ignorant of the ulterior destination, and do not hire their
ship with a view to it, the ship cannot be liable; but if the
ulterior destination is the known inducement to the partial
voyage, and the ship is engaged in the latter with a view to
the former, then whatever liability may attach to the final
voyage, must attach to the earlier, undertaken with the same
cargo and in continuity of its conveyance. Successive voyages, connected by a common plan and a common object,
form a plural unit. They are links of the same chain, each
identical in description with every other, and each essential
to the continuous whole. The ships are planks of the same
bridge, all of the same kind, and all necessary to the convenient passage of persons and property from one end to the
other.
There remains the question whether the Bermuda, on the
supposition that she was really a neutral ship, should be condemned for the conveyance of contraband. For, in general,
as we have seen, a neutral may convey contraband to a belligerent, subject to no liability except seizure in order to
confiscation of the offending goods. The ship is not forfeited, nor are non-offending parts of the cargo.
This has been called an indulgent rule, and so it is.* It
is a great, but very proper relaxation of the ancient rule,
which condemned the vessel carrying contraband as well as
the cargo. But it is founded on the presumption that the
contraband shipment was made without the consent of the
owner given in fraud of belligerent rights, or, at least, with-out intent on his part to take hostile part against the country
of the captors; and it must be recognized and enforced in
all cases where that presumption is not repelled by proof.
* The Ringendo Jacob, 1 Robinson, 90; The Sarah Ohristina, Id. 238.

See opinions of Bynkershoeck and Heineccius, cited in notes to The Mer.
curius, Id. 288, and The Franklin, 3 Id. 222.

THE

BERMUDA.,

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The rule, however, requires good faith on the part of the
neutral, and does not protect the ship where good faith is
wanting.
The Franklin, therefore, carrying contraband with a false
destination, was condemned, after mature consideration, by
Sir William Scott in 1801.* He said that, "the benefit of
the relaxation could only be claimed by fair cases." This
doctrine was shortly after applied to The .Neutalitet by the
same great judge ;t and it received the sanction of this court
in an opinion delivered by an equal judge, in 1834.4 The
leading principle governing this class of cases was stated
very clearly by Mr. Justice Story in that opinion, thus:
"The belligerent has a right to require a frank and bonAfide
conduct on the part of neutrals in the course of their commerce in times of war, and if the latter will make use of
fraud and false papers to elude the just rights of belligerents
and cloak their own illegal purposes, there is no injustice in
applying to them the penalty of confiscation."
Mere consent to transportation of contraband will not always or usually be taken to be a violation of good faith.
There must be circumstances of aggravation. The nature
of the contraband articles and their importance to the belligerent, and the general features of the transaction, must be
taken into consideration in determining whether the neutral
owner intended or did not intend, by consenting to the transportation, to mix in the war.
The Ranger, though a neutral vessel, was condemned for
being employed in carrying a cargo of sea stores to a place
of naval equipment under false papers. The owner had not
consented, but the master had, and Sir William Scott said,
"If the owner will place his property under the absolute
management and control of persons who are capable of lending it in this manner to be made an instrument of fraud in
the hands of the enemy, he must sustain the consequences
of such misconduct on the part of his agent."
The Franklin, 3 Robinson, 224.

t

t The Neutralitet, Id. 296.

Carrington v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 8 Peters, 518, opinion by
The Ranger, 6 Robinson, 126.
Story. J.

Dec. 1865.]

TiE BERMUDA.
Opinion of the court.

So, too, The Joage Enzilia, a neutral vessel, was condemned
on the ground that she appeared to have been altogether in
the hands of enemy merchants and employed for seven voyages successively in enemy trade;* and The Oarolat was
condemned for employment in the transportation of troops,
though the master alleged that it was under duress, and the
actual service was at an end.
Now, what were the marks by which the conveyance of
contraband on the Bermuda was accompanied? First, we
have the character of the contraband articles, fitted for
immediate military use in battle, or for the immediate civil
service of the rebel government; then the deceptive bills of
lading requiring delivery at Bermuda, when there was either
no intention to deliver at Bermuda at all, or none not subject to be changed by enemies of the United States; then
the appointment of one of these enemies as master, necessarily made with the kowlege and consent of Haigh, if he

was owner; then the complete surrender of the vessel to
the use and control of such enemies, without even the pretence of want of knowledge, by the alleged owner, of her
destined and actual employment.
We need not go further. We are bound to say, considering the known relations of Fraser, Trenholm & Co. with the
rebel leaders; and the relations of John Fraser & Co. to the
same combination, justly inferable from the fact that they
were the consignees of the whole cargo; and considering,
also, the ascertained character of most of it, that it seems
to us highly probable that the ship, at the time of capture,
was actually in the service of the so-called Confederate
government, and known to be so by all parties interested in
her ownership.
However this may be, we cannot doubt that the Bermuda
was justly liable to condemnation for the conveyance of contraband goods destined to a belligerent port, under circumstances of fraud and bad faith, which make the owner, if
* The Jonge Emilia, 3 Robinson, 52.

t- The Carolina, 4 Id. 256.

THE BERMUDA.[SpCt

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Haigh was owner, responsible for unneutral participation in
the war.
The cargo, having all been consigned to enemies, and most
of it contraband, must share the fate of the ship.
Having thus disposed of the questions connected with the
ownership, control, and employment of the Bermuda, and
the character of her cargo, we need say little on the subject
of liability for the violation of the blockade. 'What has
been already adduced of the evidence, satisfies us completely
that the original destination of the Bermuda was to a blockaded port; or, if otherwise, to an intermediate port, with
intent to send forward the cargo by transshipment into a
vessel provided for the completion of the voyage. It may
be that the instructions to Westendorff were not settled
when the steamship left St. George's for Nassau; but it is
quite clear to us that the ship was then at the disposition
of John Fraser & Co., and that the voyage, begun at Liverpool with intent to violate the blockade, delayed at St.
George's for instructions from that firm, continued toward
N~assau with the purpose of completion from that port to a
rebel port, either by the Bermuda herself or by, transshipment, was one voyage from Liverpool to a blockaded port;
and that the liability to condemnation for attempted breach
of blockade was, by sailing with such purpose, fastened on
the ship as firmly as it would have been by proof of intent
that the cargo should be transported by the Bermuda herself to a blockaded port, or as near as possible, without
encountering the blockading squadron, and then sent in by
a steamer, like the Herald, of lighter draft or greater speed.
We have not thought it necessary to examine the questions made by counsel touching the right of belligerents to
make captures within cannon-shot range of neutral territory,
for there is nothing in the evidence which proves to our
satisfaction that the Bermuda was within such range.
Our conclusion is, that both vessel and cargo, even if
both were neutral, were rightly condemned; and, on every
ground, the decree below must be
.AFFIRMED.

Dec. 1865.]

Tim

HART.

Statemenit of the case.
[After the preceding confirmation of the decree of the District Court of
Philadelphia-which, it will have been noted by the reader, was one condemning only the vessel (claimed by Haigh), and the munitions of war, &c.
(claimed by Captain Blakely)-judgment as to the residue of the cargo
having been reserved,-a decree was passed by the District Court, condemn-ing this whole residue also.-See 23 Legal Intelligencer, 116.]

NOTE.

Along with the preceding case was submitted another,
much like it, the case ofTEE HART.
Neutrals who place their vessels under belligerent control, and engage them
in belligerent trade; or permit them to be sent with contraband cargoes,
under cover of false destination, to neutral ports, while the real destination is to belligerent ports; impress upon them the character of the
belligerent in whose service they are employed, and the vessels may be
seized and condemned as enemy property.
THE present case came here by appeal from a decree of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York; a decree condemning the schooner Hart and her
cargo as lawful prize of war. The vessel was claimed below by
one Harris; the cargo by Samuel Isaacs.
The whole cargo consisted of arms and munitions of war,
taken on board, principally, at London, under the direction of

agents of the rebel government, with consent, by the owner or
owners of the schooner, to the intended fraud on belligerent
rights. The nominal destination of the vessel and cargo was
Cardenas; but the preparatory proofs clearly established that
this pretended destination was false, and that the entire lading
was to be there transshipped, to be conveyed by a swifter vessel,
or was to be carried on without transshipment to its belligerent
destination, at the discretion of the rebel agent, whose instructions the master was directed to receive and obey on arrival at
Cardenas.
M. Coffey, for the captors; no one appearing,nor any argument
being submitted for the claimants.

