Dec. 1S65.]

THE KIMBALL.
Statement of the case.

like it. The reason is apparent, for it is outside the acknow
ledged limit of admiralty cognizance over marine torts,
among which it has been sought to be classed. The remedy
for the injury belongs to the courts of common law.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE ]KIMBALL.
1. Stipulations in a charter-party requiring the delivery of the cargo within
reach of the ship's tackle, and providing that the balance of the chartermoney remaining unpaid on the termination of the homeward voyage
shall be " payable, one-half in five, and one-half in ten days after discharge" of the cargo, are not inconsistent with the right of the owner
to retain the cargo for the preservation of his lien.
2. A clause in a charter-party, by which the owner binds the vessel, and
the charterers bind the cargo, for the performance of their respective
covenants, is sufficient to repel doubt arising upon the construction of
other stipulations not plainly controlling them, as to whether the lien
for freight was intended to be waived by the parties.
3. By the general commercial law a promissory note does not extinguish
the debt for which it is given, unless such be the express agreement of
the parties; it only operates to extend until its maturity the period ';,r
the payment of the debt. The creditor may return the note when dishonored, and proceed upon the original debt. The acceptance of the
note is considered as accompanied with the condition of its payment.
And although in M3assachusetts the rule is different, and the presumption of law there is that a promissory note extinguishes the debt for
which it is given, yet there the presumption may be repelled by evidence
that such was not the intention of the parties; and this evidence may
arise from the general nature of the transaction, as well as from direct
testimonyto the fact.
4. Upon this ground it is not to be presumed that the owner of a ship, having
a lien upon a cargo for the payment of the freight, intended to waive
his lien by taking the notes of the charterers drawn so as to be payable
at the time of the expected arrival of the ship in port. The notes being
unpaid, he may return them and enforce his lien.

TiE owner of the Kimball chartered her, in July, 1856,
to a Boston firm, for a round voyage from New York to
Melbourne, Calcutta, and Boston. The charter-party, in
most of its provisions, was in the usual form. A portion of
the charter-money was to be paid, and was paid, before or

TjaE ]KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

during the voyage; "balance," the instrument proceeded,
"payable, one-half in five and one-half in ten days, after
.discharge of homeward cargo."
The charter-party contained, also, a clause that the cargo
should "be received and delivered within reach of the ship's
tackles at the ports of lading and discharging," and concluded
with the not unusual provision, that for the performance of
its covenants the parties bound themselves-the party of the
first part, the vessel, her fieight, tackle, and appurtenances;
the party of the second, the freight and merchandise to be
laden aboard-each to the other, in the penal sum of $40,000.
While the ship was yet at sea, the charterers, at, the
owner's request, gave him their notes for $10,000. They
were drawn so as to be payable near the time when it was
expected that the ship would arrive; and it appeared by
the testimony of the broker who had been concerned in the
matter, that they were given for the accommodation of the
owner, and were to be held over or renewed in case they fell
due before the ship reached home. The owner, in a receipt
for the notes, stated that he had received them "on account
of the charter," and that it was "understood that this amount
was to be insured by the charterers and charged to the
owners of the ship." The owner used the notes, and obtained money on one of them at a bank where he had an
account. The charterers effected insurance on the $10,000,
in pursuance of the agreement. The vessel arrived about
five weeks before the notes by their terms fell due.
Shortly before the vessel arrived home, an4 before the
notes fell due, the charterers failed. The owner immediately tendered them back their notes, but they would not
receive them.
By the terms of the charter-party the cargo was to be deliverable to the consignees, "they paying freight as per
.charter-party," and after the arrival of the vessel, the owners,
asserting a lien on the cargo for the unpaid money, and refusing to credit as payment on account, the notes for $10,000,
filed a libel in the District Court for Massachusetts to enforce
the lien. TIis libel was filed on the 18th March, 1858; the

Dec. 1865.]

TnE ]KIMALL.
Argument against the lien.

notes, which were produced and tendered in court, having
fallen due on the 3d preceding. On appeal to this court
from the Circuit Court, where the matter went on appeal
from the District Court, two questions arose.
1. Whether the ordiny lien of the ship-owner was displaced by anything in the charter-party?
2. Whether the notes of the charterers were to be considered as payment?
The Circuit Court, reversing the District Court, had held
negatively on both points.
MIr. Tltaxler for the owners of the cargo, appellants:
I. In ItBpoad v. Tyson* it is said, by Wayne, J., that the
lien of the ship-owner for freight or hire "may be considered
as having been waived without express words to that effect,
if there are stipulations in the charter-party inconsistent with
* the exercise of the lien, or where it can be fairly inferred
that the owner meant to trust to the personal responsibility
of the charterer."
Neither will the subsequent insolvency of the charterer
restore a lien once waived or lost. In Alsage, v. The St.
Katherie -Dock C.,t a case like this, where insolvency had
given rise to the litigation, Chief Baron Pollock said, "Did
the owner intend to abandon his lien and receive payment
of the freight two months after the inward report, or did he
mean to retain his lien, and keep his right to refuse delivery
of the cargo until the freight was paid? If the ship-owner
could not have refused to deliver the goods provided the
charteri,'had continued solvent, he cannot maintain that claim
now."
Now, we say that the stipulation in the charter, that the
cargo should be delivered within reach of the ship's taekle, is inconsistent with the right of retaining it to enforce the lien
set up; which retention involves the unloading and storing
of the cargo.
* 17 Howard, 69 ; see also Dimech v. Corlett, 12 MIocre, Privy Council,
199.
f 14 3Meeson &,Welsby, 794.

THE KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the lien.

Independently of this stipulation, the credit given for the
payment of the balance of the charter-money after discharge
at the home port, is inconsistent with the existence of a lien

and the discharge of the ship and the delivery of the 2argo
according to the usual and customary manner. This clause
giving this credit was inserted for the benefit of the charterers.
It is not merely a formal part of the charter, but is a living,
active provision, having reference to the contract intended to
be made, and such a construction must be given to the charter as shall make this clause operate as a beneficial credit.
Again: we think that by the true construction of this
charter, the parties intended that the cargo should be discharged and delivered in the usual and customary manner.
If,
then, the retention of the cargo for the purpose of retaining a lien thereon until the expiration of the credit, will prevent the discharge and delivery of the cargo in the usual and
customary way, such retention cannot be authorized.* The
usual and customary course is to give notice to the consignee
or owner of the goods when his goods are to be discharged,
dnd then to discharge them upon the wharf, when the liability of the carrier as such ceases, and the goods are at the
risk of the owner.t But to give full effect to the credit specified, and preserve the lien, the master must have discharged
his cargo and stored it, no matter how many different subfreighters there may have been.
The printed clause at the end of the charter-party,-a
clause found in nearly all charter-parties-which agrees to
bind the freight and merchandise to be laden on board to a
performance of the contract,-has no application to this part
of the contract. As was said by Baron Bramwell, in -Fosterv.
Colby,* "The true meaning of that clause is, that the owner
is to have a lien so far as a lien is possible." Baron Watson, in the same case, said, in reply to the argument that
this clause gave an absolute lien on the cargo, "It is impos.
* Foster v. Colby, 3 Hurlstone & Norman, 705; Alsager v. St. Katherine
Dock Co.
j Richardson v. Goddard, 23 Howard, 28; Houlden v. The General Steam
Nav. Co., 3 Foster & Finlason, 170 Black v. Rose, 10 Jurist, N. S., 1009

Dec. 1865.]

TuE K IMBALL.
Argument against the lien.

sible there can be a lien for money not due." And again,
"If the vessel is discharged abroad, the freight is 'to be paid
in cash on right delivery of the cargo.' The clause giving a
lien would attach in that case. The true meaning is, that
wherever there can be a lien the ship-owner is to have it,"
&c. So in this case, the clause giving a lien would attach
to the outward freight and to demurrage.
The cases of The Volunteer,* and of Certain Logs of .3Mahogcy,t-circuit rulings of the late Story, J.,-might be
supposed to militate with our view. But they do not. The
former is distinguishable from this. There the freight was
payable "within ten days after the schooner's return to Boston." It appeared by the duty-collection list that the time
for entering at the custom-house was such that Story, J.,
found "that an wolivery could be rightfully postponed beyond the ten days after the return of the ship, when by the
terms of the charter-party the freight would become due."
The case of Ccrta , Logs of .lahogany is peculiar, and can
well stand upon the fact that it was agreed that the cargo
should be subject to the lien for freight, notwithstanding the
provision making the freight payable in five days after her
discharge.
H. As respects the notes. We suppose it to be well settled
where an advance is made upon freight or charter-money,
in money or notes, with an agreement that the advance is
to be insured for or by the shipper or charterer, that such
advance shall be treated as a pre-payment of freight, at the
risk of the shipper, which, to the extent of it, discharges
the lien.1
And whatever may be the doctrine of particular States as
to the effect of taking a promissory note on the original
debt, yet it is equally true that it will be treated by all
courts, everywhere, as payment, where it appears that the
parties so intended it: as we think it was intended here.
f 2 Id. 602.
1 Sumner, 570.
$ Hicks v. Shield, 7 Ellis & Blackburne, 6033; Jackson v. Isaacs, 3 Hurlstone & Norman, 405; Trayes v. Worms, 12 Law Times, N. S., 547; Tolmaeo v. Simpson, 13 Id. 160.

42

TnF KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Whether these notes are to be considered as payment oi
not, it is well settled that no action could be brought on the
original debt until .their maturity, and the taking of them
was tantamount to an agreement on the part of the owner
to give the charterers the credit expressed on their face for
that amount of the charter-money.* The notes were not due
when the ship arrived and the cargo became deliverable;
nor till five weeks afterwards.
Xr. B. B. Curtis, who argued the case fully on principle and
authorities, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
Two questions are presented for determination in this
case: first, whether the lien of the owner of the ship upon
the cargo for the freight was waived or displaced by the
stipulations of the charter-party; and, second, whether the
notes given for a portion of the charter-money constituted
payment of the same.
It is admitted that the lien of the owner of a ship upon its
cargo for freight is favored by the courts; and will not be
displaced, so long as the ship-owner retains possession of
the cargo, except by express contract, or by stipulations in
the charter-party inconsistent with its exercise. The position of the appellants is, that there are such inconsistent
stipulations in the charter-party in this case; and two clauses
are mentioned in support of this position,-the clause requiring the .delivery of the cargo within reach of the ship's
tackle, and the clause providing that the balance of the charter-money remaining unpaid on the termination of the homeward voyage shall be "payable one-half in five and one-half
in ten days after discharge" of the cargo.
There is nothing in these provisions inconsistent with the
'right of the owner to retain the cargo for the preservation
of his lien. The first clause only designates the place where
the delivery must be had, which, in this case, is the wharf
at which the ship may be lying. The second clause only
* Belshaw v. Bush, 11 Common Bench, 191; Price v. Price, 16 Meeson
239; 'Wheeler v. Schroeder, 4 Rhode Island, 383.

& Wels')y,

Dec. 1865.]

THE KIMBALL.
Opinion of the court.

prescribes the period in which payment must be made after
the discharge of the cargo. The discharge mentioned does
not import a delivery of the cargo; it only imports its unlading from the ship. Such is the obvious meaning of the
term, and so it has been judicially held.* The clause was intended for the benefit of the charterers. It gives them ample
time to examine the goods, and ascertain their condition,
and decide whether they will take them and pay the freight,
or decline to receive them. They can waive it and take the
cargo short of the period designated, if it be ready for delivery.
The cases cited by the appellants do not support their position. In Foster v. Colby,t the charter-party provided that
the remainder due for freight should be paid "in cash two
months from the vessel's report inwards at London or Liverpool, and after right delivery of the cargo." The stipulation for the payment after the delivery of the cargo was inconsistent with the existence of a lien. In Alsager v. St.
Katerine Dock C04.,t the charter-party contained two clauses,
one providing for the delivery of the cargo on payment of
the freight at a stipulated price, and the other providing for
the payment of the freight "two months after the vessel's
inward report at the custom-house." The court reconciled
these clauses by annexing to the first the qualification as to
the time of payment contained in the second, and read them
together as requiring payment two months after delivery.
The payment being thus considered to be irrespective of the
delivery it followed that no lien existed.
There is no doubt that a credit for the freight may be
given for so great a period as to justify, in the absence of
any provision for the delivery of the cargo, the inference
that the ship-owner intended to waive his right to a lien,
find to look solely to the personal responsibility of the charterers. It is sufficient, however, that there is no such credit
given in the present pse. Here the period allowed is only
a reasonable one for examining the condition of the cargo.
* Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumner, 589.

" 3 Hurlstone & Norman, 705.

+ 14 Meeson & Welsby, 794.

THE, KDIBALL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But if there were any doubt as to the construction of the
provision for the credit, it is dispelled by the concludiig
clause of the charter-party. By that clause the owner binds
the vessel, and the charterers bind the cargo for the performance of all their respective covenants, of which the payment of the charter-money is one. Though the law, in the
absence of any stipulations on the subject, ordinarily implies
this mutual security in every contract of affreightment, yet
its distinct statement in the charter-party shows that the
attention of the parties was called to it, and is an important
circumstance to be considered in the construction of other
stipulations of the instrument respecting the payment of the
freight.
In the case of the Schooner Volwnteer,* Mr. Justice Story
had occasion to consider the effect of a similar clause in a
charter-party. In that case the charterers had agreed to pay
for the freight "within ten days after the return of the vessel
to Boston," or in case of loss after she was last heard from;
and the question was, whether the allowance of the ten days
for the payment of the freight amounted-to a waiver of the
lien? The learned judge held that it did not, and in this
connection considered the effect of the clause named. After
an extended examination of the authorities, he came to the
conclusion that it contained an express contract for a lien;
and if it did not, still that it contained enough to repel any
notion that the delivery of the goods should precede the
payment of the freight, or that the lien of the maritime law
for freight was intended to be waived by the parties
The second question for determination is, whether the
notes given for a portion of the charter-money constituted
payment of the same?
The notes were given before the termination of the voyage, and, consequently, before the balance of the chartermoney became due. Treating them ai an advance of a portion of the freight, they could be recovered back, or their
amount, if paid, if the vessel did not arrive. Freight being
* 1 Sumner, 651.

Dec. 1865.]

THE KIBALL.
Opinion of the court.

the compensation for the carriage of goods, if paid in advance, is in all cases, unless there is a special agreement to

the contrary, to be refunded, if from any cause not attributable to the shipper the goods be not carried.* And there
was no such special agreement in this case. The notes were
drawn so as to mature near the time of the anticipated arrival of the ship, and according to the statement of the broker
who made the arrangement, they were given for the accommodation of the ship-owner, and were to be held over or
renewed in case they fell due before the arrival. This statement is consistent with the nature of the transaction, and is
sufficient to repel any presumption, under the law of Massachusetts, that the notes were taken in discharge or payment
of the claim for Ihe charter-money. The presumption which
prevails in that State, that a promissory note extinguishes
the debt or claim for which it is given, may be repelled by
any circumstances showing that such was not the intention
of the parties.
By the general commercial law, as well of England as of
the United States, a promissory note does not discharge the
debt for which it is given unless such be the express agreement of the parties; it only operates to extend until its
maturity the period for the payment of the debt. The creditor may return the note when dishonored, and proceed
upon the original debt. The acceptance of the note is considered as accompanied with the condition of its payment.
Thus it was said, as long ago as the time of Lord Holt, that
"a bill shall never go in discharge of a precedent debt,
except it be part of the contract that it should be so."t
Such has been the rule in England ever since; and the same
rule prevails, with few exceptions, in the United States.
.The doctrine proceeds upon the obvious ground, that nothing can be justly considered as payment in fact, but that
which is in truth such, unless something else is expressly
agreed to be received in its place. That a mere promise to
* 'Watson v. Duykinck, 8 Johnson, 335; Griggs v. Austin, 3 Pickering,
20; Phelps v. 'Williamson, 5 Sandford, 598.
t Clark v. Mundel, 1 Salkeld, 124.

46

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pay cannot of itself be regarded as an effective payment is
manifest.
The rule in Massachusetts is an exception to the general
law; but even there, as we have said, the presumption that
the note was given in satisfaction of the debt may be repelled and controlled by evidence that such was not the
intention of the parties, and this evidence may arise from
the general nature of the transaction, as well as from direct
testimony to the fact. Thus, in Butts v. Dean,* where a note
was given for a debt secured by the bond of a third person,
it was held that it was not to be presumed that the creditor
intended to relinquish his security, and, therefore, the note
was not to be deemed payment for the original debt. And
following this and other like authorities ot that State, Mr.
Justice Sprague, of the United States District Court, held
that a lien for materials furnished a vessel built in Massachusetts, a lien given in such a case, by a law of that State, was
not displaced or impaired by the creditors taking the notes
of the debtor.t
And on like grounds, we think that any presumption of a
discharge of the claim of a ship-owner, and of his lien upon
the cargo in this case, by his taking the notes of the charterers, is repelled and overthrown.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.
1. Appeals from the District Courts of California, under the act of 3d March,
1851-which, while giving an appeal from them to this court, makes
no provision concerning returns here, and none concerning citations,
and which does not impose any limitation of time within which the
appeal may be allowed-are subject to the general regulations of the
Judiciary Acts of 1789 and 1803, as construed by this court.
Hence, the allowance of the appeal, together with a copy of the record and
the citation, when a citation is required, must be returned to the next
term of this court after the appeal is allowed.
* 2 Mfetcalf, 76.

fPage v. Hubbard, Sprague, 338.

