IROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The first of the questions certified to us must be answered
in the affirmative, and the second in the negative.
A 1SWERS ACCORDINGLY.

IROGERS V. BURLINGTON.
1. Where a demurrer to a declaration in the Circuit Court is improperly
sustained, and judgment is rendered accordingly, the case may be reexamined here upon a writ of error without any formal bill of exceptions.
2. Power "to borrow money for any public purpose" gives authority to a
municipal corporation to borrow money to aid a railroad company,
making its road as a way for public travel and transportation; and, as
a means of borrowing money to accomplish this object, such municipal
corporation may issue its bonds, to be sold by the railway company,
to raise the money.
8. Power to issue the bonds being shown, the municipal corporation, as
against bonafide holders of them for value, is estopped to deny that the
power was properly executed.

THE act of incorporation of the city of Burlington, in

[owa, vested the government and legislative power of the
city in a city council, composed of the mayor and a board
of aldermen. In addition to conferring various police powers, it authorized the city council to establish and organize
fire companies, and provide them with proper engines, and
such other instruments as might be necessary to extinguish
fires; to establish and construct landing-places, wharves,
docks, and basins within the city; to cause all grounds
within the city, where water should at any time become
stagnant, to be raised, filled up, or drained; and to cause to
be opened, paved, repaired, or improved, any street, lane,
alley, market-space, public landing, or common. The act
then provides, in its 27th section, as follows:
"1That whenever, in tie opinion of the city council, it is ex.
podient to borrow moneb for any public purpose, the question

Dec. 1865.]

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON
Statement of the case.

shall be submitted to the citizens of Burlington, the nature and
object of the loan shall be stated, and a day fixed for the electors
of the said city to express their wishes; the like notice shall be
given as in cases of an election. The loan shall not be made
unless two-thirds of all the votes polled at such election shall be
given in the affirmative."
Assuming to act under this section, the city council, on
the 23d of June, 1856, passed
" Ordinance No. 44.
'An ordinance to authorize a loan of city bonds to the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company, &c.
"Whereas, at a meeting of the city council, held on the 19th
of May, 1856, a resolution was adopted, authorizing the mayor
to call an election, and to submit the question, whether or not
the city issue and lend to the Burlington and 3issouri River Railroad Company $75,000, in the bonds of said city; said bonds
payable in twenty years from date of issue, with an interest of
10 per cent. per annum, and to be secured by the first mortgage
bonds of said company, &c. And whereas the said election was
duly and legally held on the 2d of June, 1856, and the said question was legally decided in favor of the same, whereby said loan
is duly authorized to be made. Therefore,
"Be it ordained, by the City Council of the City,of Burlington,
"1st. The bonds of the city, to the extent of $75,000, and in
such amounts as the mayor may direct, bearing interest, and
payable as aforesaid, and duly signed, sealed, and authenticated,
and with coupons for interest, be issued by said city.
"2d. That the mayor execute, with the said company, a contract of loan thereof; taking therefor the obligation of said company, and as collateral security therefor the mortgages aforesaid,
and deliver said bonds to said company, and receive said mortgages."

Under the authority of this ordinance, bonds of the city
to the amount of $75,000 were issued. The bonds were
coupon bonds in the ordinary form; except in so far, perhaps, as they declared on their face that they were issued,
by the city of Burlington, under Ordinance 44, to authorize
a loan of city bonds, to the amount of $75,000, to the Bur.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the city.

lington and Missouri Railroad Company, and as they con.
tained a copy of the ordinance printed at large upon their
back.
Certain of these instruments having got, after this, into
the hands of one Rogers, a bona fide holder for value, and
the interest being unpaid, he brought suit in the Circuit
Court for Iowa to recover it.
The defendant demurred, among other grounds, on the
following:
1st. That the petition did not aver nor show that the city
had any authority to issue the bonds therein described.
2d. That the bond-, on their face showed that they were not
issued for any municipal purpose, but as a loan of the credit
of the city to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company.
3d. That there was no law of the State of Iowa authorizing the city to issue such bonds, or to lend her credit to any
railroad company.
The demurrer was sustained, and judgment rendered for
the defendant. To review this judgment, the case was
brought here on writ of error.
.fessrs. Ewing, Browning and rPheps, for the atiy of Barlington: The question before the court arises on demurrer,
and is a precise one. We assert that the city had no authority to issue the bonds sued upon; and that, having been
issued without authority, they are null and void, and cannot
be recovered upon. More particularly, our position is, that
this is not a case of the irregular and informal execution
of an admitted power, but the performance of an act without power; one, therefore, which no formality of execution
can validate.
1. The well-settled and familiar principle of law is, that
a corporation can bind itself only in pursuance of the powers
given by the act of incorporation, and not otherwise.*
* Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 'heaton,
636; Augusta v. Earle,
18 Peters, 584; Runyan v. Lessee of Costar et als., 14 Id. 129; Perrino u,
The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, 9 Howard, 184.

Dec. 1865.]

eOGERS V.

BURLINGTON.

Argument for the city.

2. And all persons dealing with a corporation are bound
to take notice of the extent of its powers. They are bound,
at their peril, to know whether the corporation has competent authority to make the contract.
3. It is a further well-settled rule of English and American law, that -every corporation is limited, as to its powers, by
the objects to be aceom2plished-tothe sphere of action prescribed
by its charter.*
4. And these principles are as applicable to public as to
private corporations-to municipal as to commercial.
5. MNoreover, the powers of a corporation can never be
extended, by implication, beyond the objects of its creation.
If a clause of its charter be susceptible of two constructions,
one limiting it to the purposes of its creation, and the other
extending its powers to objects foreign to the general scope
of its charter, the former is to be adopted.t
6. And if a corporation exceeds its powers, and makes
contracts, and issues evidences of indebtedness, not authorized by its charter, such contracts and evidences of indebtedness are void, and cannot be enforced against the corporation.1
7. In this charter, section 27 authorizes borrowing money
for pblic purposes. But the words used are to be construed
as referring to the powers elsewhere granted by the charter;
and this section was intended to enable the city to exercise
the powers conferred by the charter, or rather to prevent
their defeat for want of cash on hand, and not as a sweeping
authority to borrow money at their discretion for any purpose whatever. Moreover: A railroad company is a private
corporation, and borrowing money to lend to it is not borrowing money for a public purpose.
* Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. The Merehants' Insurance
and Trust Company, 11 Humphreys, 19; Broughton v. Salford Water
*Works, 3 Barnewall & Alderson, 1; Beatty v. Lessee of Knowler, 4 Peters,
169, 171.
f Perrine v. The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, 9 Howard,
185.
$ Attorney-General v. Life and F ire Insurance Company, 9 Paige, 476;
Bank of Chillicothe v. Dodge, S Barbour, Supreme Court, 233.
VOL. iI.

42

[ROGERS

v. BURLINGTON.

[Slp. Ct'

Argument for the city.

8. But, even if it were admitted that the city of Burling-

ton had authority to borrow money for other objects than
than those pertaining to the good order and government of
the city, such admission would not uphold these bonds.
These were issued on a contract of lending-not of borrowing.
It was a lending of the credit of the city to a railroad corporation; not borrowing money for any purpose whatsoever, either public or private. Power given to a corporation to borrow money, does not include the power to lend
either its money or its credit.*
9. The cases on county and city bonds heretofore considered by this court-lercer County v. trackett; Gelpeke v.
C'ty of Dubuque,t and others-have.been decided against the
corporations resisting payment, mainly on the ground that
the bodies issuing the bonds were estopped from making the
defences which they sought to interpose. In none of these
cases, however, was it a question of power; but a question,
whether a power, admitted to exist, had been executed with
technical precision. In all of them the bonds recited that
the requirements of the law had been complied with. The
cases were applications of the rule, that where a corporation
acts within the sphere of its general authority, but fails to
comply with some formality or regulation which it should
not have neglected, but which it has chosen to disregard, it
is estopped to deny recitals of conformity to the law, upon
which others have been induced to act.t Here, however,
the objection is not to the mode and manner of executing a
power, but that there is a total defect of power. If so, there
can be no estoppel. No formality of execution, however
exact, can give validity to an act which the corporation had
no right, under the law, to do; there being no estoppel
against a legal disability.ยง
* Colman v. Eastern Counties Railway Company, 10 Beavan, 1 to 14;
The Caledonian Railway Company v. The Hellensburg Harbor Trustees,
89 English Law and Equity, 28; Smith v. The Alabama Life Insurance and
Trust Company, 4 Alabama, 561.
t 1 Wallace, 83, 175.
+ See Cincinnati City v. M organ, supra, 275.
SFairtitle v. Gilbert, 2 1 3rm, 169.

:Dec. 1865.']

D 1OGERS v. BURLINGTON.
Argument for the bondholder.

10. The bonds show upon their face-in the recitals, we
mean, upon them-the object for which they were issued.
Had they been obligations, without explanatory recitals,
they might have been presumed to be for a lawful consideration; issuable within the corporate powers; and, under decisions of this court, the city would have been estopped to
show the contrary. But they show that they were made,
not as a means of borrowing money, or securing the payment of money borrowed for any purpose public to the city,
in the sense in which the statute giving the power must be
construed, but as a loan to a railroad company, with which
the city had no connection, and with which, as a matter of
fact, it does not appear to have had the power to connect
itself.
Of course, all parties had notice of the charter of the
city; a public act. We need not enlarge on that point.
31r. . A. Dick, condra, for the bondholder, Rogers, plaiatff
m error, contended that under numerous decisions made in
former years in the Supreme Court of Iowa* (and only departed from of late years), as well as by not less numerous
ones made in the last two years in this courtt-the city had
power under its charter to borrow money to subscribe to the
stock of the company and issue bonds in payment; that this
power to borrow money authorized the issue that had been
made to the company, and that the bonds were regular,
valid, and binding on the city.
LMr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Corporation defendants were authorized by their charter
to borrow money for any public purpose whenever in the
* State v. Bisscell, 4 G. Greene, 328; Clapp v. County of Cedar, 5 Iowa, 15;
fing v. County of Johnson, 6 Id. 265; McMillen v. Boyles, Id. 304; MeMillen v. County Judge of Lee County, Id. 391; Games v. Robb, 8 Id. 193.
t Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175; Mercer County v. Hackett, Id.
83; Seybert v. City of Pittsburgh, Id. 272; Van Hostrup v. Madison City,
Id. 291; Meyer v. City of Muscatine, Id. 384.

660

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

opinion of the city council it should be deemed expedient
to exercise that power.
Material conditions annexed to the power, as conferred,
were that the question of b -irrowing, when proposed, should
be previously submitted to the citizens of the city, and that
the loan should not be made unless two-thirds of all the
votes polled at such election should be given in the affirmative.
Pursuant to that authority the defendants voted to issue
and lend to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company seventy-five thousand dollars in the bonds of the
city, payable in twenty years, with an interest of ten per
centum per annum, and to be secured by the first mortgage
bonds of the company on the second section of the road.
Directions to the mayor of the city, as expressed in the ordinance, were that he should issue the bonds and execute with
the company a contract of loan thereof, taking therefor the
obligation of the company, and the stipulated mortgage as
collateral security for the bonds.
Ordinance under which the bonds were issued was passed
on the twenty-third day of June, 1856, and the same is fully
set forth in the record.
The action was assumpsit, and the declaration was founded
upon certain interest coupons annexed to the bonds, which
had become due and payable prior to the commencement of

the suit.
Declaration contained twenty counts, and the defendants

demurred specially to the entire series. Principal causes
shown for the demurrer were:
1. That the declaration did not aver nor show that the
city had any power or authority to issue the bonds therein
described.
2. That the bonds on their face showed that they were
not issued for any municipal purpose, but as a loan from the
city to the beforementioned railroad.
3. That there is no law of the State authorizing the city
to issue such bonds, or to loan her credit to any railroad.
Parties were fully heard in the court below, and
the court

Dec. 1865.J

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

sustained the demurrer and rendered judgment for the de.
fendants.
I. Plaintiff excepted to both those rulings, and a bill of
exceptions to that effect, in due form, is exhibited in the
record; but it is unnecessary further to advert to it, as it is
well settled that the ruling of the Circuit Court in sustaining
or overruling a demurrer to a declaration and rendering
judgment for the wrong party may be re-examined in this
court by a writ of error without any formal bill of exceptions.*
Reason for the rule is, that the error is apparent on the
record; and it is generally true that where the error is apparent on the face of the record a bill of exceptions is unnecessary.t

II. Substance of the defence in this case upon the merits,
as presented in argument, may be stated in three propositions:
1. That the defendants, under their charter, had no lawful
authority to issue the bonds described in the declaration,
and that inasmuch as the bonds were issued without authority they were null and void, and, consequently, the plaintiff
cannot in any point of view maintain the suit.
2. That municipal corporations are limited as to their
powers by the objects to be accomplished by their creation,
and to the sphere of action prescribed in their charters; and
that the corporation defendants, under a fair application of
those rules, could not borrow money or issue their bonds
for the object specified in the ordinance, because such an
object was not a public purpose within the meaning of their
charter.
3. That the defendants, even if they have authority to borrow money for objects other than those pertaining to the
good order and proper government of the city, could not
issue the bonds in this case because the contract under which
* Gorman et al. v. Lenox, 15 Peters, 115; Suydam v. Williamson, 20
Ifoward, 436.
t Bennet v. Butterworth, 11 Howard, 669; Slocum v. Pomeroy, 6 Cranch,
221; Garland v. D:vis, 4 Howard, 131; Cohens v.Virginia, 6 'heaton, 410.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the bonds were issued was a contract of lending and not of
borrowing, and that the power given to the defendants to
.borrow money did not authorize them to lend either their
money or their credit.
1. Reasonable doubt cannot be entertained that the terms
of the charter, if valid, are sufficiently comprehensive to confer upon the defendants the power to borrow money for such
a public purpose as that described in the ordinance under
which the bonds were issued, unless it be shown that those
terms have in some way been shorn of their usual and ordinary signification.
Charter of the defendants was granted on the tenth day
of June, 1845, by the Territorial legislature, acting under its
organic act.*
Subject to certain exceptions, not material to be noticed,
the sixth section of the act provided that the legislative
power of the Territory should extend to all rightful subjects
of legislation; and there can be no question that the Territorial legislature, acting under that general delegation of
legislative power, had the authority to incorporate the defendants and confer upon them, as such corporation, the
functions specified in their charter.t
Citation of authorities in support of the proposition seems
to be unnecessary, as it is not denied, and, therefore, it may
be assumed in the further consideration of the case that the
corporate powers vested in the defendants, as expressed in
their charter, were legitimately conferred.
Power to borrow money for a public purpose, within the
meaning of the provision, is conferred by the charter in express terms, and there is nothing in the constitution of the
State which limits the authority so conferred, or renders it
invalid. On the contrary, the constitution of the State, as
originally adopted, provided that all laws in. force in the
Territory which were not repugnant to the constitution,
should remain in force until they expired by their own limi* 5 Stat. at Large, 235.

j- Vincennes University v. Indiana, 14 Howard, 273.

Dec. 1865.]

ROGERS v. BURLINGTON.

66

Opinion of the court.

tation, or should be repealed by the General Assembly of
the State.*
When the new constitution was adopted it contained no
such provision, but the omission was shortly afterwards substantially supplied by a general law re-enacting and reviving
all acts in force at the time it went into effect, except such
as had been repealed by the General Assembly, or were repugnant to its provisions.t
Validity of the charter, therefore, is established beyond
the possibility of a doubt, unless it be assumed that the
particular provision authorizing the defendants to borrow
money for a public purpose exceeds the constitutional authority of the legislature.
In considering this question it will not be necessary again
to advert to the fact that the charter was granted by the
Territorial legislature, because it has already been shown
that it has the same validity that it would have had if it had
been re-enacted by the legislature of the State.
.Municipal corporations are created by the legislature, and
they derive all their powers from the source of their creation; and those powers are at all times subject to the control of the legislature. Such powers, also, in the absence of
any constitutional regulation forbidding it, may be enlarged
or diminished, extended or curtailed, or withdrawn altogether, as the legislature shall determine. Construction
and repair of highways or streets for public travel within
their limits are among the usual purposes of their creation,
and the expenses of accomplishing those objects are among
their usual and ordinary burdens. Railways, also, as a matter of usage, founded on experience, are so far considered
by the courts as in the nature of improved highways, and as
indispensable to the public interest and the successful pursuit even of local business, that a State legislature may authorize the towns and counties of the State, through which
a railway passes, to borrow money, issue their bonds, subscribe for the stock of the company, or purchase the same
* C:ode 1851, po.657.

t Code 1860, p. 8.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

with the view of aiding those engaged in constructing or
completing such a public improvement; and that a legislative act conferring such authority is not in contravention of
any implied limitation of the power of the legislature. De.
cisions to that effect have very much increased in number
within the last few years, and are constantly increasing both
in the State and Federal courts, until it may be said that the
rule here laid down pervades the jurisprudence of the United
States.
Exceptional opinions advancing the opposite doctrine may
be found, but they cannot be regarded as sound, in view of
the fact that the weight of authority is very greatly the other
way.
Printed argument of the plaintiff shows that the Supreme
Court of the State for a series of years held the same views,
as appears in some seven or eight of their reported decisions;
and it is proper to remark that the reasons given for the conclusions in those several cases are much more satisfactory
than those assigned in the more recent decisions which adopt
the opposite rule.
Repeated determinations of this court, embracing a period
of ten years, have expressed the concurrence of the court in
the general current of the decisions upon the subject in the
State courts, and it is vain for parties to expect that the
court, in the face of those recorded judgments, can come to
any different conclusion. Recent as many of those decisions
are, it seems unnecessary to incumber the opinion with the
names of the cases, or to reproduce the reasons assigned as
the basis of the respective judgments. Irrespective of the
State decisions it is quite obvious that the decisions of this
court control the question under consideration, and, consequently, that no further remark upon the proposition is
necessary, except to say that the decision in the case of Gelpckce v. The City of -Dubuque,* although the opinion of the
court contains a reference to other statutes, was chiefly

founded upon the construction of a provision in the charter
* 1 Wallace, 202.

Dec. 1865.1

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

of that city expressed in the same words as the provision
contained in the charter of the defendants. Decision, also,
in the case of Meyer v. City of Musea e,**' is to the same
effect. Unless, therefore, it be assumed that no prior decision of this court can furnish the rule in a subsequent controversy, it would seem that the present case is controlled
by those decisions.
2. Second proposition submitted is, that the defendants
could not borrow money or purchase bonds in aid of the improvement specified in the ordinance, because such a work
is not within the usual and ordinary objects to be accomplished by a municipal corporation, and consequently was
not a public purpose within the meaning of that phrase as
employed in the charter of the city. They admit that the
construction of a railroad is a public improvement, and they
insist that the phrase public purpose as employed in the
charter must be limited in its signification to such public
purposes as fall within the usual and ordinary sphere of
municipal corporations. Undoubtedly there is much force
in the latter suggestion, and it would seem that as applied
to many improvements of great public utility, the proposition may well be conceded. None of the decided cases
which maintain the power of the State legislatures to authorize such material aid in the construction of railroads
decide or even intimate that the power may be exercised
without limit, or be extended to a public enterprise entirely
foreign to the general objects which the corporation was
created to subserve. Those adjudications are not obnoxious
to any such charge, but the theory maintained is, that a railroad is nothing more than an improved highway, and that
it is as competent for the legislature to authorize a municipal
corporation to furnish material aid in the construction of a
railroad connected with the same as to construct a highway.
Regarded in that point of view they are analogous objects,
and experience shows that the railroad, as well as the high.
* 1 Wallace, 385.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

way, is promotive of the highest and best interest of the corporation.*
3. Third proposition is in substance and effect, that the
defendants, even if they could borrow money for the object
described in the ordinance, could not lawfully issue the
bonds in this case, because the contract under which they
were issued was a contract of lending and not of borrowing
within the meaning of the charter. Evidently the proposition admits that the defendants might borrow money in aid
of the improvement described in the ordinance, but the argument is, that in issuing the bonds and delivering them to
the company they did not exercise the power in the manner
which the charter authorized. Where a municipal corporation was authorized to subscribe to the stock of a railroad
company, and to borrow money to pay for the stock subscribed, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held, in the
case of Middleton v. Alleghany Co.,t that the issuing of their
bonds as a means of making. the payment was borrowing
money for that purpose, within the meaning of the provision
conferring the power, especially as it appeared that the bonds
had been received in payment of the subscription. Same
court also held in the case of Beinboth v. Pittsburg, . that,
where an act of the legislature authorized a municipal corporation to subscribe for stock in a railway as fully as an individual, that the provision gave authority to the corporation
to issue their negotiable bonds in payment of the stock, and
this court, upon a re-examination of the case, came to the
same conclusion.ยง
Common experience shows that the issuing of bonds by a
municipal corporation as material aid in the construction of
a railroad is merely a customary and convenient mode of
borrowing money to accomplish the object, and it cannot
make any difference so far as respects the present question
โข Redfield on Railways, 533; Rome v. Rome, 18 New York, 38; Pretty.
man v. Tazewell Co., 19 Illinois, 406; Bushnell v. Beloit, 10 Wisconsin,
195; Reinboth v. Pittsburg, 41 Pennsylvania State, 278.
t 37 Pennsylvania State, 241.
j 41 Id. 278.
Seybert v. Pittsburg, 1 Wallace, 272.

Dec. 1865.]

D .OGERSV. BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

whether the bonds as issued by the defendants were sold in
the market by their officers, or were first delivered to the
company and were by their agents sold for the same pur-.
pose. Money was what the company wanted to be expended
in the construction of the railroad, and the bonds were issued by the defendants to enable the company to accomplish
that purpose. Technically speaking, it may be said that the
transaction, as between the company and the defendants
was, in form, a contract of lending, but as between the defendants and the persons who purchased the bonds in the
market, it was undeniably a contract of borrowing money;
and the same remark applies to the transaction in its practical and legal effect upon all subsequent holders of the securities who have since become such for value, and in the usual
course of business.
III. Viewed in that light it is unmistakably a contract of
borrowing money in the open market, and the rule that a
corporation quite as much as an individual is held to fair
dealing with other parties, applies with all its force, and we
repeat, that corporations cannot by their acts, representations, or silence, involve others in onerous engagements, and
be permitted to defeat the calculations and claims which
their own conduct has superinduced.*
Perfect acquiescence in the action of the officers of the
city seems to have been manifested by the defendants until
the demand was made for the payment of interest. They
never attempted to enjoin the proceeding, but suffered the
bonds to be issued and delivered to the company, and when
that was done it was too late to object that the power conferred in the charter had not been properly executed.4 Precisely the same objection was made in the case of _lleyer v.
T1,e City of .3luscatine,T but the objection was overruled by
'this court upon the ground that the object of issuing the
bonds was as effectually accomplished by their delivery to
the company as they would have been if the defendants
* Bissel v. Jeffersonville, 24 Howard, 300.
f Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 Id. 544.

$ 1 Wallace, 392.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Grier, Miller, JJ., and the Chief Justice. dissenting.

themselves had sold them in the market, and that the
obligors were not injured by the transaction.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed with costs, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity to
the opinion of the court.
REVERSAL ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice FIELD (in whose opinion concurred the
CHIEF JUSTICE, and GRIER and MILLER, JJ.), dissenting.
I am compelled to dissent from the judgment of the court
in this case. I am unable to find any authority for the city
of Burlington, either in her charter or in any other legislation of Iowa, to issue the bonds, to recover the interest upon
which the present action is brought. Municipal corporations differ from private corporations only in the purpose
of their creation. They are equally dependent for their
existence, and the powers they can exercise, upon the legislative will. They are limited to the powers specifically
granted, and such other powers as are necessary to carry
into effect those granted. They can exercise none other,
and the plea of ultra vires may always be interposed as a defence to the enforcement of any contract or obligation not
made or incurred within the limits prescribed. And the
rule rests upon the most obvious reasons. The corporation
consists of all the inhabitants within the corporate limits;
they are the corporators. Thus, in the charter of Burlington, the first clause, after defining the limits of the city,
declares that "the inhabitants thereof shall constitute a
body corporate and politic." The officers of the corporation, the mayor and city council, constituting its legislative
body, are merely the public agents of the corporation, and
are bound by all the restrictions wbich bind other agents
acting for their principals. The charter is to them the letter
of authority, to which every one may look when called upon
to consider the validity of their acts. The corporation can
only be bound when these agents keep strictly within their
prescribed limits.

Dec. 1865.]

ROGERS
5
V. BURLINGTON.

Opinion of Field, Grier, Iiller, .TJ., and the Chief Justice, dissenting.

lBut this is not all; the power granted must be exercised
substantially in the mode designated. The adoption of the
mode to this extent is essential to the validity of any act
done. If the charter provide that a measure shall be authorized by ordinance of the council, it cannot be authorized
by resolution of that body; if it prescribe a sale at auction,
a sale in any other manner is void; if it authorize a borrowing of money upon a vote of the citizens, the money cannot
be borrowed in any other way. In all such cases the mode
becomes the measure of the power. This is too obvious to
require argument; and so are all the adjudications. Thus,
in Read v. The Providence Lwurance Cnmipany,* Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, in speaking of bodies which have only a
legal existence, says: "The act of incorporation is to them
an enabling act; it gives them all the power they possess; it
enables them to contract, and when it prescribes to them a
mode of contracting they must observe that mode, or the
instrument no more creates a contract than if the body had
never been incorporated."t
But still more: the power granted must be exercised for
the purpose designated; it is limited to the objects to be
accomplished, to the sphere of action prescribed by the
charter. If it be given for the construction of a city building, it cannot be exercised for the construction of a city
railroad; if it be allowed for the establishment of a public
library, it cannot be exerted for the opening of a public
market; if it be conferred to enable the corporation to borrow money, it cannot be used to enable the corporation to
lend money, or to lend its credit.
These observations are legal truisms. They are elementary principles. They are recognized by all the authorities
both of England and America. They are controverted in
none, and they envelop the present case on all sides.
Here the authority conferred is to bonrow money; yet no
* 2 Cranch, 169.

t McCracken v. City of San Francisco, 16 California, 619; The Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company v. Carroll, 5 Barbour, 649; The New York Fire
Insarance Company v. Ely, 5 Connecticut, 568.

ROGERS V. BURLINGTO .

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of Field, Grier, Miller, JJ., and the Chief Justice, dissenting.

money was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were lent.
IBorrowing money and lending credit are not convertible
terms. The two things which they indicate are essentially
distinct and different. The utmost which can be said is,
that the railroad company might have borrowed money on
these bonds, and thus the transaction would amount to a
borrowing of so much money by the city through the railroad company as its agent. The answer to this suggestion
is, that there is no authority to be found for constituting the
railroad company the fiscal agent of the city. The company
having possession of the bonds might dispose of them at any
rate of discount which it deemed proper. Could the legislature have intended that the city should be liable in any
event to taxation on the supposition that a public enterprise
had been aided by its money to a specified amount, when in
fact no such sum was ever given for the enterprise?
The question presented is not a new one. In Gould v. The
Town of Sterlin2g,* a statute of New York had authorized the
officers of the town to borrow the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, and pay it over to the president and directors
of a railroad company, to be expended by them in grading and constructing a railroad. Instead of borrowing the
money, the officers of the town delivered over the bonds of
the town to the company in payment for stock, for which
they were authorized by the act to subscribe, and the company sold them at a discount. The question was, whether
this was within the authority conferred by the act? Mr.
Justice Selden, speaking for the Court of Appeals of New
York, in an opinion of marked ability, answers the question
in the negative. "It is clearly," says that learned justice,
"not within its language. No money was borrowed, and
nothing else was authorized by the terms of the act. If,
however, what was done was the same in effect as if the
money had been borrowed and paid over to the railroad
company, the difference in form would not be material.
But it is plain that neither in respect to the railroad com* 23 New York, 458

Dec. 1865.]

ROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

Opinion of Field, Grier, Miller, JJ., and the Chief Justice, dissenting.

pany nor the town was its effect the same. If the statute
had been pursued, the company would have had a sum equal
to the par value of the bonds to expend upon their road.
As it was, they were compelled to sell the bonds at a discount in order to realize the money." . . . . "It is true,
the town did not itself sell the bonds, nor make any sacrifice
upon them. It transferred them to the railroad company
at par, in payment for stock for which it was authorized to
subscribe. This, however, does not strengthen the plaintiff's case. It was as much a departure from the terms of
the statute as if the town had itself sold the bonds at a discount, and was equally inconsistent with the object and
intent of the act, which was, that the railroad company
should receive a sum equal to the amount of the debt incurred by the town, to expend upon the road, in the completion of which the town was supposed to have an interest.
There is, therefore, in this case, not only a literal but a substantial difference between the course pursued and that
pointed out by the statute. It follows that the bonds were
illegally issued, and were, consequently, void in the hands
of the railroad company; and as the referee has expressly
found that the plaintiff became the purchaser with full
knowledge that the bonds had not been issued for money
borrowed, but in payment for the stock of the company, he
is in no better situation than the railroad company itself."
I can add nothing to this language, or to the cogency of
the reasoning of the learned judge. Every word is applicable to the case under consideration.
I might proceed and show that the purpose for which the
bonds in this case were issued, was not within the objects
to be accomplished by the charter of incorporation; that
those objects were such as are usually contemplated in the
creation of a municipal corporation,-the establishment of a
local government, the securing of peace, good order, and
health within the corporate limits, and the promotion of
such measures as would conduce to the general good of the
municipality, and that the power to borrow money was restricted to the purposes declared. But it is unnecessary to

672

ROGERS

v. BU LINGTON.

rSup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J.

pursue the matter further. When the authority to borrow
money is made to cover a case of lending credit, it is vain
to contend that the "public purpose" prescribed by tho
charter was limited to any of the purposes for which such
charter was created.
This is not a case where the doctrine of estoppel has
any application. It is not a case where the purchaser of
the bonds was misled by any recitals of conformity to law.
Here the statute and the ordinance of the city of Burling.
ton, under which authority to issue the bonds was assumed
to exist, are both printed in full in the indorsements upon
the bonds; and the ordinance is also referred to on their
face. But if this were not so the case would not be changed,
as the statute did not authorize the issue of the bonds. NTo
formality of execution, and no extent of recitals could give
validity to instruments thus issued. The public agents of
the city could not cure the inherent defect in their action
arising from want of power, by any amount of representation that they had the requisite authority.
I am clear that the bonds are void, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice MILER:
In addition to what has been said by my brother Field, in
all of which I concur, I desire to state, that on the 8th of
January, 1866, the Supreme Court of Iowa, by a decision
which was unanimous, held the bonds which are the foundation of this suit to be void, on the ground that the charter
conferred no authority on the city to lend its credit, and that

the transaction in this case was a loan of credit, and not a
borrowing of money.

