744

SECRIST v. GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

spondents. Admitting the facts to be so, then the complain.
ants are entitled to recover even upon the principle maintained in the opinion of the majority of the court.

SEORIST V.

GREEN.

1. An acknowledgment on the day of its date, before a master of chancery,
in New York, of a deed executed d 'March, 1818-probate being made
by a subscribing witness personally known to the master, of the identity
of the party professing to grant with the party presenting himself to
acknowledge-and the record of acknowledgment certifying that the
grantor "consented that the deed might be recorded where necessary"-was a sufficient acknowledgment of the deed, by the laws of
New York regulating the subject, at the date when the deed was made.
2. Having been so, and conveying land in Illinois, such deed was entitled
to be recorded in Illinois; the laws of that State allowing deeds for
lands in the State, executed out of it but within the United States, to
be recorded when acknowledged or proved in conformity with the lai
of the State where executed; and when so recorded, it was properly
read without other proof of execution.
3. Reputation being sufficient to establish death and heirship, a statement
of them in a deposition, by an ancient witness, long and intimately
acquainted with the family about which he testifies, and who says that
certain children ("as appears .from entries in the family Bible, and
which I believe to be true,") died at such a time, and another child at
another time, "as I am informed and believe,"-is not subject to exception at the trial.
4. When a decree finds that due legal notice of intended proceedings in
partition had been given to all the heirs of a decedent, the finding is, in
Illinois, prirnfacie though not conclusive evidence of the fact.
5. Jurisdiction of a court being once established, its proceedings cannot be
questioned collaterally by one not a party to them, and who seeks no
rights under them.
6. By the laws of Illinois, a copy of a will proved in one State, and with
its probate and letters duly authenticated under the act of Congress for
the authentication of records to be used in others, may, after certain
formalities gone through, be recorded in the county courts of a county
of Illinois, where the testator had property. And when so recorded,
certified copies of such county court records are evidence; being so
under the general laws of the State.

GREEN brought ejectment against Secrist, in the Circuit

,Court for Northern Illinois, to recover land in that State

Dec. 1865.]

SECRIST V. GREEN.

745

Statement of the case.

which had belonged originally to Tibbitts. The title which
he set up, and the respective items of which he offered in
evidence on the trial, was thus:
1. A deed from Tibbitts to William James, of Albany,
ackaowledged as hereiafterstated.
2. Death of this William James, and a descent to his
heirs-at-law, of whom J. 13. James was alleged to be one;
all asserted to be proved by a deposition of Mr. Gideon -Hawley.
3. Partition of a large body of lands in Pike, Morgan,
Adams, and other counties in Illinois, of which the piece
sued for was part, and allotment of it to this J. B. James,
under proceedings in the Circuit Court of Pike County,
Illinois; a record from which court was offered.
4. Death of J. B. James, and his last will, making one
Dexter executor, giving power to sell real estate, with probate and letters testamentary, which will, &c., was presented
in the form of a certified transcript of a record of Adams
County, Ilijwis, recordiAg, inthat county, a copy (duly certified
under the act of Congress,* "to prescribe the mode in which
the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings in each
State shall be authenticated so as to take effect in every
other State") of the will, proved and registered in Albany,
with the probate and letters testamentary there granted
thereon to Dexter, as befbresaid.
5. Deed from Dexter, executor, as above mentioned, to
Green, or persons through whom he claimed, for the premises demanded.
1. As reqpected the first item in the title-the deed from Tibbitts
to .Jaiaes. The deed, dated 3d 3iareh, 1818, was thus acknowledged on the day of its date:
STATE oF NEW YORK,SS:

Be it remembered that, on the day of the date of the within
deed, personally came before me the within named George Tibbitts, and acknowledged before me that he had executed the
within deed freely, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned,
and cowisea ted that the saute might be recorded where necessary; and
* 1 Stat. at Large, 112; Act of May 26, 1790.

SECRIST

v.

GREETT.[S.

t
[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

further that Zachariah Galusha, to me personally known, a subscribing witness to the execution of this deed, having been duly
sworn, made oath before me that he knew the said George Tibbitts to be the same person described in and who executed the
said deed, and that he was a subscribing witness to the execution thereof; all which being satisfactory to me, the said deed
may therefore be recorded.
GIDEON HAWLEY,

Master in Chancery.

The defendant made objection to the deed, because:
(i) That there was no proof that the person taking the
acknowledgment was really a master in chancery; and,
(ii) That a master in chancery of the State of New York
had no power to take acknowledgments to deeds for lands
in Illinois, and to be recorded there; a matter of course
which depended on the statute laws of Illinois, and perhaps
on those of New York also. The court below deemed the
acknowledgment sufficient, and the deed was read.
2. As respected the secoi-d itenrt i the title-the death of Wilia)n
James and the heirship of J. B. James. Both facts rested on
the deposition of Mr. Gideon Hawley, aged seventy-two, a
retired counsellor-at-law. Mr. Hawley testified to his long
and intimate acquaintance with .James, the ancestor, and to
his death; to the fact of his leaving children, whose number
and names he stated. He mentioned who of them were
living, and "that the children who died prior to his decease
(as appearsfrom entries in his family Bible, and which this deponent believes to be true"), were J. B. James, &c.; that J. B.
James, son of the said William, died in Chicago, on or about
22d May, 1856, testate as I am inforrned and believe. The
deposition was objected to, because "as to the contents of
ihe family Bible, the said Bible itself is the best evidence,
and because so much of the deposition as is on information
and belief is incompetent." The objection was overruled,
and the deposition read.
3. In regard to the next UI)k-whh depended on the proceedings and allotment in partitionuriderpr oeedings had in the Circuit
Court of Pike County. It was not denied that the court named

Dec. 1865.]

SECRIST V.

GREEN.

Statement of the case.

had jurisdiction of matters of partition; but objection was
made that it nowhere appeared that the parties, James, were
properly or legally brought into court, . . . and because the
bill for partition was not filed or suit brought in the county
in which the greatest amount of lands lie (as required by
the statute), and because publication was made in Morgan
County adjoining, and not in Pike County, where the proceedings in partition were had.
By the laws of Illinois all the parties in interest were required to have notice of the application for such partition,
by summons duly served, or by advertisement, to be published for four weeks in the nearest newspaper to' the premises.*
In the case of this partition, the record on the subject of
notice ran thus:
"The cause now coming on to be heard, and it appearing satisfactorily to the court that due legal notice bad been given to all
the defendants in this suit of the pendency of the same, by publication in the 'Illinoian,' a public newspaper printed in Jacktonville, in the County of Morgan, and State of Illinois, four
weeks successively, commencing on the first day of July, A.D.
1843, and ending on the fifth day of August, A.D. 1843; and the
guardian ad litem of the infant defendants having filed his answer, setting up no opposition to the granting of the prayer of
said bill, and all the other defendants, although three times
solemnly called, coming not, but making default, and summons
having issued, in pursuance to law, for all the defendants in this
suit, and there being no opposition to the prayer of the bill, it is
ordered that the said bill be taken for confessed."
The court below allowed the record to be read.
As to the fourth azdfial matter-the death of . B. James, the
probate of his will, and the record produeedfi'onz Adams Coui?ty,
Illio;s. It appeared that J. B. James (lied leaving a will executed at Albany, New York, where he lived; that this will
was admitted to probate in the Surrogate's Court of Albany
* See Revised-Laws of Illinois, 1833, p. 238,

13, 14, 15.

SECRIST

v.

(GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

County, and letters testamentary granted by the surrogate,
Dexter, who was named in it executor and trustee; that the
will with its probate and letters, properly authenticated by
the surrogate according to the act of Congress already mentioned-which enacts that records and judicial proceedings
authenticated as it directs shall have such faith and credit
given to them in every court within the TUnited States as
they have by law or usage in the courts of the State from
whence they are taken-was recorded in Adams County,
Illinois. This record from Adams County, Illinois, it was
which was offered-offered, of course, as a foundation for
the introduction of the fourth link in the chain of Green, the
plaintiff's, title-the deed, namely, from Dexter, executor of
J. B. James.
To understand the ground on which the record from
Adams County, obviously not admissible on common-law
principles, was offered, it is necessary to say that by statute
in Illinois, passed in 1853,* entitled "An act in relation to
conveyances of real estate by non-resident creditors," it was
made lawful for a non-resident executor, who had proved
the will of his testator and accepted the trust, in any one of
the States of the Union, to execute the will in Illinois in the
same manner as though he had qualified in that State. Before he could sell any real estate he was required to produce
the will, or a copy of it, with the probate of it and authority
to execute it, properly authenticated, and have it recorded
in the County Court of that county in Illinois, where the
property of the testator, or a part of it, was situated; and he
was obliged to give bond for the faithful appropriation of
the effects of the testator in Illinois. It was then the duty
of the judge of the County Court to certify that such will
was duly authenticated under the provisions of the act of the
legislature.
The record from Adams County was duly authenticated.
It showed that the bond which the Illinois statute of 1853
requires for "faithful appropriation" had been given by
* 2 Purple's Statutes, 1226.

Dec. 1865.]

SEORIST

;.

GREEN.

Opinion of the court.

Dexter; and that the judge of the County Court had made
all the authentication required by the act to authorize the
recording in Adams County.
The reading of this record from Adams County was objected to, because it was a record not of the original of any
will, but a record of that which was but-an alleged transcript
of one; a copy of a copy therefore, or at best a record of a
record. . . . The court below overruled the objection, and
the record was read.
Two trials were had below, both resulting for the plaintiff.
On exceptions to the evidence already mentioned as received,
the questions here were:
1. Whether the acknowledgment of the deed to William
James, before the New York master in chancery was sufficient to allow it to be read in Illinois?
2. Whether the heirship of J. B. James had been sufficiently proved?
3. Whether the court below erred in suffering the record
of the proceedings in partition in Pike County to go to the
jury?
4. Whether it erred in allowing to be read the record
fr'om Adams County, of the copy of J. B. James's will,
proved originally in Albany, New York, and with the record
of probate and the letters testamentary, certified under the
act of Congress as already mentioned?
31r. G('5bes,for the plaintiff fn error; Mr. Browning, contra.
ir. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The authentication by the master in chancery in New
York of the deed to William James, when made, was in
conformity to the laws of New York for the conveyance of
real estate within the State. By the terms of an act concerning the proof of deeds and conveyances, passed by the
legislature of New York on the 6th of April, 1801, and substantially re-enacted on the 12th of April, 1813, a master in
chancery was authorized to take the proof and acknowledg

SECRIST v.

GREEN.

[Sup. Ct'

Opinion of the court.

ment of deeds.* This authority remained unchanged until
July 1, 1818.t After that, he was forbidden to do any ofkicial act which did not exclusively pertain to his duties as a
master in the Court of Chancery. If the grantor was not
known to the officer taking the acknowledgment, the law
required that the d6ed should be proved by satisfactory
evidence, and that the substance of the evidence, with the
names of the witnesses, should be incorporated in the certificate of acknowledgment. All this was done in the case
of this deed; and if the lands had been in New York it is
certain that the deed could have been read in evidence in
any of the courts of that State without further proof. What
effect is to be given to such an instrument, thus authenticated, in Illinois, must of course depend wholly upon the
statutes of that State; and on this point we are not left in
doubt. Provision is made in an act of the legislature of flinoisl for the record of all deeds to lands in that State which
have been executed without the State and within the United
States, and have been acknowledged or proved in conformity
to the laws of the State where executed. The act also declares that all such deeds, when so recorded, may be used
as evidence without further proof of their execution. The
deed under review, having been acknowledged and proved,
as required by the laws of New York, when it was executed,
was entitled to be recorded in Illinois, and was properly read
in evidence. It was, indeed, insisted that there should
have been some proof of the official character of the master
in chancery. But neither the legislatures of Xew York oi
Illinois saw fit to require any such proof, and therefore none
was necessary.ยง
2. As respects the deposition of Mr. Hawley, read to the
jury to prove the death of William James, and the names
of his heirs-at-law, the exceptions taken to it cannot be sus* See vol. 1 Laws of New York, published at Albany by authority in
1802, p. 478; also Revised Laws of New York of 1813, p. 369.
t See 4th vol. Laws of New York, session 1818, p. 44.
: Session Laws Illinois, 1847, p. 47, @3.
Vance v. Schuyler, 1 Gilman, 163.

Dec. 1865.]

SECRIST V.

GREEN.

Opinion of the court.

tained; for the witness really testifies to every material fact
of his own knowledge, although it is competent to prove
death and heirship by reputation.
8. Did the court err in suffering the record of the proceedings in partition to go to the jury?
The Circuit Court of Pike County, where a part of the
real estate was situated, had jurisdiction, on proper bill or
petition filed, to decree partition. All the parties in interest
were required to have notice of the application for such
partition, by summons duly served or by advertisement, to
be published for four weeks in the nearest newspaper to the
premises.
Such a notice was published, for the time specified, in a
newspaper printed in an adjoining county, and the presumption is, that it was the nearest newspaper to the premises, in
the absence of any proof to the contrary, or that a newspaper was printed in Pike County.* But the decree finds
that due legal notice had been given to all the defendants, and
the courts of Illinois hold that such a finding is priiafacie
evidence of the fhct, although not conclusive.t There was
nothing in the record to show that the finding was not true,
and the burden of proof rested on Secrist, who attacked the
jurisdiction, to prove that notice in conformity with the
statute was not given, notwithstanding the finding of the

court.$
The juris'diction of the court being once established, its
subsequent proceedings cannot be collaterally questioned.
Secrist is a stranger to the proceedings, and does not claim
under them, and can make no objection that does not go to
the jurisdiction of the court.
ie cannot be allowed to
object to a result of which the parties to the decree have not
complained.ยง There was enough in the record to show that
the court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the
parties; and one who was not a party to it, and seeks no
rights under it, cannot complain that it does not contain
the original bill or petition for partition.
Stow v Kimball, 28 Illinois, 107.
Ilb. 117

j 20 Id. 116, Goudy v.Hall.
Gregg v. Forsyth, 24 Howard, 180.

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

We tnink all the objections which were taken to the introduction of this record in evidence were properly overruled by the Circuit Court.
Whether the record from Adams County-read in evidence as a foundation for the introduction of a deed from
Dexter, the executor, which was a link in Green's chain of
title-was properly received, depends altogether upon the
laws of Illinois. In 1853, the legislature of that State
provided for the conveyance of real estate by non-resident
executors. The substance of the act has been stated on a
preceding page.* What the act requires was done in regard
to the will of Mr. J.B. James, and the record which was
resisted shows that the executor complied literally with its
requirements, and was authorized to execute the powers
given in the will, so far as to convey real estate in Illinois.
A certified copy of the record of the County Court of Adams
County became, under the general laws of the State, evidence.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. GOME .
1. Though the general rule in cases of appeal undoubtedly is thet the transcript of the record must be filed and the case docketed at the term next
succeeding the appeal, yet the rule necessarily has exceptions; and
where the appellant, without fault on his part, is prevented from seasonably obtaining the transcript by the fraud of the other party, or by
the ill-founded order of the court below, or by the contumacy of its
clerk, the rule will not apply.
2. Mandamus is the proper remedy, generally speaking, where the petition
for appeal is improperly denied, and it is an appropriate remedy to
compel the clerk, in case of refusal, to prepare and deliver the transcript; but where it is doubtful whether the remedy would be effectualas where the proceedings had been such that the question as to pendency of the appeal itself, could not well be determined without an inspection of the record-a resort to it is not obligatory. In such cases
* See supra, p. 748.

