Dec. 1865.]

SHEBOYGAN

CO. V. PARKER.

Syllabus.

of N ew Orleans which could work the legal termination of
blockade of the coast which remained under hostile control.
We think that the blockale was in full force, and that the
Josephine and her cargo were properly captured for violation of it. The appellant has filed an affidavit that the master of the Josephine was seeking the blockading fleet with
the purpose of procuring a license to proceed on his voyage;
but the statement of the master not only does not support
the affidavit, but goes far to discredit it. Nor, indeed, could
the alleged intent, if proved, avail the appellant; for it would
not excuse the violation of the blockade.
This view makes it unnecessary to consider the questions
made in the cause, respecting the ownership of the vessel
and cargo, or the motion for further proof.
The decree of the District Court must be

AFFIRMED.

[See infra, p. 231, The Cheshire, 2.-RiP.]

SHEBOYGAN CO. v. PARKER.
1. A county "officer" is one by whom the county performs its usual political
functions or offices of government; who exercises continuously, and as
a part of the regular and permanent administration of government, its
public powers, trusts, or duties. A fixed number of persons, specially
and by name appointed by the legislature to act as a board of commissioners, in a matter about which, though relating immediately to the
county, county officers, in the exercise of their general powers as such,
and without special authority from the legislature, have not authority'
to act, are not county "officers."
2. Hence, when special authority was given by the legislature to the people
of a county, to say whether or not they would subscribe to a railroad
and bind themselves to pay for it, that body, in giving the authority,
may properly direct the mode in which such subscription shall be
made and paid for;-may, ex. gr. appoint special persons to make the
subscription, and to issue bonds in behalf of the county therefor-even
though the constitution of the State in which the county is provides
that " all county officers
shall be elected by the electors of the county,"
and though there may be a regular board of county supervisors elected
accordingly, then administering the ordinary county affairs. Bonds
so executed and issued bind the county.
NoM. In this case, the statute enacted that any bonds issued under its
provisions should be "of full and complete evidence both in law and
equity to establish the indebtedness of the county."

SfIEBOYGAN CO. V. PARKER.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.

THE constitution of Wisconsin ordains that "all county
officers shall be elected by the electors of the respective counties." With this fundamental laiv in force, and with a county
board of supervisors in existence, who, under the constitution and laws, were the ordinary administrators of its affairs,
the legislature of the State, by "an act to authorize the
County of Sheboygan to aid in the construction of a railroad," constituted Lewis Curtis, "Billy Williams," and three
other persons less peculiarly entitled, a board of commissioners for aiding the project. The act directed a vote of
the people of the county to be taken, as to whether or not
they would have a subscription "in pursuance of the act,"
and then authorized these commissioners to borrow money
on the credit of the county, and to issue its bonds therefor.
The bonds were to be signed by the president and secretary
of this board, and countersigned by the clerk of the regular
county board of supervisors, or by the county treasurer;
and it was declared that,,when thus prepared and issued,
they should, "in the hands of -any bona fide holders, be of
full and complete evidence to establish the indebtedness of the
county according to their tenor and effect."
A vote of the people having decided in favor of the railroad, the bonds were issued with interest warrants or coupons annexed. These were not in the exactly usual form of
promises to pay, or of declarations that so much money was
due the bearer, at the semi-annual dates; but were drafts by
"Lewis Curtis, President of the Board of the Sheboygan
County Railroad Commissioners," on "the Treasurer of the
County of Sheboygan," in favor of the bearer for so much,
and was signed by Williams as "secretary."
A number of the warrants being due and unpaid, in the
possession of one Parker, a bon0',fide holder, he sued the
county, under its legal and corporate name of "The County
Board of Supervisors of Sheboygan County," in the Circuit
Court of Wisconsin, to enforce a payment of them.
On error from that court, where judgment was given against
the county, the question was, whether the act constituting
the new board was constitutional, and the county bound?

Dec. 1865.]

SDHEBOYGAN Co. v. PARKER.
Argument for the county.

esIesrs. . S. Brown, Butlriek, arid Hill,for the Courldy, plahltf "n eeror. No persons but county officers can govern the
county and regulate its affairs. True in all cases, this is
certainly not least true in so important a matter as borrowin- money, and binding the county by bonds to pay it back.
These five persons were not "elected by the electors of the
county," as the constitution requires county officers to be.
What are they? They are a corporation created for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad. But by
the principles of every free government, and of the constitution of Wisconsin, it is not in the power of the legislature
to authorize one corporation to create a debt for another
without the consent, express or implied, of the party to be
charged. The bonds were issued by the new, excrescent,
or "outside" board, on their own motion, and without the
consent of the constituted authorities of the county. But
a county cannot exercise its corporate powers in any other
way than through its constitutional channels. If the legislature can confer such power as has been attempted to be
exercised upon five men, they can confer it upon one, or upon
the whole people. Reduced to its elements, the act in question authorizes A. to issue the bonds of B. to C. without
B.'s consent.
Indeed, it is plain that this board has felt the truth of all
this. Their interest warrants are in a peculiar form. They
are not promises of any kind or to anybody; but are mere
requests, unaccepted drafts from the board to the county
treasurer to pay the bearer the amounts named in them.
Now, the county treasurer has no power to pay money out
on the order of any other person, corporation, or board, than
the board of supervisors of the county. The coupons in
this case are not such orders; they are not assunipsits of the
county, and are incompetent, immaterial, and irrelevant to
establish any demand against the county at all.
After argument by Ir. 31. H. Carpenter, contra, for the
6ondholder,
Mr. Justice GRIER delivAred the opinion of the court.

SHEBOYGAN (O.

.
[Sul). C,"

V. PARKER.

Opinion of the court.

It is admitted that the bonds in question were issued in
conformity with the statute of the -Wisconsin legislature.
By this statute, the bonds issued in pursuance of it are
made "full and complete evidence, both in law and equity,
to establish the indebtedness of the county according to their
tenor and effect."
The objection is, that the act is unconstitutional and void.
Is the objection well founded?
The commissioners or board of supervisors of a county, in
the exercise of their general powers as such, have no authority
to subscribe stock to railroads, and bind the people of the
county to pay bonds issued for that purpose without special
authority conferred upon them by the legislature. But when
special authority is given to the people of a county to do these
acts, and bind themselves by the issue of such bonds, the
legislature may properly direct the mode in which it shall
be effected. The persons specially appointed to act as agents
for the people have a ministerial duty to perform in issuing
the bonds, after the people, at an election held for the purpose, have assented that they shall be bound.
Such persons, in performance of their special duty, are in
no proper sense, "county officers." They do not exercise
any of the political functions of county officers, such as levying taxes, &c. They do not exercise "continuously, and as a
part of the regular and permanent administration of the government, any important public powers, trusts, or duties."*
A officer of the county is one by whom the county performs its usual political functions; its functions of government. Any other persons appointed by the legislature and
the people of the county, would be as competent to execute
the bonds of the corporation as the supervisors. They are
the lawful agents of the people for this special purpose, and
though nominated by the legislature, they cannot act without the assent of the citizens of the county, ascertained in
the manner directed by law; and, having so acted, the county
cannot now repudiate their acts.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED,
* State v. Kennon, 7 Ohio, 562.

WITH

COSTS.

