810

THE

GRANITE STATE.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

of extracting the minerals, by a license inferred from the
general policy of the State or of the United States, in relation
.to mines of gold and silver and the lands containing them.
We doubt whether such a claim, even if made in the
pleadings, would be such an allegation as would give jurisdiction to this court.
However that may be, there was no decision of the court
against the validity of such a license. The decision was,
that no such license existed; and this was a finding by the
court of a question of fact upon the submission of the whole
case by the parties, rather than a judgment upon a question
of law.
It is the same case, in principle, as would be made by an
allegation in defence to an action of ejectment, of a patent
from the United States with an averment of its loss or destruction, and a finding by the jury that no such patent
existed, and a consequent judgment for the defendant.
Such a judgment would deny, not the validity, but the existence of the patent. And this court would have no jurisdiction to review it.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
DISMISSED.

THE GiANITE STATE.
1. Where the question of fault in a collision lies, on the one hand, between
a boat fast at a wharf, out of the track of other vessels, and moored, in
all respects of place and signals, or want of them, according to the port
regulations of the place, and, on the other, a steamer navigating a
channel of sufficient width for her to move and stop at pleasure, the
fault, under almost any circumstances, where there is no unusual action
of the elements or other superior force driving her to the place of collision, will be held to be with the steamer.
Hence a steamer which, in going in the dark from a broad channel into
her dock, runs-though in an effort to avoid other steamers coming out
of their docks-against a barge moored at a wharf according to the port
regulations, is responsible for the collision. Nor is it an excuse that
the barge was without masts, lay low, and owing to her color was not

Dec. 1865.]

THE GR ANITE STATE.
Statement of the case.

visible in the dark till you were close by her; nor, if the port regulations of the place do not require them from vessels moored at wharves,
that she was without both light and watch.
2. The sum which it will take to repair her is not an incorrect rule of damage, in case of injury from collision to an old barge of a peculiar structure and capacities of usefulness, and from these causes not having any
established market value in the particular port where she is injured.

steamer Granite State, plying between Hartford and
New York, arrived before daybreak of a December morning
in the Hudson, with passengers and freight, and was in the
act of entering her dock between the city piers Nos. 24 and
25. Across the end of Pier No. 23 lay an old and pretty rotten barge,-the Ranger. The barge's pier extended many
feet further out in the river than the piers in the immediate
vicinity above and below. The barge had no masts, and her
hull lay below the top of the pier; that is to say, the pier
THE

was higher than the vessel, as she lay in front of it.

She

was well secured in her place, but had on board no watch
or light; the laws of the port of New York, as was proved,
not making it obligatory on vessels of this sort moored at
wharves to have either, though vessels at the wharves not unfrequently had them both. The barge had been taking in
loading fr-om the dock; but the night coming on before she
was fully laden, she lay where she was to complete her
cargo in the morning. Her deck was covered with some
old and dirty linen of a yellowish hue, and not unlike the
color of the wharf at which she lay. By the rules of the port
she had a right to b5e where she was. The morning was
dark and rainy, and a pretty strong wind from the southeast; the tide the last of the ebb. The steamer came down
on the Brooklyn side, and at about the usual point swung
round towards the New York shore, and straightened up
with a view to work into her berth. As she was approaching it, a Wilia;sburg ferry-boat came out of her slip, which
was between Piers Nos. 25 and 26, the next above the berth
of the steamer. The Granite State stopped and backed
obliquely into the stream. At this moment, out shot from
her slip, between Piers Nos. 21 and 22-below where the

Tim GRANITE. STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

barge lay-a third steamer, a Fulton ferry-boat. To avoid
her, the Granite State, being now clear of the other ferryboat, went "strong ahead," so as to get into her slip as fast
as possible. Suddenly she discovered the barge, but not
until she was within sixty feet of it; too late to arrest her
headway, under more or less force of which, notwithstanding an abundant use of her "gingle-bell," "gong," &c., she
came upon the barge, cutting her down with every paddle,
so that the old hull drifted out and sank. The steamer had
a bright light upon her, and her officers and hands were on
deck, attending, apparently, by their presence at least and
general observation, to their duty.
The owners of the barge now libelled the Granite State
in the District Court for New York. The usual conflict existed among the witnesses of the two boats; some swearing
that the steamer's own light would have revealed the barge,
if good observation had been kept; some that the steamer
should have reversed her engine instead of pushing "strong
forward" as she did; some that she should have ported, and
others that she should have starboarded her helm, &c.
The District Court, in view of the fact that the barge had
a right to be where she was and was not bound to have a
watch or light, decreed for the libellant and referred it to a
commissioner to assess damages. The commissioner fixed
the value of the barge at $850, assuming apparently that she
was worth this sum to her owners; though he stated that having
been built for a special and unusual purpose, and being unlike every other sort of craft used in the port of New York
he had difficulty in forming any estimate. The difficulty,
in truth, was obvious: some witnesses swearing that the
boat was not worth having for a gift; others that she was
worth eight or ten dollars; and others that in her former
condition she could be made practically very useful. There
was conflict in the testimony here as in the other part of
the case. This report was set aside, and a new estimate
directed. On new evidence the commissioner gave $150
more. This report, too, was set aside, and a third reference
ordered; the court directing the commissioner to consider

Dec. 1865.]

THE GRANITE STATE.
Opinion of the court.

the actual cost of raising and repairing the barge and so
putting her as near as could be into her former state. A
report made on this basis was confirmed. The case was
then taken to the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court-taking into view the position of the
barge at the end of the dock, undistinguishable, in a dark
and rainy night, from the end of the dock itself, and
with neither watch nor light on it to give notice of its
position-thought that it was no fault of the Granite State
that she did not discover the barge earlier than she did, and
when it was too late to avoid the collision. That court did
not consider that the barge was in fault, so as to subject her
to a portion of the damages if the Granite State had been
found also in fault; but thought that, so far as a watch or a
light might have facilitated the discovery of her by the approaching vessel, the omission to have one was a matter
properly entering into and influencing the judgment of the
court upon the question of negligence on the part of the
steamer, and that to this extent the barge was obliged to
assume the responsibility of the omission.
It decreed accordingly, reversing the District Court.
The case was now here for review, and was argued by
31r. Benedict, for the owners of the barge, and by 1t. Owen,
contra,for those of the steamer.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not controverted, that the barge, which was fastened
to the end of the pier, was in a place she was entitled to occupy; that she was not required to have alight suspended
during the night time, as vessels anchored in the channel
are required; nor to have a watch kept on board to warn
off steamboats using the channel of the river. She was not
on any track the steamer was required to take; and, being
incapable of motion, cannot be justly charged with any participation or fault in causing the collision.
As in the case of The Louisiana, recently decided,* there
Supra, p. 164.

TuE

GRANITE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was no unusual convulsion of the elements or sudden hurricane which nautical men could not anticipate; no vis mqjor,
causing a collision which a proper display of nautical skill
might not have prevented.
Under such circumstances we are not called upon to inquire wherein the steamboat was not managed with proper
nautical skill; whether the bright light which the steamboat
had, or ought to have had, was not sufficient to warn her in
time of her proximity to the pier if careful watch had been
kept; whether she should not have backed her engine instead of rushing forward; whether she should have ported
or starboarded her helm. All these inquiries are superfluous
where the collision was caused by a vessel having the power
to move or stop at pleasure in a channel of sufficient breadth,
without any superior force compelling her to the place of
collision. The fact that in these circumstances the steamboat did collide with the barge is conclusive evidence that
she was not properly managed, and that she should be condemned to pay the damages caused by the collision.
There seems to have been some controversy in the District
Court as to the measure of damages. lo less than three
different reports were made by the master on the subject.
The parties have no right to complain of the instructions or
opinions delivered by the court. There cannot be an established market value for barges, boats, and other articles of
that description, as in cases of grain, cotton, or stock. The
value of such a boat depends upon the accidents of its form,
age, and materials; and as these differ in each individual
there could be no established market value. A person may
make considerable profits by the use of an old hulk of little
value in the market for vessels. His loss cannot be measured by the ratio of her profits, as he might supply himself
'with another at a much cheaper rate. But when the injured
vessel is not a total loss, and is capable of being repaired
and restored to her original situation, the cost necessary to
such repair cannot be said to be an incorrect rule of damages.
We do not feel called upon to decide between the opinions
of witnesses who have given their guesses on the subject of

Dec. 1865.]

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY V. HAYDEN.

315

Statement of the case.

the value of this rotten hull; and we see no reason to doubt
the correctness of the decision of the district judge on the
subject.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be therefore reversed, and the judgment of the District Court affirmed with
costs.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY V. HAYDEN.
I. Where a party having made application for a patent for certain improvements, afterwards, with his claim still on file, makes application for another but distinct improvement in the same branch of art, in which
second application he describes the former improvement, but does not
in such second application claim it as original, the description in such
second application and non-claim of it there, is not a dedication of the
first invention to the public.
2. In cases where there is no established patent or license fee, general evidence may be resorted to in order to get at the measure of damages;
and evidence of the utility and advantage of the invention over the old
modes or devices that had been used for working out similar results is
competent and appropriate.
8. The jury, in ascertaining the damages, upon this sort of evidence, is not
to estimate them for the whole term of the patent, but only for the
period of the infringement. And a recovery does not vest the infringer
with the right to continue the use.
4. Where the patent-office grants a patent for one invention, and afterwards, upon a claim filed previously to that on which such patent has
been granted, issues another, the second patent, not the first, is void.

IN December, 1854, Hayden, being the inventor of improvements in cotton cleaners, made application to the commissioner for a patent therefor.
I The improvements consisted in certain described changes
made by Hayden in the interior arrangements of an elongated
trunk previously in use for cleaning cotton.
While this application was still pendig, Hayden made another distinct improvement, not in the interior arrangements
of the elongated trunk, but in the form of the trunk. This

