Dec. 1865.]

Dr1
CNcNxxATr CITY V. MORGAN.
Syllabus.

a whole, the proofs afford full satisfaction that the schooner
did not change her course until all hope of avoiding the
collision was gone.
Great conflict exists in the testimony as to the course of
the propeller; but the best conclusion that can be formed
from it is, that she was to the windward of the schooner.
Both the lookout and the master of the schooner first saw
the dim red light of the propeller nearly ahead over the
starboard bow. Conceded fact is, that the propeller ported
her helm; and, if so, she must have headed across the bows
of the schooner. Confirmation of that view is derived from
the manner in which the two vessels came together. Undisputed fact is, that the schooner, at the moment of collision,
also ported her helm, doubtless with the hope of passing
under the stern of the propeller; but the bowsprit, in a
glancing blow, struck the larboard quarter of the propeller,
which opened the starboard bow of the schooner, stove in
the bow, tore off her headgear, split the bow open, opened
the knight-heads, and broke the rail and stancheons on the
larboard side. Weight of the blow was rather on the larboard side of the schooner; but the bowsprit, operating as
a lever, opened the starboard bow. Injury to the propeller
was on the larboard quarter, and it shows to a demonstration
that the two vessels came together in the manner described
by the witnesses of the libellants.
Decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AYFIR ED WITH COSTS.

GRIER, J., assuming the facts differently, dissented.

OINONATI CITY V. MORGAN.
1. The properly constituted authorities of a municipal corporation may bind
the corporation whenever they have powe to act in tlc e premises.
2. To acquire, as against all mortgagees and incumbrances, a lien by statute
upon the corpus of a railroad, in virtue of credit advanced, it is necessary that the statute express in terms not doubtful the intention to give

CINCINNATI CITY V. MNIORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
a lien. The fact that, on one side, by not making a particular clause
in the statute operate as a lien on the road, you leave it but declaratory
of ordinary law, is not enough to give a lien, when, on the other, by
making the clause so operate, you would give one where the parties
have declined to take one in ordinary forr and contracted for a pledge
of the capital stock of the road.
Ex. gr. The Ohio legislature, authorizing the City Council of Cincinnati
to issue its bonds for $1,000,000 to a certain railroad, enacted:
",That it shall be the duty of the said City Council, and it is hereby
authorized, to contract with the said company, to secure, by mortgages,
transfers, or hypothecations of stock of said company, or by such other
liens or securities real or personal, as may be mutually agreed on, the
payment of the amount of the principal of such bonds as may become
due, and for the reimbursement of the interest upon the same, which
shall have been paid by the city; and for the further purpose of the se.
curing the city againstall loss or losses which the same may suffer, whether
by the payment of the said principal or interest, or any damages arising
therefrom, that the above described liens, mortgages, or other securities,
shall have priority or precedence of all claims or obligations subse~uently
contracted by such company, and over other liens, securities, or mortgages
which were not duly entered into between the company and other persons,
before the respective issues and loans aforesaid."
The city, having first resolved, as a popular vote had apparently contemplated that it should do, to lend its bonds on a mortgage of "the
properfy of the company," took afterwards a hypothecation, mortgage,
and pledge of twenty thousand shares of its (Icapital stock."
Held, that neither by the terms of this statute, nor by certain other statutes,
relied on as helping out the lien, nor in any other way, was a lien on
the road given to the city as against subsequent mortgagees.

By an act passed by the legislature of Ohio, 20th March,
1850, the city of Cincinnati was authorized to issue its bonds
to the amount of $1,000,000, to be lent to the building of
railroads terminating in the city, or to be subscribed to their
capital stock, on a vote of the qualified voters of the city,
and of the City Council. The Ohio and Mississippi was one
of these roads. A vote was obtained in favor of this railroad
company, agreeing to the issue of bonds to the amount of
$600,000 of the city, to be secured by a mortgage upon such
property of the company as the City Council should require.
The seventh section of this act of 1850 provided, in substance, as follows:
"That it shall be the duty of the said City Council, and it is
hereby authorized, to contract with the said companies, to secure,
ny mortgages, transfers, or hypothecations of stock of said corn-

Dec.1865.]

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.

277

Statement of the case.
Pany, or by such other liens or securities, real or personal, as may
bo mutually agreed on, the payment of the amount of the principal of such bonds as may become due, and for the reimbursement of the interest upon the same, which shall have been paid
by the city; and for the further purpose of the securing the city
against all loss or losses which the same may suffer, whether by
the payment of the said principal or interest, or any damages
arising therefrom, that the above-described liens, mortgages, or
other securities shall have priority or precedence of all claims or
obligations subsequently contracted by such company, and over
other liens, securities, or mortgages which were not duly entered
into between the company and other persons, before the respective
issues and loans aforesaid."
The ordinance of the city in respect to the security for its
loan, as above authorized, was thus:
"That before the bonds, or any part thereof, shall be delivered
over to the said company, it shall mortgage, hypothecate, pledge,
and deliver to the city, S1,000,000 of the capital stock of said
company, under seal, and shall authorize the City Council to
sell and dispose of so much of the stock as will realize the aforesaid sum of $600,000; said stock to be sold at such times, in such
sums, and upon such terms as the City Council may determine;
and appropriate the proceeds in such manner as the same may
direct."
The terms mentioned in this ordinance were assented to
by the company, and a certificate was duly issued, stating
that the City of Cincinnati "is the owner of twenty thousand
shares of the capital stock in the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, transferable on the books of the company,
at the Cincinnati office, upon surrender of this certificate."
The certificate was indorsed:
"This stock is issued, mortgaged, hypothecated, and pledged
to the City of Cincinnati, as security fbr the loan of the bonds
of the city for $600,000," &c.
This certificate of stock was accepted by the City Council
and deposited with the City Treasurer, and bonds of the city

CINCIN1NATI CITY V. MORGAN.

. [Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

were soon after issued to the company to the amount of the
$600,000.
Subsequently to this transaction the railroad company
made different mortgages of their road and its fixtures, and
a bill of foreclosure having been filed under one of themthe second-and the City of Cincinnati made a party defendant, the city put in an answer, alleging, among other things,
that she bad lent to this railroad company her bonds to the
amount of $600,000, and had a lien on the road as security
paramount to any mortgage. This was denied by the holders
of the bonds under the second mortgage, and, whether the
city had or had not such a lien, was the question.
To understand the argument made here by the city's
counsel, and which sought to support the lien, if support
was wanted, by reference to other statutes of Ohio, it may
be necessary to add:
1st. That prior to the date of these transactions, or of the
act of 20th March, 1850, there was a law in force in Ohio,
known as the General Railroad Law. This law-the provisions of which, it was said, had been extended to the
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad (originally incorporated in
Indiana)-gave power, by its 13th section, to railroad companies to borrow money, and to execute bonds or notes
therefor; and in order to secure the payment thereof, to
pledge their property and income; "provided," the act
went on to say, "that the value and security of any liens,
mortgages, or the stock held in or against such company by
the State or the City of Cincinnati,should not thereby be injured
or otherwise impaired."
2d. That subsequent to the act of March 20th, 1850, an
act of February 10, 1851, authorizing the city to subscribe
to another railroad-the Cincinnati Western-was passed;
which act contained, in one of its sections-the 15th-exactly the same language as has been presented, smpra, pp.
276-7, as making the 7th section of the act of March 20th,
1850, now under consideration, but contained, in addition, the
following as its 16th section:
"That the City Council of the City of Cincinnati shall not lend

Dec. 1865.]

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.
Statement of the case.

her credit or issue her bonds to this or any other railroad com.
pany, unless the private stockholders mortgage a sufficient amount
of real estate, in addition to the road and other effects of said company or companies, as security for the lending of her credit or issuing
of such bonds by said city."
Certain other incidents of the case may be mentioned; as,
1. That the original proposition made by the City Councils
to the people, to be voted on, was whether the city should
issue the $600,000, to "be secured by a mortgage upon such
property of the company as the City Council shall require,"
and that this was the question voted on.
2. That when, after the popular vote authorizing the loan
of the city's credit, the city directed its president of council
to execute, issue, and deliver the bonds to secure the said
loan, it did so reciting the loan as one "which shall be by
mortgage on the said road."
3. That subsequently to this date another ordinance was
passed:
"That so much of the before-recited ordinance as requires the
loan of $600,000 to said company, to be secured by a mortgage
on said road, be hereby repealed; provided, that before the
bonds, or any part thereof, shall be delivered over to said company, the said company shall mortgage, hypothecate, pledge,
and deliver to said City of Cincinnati, one million of dollars of
the capital stock of said'company, under seal, authorizing the
City Council to sell and dispose of so much of the stock as will
realize the aforesaid sum of $600,000; said stock to be sold at
such times, in such sums, and upon such terms as the City
Council may determine, and appropriate the proceeds in such a
manner as said council may direct; provided further, that said
company shall oblige itself, by writing under seal, in case of
failure to pay interest upon said loan, to transfer to said City of
Cincinnati a sufficient amount of the capital stock of said company, with authority to sell the same, as will realize the amount
of interest unpaid."
The court below-considering that the pledge was but
of cert~ficates of stock, one of the forms of security allowed
by the 7th section of the act of 20th March, 1850, and that

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.

LSup. Ct

Argument for the city.

neither the 13th section of the general law incorporating
railroads, nor the 16th clause of the act of February, 1851,
incorporating the Cincinnati Western Railroad Company,
and which required a pledge of the private property of
the stockholders applied to the case-decreed that the city
had no lien whatever on any property of the railroad, except upon the stock pledged to it. And an appeal was now
here.
Mr. Stanbery, for the city: Has the city a lien on the road
in this case?

I. We submit that the 7th section of the act of March
20th, 1850, on its own face gives it. This section makes it
the duty, and authorizes the City Council to secure the payment of the principal and interest of these bonds. The sole
purpose of this section was security to the city for the bonds
to be issued. The section does not stop with the clause,
giving a choice as to the nature of the security. It proceeds
to declare, that for the "further purpose of securing the
city" from all loss or damage, the security given shall have
priority over all claims, liens, mortgages, or securities, subsequently created.
Effect must be given to this part of the section. It must
be taken into the account and receive a construction; or,
rather, to state the point more accurately, the whole section
must be construed, and every clause be made to operate.
The council first fixed upon a mortgage on the road as
the form of security, and the popular vote ratified the loan
upon that basis; the company accepted the loan upon the
same basis, and afterwards the council dispensed with se.
curity by mortgage, and accepted an hypothecation of stock.
This was one of the forms of security named in the 7th
section.
Will it be argued, that upon this change a lien upon the
stock was substituted for a lien upon the road, and that to
make the lien operate on the road also, under the subsequent
clause, frustrates the election as to the' form of security given

Dec. 1865.]

DeC.LNNATI

,ITY

V. MORGAN

Argument for the city.

in the first clause? or argued, that the priority of lien provided for in the last clause, means only a priority over the
securities of a like kind with the one adopted under the first
clause? This construction, if tenable, would, indeed, harmonize the entire section; but it is not tenable.
In the first place, there was no necessity for such a provision, for either form of security taken under the first clause
would necessarily have precedence over a subsequent security upon the same subject-matter.
In the next place, that construction does not cover all the
terms of the last clause, for the priority is not confined to
other liens, whether like or unlike the security taken, but
extends as well to all claims or obligations, without lien,
subsequently contracted.
Undoubtedly, as to claims without lien, this clause gives
to the city precedence over them all, not only as to the stock
hypothecated, but as to all other property of the company.
The clause does not apply merely to precedence over the
thing pledged; for those creditors had only a right to look
to so much of the property as was not pledged, or if to property incumbered, subject to the incumbrance.
There are other reasons why this construction cannot be
allowed.
Let us first consider the subject-matter. It is a loan of
the credit of the city in the form of bonds)*payable as to
principal at a distant day, and as to interest semi-annually.
'o money is lent. No debt arises in favor of the city and
against the company in the beginning. The parties stand
in the relation of principal and surety, and not of debtor
and creditor. But whenever the liability should accrue, and
the city be obliged to advance money upon the default of
the company to meet an instalment of interest, a debt would
arise for which the city would require prompt payment, or
the means of enforcing prompt payment. Eventual indemnity, by the slow process of judicial proceedings, would
not meet the emergency. It was, therefore, natural and
proper that, in addition to eventual indemnity, provision
should be made in some other form for prompt protection.

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.

[Sup.
Ct.
[SpCt

Argument for the city.

Now, consider in this light the various provisions made in
this seventh section.
The council is, in the first place, required to take security
for the payment of the bonds as they become due, "and for
the reimbursement" of interest which may have been paid
by the city. It could not have been the intention of the
legislature to leave the city with nothing to rely upon but
personal security for a liability so large, and extending
through a period of thirty years. Nor if the protection of
the city was to be limited to the exact scope of the security
to be taken, would we look to find so important a matter
left wholly to the discretion of the City Council. 'But when
we consider this clause as more especially intended for prompt
protection-as for the reimbursement of interest paid by the
city-then it seems reasonable, nay very wise, that full discretion should be left to the council to select, through the
whole range of securities real or personal, that form which
would be most ready and available. One can see, that for
this purpose a pledge of stock, with power to realize by
sale, is the most desirable and available form of security.
There is an open market for it, though seldom for a large
mortgage.
Next consider the phrase with which the second clause
of the section commences, "and for the further purpose of
securing said ci against all loss or losses." This language
carries the idea of a security additional to that provided for
in the first clause. Is it satisfied by a construction which
gives no further security? Or which merely declares the
legal effect of the security already given ? It comprehends all
risks which the city may run upon the footing of its loan. It
means full indemnity. Then follows, in language just as ample and as comprehensive, the provision for such indemnity.
This is a priority or precedence in favor of the city, from the
date of the loan or issue of bonds, over all other parties and
all other forms of security subsequently contracted. It is a
priority from the date of the "issues and loans," not from

the date of the particular security. The actual loan or issue
of credit is the very thing covered by the indemnity and

Dec. 1865.]

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.
Argument for the city.

upon which the indemnity comes into operation. This construction is the only one which gives effect to the whole section, and at the same time leads to no repugnancy, and to
no superfluous or illusory results.
It would seem that the City Council understood the section
according to this construction. They first elected to take
security by a mortgage of the road, and to this the company
assented. Then, so far as appears upon its own motion, the
council required an hypothecation of stock rather than a
mortgage. Undoubtedly, as a means to reimburse the city
promptly for advances in payment of interest, the substituted
security was the best; but, as a permanent fund to bold for
eventual indemnity against the payment of the principal to
fall due after the lapse of thirty years, it was wholly untrustworthy, and subject to indefinite depreciation by the intervention of subsequent liens.
The City Council, it must be remembered, were exercising
a strict statutory authority. They could dispense with nothing required by the statute, and exercise no discretion
except that conferred by it. They could do nothing without
the popular vote and do nothing contrary to it. But the
popular vote authorized a loan with security by mortgage
of the road. The exact question submitted and voted upon
was, whether the city should issue the $600,000 to be secured
in this way. The railroad company on its part expected
also to give a mortgage. Now if we so construe this section
as to hold that after the popular vote in favor of a loan which
gave a lien on the road, that lien was lost by the act of the
council in the substitution of another form of security, we
take fr-om the people who incur the liability the protection
upon which they relied, and allow these public agents to
commit a fraud on their constituents.
II. The 13th section of the General Railroad Law, then in
force, supports our idea. The reader will please to turn back
and read the language of its proviso, at page 278. Does he
not perceive, on reading it, that the legislature intended to
guard the interest of the city as carefully as that of the State,
and to preserve the value of the stock held it or against a

CINCINNATI CITY V. MOReAN.

[Sup.
[SpCct.

Argument for the city.

company, by either the State or the city, from loss by subsequent liens? Stock held "against" a company, in contradistinction to that held in a company, can only mean stock
held as a pledge or security, precisely as we assert that the
stock is held by the city under the pledge in this case. If
this proviso is operative, it must follow that the city stands
first; for, to postpone it to the subsequent mortgages, not
only impairs but destroys the value of the stock as a security.
The reason for this peculiar favor to the city is evident.
This city, the great centre of population and wealth, to which
nearly all the roads of the State tended, and where a great
number of them terminated, required such protection from
the magnitude of the liabilities it would be expected to
incur.
The 16th section of the act "to incorporate the Cincinnati
Western Railroad Company," and authorizing the city to
subscribe to it, passed February 10, 1851, and to whose language the reader will also turn back, is even more to our
purpose. It requires the private stockholders to mortgage
a sufficient amount of real estate, in addition to the road and
other effects of ther company, as security for the lending of the
city credit.
The point which we make upon this act is, that it gives
us a legislative construction of the 7th section of the act
under which our loan was made. It stands free from doubt
that the legislature considered the 15th section of this act
identical with our 7th, as giving the city all the corporate
security which could be given. But, beyond that, and lest
it all might not give the full indemnity that was required, the
private property of stockholders was also pledged. The
individual security is declared to be cumulative, "in addition to the road and other effects of the company." Does
not this carry irresistibly the idea of provision already made
for a lien on all the corporate property, road, and everything
else ?
The only difference between the two acts is this, that, by
the act of 1850-our act-the legislature was satisfied with all
the corporate property as a measure of indemnity; whereas,

Dec. 1865.]

DINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.
Argument for the mortgagees.

in the act of 1851, they were not satisfied with that alone, but
required individual property besides.
Ill. The city has a lien upon the other corporate property
through the pledge of stock.
When the stock was hypothecated, all the property of the
company was free from any other pledge or incumbrance.
Suppose at-that time, and before any sale of the stock under
the pledge, the company had been forced into liquidationcertainly the city would have stood in priority over stockholders-it would then have a priority not incident to common stock. It may be answered to this, that the lien would
then arise upon the debt and in favor of the city as a creditor
merely. But take it that other creditors were to be provided
for. Would the city be entitled to no priority over them
upon the footing of the pledge?
A surplus remaining after the mortgages are satisfied, or
over property, if there is any, not included in those mortgages, would have no beneficial results. It is clear that if
the mortgages are to be first satisfied everything will be
swept away. The city claims, however, under this point a
reversal, on the ground that the city stands now, as it stood
when the pledge was made, prior in time and prior in lien
upon the corporate property, to all other incumbrances. We
assert that, under the circumstances of this pledge, that is
its scope and effect, aside from the further provisions contained in the 7th section giving full indemnity; or that
such is the effect of the pledge, as a pledge, according to all
the provisions of this section, which, qgioad hoe, give it that
effect.
Finally. What is the stock of a road or of a bank but the
effects and property of the road or bank? If the road or bank
is prosperous, and makes great profits, those profits pass to
the holders of the stock; they are accretions to or on their
property. The shares are but the proportions in which the
whole is held.
3.essrs. Coffti, Evarts, and T. G. Mitchell, contra: If there

exists a lien on the road in this case, it is one of a new kind;

CINGRImNATI CM V. MORGAN.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagees.

a lien not by statute, nor by common law, but "a lien by
argument." And though the bar generally would admit, if
"liens by argument" can exist at all, that Mr. Stanbery is
as able to create a good one as any man living, we must
deny even to him thq privilege of creating for them that
which the parties had no design of creating for themselves.
The act of March 20, 1850, authorizes the city to contract
with the railroad companies to which it may make loans, in
reference to the character of the security to be given for
them; and enumerates mortgages, transfers, or hypothecations of stock, and other liens and securities, real or personal, as those which may be thus agreed upon. This provision, it is conceded, would be sufficient to vest in the City
Council the complete control of the subject of security but for
the subsequent clause of the same section, enacting that the
liens, mortgages, or other securities, so received, shall have
priority over all obligations subsequently contracted by the
companies, and over all other liens not acquired by other
persons, prior to the issue and loan by the city of its bonds;
which latter clause, it is asserted, makes the loans of the
city, no matter what specific security may have been agreed
upon, liens upon all the property of the respective companies, from the dates of the several loans. The construction would make the legislature provide that the city might
elect to take whatever security it should select, real or personal, by pledge of stock, mortgage of specific property, or
of any other description, but that the result must be in every
event the same.
The statement of this argument appears to carry with it
its refutation; and nothing but the eminence of the counsel
by whom it is advanced entitles it to consideration.
The construction can be sustained only by rendering the
whole provision as to the discretion vested in the City Council
substantially inoperative, in order to rid the subsequent
clause of the charge of being usel6ss. In any event, too, it
must be borne in mind that the clause relied upon does not
in terms, nor even by implication, provide that the claims
of the city shall be liens upon the roads of the companies,

Dec.1865.]

Dec.
CINCINNATI
865.]
CITY V. MORGAN.
Argument for the mortgagees.

nor upon any other specific thing whatever. The law provides that the City Council may stipulate for such security
as it pleases; and it then, perhaps unnecessarily, enacts that
whatever security it does take shall have priority over all
other subsequent claims. It certainly does not provide that
any security, by personal indorsement, or by pledge of stock,
shall operate as a mortgage upon a railroad. And it would
be an extraordinary judicial interpretation which would
inject such a provision into the act, in order to shield a portion of its language from the charge of having been unnecessarily employed.
We all know that it is not an unusual thing to find in
the legislation of this country unnecessary provisions and
useless repetitions. And while the general principle of construction relied upon in this case may be admitted to be correct when there is a proper occasion for its application, the
court-in order to avoid the conclusion that the General
Assembly of Ohio has enacted that a lien shall have priority
over subsequent liens-will not decide that nothing was
meant by the expressed provision vesting the City Council
with an absolute discretion; nor that when there was an
intention to give a specific lien upon the tracks of railroad
companies and their appurtenances, it was not thought
necessary to mention, or even to allude to, that species of
property.
The idea is presented by opposite counsel, though not
largely or very specially enforced, that whatever discretion
was vested in the City Council was exhausted by the passage
of the resolutions (see spra,page 279) submitting the question of loans to the voters of the city; that the acceptance
by the railroad company of the terms of these resolutions,
one of which, it is argued, stipulated for a mortgage of the
road as security, completed a contract for a lien upon the
road; and that after the vote of the people, and the completion of a contract in pursuance of it. the City Council had
no power to change the security.
But how can the power, explicitly conferred upon the
City Council, to decide upon the security to be exacted, be

288

CICINNATI CIT v. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagees.

exhausted before the passage of the ordinance for the issue
of the bonds to be lent? It was made the duty as well as
the right of the council to decide upon this question; and
even if there had been submitted to the people the question
of making a loan, on the faith of a particular indemnity, the
council would by no means have precluded itself from insisting upon what was deemed a better security, before
making the loan. If the question were open, whether the
security taken was in fact superior to the one originally proposed, it would not be difficult to show that it at least was
not inferior; since a mortgage upon a merely hypothetical
road, would not only be useless until the road was constructed, but would itself be an obstacle in the way of such
construction. But that question is not open. The properly
constituted authorities of a municipal corporation, as well
as the managers of any other corporate body, may bind the
corporation by acts in contravention of their plain duty, and
even in direct violation of law, whenever they have any
power to act at all in the premises. " Where the directors
of a company," says an English case,* "do acts in violation
of their deed, in a matter in which thefy have no authority, such
acts are altogether null and void. But when acts to be done
are within the power and duty of the directors and are neglected, and thereby third parties are damaged, neither a
court of law nor of equity, will allow the company to take
advantage of that neglect'. ....
If a company neglect a
form or an obligation, which they could and ought to perform, they cannot afterwards raise an objection of that want
of form, as against a person with whom they have been
dealing."
If it were true, however, that the City Council had no
power to dispense with the original provisions of its resolu.
tions, and that those resolutions required from this company
a mortgage, and that the city remained entitled, as against
the railroad company, to the mortgage at one time contem.
plated, the fact would nevertheless remain, that no mort* Bargate v. Shortridge, 31 English Law and Equity, 44.

Dec. 1865.]

DrNCLYNAT[ CITY 2'. MNORGAN.

Argument for the mortgagees.

gage was ever executed in pursuance of this agreement; and
no claim based on one could be asserted, as against the holders of mortgages regularly executed. The city, of course,
is not here attempting to deny the validity of its bonds.
IT. Support of the kind desired by the city is thought to
be derived from other statutes; the general railroad law,
for example, and the act to incorporate the Cincinnati
Western Railroad. This mode of interpreting statutes,--a
mode by which one statute is made to mean, that which
some other, and not it, enacts-is a dangerous mode of expounding laws. As a means of interpreting any act, it is
hardly allowable. With an example set, we may, however,
perhaps refer to statutes to show that when the legislature
of Ohio has meant to create a specific lien on anything, it
knew the proper words by which to do it. Thus by an act
of March 24, 1837,* "To authorize a loan of credit by the
State of Ohio to railroad companies," &c., the legislature,
after enacting that certain railroads shall be entitled to a
loan of credit from the State equal to one-third of their authorized capital, and that certain officers of the State shall
deliver negotiable scrip or transferable certificates bearing
interest of the State to every such company, goes on to say:
"The receipt of such scrip, or any portion of scrip, by any
railroad company, shall operate as a specific pledge of the capital
stock, estate, tolls, and profits of such railroad company, to the
State of Ohio, to secure the repayment of the sums advanced."
Indeed in all cases where lien by statute is meant to be
created the legislature has taken care to express the intention to create the lien in clear and explicit terms. For certain trespasses committed by the navigators of canal-boats,
the party injured, for the damages sustained "shall have a
Ven" upon the boat.t For labor or materials furnished, &c.,
the party "shall have a lien."t Mutual insurance companies
insuring buildings, for payment of the assessments, "shall
Acts of a General Nature, of the State of Ohio, Columbus, 1837, p. 76.
j Id. 833.
f Swan & Critchfield's Revised Statutes, 224.
19
VoL. I1.

CINCINNATI CITY V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagees.

have a lien thereon."* Ships and steamboats are made liable,
&c., and "such liability shall be a lien thereon."t "The lien
of the State," for taxes on real estate, &c.;T and so of many
others.
III. As to the stock. Mr. Stanbery argues that when the
stock was pledged all the property of the company was free,
and then, if the company had been forced into liquidation,
that the i.ity would have stood in priority over stockholders,
-it would then have had a priority not incident to common
stock. This we must deny. The city we submit never had
priority over other stockholders; it never had any other
right than that common to all the stockholders, and if the
company, after obtaining the $600,000 from the city, had
been unable to build the road and had been dissolved and a
distribution of the assets had taken place, the city would
have had to suffer like other shareholders.
Finally, the distinction between the property of the corporation and the rights of the stockholders in the corporation sufficiently settled is disregarded by the last head of
argument by the other side.
A corporation may be seized of acres of real property;
deal largely in real estate; possess goods and money to any
amount, but no individual stockholder has any direct interest in the corpus of the property itself. The property of
the corporation belongs to it, and to it only. The interest
of the stockholder is a share of the net produce of all the
property of the corporation, brought into one fund. The
stockholders are as distinct from the corporation as any
other persons who are not stockholders. The money obtained from the stockholders belongs to the corporation itself; the stock to the shareholders.ยง
Railroad shares are not an interest in lands. Whether
they are goods within the statute of frauds or not, the cases
do not agree. They resemble ehoses in action; have been
: Swan & Critchfield's Revised Statutes, 356.
j- Id. 253.
$ Id. 1459
Bligh v. Brent, 2 Younge & Collier, 295; Bradley v. Haldsworth, 3
Aleeson & Welsby, 422; State v. Franklin Bank, 10 Ohio, 91, 97; Johns
Johns, 1 Ohio State, 361; Bridge Company v. Sawyer, 6.Exchequer, 507.

Dec. 1865.]

CINCINNATI CITY V. 'MORGAN.
Opinion of the court.

held to be choses in action. They are in truth, merely, the
evidence of a right to have a share of the profits of the business of the corporation.*
The city, then, by a mere pledge of these shares of the
stock of this company, obtains no lien upon the railroad.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no doubt but that every part of this transaction
was within the competency of the City Council on the one
side, and the railroad company on the other, as derived from
the act of the legislatu'e of Ohio, already referred to, of the
20th March, 1850, and was valid and binding upon both the
parties. The seventh section of this act confers the authority in express terms. The City Council is authorized to
contract with the railroad company, to secure, by mortgages,
transfers, or hypothecations of their stock, or by such other
liens or securities, real or personal, as may be mutually agreed
upon, for the payment of the amount of the principal of the
bonds as they become due, and for the reimbursement of
any interest that might be paid by the city.
The question in the case is, what are the rights acquired
by the city, on the one hand, and obligations assumed by
the railroad company, on the other, by this arrangement?
If we look simply to the contract between the parties, it
is impossible to entertain any doubt about them. The city
holds $1,000,000 in the stock of the company, as a security
for the loan of $600,000 in city bonds, with a power of sale
of the stock upon the terms mentioned. The whole transaction consists in a loan of bonds and a pledge of stock.
It is argued, however, that this seventh section of the act
of 1850 impresses upop the transaction an effect and operation over and beyond the mere rights and obligations arising
out of the contract; that the section transmutes the pledge
of stock into a lien or mortgage upon the road and fixtures
of the company, and makes it not only a charge upon them,
but a charge prior in date to the second, and even the first

mortgage; that, in effect, the pledge overrides all liens or
* Mechanics' Bank v. New York and New Haven R. R., 3 Kerman, 627.

ENCIEN-NATI CITY V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

incumbrances upon the road and fixtures, whether prior or
subsequent in time, and postpones them to this alleged statute security of the loan of the city bonds. Certainly a
statute that can have such a peculiar and strikingly inequitable effect and operation, should be very explicit and positive, in order to obtain the assent of a court of law or equity.
The lien is supposed to be given by the latter clause of
the section, which is, in substance, as follows:
"And for the further purpose of securing said city against all
loss or losses which the same may suffer, whether by payment
of the principal or interest, or any damages arising therefrom,
that the above liens, mortgages, or other securities shall have
priority or precedence of all claims or obligations subsequently
contracted by such company, and over other liens, securities, or
mortgages which were not duly entered into between said company and other persons, before the respective issues and loans."
It will be remembered that the first clause in the section
gave to the City Council an option as to the security they
might take for the advance of the bonds. They might take
mortgages, or hypothecations of stock of the company, or
such other lien or security, real or personal, as the parties
should mutually agree to between themselves. The liens
and securities, therefore, real or personal, that the City
Council might require, depended upon their own views of
what would be best for all the parties interested in the enterprise of building the road. They could have exacted a
mortgage upon the road or fixtures, or both, or be satisfied
with personal security, such as the hypothecation of stock.
They did, at first, decide in favor of a mortgage on the road,
but soon afterwards changed their opinion in favor of the
hypothecation of stock-exacting a $1,000,000 of stock for
the $600,000 in their bonds. Now, "the above-described
liens, mortgages, and securities," referred to in the subse
quent clause of the section, and to which priority and precedence are given over claims and obligations subsequently
entered into, is to be taken distributively; that is, if the
City Council should stipulate for a lien by way of mortgage,
upon the road, or upon personal property belonging to the

Dec. 1805.]

CINCINNATrI CITY V. MIOPRGA,.
Opinion of the court.

(company, or which might be acquired in the future, such
liens or mortgages should have priority and precedence over
claims and obligations subsequently contracted by the company.
The only answer to this view is, that it makes the clause
a work of supererogation, as this would be the legal effect
of the lien itself. That is true. The clause would be but
declaratory of the law as it stood. This, however, is not a
strange circumstance in legislation. A large portion of the
modern codes is but declaratory of the common law as expounded by the courts. We prefer this interpretation to the
one that gives a lien against the stipulations of the parties,
and where both were free to enter into them as authorized
by a previous clause of the same section. Under this liberty,
given to the City Council and the company, the former rejected the lien upon the road by mortgage, preferring the
personal security by a pledge or hypothecation of the stock.
The first clause of this section would be quite as idle and
absurd a piece of legislation, which conferred upon the parties the authority of agreeing upon their own terms is to the
nature and character of the security for the loans, as the latter, if, by the latter clause, whatever might be the security
agreed upon, it must operate as a mortgage on the road,
and have precedence over all others. Why give this choice
of securities, if this would be the result? There was no necessity to stipulate for a mortgage on the road, if the statute
gave the lien without it; nor propriety or sense in the choice
between a mortgage and the pledge of stock, if a lien on the
road followed either securito.
The thirteenth section of the general law incorporating
railroads, referred to as helping out this lien, we think, received its proper answer in the court below, as not applicable
to this company; and the same in respect to a clause in
the act of February 10, 1851, incorporating the Cincinnati
Western Railroad Company.
We think the decree of the court below, against the claim
of the city, was right, and should be
AFFIMED.

