46

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pay cannot of itself be regarded as an effective payment is
manifest.
The rule in Massachusetts is an exception to the general
law; but even there, as we have said, the presumption that
the note was given in satisfaction of the debt may be repelled and controlled by evidence that such was not the
intention of the parties, and this evidence may arise from
the general nature of the transaction, as well as from direct
testimony to the fact. Thus, in Butts v. Dean,* where a note
was given for a debt secured by the bond of a third person,
it was held that it was not to be presumed that the creditor
intended to relinquish his security, and, therefore, the note
was not to be deemed payment for the original debt. And
following this and other like authorities ot that State, Mr.
Justice Sprague, of the United States District Court, held
that a lien for materials furnished a vessel built in Massachusetts, a lien given in such a case, by a law of that State, was
not displaced or impaired by the creditors taking the notes
of the debtor.t
And on like grounds, we think that any presumption of a
discharge of the claim of a ship-owner, and of his lien upon
the cargo in this case, by his taking the notes of the charterers, is repelled and overthrown.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.
1. Appeals from the District Courts of California, under the act of 3d March,
1851-which, while giving an appeal from them to this court, makes
no provision concerning returns here, and none concerning citations,
and which does not impose any limitation of time within which the
appeal may be allowed-are subject to the general regulations of the
Judiciary Acts of 1789 and 1803, as construed by this court.
Hence, the allowance of the appeal, together with a copy of the record and
the citation, when a citation is required, must be returned to the next
term of this court after the appeal is allowed.
* 2 Mfetcalf, 76.

fPage v. Hubbard, Sprague, 338.

Dec. 1865.]

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

2. An appeal allowed or writ of error issued must be prosecuted to the next
succeeding term; otherwise it will become void.
8. The mere presence of the District Attorney of the United States in court,
at the time of the allowance of an appeal, at another term than that of
the decision appealed from, and without notice of the motion or prayer
for allowance, will not dispense with citation.

TnE Judiciary Act of 1789 allows examination, by this
court, of final judgments and decrees given in the circuits,*
"upon a writ of error, whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at the day and place theren mentioned, an
authenticated transcript of the record, an assignment of
errors, and prayer for reversal, with a citation to the adverse
party," such party having a notice prescribed in the act. A
subsequent act of 1803,t which gives an appeal fiom decrees
in chancery, subjects it to the rules and regulations which
govern writs of error. But nothing is said, specifically, in
either act, as to when the writ of error, the citation, or the
record is to be returned to this court.
An act of March 3d, 1851,T to ascertain and settle private
land claims in the State of California, authorizes, by its
tenth section, the District Courts there to hear cases of a
certain kind, and declares that after judgment they "shall,
on application of the party against whom judgment is rendered, grant an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States on such security for costs in the District and Supreme
Court as the said court shall prescribe." But says nothing
more on this.subject.
Under this act of 1851, the District Court for the :Northern
District of California rendered a decree, on the 23d of November, 1859, in a case between Castro, claimant, and the
United States. On the 24th of January, 1860, an appeal
was granted, on motion by the United States. This appeal
seems to have been dismissed; and on the 11th of iNovember, 1864, an appeal was allowed, on the motion of the
claimant, the then -DistrictAttorney of the United States being
* Act of September 24, 1789, ch. 20,

t Act of March 3, 1803, ch. 40,
$ Oh. 41; 9 Id. 633.

22; 1 Stat. at Large, 84.
2, 2 Id. 244.

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for dismissal.

present in court.

No
citation was issued upon this appeal
returnable to the next term of this court, nor was the record
filed and the cause docketed during that term. On the 29th
of May, 1865, however, a citation was issued, returnable at
this term, and service of this citation was acknowledged by
the present district attorney; and the writ was returned and
the record filed at this term, under an agreement between
the district attorney and the attorney for the claimants, to
submit the cause upon printed briefs. This arrangement
was subject to the approval of the attorney-general, who
withheld his approval.
.He now moved to dismiss the appeal.

Mr. Wills, representing the attorney-general,in support of the
motion: It is true that the act of 1789 does not specifically
say that the record, &c., is to be returned to the next term,
but it does say so impliedly; and so this court have held.
Thus, in Vilabolos v. United States,* they say: The writ of error
is always returnable to the term of the appellate court next
following the date of the writ; and the citation required by
the act of 1789 (which is a summons to the opposite party
to appear), must be returnable to the same term; and unless
the writ and citation are both served before the term the
case is not removed to the appellate court, and the writ, if
returned afterwards, will be quashed. In United States v.
Carry,t the court, referring to Vilabolos v. Uwited States, said:
"The court, in that case, held that the appellant must prosecute his appeal to the next succeeding term;" and in a case
long after either,-referring to the-two cases just citedthey declare: "The construction of this act of Congress and
the practice of this court under it has been settled."
This settled practice of the court, under the early acts,
must be held to regulate an enactment in par materia; and
such seems to have been the view of the court as it is to be
gathered from the very curtly stated case of Mesa v. United
States.ยง
6 Howard, 81.
$ Brown v. Duchesne, 19 Id. 183.

t' Id. 112.
2 Black, 721.

Dec. 1865.]

CASTRO 1".UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

Yr. Sewart, contra: The objection is technical, and rests
on a matter of form only. There is nothing specific in any
act which would cause this case to be dismissed for laches;
and nothing assuredly of any kind in the act under which
the appeal is taken. If there was irregularity, it is waived
by the admitted presence and presumable assent of the dis
trict attorney; with his confessed acknowledgment of notice
Reply: The question is not one of form, but is one of
substance; of jurisdiction itself. Nothing that the district
attorney did or could do, or that the attorney-general himself could, would give competence to the court, if under the
acts of Congress the court has it not.
The CREIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court:
We have no jurisdiction of this appeal, unless it has been
allowed by some act of Congress, and has been brought in
substantial conformity with the legislative directions. The
appellate jurisdiction of this court is, indeed, derived from
the Constitution; but by the express terms of the constitutional grant, it is subjected to such exceptions and to such
regulations as Congress may make.
In the Judiciary Act of 1789, and in many acts since, Congress has provided for its exercise in such cases and classes
of cases, and under such regulations as seemed to the legislative wisdom convenient and appropriate. The court has
always regarded appeals in other cases as excepted from the
grant of appellate power, and has always felt itself bound to
give effect to the regulations by which Congress has prescribed the manner of its exercise. We here use the word
appeals in its largest sense, comprehending writs of error,
and every other form in which appellate jurisdiction may be
invoked or brought into action.
The acts of Congress providing for and regulating appeals
have been often under the consideration of this court; and
it may now be regarded as settled, that in the cases where
appeals are allowed by the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the
additional act of 1803, the writ of error, or the allowance of
VOL.

ITI.

4

60

CASTRO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appeal, together with a copy of the record and the citation,
when a citation is required, must be returned to the next
term of this court after the writ is sued out or the appeal
allowed; otherwise the writ of error, or the appeal, as the
case may be, will become void, and the party desiring to invoke the appellate jurisdiction will be obliged to resort to a
new writ or a new appeal.*
In the case now before us, the rule just noticed was not
followed. The appeal was allowed on the 11th November,
1864, and the allowance, with a citation to the adverse party,
duly served, and a copy of the record, should have been sent
here at the next term. This was not done, and the appeal,
therefore, becamp void. The citation subsequently issued
was consequently without avail, for there was no subsisting
appeal.
The fact that the district attorney was present in court,
cannot change this conclusion. We are not prepared to ad*mit that the mere presence of counsel in court at the time
of the allowance of an appeal, at another term than that of
the decision appealed from, and without notice of the motion
or prayer for allowance, would dispense with the necessity
for a citation. Certainly it would have no greater effect;
and in the case before us, a citation, even if issued and served
contemporaneously with the allowance of the appeal, would
have availed nothing, because of the omission to make the
required return to the next term.
If this appeal, therefore, is to be disposed of under the
acts of 1789 and 1803, as interpreted by this tribunal, it
must be dismissed:
But it does not come before us under those acts.
It was allowed under the tenth section of the act of March
3, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in the
State of California, which authorizes the allowance of ap* United States v. Hodge, 3 Howard, 634; United States . Villabolos, 6
Id. 90; United States . Curry, Id. 112; Steamer Virginia v. West, 19 Id.
182; Insurance Co. v. Mordecai, 21 Id. 200; Mesa v. United States, 2 Black,
721.

Oee. 1865.]

THE BINGHAMNTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

peals on application to the District Court, and giving security, if required, for prosecution.
This act makes no provision concerning returns to this
court, and none concerning citations; nor does it impose
any ]imitation of time within which appeals may be allowed.
But we cannot suppose that Congress intended no regulation of these appeals in these important respects. It had
already prescribed regulations for the most usual invocation
of appellate jurisdiction; and when it provided for appeals
in these land cases from the District Court for California, it
had, doubtless, these regulations in view. We think, therefore, that the appeals authorized by this section must be regarded as appeals subject to the general regulations of the
acts of 1789 and 1803. If we held otherwise; we should be
obliged to sanction appeals taken at any term, and brought
here at any time after final decision; or to confine the right
of appeal to the term of the District Court in which the decision complained of was made. We cannot ascribe to Congress either intention.
The appeal before us, therefore, must be considered as
having been made subject to those regulations, and must be
dismissed for want of conformity to them by the appellant.
MOTION GRANTED.

THE BINGHAITON BRIDGE.
1. Where a party to a suit sets up that under one statute a State made a
contract with him, and that by a subsequent statute it violated the contract, and the highest court of law or equity of a State has held that
such subsequent act was a valid act and decreed accordingly, the jurisdiction of this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
attaches.
2. The statute of a State may make a contract as well by reference to a
previous enactment making one, and extending the rights, &c., granted
by such enactment to a new party, as by direct enactment setting forth
the contract in all its particular terms. And a third contract may be
made in a subsequent statute by importation from the previously im-

