294

IIAVEMEYER v. IowA COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

flAVEMEYER V. IOWA COUNTY.
1. The case of Gelpcke v. The City of Dubuque (1 Wallace, 175), affirmed and
enforced; and the doctrine reasserted, that if a contract, when made,
was valid by the constitution and laws of a State, as then expounded by
the highest authorities whose duty it was to administer them, no subsequent action by the legislature or judiciary can impair its obligation.
2. Where the judges of the Circuit Court certify a division of opinion to
this court for its judgment, this court will not return an answer unless
the question raised involve a distinct legal point, and sufficient facts are
set forth to show its bearing on the rights of the parties. Hence no
answer will be given to a proposition merely abstract.

THE constitution of Wisconsin, adopted in 1848, provides
that "no general law shall be in force until published;" and an
act of 1852 makes it the duty of the secretary of state and the
attorney-general to divide all the laws passed by the legislature into two classes, and directs that each class shall be
published in a separate volume; that the first class shall include laws of a general nature; the second class all laws which
are not included in the first class; and that "the title-pages
of the respective volumes shall express whether they contain
acts of a general nature or the private and local acts," &c.
Subsequently to the passage of this aot of 1852-that is to
say, in March, 1853-the legislature of Wisconsin passed an
act authorizing counties through which a certain railroad
should pass-Iowa County being one of the counties-to
aid its construction by subscribing to its stock and issuing
bonds of the county to pay for it. But by the terms of the
act, no bonds were to be issued except a majority of the
electors should authorize the issue by vote at an election,
the mode of holding which and the duties of the county
officers in regard thereto were prescribed in the statute.
This act of March, 1853, coming, soon after its passage
and in ordinary course, before the secretary of state and
attorney-general for classification, they decided that it was
not an act of a general nature, but was a local act, and classified it accordingly. A2%volume containing the act was published till October, 1853.

Dec. 1865.]

IIAVEMEYER V. IOWA COUNTY.

295

Statement of the case.

Between these two dates-and between the time, of course,
when the secretary of state and the attorney-general classified the act as a local act, and the time when the act was
"published" in a volume-the election, which the act itself
authorized, was held, and the bonds were issued by the
county. A number of them passed into the possession of
one Haveneyer, and the interest on them being unpaid, he
now brought debt in the Circuit Court of Wisconsin to
obtain payment of it.
On the trial, the judges of the Circuit Court were divided
in opinion, and sent here a certificate of division accordingly,
on the following questions:
1. Whether the act of .3arch, 1853, authorizing the subscrip-tion, and under which the bonds were issued, is a "general law"
within the meaning of the constitution of Wisconsin?
2. Whether the said act, not being published as a general act,
and having been first published, after its passage, in the volume
of local and private acts, in October, 1853, and after the issuing
of the bonds, is not such an exercise of power by the State
government or legislature, showing that the act is not a general
act, and is binding on the courts ?
3. Whether, if the said act is such a general law, any act oi
omission of the said county, its officers or electors, short of an
election under the act, after the act was published in October,
1853, will render the bonds valid, or estop the defendant from
questioning their validity in the hands of boni fide holders?
The case came here, of course, under the act of Congress of 29th April, 1802, which authorizes a decision of tldi
court upon it, "whenever any question shall occur before a
Circuit Court upon which the opinions of the judges shall
be opposed," and a certificate of it is sent up.
There were no recitals on the bonds, and the record disclosed no great deal more than the act authorizing the election, subscription, issue, and the fact that these had all been
made, and that llavemeyer was owner of the instruments
now due and unpaid.
The difficulty of resolving the question below was caused

HAVEMEYER V. IOWA COUNTY.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the bondholder.

in part, perhaps, from a conflict in the decisions in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, as to the character of the act of
March, 1853, or of others just like it. The late decisions
of that tribunal, beginning with State v. Leon, A.D. 1859,*
followed by several others afterwards,t held the acts to be
general laws; herein departing from the view taken, A.D.
1858, in -Hewett v. The Town of Grand Chute,t where a contrary idea was assumed as of course. And how far this
departure from precedent was owing to a truer conception
of the nature of general and particular laws, and how far
to the fact, that the judiciary of Wisconsin was a body
elected by popular sufirage at short intervals, and which
might have come to the bench suffused with the feelings and
-ideas and wishes of a constituency wishing to disown an
obligation which it had been found much easier to contract
than to pay, was a matter not seen perfectly alike by all
sides.
-Mr. M. H. Carpenter,for .Havemeyer,holder of the bonds.
The first and second points may be argued together. The
act authorizing the subscription is not a general law, and
does not require to be published in order to be valid. The
,distinction was long since truly taken by an authoritative
writer of the English law,--a no less authority than Chief
Baron Gilbert. Under the title of "General and Particular
Laws," he'says in his book on evidence:
"The distinction between a general and a particular law is,
whatever concerns the kingdom in general, is a general law;
and whatever concerns a particular species of men, or some
individuals, is a special law."
It is impossible to cite higher authority, though here
found in a text-book, and unnecessary, therefore, to cite
* 9 Wisconsin, 279.

f Subsequent decisions are as follow: In re Boyle, 9 Wisconsin, 265, de,cided A.D. 1859; Clark v. City of Janesville, 10 Id. 136, decided A.D. 1860;
Town of Rochester v. The Alfred Bank, 13 Id. 432, A.D. 1861 ; Berliner v.
Town of Waterloo, 14 Id. 378, A.D. 1861.
. 7 Wisconsin, 282.

Dec. 1865.]

HAVEMEYER V. IOWA COUNTY.

297

Argument for the bondholder.

other. The same distinction, however, it may be said, runs
through all judicial decisions. It has been declared in Wisconsin itself, and nowhere more emphatically. InHewett v.
The Town of Grand Chute, decided in 1858, long after these
bonds had been sold, the question was not even thought of
being raised. The action was on bonds issued, by the town,
in pursuance of an act almost identical with this one. The
question was, whether, being a private act, the act was properly pleaded? That it was a private act, no one was hardy
enough to deny. The difficulty of the case would have disappeared had the act been a public one. The Supreme
Court of Wisconsin say, and this court will specially note
their language:
"The cause of action is founded upon a private statute; or
rather upon certain instruments or contracts in writing, which
derive their validity from such private statute. By the common
law it was necessary to set out such statute in the declaration,
otherwise the court would not take notice of its provisions:
uldike, in this respect, a public statute, of which the court was
bound to take judicial notice, though the latter were not pleaded.
But section sixty-nine of the Code of Procedure provides as
follows: ' In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and
the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.' In this case the plaintiff in his complaint
did refer to the statute from which his right was derived, by
reference to its title and the day of its passage, and he thus
brought the whole statute within the judicial knowledge of the
court," &-c.

This view-a unanimous one of the old Supreme Court
of Wisconsin-the view also taken previous to it by the
secretary of state and the attorney-general-remained unquestioned and without doubt as to its being true law, until
1859, when the tax-payers woke up to the truth that it is
easy to contract debt, but not always easy to pay it, and a
majority of our Supreme Court,-three judges elected by the
people-discovered in State v. Leon, the saving fact that such
statutes are of a "general nature;" declaring a few years

HAVEMEYEIt V. IOWA COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the bondholder.

later* that an election before the publication authorizing the
issue, was "an idle act, wholly unauthorized and of no importance whatever." This departure from precedent, is the
consequence of a judicial tenure for less than good behavior;
a bench of justice elected as that in Wisconsin, at short
terms, by general suffrage.
But it is our privilege to come to this tribunal, where the
"arbitriun jpopularis aurce" is unknown, and which neither
takes up nor lays down the scales of justice at its command.
To this court, then,-this "more than Amphyctionic council,"-we appeal. We rely upon the important doctrine here
asserted at December Term, 1864, in Gelpecke v. The City of
Dubuque.t The court in that great case,-argued thoroughly,
deliberately considered, solemnly adjudged,-says:
"The sound and true rule is, that if the contract when made
was valid by the laws of the State as then expounded by all departments of the government, and administered in its courts of
justice, its validity and obligation cannot be impaired by any
subsequent action of the legislature, or decision of its courts
altering the construction of the law. The same principle applies where there is a change of judicial decision as to the constitutional power of the legislature to enact the law. To this
rule, thus enlarged, we adhere. It is the law of this court. To
hold otherwise, would be as unjust as to hold that rights acquired under a statute must be lost by its repeal."
Our case falls within this principle. The bonds were
issued in 1853, were disposed of, and were circulating in
the market with full approbation of the legislature; the
people of the county; every department, including the judicial tribunals of the State, until the year 1859; and during
all these years, in which the bonds were made and sold, they
were valid and legal contracts, and would have been enforced by our State courts, upon the ground that the acts
authorizing their issue were private and local laws and were in
force from their passage without publication.
* Clark v. City of Jfanesville, A.. A. 1860.

t 1 Wallace, 175.

Dec. 1865.]

HAVEMEYER V. IOWA

CouNTY.

299

Argument for the county.

It is unimportant in view of the decision of this court in
Gdp/,e v. Dubuque, whether the late decisions of our State
court give or do not give the sounder construction of our
constitution. In subsequent contracts this court may regard
them as giving that which is the sounder; but the action of
the State, in its legislative, administrative, and judicial departments, during the period of the making and negotiating
of tlese bonds, must furnish the rule to be applied in all suits
founded upon them, whether, in the opinion of this court,
that action was right or wrong. It was the law of the contract and cannot be changed without destroying the obligation of what, when made, was valid and binding.
3. Assuming, as we do, that the court must take the view
which we present on these two points, we are not solicitous
as to the answer which it may give on the last point certified. If any answer is given, it must follow the answer to
the others.
l. .Ryc, contra: Mr. Carpenter refers to the distinction
which has passed into technical law between general laws
and particular or special laws. But the act of 1852, directing a classification, does not use the terms "general law,"
but uses another expression, "acts of a general "aature," which
it distinguishes from "private and local acts." This shows
that it was not the intention of the legislature to classify its
statutes by their legal. character, but according to the public
interest in having access to them. The first class is to contain all "acts of a general nature," but not all "general
acts." The second class is to contain all general acts which
are local, all charters which are public, and all private acts.
It is inconceivable how a municipality, with a changing
population, amounting from hundreds of political units to
.hundreds of thousands, and capable of including, and almost
inevitably including, property of strangers affected by all
legislation having relation to it, could be bound by a private
act. If the act before the court can be dealt with as a private act, it is not seen on what distinguishing principle, absurd as the proposition is, all municipal law might not be
found in private statutes.

HAVEMEIER V.

IOWA COUNTY.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the county.

The counsel would seem to rely on the classification made
by the secretary of state and the attorney-general, which
two officers regarded the act as one of a private nature, and
classified it accordingly. But the question whether a statute
is public or private, is judicial. No question of interpretation is more purely so. The constitution of Wisconsin, in
common with most of our American constitutions, exhausts
the judicial power; and it is not competent for the legislature to vest it in persons or officers, other than such as the
constitution prescribes. Here, the duty of classification is
given to ministerial officers. And their action is not only
not binding, but is of no weight in the courts. It is for the
judicial department to declare their acts right or wrong; not
for them to impose judicial construction upon the courts.
Confessedly, every decision in the highest courts of -Wisconsin since the case of State v. Leon, including that one, has
been that these acts are general laws. In Hewett v. The Town
of Grand Chute, whose language is extracted and presented
as conclusive on the other side, and to which opposite counsel
invites specially the court's attention, the matter was not in
issue. Attention was not directed to it. Assumnzg the act
to be a private one, the court held it to be rightly pleaded.
That is all. The decisions then are unbroken.
There is a uniform and settled rule of adjudication upon
the constitution and laws of the State; followed by all the
courts of the State, and, in the State courts, recognized and
admitted by the bar of the State.
In questions 'of State institutions and policy, not conflicting with the Federal Constitution, the several State courts
are the appropriate tribunals to give the rule of decision;
and this court has, therefore, from the earliest times, with
high judicial comity and political sagacity, followed the rule
of State decision upon State statutes whenever such a rule
was to be found clearly established. "This court has no
authority," was the language of a case from Pennsylvania,
"to revise the act of that State upon any grounds of justice,
poicy, or consistency to its own constitution. These are
concluded by the decision of the public authorities of the

Dec. 1865.]

flAVEMEYER V. IOWA COUNTY.

801

Argument for the county.

State." The quotation is the law of our controversy. And
it will be a calamity, not only tV the judicial, but to the political history of the country, if time should witness the departure of this court from its ancient practice of just and
conservative forbearance, and its regard of the State rule of
decision on questions of purely State law. With this longsettled doctrine of the court the action of the people and
courts of Wisconsin is not open for argument. It is enough
that the people of Wisconsin have formed their constitution
as they have, and that the Supreme Court of the State interpret it as they do. That is their right solely. The State
having been admitted into the Union under a constitution
approved by Congress, and not repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United States, no department of the Federal government has power to set it aside, to treat it as a
nullity, or to destroy it by interpretation, in matters properly
subject to it.
The third question certified, is abstract. It calls for the
opinion of this court, whether any act or omission of the
county, its officers, or electors, under the condition stated,
could render the bonds valid or estop the defendant. If any
such act or omission could have such an effect, that would
depend upon the character of the particular act or omission,
the time of its occurrence, the persons by whom and with
whom done or omitted and their authority, and generally
the circumstances under which done or omitted. All these
conditions rest, in the question, in supposition. There are
no recitals in the bonds themselves. There is therefore nothing in the record bearing on this question. The record
discloses only the facts of the election, the execution of the
defendant's bonds, and the exchange or issue of them. It
was not contended in the court below, and it is not here,
that these facts have any tendency, of themselves, to render
the bonds valid or to estop the defendant from questioning
their validity, if the act was not in force. The question certified did not "occur" in the court below, but only suggested
itself as something which might occur; it did not mneet the
judges, and was not involved in any decision they were

_AVEMEYEI

V. IOWA COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

called upon to make. It is not an occurrence, but only.a
supposition, and not within,-the act of Congress. The court
below, therefore, had no jurisdiction to certify it here; and
this court has no jurisdiction to decide it.
IMr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view which we have taken of the first two questions
which are presented by the certificate of division for our
consideration in this case, they may be properly considered
together. They are:
1. Whether the act in question is a general law within the
meaning of the constitution of Wisconsin.
2. Whether the act not being published as a general act,
and having been first published after its passage in the volume
of local and private acts, and after the issuing of the bonds,
is not such an exercise of power by the State government or
legislature, showing that the act is not a general act, as is
binding on the courts.
The secretary of state and the attorney-general decided
that the act was not a general law, but a local act. This
decision, as to the character of the act, was made by those
upon whom the law devolved that duty. It is not suggested
that the decision was not fairly made, nor is it denied that
it was in accordance with the rule which had prevailed down
to that time, and which prevailed subsequently until the
Supreme Court passed upon the subject, in the case of the
State v. Leon, which was decided in the year 1859.
This action is conclusive as to the executive department
of the government prior to that period, and it is entitled to
the greater weight from the fact that the highest law officer
of the State participated in the decision.
The subject came incidentally under the consideration of
the Supreme Court of the State, in -Hewett v. The Town of
Grand Chute. The question in that case was, whether a
statute, in all respects identical with the one under which
these securities were issued, as regards the questions before
us, was pleaded as a private act should be., The question
whether it was a private act was not made in the case. That

Dec. 1865.]

AVEM2EYER V. IOWA CoUNTY.

303

Opinion of the court.

was impliedly conceded by the counsel on both sides. The
language of the court in this case has been quoted and commented on at the bar.* We need not repeat it. It presents a clear judicial recognition by the highest court of the
State in accordance with-the previous determination of the
executive department. The executive and judicial departrnents were in harmony upon the subject. This case was
decided in 1858. It shows the understanding of the bar and
the bench down to that time.
Prior to that period no intimation had been given by any
department of the government that such statutes were to be
regarded otherwise than as local in their character, and
broadly distinguished from general laws within the meaning
of the constitution.
The subsequent adjudications in the State v. Leon, decided
in 1859, and the cases which followed it, hold that such
statutes are "of a general nature," and have no validity
until published. But being long posterior to the time when
the securities were issued, they can have no effect upon our
decision and may be laid out of view. We can look only
to the condition of things which subsisted when they were
sold. That brings them within the rule laid down by this
court, in Gel)eke v. Te City of Dubuque. In that case it was
held, that if the contract, when made, was valid by the constitution and laws of the State, as then expounded by the
highest authorities whose duty it was to administer them, no
subsequent action by the legislature or judiciary can impair
its obligation. This rule was established upon the most
careful consideration. We think it rests upon a solid foundation, and we feel no disposition to depart from it.
Whether the statute here under consideration is intrinsically general or local in its character, is a question which
we have not found it necessary to consider.
The third question presents merely an abstract proposition. No facts are disclosed in the record which show that
it has arisen or can hereafter arise in the case. Under such
See s-apra, p. 298.

MINING COMPANY v. BOGGS.

[Sup. ot,

Statement of the case.

circumstances it is the settled practice of this court to decline
to answer. It is necessary that the question should involve
a distinct legal point, and that sufficient facts should be set
forth to show its bearing upon the rights of the parties.* In
this case all the facts relied upon as operating to ratify should
have been set forth. Any point of disagreement between
the judges relating to the subject would then have appeared
in its proper light and could have been definitely answered.
As the question is presented the answer, if given, would be
equally general, and, like the question, a mere abstraction,
which could subserve no useful purpose in the further progress of the cause.
The answer to the first and second questions certified up
will be that, under the circumstances, the statute referred to
must be held in this case to be a local act, and not a general
law.
To the third question, for the reasons stated, no answer
will be given.
ORDER IN CONFORMITY.
[See, on the last point of this case, supra,p. 250, Daniels v. RailroadCompany.-REP.]

MINN G COMPANY v. BOGGS.
1. In a suit to recover mineral lands on the Pacific coast, with the mines
therein, an allegation of record, of prior possession of the land for the
purpose of taking out the minerals, without an allegation that such
possession is had under authority, or by some treaty or statute of the
United States, does not give this court jurisdiction to re-examine the
case under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
2. Nor has the court jurisdiction where the decision below is that, as a mat.
ter of fact, no such license exists; the courts of the State, to whose
highest court of law and equity the writ of error is sent, having the
power, under the constitution of its State, to decide both law and fact
upon submission of the case by the parties.

lessee of Fr6niont, brought a suit in one of the
inferior State courts of California against the Merced Mining
BOGGS,

* Crooker et al. v. Newton, 18 Howard, 581; United States v. The City
Bank of Columbus, 19 Id. 885.

