882

McGuIrE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

made, at a previous term of the court, to set aside this deposition on the ground stated; which was denied. On the
trial, when the deposition was offered, no objection was
made to it. The question, therefore, is not in the bill of exceptions; on the contrary, if any valid objection existed, it
was waived by not taking advantage of it at the trial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See Orchard v. Hughes, 1 Wallace, 73; Brooks v. .Iarlin, 2 Id. 70.-RB

'.]

MCGUIRE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.
(MoTIoNS.)
1. Where a party is indicted in a State court for doing an act contrary to
the statute of the State, and sets up a license from the United States
under one of its statutes, and the decision of the State court is against
the right claimed under such last-mentioned statute, this court has
jurisdiction under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
2. A writ of error from this court is properly directed to the court in which
the final judgment was rendered, and by whose process it must be
executed, and in which the record remains, although such court may
not be the highest court of the State, and although such highest court
may have exercised a revisory jurisdiction over points in the case, and
certified its decision to the court below. The omission in the record
of these points, and the action in the highest court upon them, make no
ground for certiorarion account of diminution.
8. Circumstances under which the inability of leading counsel to prepare
for argument, within a time previously fixed by the court, and the
sickness of his associate, do not make a sufficient ground for continuance of a cause.
4. Where the counsel of a plaintiff in error withdraw their appearance, the
defendant in error, under the 16th rule, has the right either to have the
plaintiff called and the suit dismissed, or to open the record and pray
an affirmance.

A STATUTE of Massachusetts makes it an indictable offence,
punishable with heavy fine and imprisonment, to keep any
building for the sale of intoxicating liquors. Under this

Dec. 1865.]

MlcGuiRE v. T.E COMMONWEALTH.

383

Statement of the case.

statute, and for a violation of it, a certain McGuire was indicted, in January, 1864, at Salem, Massachusetts, in the
Superior Court for the transaction of criminal business of
Essex County, in that State. lie set up as his defence a
lieense from the Federal government, granted to him under
the Internal Revenue Act, of July 1, 1863, which license
was, in terms, "to carry on the business or occupation of a
wholesale dealer in liquors," at the place for carrying it on
at which he had been indicted.
The record of the said Superior Court certified that these
acts of sale and keeping alleged were admitted to have been
illegal and in violation of the law of Massachusetts, unless
the defendant was authorized to keep and sell intoxicating
liquors by the license granted to him conformably to the
provision of the act of Congress, which license he produced
in evidence, the same being set out in the record; that the
court ruled that this license gave the defendant no right to
sell intoxicating liquors in violation of the laws of Massachusetts; that the jury found a verdict of guilty; and that
the defendant excepted; that the case, on the exceptions,
was continued for the judgment of the Suprene Judicial
Court for the commonwealth, and that the exceptions were
"overruled by the Supreme Judicial Court, as by the rescript
on file." Judgment passed accordingly against McGuire,
and a writ of error issued from this court to the Superior
Court of Massachusetts.
The case excited considerable interest in Massachusetts,
and the excitement was increasing. Vast numbers of persons had taken out and paid for licenses under the Federal
government, and all of them were indicted by the State; the
singular spectacle having been presented, it was said, of several people being arrested and put in jail, by the State, in the
morning, for selling liquor under a Federal license; while in
the afternoon an equal number of other persons were arrested and sent to the same jail, on behalf of the United
States, for attempting to sell it without one.
At the last term a motion to advance the case upon the
docket was made by Mr. Cushing, the counsel for the plain-

McGuIRE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

tiff in error (McGuire). It was then denied, because the
attorney-general declined to state that the case was one in
which the interests of the public revenue were concerned;
because the attorney-general of Massachusetts, though consenting to an early hearing, did not ask for it; and because,
in the opinion of the court, the importance of the result
to the. plaintiff in error was not sufficient to warrant the
preference asked for over suitors having prior cases on the
docket.
At this term another motion was made to advance the case.
This motion was made by the attorney-general of Massachusetts, with whom the attorney-general of the United States
joined. Both united in representing that the litigation
growing out of the question presented by the record had so
increased, and had assumed such a character, that the public
interests, both of Massachusetts and of the United States,
required an early hearing and decision of it.
This motion was now opposed by Messrs. Cushing and Richardson, counsel for the plaintiff in error; but having been fully
considered by the court, it was allowed, and an order was
made on the 13th of January, by which the cause was assigned for hearing on the following 20th; or, at the option
of the counsel, immediately after the close of the arguments
in the cause then being heard.
After this order was made, the plaintiff in error, by his
counsel, submitted three motions.
First. That in case it should appear to the court, on inspection of the record, that the cause ought not to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, a certiorarishould be issued
from this court to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, or else to the Superior Court, to bring up the whole
of the record; the ground of this motion being, that the judgment of the Supreme Court constituting, apparently (as was
said), the decision of the highest court of law or equity in
the State in which a decision could be had, was not set
forth in the record as returned, but was merely referred to
as remaining "on file" in the Superior Court.
Second. V'or leave to discontinue the writ of error, and

Dec. 1865.]

MoGUIRE

v.

THE COMMONWEALTH.

Opinion of the court.

that the same be dismissed with costs to the State of Massa.
chusetts; the ground for this being, that the counsel making
the motion could not prepare and argue the case within the
time prescribed in the order of the 13th instant; and that
Mr. Gillet, his associate, was disabled by sickness.
Third. For leave that all the counsel might withdraw their
appearances in the suit, and the plaintiff in error be called,
in conformity with Rule No. 16, prescribing that "where
there is no appearance for the plaintiff when the case is
called for trial, the defendant may have the plaintiff called
and dismiss the writ of error, or pray for an affirmance."
iessrs. CushiWg and Richardson, in favor of the motion; Mr.
Speed, A. G., and -171. Reed, A. G. of JMassachusetts,contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
I. The first motion now made is, that in case the court
shall be satisfied that it has jurisdiction of the case in the
record, a writ of certiorari be sent to the Superior Court of
Massachusetts, or to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, to bring up the complete record; it being suggested
that the record before us does not show the rescript of the
latter court, supposed to contain its judgment in the case,
sent down for execution to the former court.
It is quite clear that the record contains a case within the
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and, therefore, a
case of which this court has jurisdiction. The plaintiff in
error was indicted in the State court for selling intoxicating
liquors contrary to the statutes of Massachusetts. He set
up as a defence that he had received a license from the
United States, which, under the true construction of the internal revenue act, authorized him to carry on the business
of a wholesale dealer in liquors, and, therefore, had a right
to sell liquor as charged, notwithstanding the statutes of
Massachusetts to the contrary. The decision of the court
was against the right claimed under the internal reventi,
act, and this made the precise case of which the Judiciary
VOL. Ill.

25

386

M

pOuIR
v. THE C0MMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Act gives jurisdiction to this court. The cause, therefore,
cannot be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
iNor do we perceive sufficient reason for awarding a writ
of certiorari to bring up a more perfect record. It appears
from the record before us that after verdict, and before judgment in the Superior Court, certain exceptions were sent up
to the Supreme Judicial Court for its opinion, and that a rescript was subsequently sent down, overruling them, whereupon final judgment was entered upon the verdict. This,
we understand, was according to the law and practice in
Massachusetts, and the effect was to leave the entire record
in the Superior Court.
If this were a case where the Supreme Judicial Court had
rendered the final judgment, and had sent the judgment to
the Superior Court for execution, and, with the judgment,
the record, the direction of the writ of error of this court to
the latter court would have been proper. This was settled
in the case of Gelston v. IToyt,* with which we are entirely
satisfied.
But it is not necessary now to invoke the authority of that
case. The judgment was not rendered in the Supreme Judicial Court, but in the Superior Court. That judgment was
the final decision of the cause in which it was rendered, according to the true sense of the Judiciary Act, and the Superior Court was the highest court of the State in which a
decisiom of the suit could be had, and, therefore, the only
court to which the writ of error for this court could have
been addressed.
We are not concerned here with the rulings of the Supreme Judicial Court upon the exceptions certified to it.
The record shows clearly and fully the whole case upon
which we are to pass, and the omission to set forth in it
those exceptions and the rulings before them is no deficiency
which needs to be supplied by certiorari.
The first motion must, therefore, be overruled.
]:1. The second motion is for leave to discontinue the writ
of error at the cost of the plaintiff in error.
*

3 Wheaton, 246.

Dec. 1865.] MoGuIRE v. Tur COMM2ONWEALTH.

87

Syllabus.

It is not the practice of this court to allow a discontinuance to any case, except for sufficient reason assigned, or by
consent of the adverse party. In the case before us the
attorney-general of Massachusetts resists the motion. The
only reasons assigned in support of it are the alleged inability of the leading counsel for the plaintiff in error to
make proper preparation for argument within the time allowed, and the sickness of one of his associate counsel. Our
opinion of the learning and ability of the counsel who submits the motion obliges us to think that- he has underrated
his power and overrated his need of preparation to set before
us the case of his client in all the strength of which it is
capable, notwithstanding the absence of his associate, whose
indisposition to us, as to him, causes sincere regret.
The second motion, therefore, must be, also, overruled.
.IThe third motion is for leave to withdraw the appearance of all the counsel, and to have the plaintiff called
under the 16th rule.
It is usual in this court to grant leave to withdraw an appearance whenever asked, saving, however, all the rights of
the adverse party. That leave will, therefore, be granted in
this case. We cannot, however, require the calling of the
plaintiff with a view to the dismissal of the writ of error.
After the withdrawal of the appearance in the case before
us it will be the right of the defendant in error, under the
16th rule, to have the plaintiff called and the suit dismissed,
or to open the record and pray an affirmance.
MOTIONS DENIED.
[See the next case.-REP.]

MCGUIRE V. THE COMMONWEALTH.
(31ERITS.)

1. A license granted by the United States, under the Internal Revenue Act
of July 1, 1862, to carry on the business of a wholesale liqucor dealer, in
a particular State named, does not, although it have been granted in

388

MOGuiRE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
consideration of a fee paid, give the licensee power to carry on the
business in violation of the State laws forbidding such business to be
carried on within its limits.
2. The preceding case affirmed as to the point of jurisdiction; point No. I
of the syllabus.

A STATUTE of Massachusetts* enacts, that "all buildings,
places, or tenements, used for the illegal keeping or sale of
intoxicating liquors, shall be deemed common nuisances,"
and makes the keeping of such nuisance an offence punishable with fine and imprisonment. MeGuire kept and maintained such a tenement at No. 6 Derby Square, Salem,
Essex County, Massachusetts, and was indicted, in one of
the courts of Massachusetts, accordingly.
His defence was a license granted to him under the Internal Revenue Act of the United States, approved July 1,
1862.t That act provides that no person shall be engaged
in, prosecute, or carry on the business of a wholesale dealer
in liquor, "until he shall have obtained a license;" and
that such wholesale dealer shall for his license pay $100.
A proviso to its 67th section, declares that "no such license
shall be construed to authorize the commencement or continuation of any trade, business, occupation or employment
therein mentioned, within any State or Territory of the
United States, in which it is or shall be specially prohibited by
the lws thereof, or in violation of the laws of any State or Territory."
Mr. MleGuire's license thus ran:
"TO ALL wHOtO-I IT MAY CONCERN:

"This license is granted to MceGuire & Co., of the city of Salem, in the County of Essex and State of MIassachusetts, to
eariy on the business or occupation of wholesale dealer in
liquors, at No. 6, Derby Square, in the aforementioned city,
eounty, and State, having paid the tax of one hundred dollars
therefor, conformably to the provisions of an act entitled 'An
act to provide internal revenue to support the government, and
to pay interest on the public debt,' approved July 1, 1862.
* General Statutes, ch. 87.

-t 12 Star. at Large, 459.

Dec. 1866.]

McGuIRE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

889

Argument for the right to sell.

"This license to be in force until the first day of September,
1863, provided the said M1cGuire shall conform to the requirements of said act, and of such other act or acts as are now or
may hereafter be in this behalf enacted.
"Given under my hand and seal, at Salem, this first day of
September, A.D. 1862.
"[SEAL.]

VINCENT BRowNE,
", Collector, Fifth Collection District, State of Massachusetts."

McGuire was found and adjudged guilty, and the case
having been taken to the Superior Court of the State of
Massachusetts, and the judgment below affirmed, the case
was now here under the well-known 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, authorizing re-examination of a final judgment in the highest court of a State, in which is drawn in
question the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States, the decision being against the validity.
.Messrs.0UshgandBiehardson,forife Guire,plaintiffin enror.
I. The attempt of the State of Massachusetts to punish
MKeGuire for doing that which the license of the Federal
government expressly empowered him to do, was a nullification of an act of Congress, and a violation of the paramount authority of the United States.
The license is not a mere tax, but an authority, sold by
the United States, and purchased by the licensee for a sum
of money in virtue of which the United States contract
with the licensee that he shall have power to do the thing
licensed; without which, the license and the money received
for it are an act of imposture, fraud, and robbery of its citizens by the Federal government.
It is worth while to examine a little the meaning, in law,
of this term "license."
In the common law the word is of early, constant, and
well-defined use, as applied to the concession of certain
rights by the owners of land to a third party.* In this relaBrooke's Abridgment, tit. "Licen s e ;" and for an exhibition of learn:ng on the subject see the case of Thomas v. Sorrell, Vaughan, 330; also, Wood
11.Leadbitter, 13 Meeson & Welsby, 843.

390

McGUIRE V. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the right to sell.

tion, the license imparts to the licensee rights, resembling,
though not identical with an easement; as, for example, the
right to hunt on another man's estate, to cut wood, to fish,
or to enjoy participation in a water-Qourse. The licensee
possesses property of the class denominated incorporeal
hereditaments, and constituting property as rightful as the
corporeal hereditament. When such a license is coupled
with an interest, by reason of the payment of price, the
authority conferred is not a mere permission, but it amounts
to a grant, which obliges the grantor, and vests legal property in the grantee.*
II. The only ground on which our rights under the license
can be denied is the proviso of the 67th section.
N5ow this clause constitutes a separate provision, of the
class of enactments called "savin g clauses;" and if it be
allowed to have effect, destroys, abrogates, and abolishes
whatever there may be of thought, virtue, or use, in the
general purview, intendment, and scope of the act. It presents a case of congenital suicide. In such a case, the rule
of law is positive, that the saving clause, not the enactment,
must be rejected. An illustration is to be found in Alton
Wood's Gaset where Lord Coke puts it thus: "J. S. is tenant
in fee simple of the manor of Dale, or tenant in tail thereof,
the reversion to the king; and afterwards this manor is, by
express name, given by act of Parliament to the king, saving the right, title, interest, &c., of all person and persons.
Whether the estate of J. S. be saved or no? And it seems
not; for the saving as to the owner of the land is repugnant,
inasmuch as the manor is by express name given to the
king; for if the general saving shall extend to the owner
of the land, then the act would be made in vain." So in
Plowden,t the supposed attainder of the Duke of Norfolk
was, by act of Parliament, 1 Marice, "declared to be void and
"Webb v. Pater Noster, Palmer, 71; 'Winter v. Brockwell, 8 East, 80;
Liggins v. Inge. 7 Bingbam, 682; Rerick v. Kern, 14 Sergeant & hawle,
267; Wood v. Manly, 11 Adolphus & Ellis, 84.
t 1 Reports, 47 a.
I Walsingham's Case, page 564; cited by Coke, as above.

Dec. 1865.]

M-cGuIRE v. THE Co0Mi-ONWEALTH.

391

Argument for the right to sell.

null ab iodio, saving the estates and leases made by Edward
VI." That saving was held void; for when the attainder was
declared to be void, the said saving was against the body of
the act, and therefore void. And the like in other cases,
where the saving clause is repugnant to the gift or grant,
and if allowed to operate, would render it vain and nugatory. We have the rule recognized as far back as the days
of the reporter Keilwey,* who speaks of such a proviso as
"voide per cause del contrariositie." In the quaint phraseology of the old reporters, such a clause is denominated "a
flattering one," and issaid by Plowden to be "such as serves
to make fools merry;" implying that all persons who, like
the defendant in error in this case, rely upon such a saving
clause in contradiction to the whole purview of the statute,
are flattered with false hopes, and if they become merry in
the supposition that such a saving clause does them any
good, are merry not according to wisdom.t
It is quite common, in the construction of statutes, to find
a subsequent clause, although apparently general in terms,
restrained by a preceding clause of paramount exigency and
authority.1
III. The Constitution declares that "all duties, imposts,
and excises shall be un:form throughout the United States."
Shall fassachusetts, because of peculiar ?notions of public
policy of her own, evade and escape her due share of the
burden of Federal taxation, and throw the same on the
States of MIaine, New York, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Ohio,
Illinois, Iowa, and California? If Iassachusetts may do
this, cannot the other New England States, which partake
more or less of the same peculiar notions, throw off their
taxes upon the shoulders of the other States of the Union ?
If New England may do this, can it not also be done by all
the eleven States late in rebellion against the public authorKeilwey, 174, b; see, also, of a later date, Thornby v.Fleetwood, 10
Modern, 115, 408.
f Walingham's Case, Plowden, 565; Case of the Proxies, Sir John
Davies, 2.
1 Roper v. nateliffe, 10 M1odern, 242, 485.

892

McGuIRE

v.

THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the right to sell.

ity of the Union ? N~ay, if six States, or even one State,
may do this, cannot every and all the States do it, so as completely to nullify the tax provisions of the act of Congress,
and so exhibit to the world the ridiculous and contemptible
spectacle of an act of Congress, to raise revenue for the support of government and payment of the public debt of the
United States, containing within itself a provision for its
own utter nullification by the people of each and all of the
States ?
We suppose that never before in the history of the government did Congress undertake to enact that any one of the
States might, at pleasure, exempt itself from the purview of
a general act of Congress, laying "duties, imposts, and excises," on the whole United States, and so take away from
those taxes the uniformity required by the Constitution.
Hence, it cannot be expected that we shall be able to cite
any adjudged case to the effect that all such taxes shall be
uniform. No legislator imagined it could be otherwise; no
law was passed on which the question could be raised; no
court or judge could decide or even debate the point. The
converse of this question, to be sure, has been raised politically, but never judicially, so far as regards this court, in
the great political discussion of the right assumed by the
State of South Carolina to exempt herself from the purview
of certain duties on imports, imposed by act of Congress on
the whole United States. That, however, was professedly
nullification of an act of Congress. The violation of the rule
is not improved in quality by transferring the venue to Massachusetts.
The laws of Massachusetts set up here are in violation of
the tax power of the United States. It was long ago determined that this power is complete, exclusive, paramount.
The time is passed when this doctrine can be disputed. It
nas been definitively determined by this court.* But these
laws declare to be outlawed, and seize and destroy as such,
distilled spirits, fermented liquors, and wines, whether for* The Bank-Tax Case, 2 Wallace, 200.

Dec. 1865.]

McGuirE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

393

Argument for the right to sell.

eign or domestic, subject to the excise laws of the United
States as well as its foreign import duties, and so, in effect,
extinguish together the taxed article and the tax-power of
the United States.
They violate that provision of the Constitution, which declares thair, "no State shall make any law impairing the obligation of contracts ;" for they deprive the articles of trade
in question of all the qualities of property; which extinguishes the subject-matter of contracts, and the contracts
themselves, therewith.
IV. The "liquor laws" of Massachusetts have nothing in
them of morality, expediency, or of public interest, that
should override a license with interest, granted on valuable
consideration by the Federal government.
1. It is not true, as alleged, that wines, fermented liquors,
or even distilled spirits, are poisons of themselves, otherwise than that everything we eat or drink may be deleterious if used in excess.
2. In view of the example and injunctions of our Saviour
and his Apostles, in this respect, it cannot be true that the'
use of wine is immoral of itself.
3. It is not true, as pretended, that it is our duty to abstain utterly from any object of health or enjoyment because
others may abuse it. The effect of this doctrin6 would be
to deprive us of everything desirable, even the dearest of all
human relations; since nothing exists for the use of man
which some men will not abuse.
4. It avails nothing to make war on the sale of distilled
spirits; for spirits may be distilled in every man's kitchen,
by means as cheap, as accessible, and as manageable as the.
preparation of a cup of tea or coffee; and if it were not so,
other anasthetic agents exist, which the law cannot reach,
such as opium and bang, the familiar means of intoxication
used by more than half of the human race, to say nothing
of the professed anoesthetic medicaments.
5. The universal prevalence of the use of one or another
object of this nature, in all ages, all countries, and all states
of society, serves to show that they satisfy a physical exi-

McGUIRE v. THE CO

o'MOINEALTE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the right to sell.

gency of man's organization as imperative as that of food,
and of course laws cannot eradicate, although they may
regulate, such use.
6. It shocks the sense of mankind, to prohibit absolutely
by law the use of wines, fermented liquors, and distilled
spirits as a healthful beverage in moderation of use; and
the effect of such laws, if rigidly enforced, would only be to
introduce by the side of the vice of drunkenness, the worse
one of universal hypocrisy.
7. It confounds all distinction of right and wrong, in the
acts of instructed men, and in the conscience of the less instructed, to seek to elevate the use of wine to the dignity of
an illegal and immoral thing, for the suppression of which
all the energies of society should be tempestuously exerted.
The legislation of Massachusetts and Maine is nothing
new. It is the exploded folly of England revived. It dates
in our ancestral home as far back at least as the period of
the Protestant Reformation and the reign of Edward VI.
The overthrow of the Catholic Church, and of the moral
-and religious influence of the regular and secular clergy of
that church, compelled legislators to look around for some
other means of preventing the excesses of men. They could
think of nothing but penal laws. And from that day to this
has been kept up the delusion, with more or less hold on
society, that penal laws are capable of counteracting immoral
tendencies and producing moral conduct.
It needs only to examine the statutes on this subject collected in Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown, c. 78, and Burns's
Justice of the Peace, title "Ale Houses," to observe the
efforts to substitute in this way penal legislation for moral
and religious instruction.
The laws enacted in England, from the time of Edward
VI down to that of the Georges, and in the several States of
the Union, as exemplified in their worst form by the existing
laws of Maine and Massachusetts, demonstrate how wildly,
from that day to this, our English and American society has
been floundering along from one folly to another in the
paths of false theory and unphilosophical legislation, under

Dec. 1865.]

McGuiuE v. THE COMMOWEALTH.
Opinion of the court.

the influence of the idea that statute law is the all-sufficient
remedy of every sort of human infirmity; an idea which is
itself the special human infirmity of the well-intentioned
people of New England.
The so-called temperance agitation has effected no abatement, in the whole, of the use or abuse of intoxicating
drinks, and in the end will probably produce, by recoil, a
state of things worse than that which existed before the agitation. No superiority then over the nation is due to those
legislators of Massachusetts, who pretend to be "more pow
erful than Nature, wiser than Truth, better than God."
Mr. Speed, A. G. U. S., and .3r. Reed, A. G. of .1assachu
setis, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below decided that the license received under
the act of Congress gave to the defendant no right to keep
or sell intoxicating liquors in violation of the State law.
Whatever might be the effect of this license as to the
rights under it, in the absence of other provisions of the act
of Congress-a question not involved in the case, and, therefore, not material to be noticed-it is quite clear that it conferred no right or authority on the defendant below, and
hence furnished no defence to the indictment under the law
of the State.
The 67th section of the act of Congress enacts, "that no
license hereinbefore provided for, if granted, shall be construed to authorize the commencement or continuation of
any trade, business, occupation, or employment therein mentioned, within any State or Territory of the United States in
which it is or shall be specially prohibited by the laws thereof,
or in violation of the laws of any State or Territory."
In view of this provision, it is in vain to attempt to give
force or effect to the license against the State law; and
hence the authority derived from it, upon which the defendant relied for his defence in the court below, fails.
The decision was against an authority set up under an act
of Congress, and the case is, therefore, rightfully here under

896

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the 25th section of the Judiciary Act. But as we are of
opinion the decision of the court below was right, the judgment must be affirmed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See the preceding case.-Rsr,.]

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.
1. The recital in the record of proceeding of a Probate Court, under a statute
of 'Wisconsin Territory, of facts necessary to give such court jurisdiction, is printfacieevidence of the facts recited.
'. The jurisdiction existing, the subsequent action of the court is the exercise of its judicial authority, and can only be questioned on appeal;
the mode provided by the law of the Territory for review of the determinations of the court.
Where a statute of the Territory provided that the real estate of the decedent might be sold to satisfy his just debts when the personalty was
insufficient, and authorized the Probate Court of the county where the
deceased last dwelt, or in which the real estate was situated, to license
the administrator to make the sale upon representation of this insufficiency, and "on the same being made to appear" to the court, and required the court, previously to passing upon the representation, to order
notice to be given to all parties concerned, or their guardians, who did
not signify their assent to the sale, to show cause why the license should
not be granted.
Held, that the representation of the insufficiency of the personal property
of the deceased to pay his just debts was the only act required to call
into exercise the power of the court. The necessity and propriety of
the sale solicited, were matters to be considered at the hearing upon
the order to show cause. A license following such hearing involved an
adjudication upon these points, and such adjudication was conclusive.
8. 'Where an administrator had been appointed, and after giving the required
bonds informed the court that he was unable to act, and resigned the
appointment, not having taken possession of the property of the intestate, or attempted to exercise any control over it, it was competent for
the court to accept the resignation, and to appoint a new administrator.
The power to accept the resignation and to make the second appointment, under these circumstances, were incidents of the power to make
the first.
C A second license to an administrator to sell property already sold by him,

