Tim DOUIR0.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

We cannot agree to this construction of the act of 1863,
which prescribes this penalty, nor of the act of 1864 imposing the duty. The penalty of forfeiture is annexed to
the act of making an entry knowingly by means of false in
voices, or false certificate of the consul, or of any other in
voice which contains an undervaluation, or by means of any
other false or fraudulent documents or papers. No doubt
one of the objects of the provision is to secure to the gov
ernment the duties imposed by the statute, but another is,
to protect the officers against imposition and fraud by the
importer or agent, and to inculcate and enforce good faith
and honest dealing with those officers while engaged in the
execution of their duties.
Besides, under this provision of the act of 1864, the result
which is assumed in the instruction to the jury, as the only
material fact in disposing of the case, is one to be ascertained by the officers of the customs, and this, after the
entry of the goods upon the invoice duly verified, and an
appraisal and estimate of the amount of the duties. This is
the way prescribed by the law to determine whether or not
the duties in the aggregate fall under the rate of six dollars
per dozen bottles. The reason, therefore, for integrity in all
the documents and papers of the shipment, and fair dealing
on the part of the importers or their agent, is as applicable
to the present case as to any other importation and entry.
We think that the court below erred, and that the judgment should be
REVERSED.

THE DOURO.
The court reproves counsel who take appeals without any expectation of
reversal, and declares that if it had power to impose a penalty in such
cases, as it has when writs of error are sued out for delay merely, iR
would impose it.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, condemning

Dec. 1865.]

THE DouRo.
Statement of the case.

the Douro and her cargo for a breach of the blockade of the
port of Wilmington, North Carolina, established by our
government during the late rebellion.
The vessel had been -captured as prize of war by one of
the government steamers, about two hundred miles off the
port just named, and being brought into the port of New
York was there libelled in prize.
C. Edwards, Esq., as attorney, filed a claim for certain
British subjects, owners of the vessel and cargo. These
admitted in substance that the vessel had come out of the
port of Wilmington on the voyage in which she was captured, but alleged that there was no efficient blockade of
that port, and seemed to rest their defence on the ground,
that having eluded the vigilance of the blockading vessels
on duty off that port, and reached the open sea, she was not
subject to capture by any other vessel of the United States.
The test-oaths were made by lr. Edwards only.
The master of the captured vessel, on his examination
preparatory to the original hearing, said: "I knew the port
of Wilmington was blockaded when I went in, for I had six
guns fired at me; and I knew it when I came out." And
again: "The vessel was captured because she had been running the blockade." And again: "The capturing vessel
fired a broadside, or half a broadside at us, amounting to
some fifty-five guns. This was done because we were trying to escape." The mate said the same thing.
The District Court condemned both vessel and cargo as
lawful prize of war; from which decree the claimants, by
counsel-whose name the reporter supposes that, after the
opinion of the court has been read, he will be excused by
the benevolent reader for not signalizing-appealed to this
court.
31r. Coffey, sp~ecial counsel for te captors, remarking that it
was difficult to see why the court was troubled with this
appeal, declined to argue the case, as being too plain to
occupy the time of the court with; and submitted it with
the record and a short brief. No counsel for the claimant
appeared before this tribunal.

THE MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree of the District Court in this cause is affirmed.
-It is impossible to imagine a plainer case for condemnation
for breach of blockade. The statements of the captain as
to breaking the blockade are explicit, and the mate says
substantially the same thing as he does.
We cannot approve the conduct of the counsel who advised this appeal. An appeal is a matter of right, and, if
prayed, must be allowed; but should never be prayed without some expectation of reversal. We impose penalties
when writs of error merely for delay are sued out, in cases
of judgments at law for damages; and if the rule were applicable to, the ease before us we should apply it.

THE MOHAWK.
1. The act of December 23, 1852, authorizing foreign vessels wrecked and
repaired in the United States, to be registered or enrolled, is to be
taken as a part of our system of registration and enrolment.
2. Vessels engaged in the foreign trade are registered, and these engaged in
the coasting and home trade are enrolled; and the words "register"
and "enrolment"' are used to, distinguish the certificates granted to
those two classes of vessels.
8. The two statutes providing generally for registry and enrolment of vessels, are the act of December 81, 1792, applicable exclusively to registry
of vessels engaged in foreign commerce, and the act of July 18, 1793,
applicable exclusively to vessels engaged in domestic commerce.
4. The penalty of forfeiture of a vessel for the use of a certificate of registry
to which she is not entitled, found in,the 27th section of the act of
1792, is not imported into the act of 1793 ; and there is no forfeiture
urder that act for the use of a fraudulent enrolment.
5. But the act of March 2d, 1831, concerning vessels used on our northern
frontiers, which are necessarily engaged in both the foreign and home
traffic at the same time, makes the certificate of enrolment equivalent
to both registry and enrolment.
6. This act does, by the proviso to its 3d section, apply the penalty of for.
feiture contained in the 27th section of the act of 1792 to an enrolment
having the effect of a register-fraudulevztly obtained.

