Dec. 1865.]

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. THE COLLECTOR.

495

Statement of the case.

BANK FOR SAVITGS v. THE COLLECTOR.
1. Savings banks which receive deposits and lend the same for the benefit
of their depositors, although they may have no capital stock, and neither
make discounts nor issue any money for circulation, are "engaged in
the business of banking" within the meaning of the first clause of the
110th section of the Revenue Act of 30th June, 1864, which enacts that
"there shall be levied, collected, and paid a duty of , 1th of 1 per cent.
each month upon the average amount of the deposits of money .....
with any person, bank, association, corporation, or company engaged in
the business of banking."
2. On the repeal of the proviso to that section, which declared that the section should not apply "to any savings bank having no capital stock,
and whose business is confined to receiving deposits and loaning the
same on interest for the benefit of the depositors only, and which do no
other business of banking," such savings banks became subject to the
duty imposed by the principal enactment.
3. Moneys received by such banks from depositors become "deposits"
within the meaning of the act as soon as they are received, and as such
are immediately subject to taxation.
4. In interpreting a section of a statute which remains in force, resort may
be had to a proviso to it, although the proviso be repealed.

TuE 110th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June
30, 1864, enacted as follows:
"There shall be levied, collected, and paid a duty of ;th of
one per cent. each month upon the average amount of the deposits
of money subject to payment by check or draft, or represented
by certificates of deposit, or otherwise, whether payable on demand or at somne future day, with any person, bank, association,
company, or corporation,engaged in the business of bankifng.....
"And a duty of ,.th of one per cent. each month, as aforesaid,
upon the average amount of the capital of any bank, association, company, or corporation, or person engaged in the business of banking beyond the amount invested in United States
bonds.
"And a duty of 7.th of one per cent. each month upon the
average amount of circulation issued by any bank, association,
corporation, company, or person; including as circulation all
certified checks, and all notes and other obligations calculated
or intended to circulate or be used as mpney.

496

BANK

FOR

SAVINGS V. TnE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"PROVrDED, That this section shall not apply to associations
which are taxed under and by virtue of the act C to provide a
national currency,' &c .....
[Nor to any savings bank having
no capital stock, and whose business is confined to receiving
deposits and loaning the same on interest for the benefit of the
depositors only, and which do no other business of banking."]
By an act of March 3, 1865-an act itself of numerous
pages-amendatory of the former one, and inserting or striking out passages all through it, this 110th section was
amended by "striking out" that part of the proviso relat
ing to savings banks, and above inclosed in brackets.
In this state of the revenue statutes, "The Bank for Savings in the City of New York," a respectable institution,
incorporated by the State of New York, A.D. 1819, was
existing in the city just named. The features which, under
its charter and by-laws, distinguished, as was conceived by
its managers, this corporation from those which exercise to
some extent the same functions, and especially from ordinary
banking corporationsand associations, were apparently these:
1. It was incorporated, not for private gain, but upon the
application of the Society for the Prevention of Pauperism
in the City of New York.
2. It had no capital stock.
3. It had no shareholders, and no corporators interested
in or entitled to participate in the profits of the institution.
4. The corporators were the "trustees" for the. time
being, who constituted the "Board of 'Managers." These
were prohibited from directly or indirectly receiving any
pay or emolument for their services; neither could they have
any interest in the deposits or the profits arising therefrom.
5. It was prohibited from issuing notes, making discounts,
or transacting any business which belongs to or is transacted
by incorporated banks other than is specified in the act, and
from lending money "upon notes, bills of exchange, drafts,
or any other personal securities whatever."
6. It was enjoined and required to use the funds intrusted
to it, and exercise the power.s ,onferred for the promotion
of the objects stated in the preamble to its charter, viz.,

Dec. 1865.]

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. THE COLLECTOR.

497

Statement of the ease.

"encouraging in the community habits of industry and
economy, by securing and investing in government securities or stock created and issued under and by virtue of any
law of the United States, or of this State, and in no other wa l,
suteb simcdl suins of money as 'mnay E SAVED from the earnbnqs of
tradesmen, nechanics, laborers, rinwrs, servants, and others,
thereby affording the twofold advantage of security and
interest."
Its object, as declared in the preamble, was "to ameliorate
the condition of the poor and laboring classes of the community."
[Power was subsequently given to invest in the debt of
the city of New York, and to lend upon bond secured by
mortgage upon unincumbered real property in the city of
New York; and the institution was subjected to a closer
scrutiny by the officers of the State.]
7. All tMe profits derived from the business were divisible
ratably senn-anhnally among the depositors, except that a.small
percentage was permitted to be retained for accumulation,
to prevent or to make good any loss to the depositors by
reason of a reduction in the market price of securities or
stocks held below the par value.
8. Money, when received by it from its depositors, was to
be entered in a pass book, which, when presented, was a
voucher or warrant for payments made by the bank and
entered in the book; and the corporation-which by its
charter had power to pay cash to depositors when required,
and at such times and with such interest and under such regulations as the trustees should f'om time to time prescribecould by its by-law only be called upon to make payments
either of principal or profits onfour stated days in the year,
and then only upon a week's votice of the intended call. It
was at liberty, however, to return all or any part of any
deposit whenever it thought proper; and moneys might "be
voluntarily paid by the bank daily and without such notice,
and without thereby waiving the right of the bank to such
notice and time of payment."
One of its by-laws was that "all drafts must be made perVOL. IM.

32

498

BANK FOR1 SAVINGS V. THE COLLE'CTOR.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sonally, or by order in writing,.....
and must be accom.
panied by the pass book."
9. All the money received by it under the charter was,
and at all times had been, either actually invested in stocks
or lent on bond and mortgage, except some small sum which
was kept on deposit in a bank of deposit in the city for current expenses, or waiting an opportunity to invest.
10. Deposits of $1, or of any number of dollars, were receivable; but no person, "except in rare and special cases,"
and with the special direction of the attending committee,
was allowed to have with the corporation moneys amounting
in the aggregate to more than $1000, and in no case could
the amount exceed $5000. Those having less than $500
with the corporation were, by law, entitled to receive one
per cent. more of the profits than the others.
11. A large proportion of the depositors, it appeared, had
incomes less in amount than $600 per annum, and were not
liable to pay an income tax.
12. Courts were enjoined, by the charter of the institution,
to construe the act of incorporation favorably and benignly
for every beneficial purpose therein intended.
It was not asserted that the corporation had in any way
exceeded its powers, or violated the laws of its creation.
The character of its "depositors" appeared from a return
of the new ones in 1865. These numbered 13,071; of whom
5905 were married women, minors, &c.; 300 washers, 571
seamstresses, 798 laborers, 1534 domestics. About fourfifths of the deposits were in sums of less than $100.
It may be here well to add that the statute of 1864, already
spoken of, enacts by its 79th section thus:
'Every person, firm, or company, and every incorporated or
other bank having a place of business where credits are opened
by the deposit or collection of money or currency, subject to be
paid or remitted upon draft, check, or order; or where money
is advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, or promi&,ory notes; or where stocks, bonds, bullion,
bills of exchange, or promissory notes, are received for discount
or sale shall be regarded a banker under this act.

Dec.

1865.] BANKc FOR SAVINGS v. THE CoLLEcToR.

499

Statement of the case.

"PRovIDED, That any savings bank, having no capital stock,
and whose business is confined to receiving deposits and loaning
the same for the benefit of its depositors, and which does no
othIer business of bonking, shall not be liable to pay for a license as
a banker."
In the amendatory act of 1865, the above given proviso to
this 79th section, a proviso which, the reader will have observed, much resembles that to the 110th section, was not
stricken out.
The directors of the institution, conceiving that this was
not a corporation " engaged
.
in the business of banking," nor
otherwise within the sections of the act already quoted, made
no returns for several months to the assessor of the United
States of the average amount of the deposits out on loan or
invested for individuals in pursuance of its charter, as every
corporation engaged in the business of banking is required
to do. Hereupon the assessor estimated the amount as the
statute provides in cases of delinquency, and these being returned to and adopted by the commissioner, the last-named
officer gave a warrant to the collector of the district, to collect the amount as estimated and assessed, with penalties.
The collector, being about to proceed accordingly, the corporation filed a bill in the Supreme Court of N~ew York to
enjoin him. A preliminary injunction having been granted
there, the case was removed by certiorari into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of that
State.
The case coming on to be tried, the judges there were divided on the following questions:
1. Whether the Circuit Court could restrain the collection of
the tax and penalties by injunction?
2. Whether an injunction could properly issue in this case?
3. Whether under the 110th section of the act of June 30th,
1864, as amended by the act of 3March 3d, 1865, the corporation
was liable to pay a duty of ,th of one per cet. per month on the
average amount of money so received and invested or lent as
aforesaid, and represented and entered in the pass-book as afore-

500

BANK FOR SAVINUS V. THE COLLECTOR.

[SUp. Ct

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

said, and payable to the parties entitled under the laws of the

corporation already sufficiently set forth.
4. Whether moneys so received and invested were deposits
within the meaning of the acts of Congress.
5. Whether moneys received on deposit in any one month and
invested as aforesaid during the same month, were deposits
within the meaning of the said acts, so as to render the plaintiff
liable to pay a tax thereon for such month.
And on a certificate of division these questions were now
before this court.
Mtessrs. Allen, Strong, and Bidwell, for the Bank for Savings:
The main question, and the one upon which all the others
turn, is this:
Are these moneys-received for investment, and actually
invested, or permanently lent for the sole benefit of the owners, and repaid with the profits, if any have been earned, at
stated periods upon notice, upon a prescribed voucher, and
upon presentation of the " pass-book" as a voucher,-taxable
as "deposits with a person or corporation engaged in the
business of banking."
The other questions are unimportant. If the decision
upon the merits is adverse to the plaintiff, the injunction
necessarily falls, and, if adverse to the United States there
will be no attempt to enforce the collection of the tax. The
questions, as to the injunction, are, therefore, as presented
here, abstract questions, without particular interest.
The third and fourth questions are substantially the same,
expressed.in different terms, and must receive the same answers.
Now, this institution is not a "1bank," by which term, in
an unqualified presentation, of it, is meant a bank of the ordinary kind. It is a Bank for Savings only. But if it still
be a bank,-that is to say, a common repository for people's
money, having a bench or counter,-it is assuredly not a
bank "engaged in the business of banking." The business
of banking consists in buying, selling, and discounting commercial paper, with or -without collaterals; in issuing notes;

Dec. 1865.]

BANK FoR

SAVINGS V. TuE

COLLECTOR.

501

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

in making collections, and in receiving deposits of money
and in paying them out on check, at call. This bank is engaged in none of these things. Will it be said that one sort
of banks is banks of deposit, and that this is of that class?
Certainly it is not of that class as eornmonly so called. Deposits in any sense of the term cannot generally be made in
this "Bank for Savings :" and in the ordinary, popular commercial sense-which is the legal sense, also-and the sense
in which, when used without restriction, the word "deposits"
must be presumed to be used in the statute*-deposits, in no
sense can. What is meant by the word "deposit?"
In its
widest sense it applies to any material thing laid down;
other things as well as money. But in connection with
banking and in ordinary commercial parlance it means
money taken to a bank, left there, and understood to be
subject to check or draft.t Mvoney thus deposited and drawn
on enters largely into the commerce of the country: checks
and drafts are mercantile instruments, part of the machinery
of trade, having commercial value and bearing no resem.
blance to the "pass-book" held by the poor seamstress, or
washerwoman, or cook, who can go but four times a year
and after notice to have a debit entered in it.
Neither, on the other hand, do "banks," -i e. companies
or corporations "engaged in the business of banking" perform services like those performed by this bank for savhgs.
The business of receiving, investing, or lending out the "savings" of the industrious poor, for the benefit of the poor
themselves and irrespectively of advantage to the corporators, is not engaged in by any bank, whether the bank be
one of deposit, or one of discount, or one of circulation, or,
finally, one of all three characters combined. Banks avoid
the poor; they seek, and properly, the rich: those who have
* Hallewell v. Morrell, 1 Scott's New reports, 809.

f Bouvier's Law Dictionary, tit. Banker: where a banker is defined,
"'One engaged in the business of banking; receiving other people's money
on deposit, to be rell, ed on denhand, discounting other persons' notes, and
issuing his own for circulation-" C'urtis v. Leqvitt, 15 New York, 9, 166,
168.

502

BAxK

FoR SAVINGS

v. TE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

the largest deposits are there the welcomed guests. This
institution is the friend and agent of the poor only. The
rich are repelled, and those who have small deposits-less
than $500-receive greater interest than those who have
large ones-over $500. Indeed, banks would not, ordinarily,
be permitted to perform the sorts of services which alone are
performed by this institution. Public policy has not permitted the savings of the poor to be hazarded by the perils
incident to commercial institutions and business.
Both State and national legislatures recognize the distinctive features of the two classes of institutions. The one class
may, under the laws of Congress and the laws of most of the
States, be organized under general laws, and by the voluntary action of those desiring to associate for gain, and they
choose their own trustees or directors. "Banks for savings"
are created by special charter, and the trustees or directors
named by the legislature, and provision is made for the filling of vacancies in the management by the board itself.
In all books and treatises, "banks," and "banks for. savings" are treated of as separate institutions, as distinct in
all their characteristics as are "banks" and "insurance companies." We in New York call them sometimes "banks for
savings." In other cities they are known by other names.
In Philadelphia they are called universally "saving fund
societies." In France they are distinguished from banpqes
of any sort; being styled "caisses d'eparnes."
It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to make an
innovation, and so by the Internal IRevenue Act, to confound
and make one two classes of institutions, always before regarded as entirely distinct, and having nothing in common
between them, except a similarity of title.
What, then, in reality, is this institution? Its mere name,
-though its name, a bank or common receptacle or repository for savings is not inappropriate-cannot impress upon it
qualities which it has not. Its character must be determined
by the services rendered and the business transacted, rather
than by a title given for convenience or by accommodation,
by any one. The "trustees" of the plaintiff are, in truth,

Dec. 1865.]

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. THE COLLECTOR.

503

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

but the trustees of the individuals owning the fund, and for
convenience permitted to act in a corporate name; and if
the same individuals should perform the same services as
individuals associated together for the benevolent purpose
that now binds them in a body, it would never have suggested itself to any one that they were bankers or engaged
in the banking business, or that the funds of their beneficiaries were taxable as "deposits" with such persons.
Negatively, the company is not a commercial institution,
or one of business. Its transactions do not enter into or
make a part of the ordinary commercial transactions of life.
It has no capital and gain, and profit is not made to the corporation or its managers.
It is positively, as also pre-eminently and solely, a benevolent institution-a public charity-gratuitously rendering
valuable service to the public, to its employers, and to the
State.
The relation between the corporation and its poor beneficiaries is that of a TUsT.

The money is received for in-

vestment, and the plaintiff is liable to account. The special
contract evidenced by the entry in the "pass-book," creates
the trust, and the relation of trustee and ceslu que trust, between the plaintiff and the individuals availing themselves
of its services, and the rights and obligations springing out
of the contract are those incident to the relation named.
The money to which the cestui que trust is entitled, may be
more or less than the sum deposited, depending upon the
result of the investments. The relation of debtor and creditor as distinguished from that of trustee and cestui que trust
is probably not created and does not exist.
The whole force of any argument which can be made in
opposition to our view must rest, we suppose, on the fact,
that by a proviso to the 110th section of the act of 1864, this
class of banks was by a specific description of their functions
excluded, and that by the act of 1865 this proviso was repealed. But if it be clear that under the general or substantive enactment the institution was not liable, the proviso was

504

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. TiE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

useless to discharge it, and the repeal of the proviso leaves
the case where it was. Suppose it were enacted that all white
"malecitizens of the age of twenty-one years shall pay a polltax, provided that no women or children shall be so charged.
Could it be inferred from a repeal of such a proviso that
women and children were meant to be made chargeable?
Would it not rather be inferred that the proviso had been
seen to be useless or absurd, and had been repealed on that
account? Whatever might or might not be inferred, the
repeal of the useless proviso would leave the principal and
preceding enactment where it was; and if by it they were
not charged they would not be chargeable at all.
So, too, here. This institution for savings, not being an
institution in any way engaged "in the business of banking," its deposits were not liable under the principal enactment which makes liable to the tax no deposits but those
of institutions so engaged. The proviso which exempts institutions for "savings" was therefore unnecessary; and,
philologically, perhaps, even worse. It did but redeclare in
a literal form that which was already declared in a legal and
commercial and orthoepical and scientific one. The repeal
of such a proviso, of course, left the preceding enactment
where it was; that is to say, without savings banks included.
We all know that enactments are frequently made which
do but declare what was already law; what would have existed just as well if the enactment had never been made.
This is no strange circumstance in legislation. This term
affords a case of this sort.* Especially is the observation
true of what are called provisos: appendages, or clauses cast
in adjectitiously at the suggestion of some one to remove a
doubt which he had, or, more probably, supposed that some
one else might have, but which no one would have had, and
-which, whether or not, would never have been declared a
well-founded doubt by the law. Our internal revenue laws,
,the fruit of our civil war, have been recently and hastily enacted, in a crisis and emergency. They are enactments of
*,See supra, p. 293; Cincinnati City v. Xorgan.-Rr.

Dec. 1865.] BANK

FOR SAVINGS v.

THE COLLECTOR.

505

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

immense magnitude, of a sort which was quite new to us;
filled with obscure or incongruous provisions; and which if
interpreted as some persons would seek to interpret them
would seem to have been passed to show that Congress was
seeking to exercise a despotism over the English language
and to shame our mother tongue. In the present case we
submit that the proviso was inserted ex cautelet only, and, on
a revision of the whole statute, has been repealed as superfluous
Consider this question on public ponlcy and legislative
probabilities. What are these "saving banks" or "s1aving
funds," which exist in England, France, and all over the
North of our own country?
In the State of New York there are seventy-three savings
banks :*
Total deposits,
Number of depositors, ....

....

$111,793,425
456,721

The average amount of savings belonging to each depositor is $244 and a fraction; and there is about one depositor
to every ibie of the inhabitants.
In the New England States there are two hundred and
twenty-two savings banks:
Total deposits,
Number of depositors, ..

$119,382,941
527,090

The average amount of savings belonging to each depositor being $226 and a fraction.
Of the number and character of the depositors in the institution before the court, the reporter gives some mention
in his statement
The annual percentage of increase in savings, fostered
and encouraged, if not in truth, wholly induced by these institutions, has been very great within the last few years. In
New England it was thirty per cent. friom January, 1862, to
January, 1865. In New York greater.
A reference to the savings of Great Britain, in comparison
with those in New England and New York, will show the
* Bankers' Magazine for July, 1865.

506

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. TnE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Bank for Savings.

beneficial workings of these institutions, and that the true
policy of the government is not to burden them with taxes
of any description. Great Britain, with a population of
80,000,000, has aggregate savings deposits equal to $190,494,406, or about $6.33 per head.. Iew England and NKew
York, with a population of 7,500,000, has an aggregate savings deposit of $231,176,366, or about $30 per caput.
It will not be denied that the greater part of these savings
are the fruits of institutions for savings, and that the laborers, mechanics, married women, and infants to whom they
belong, would, but for the facilities for investment for accumulations of small sums thus afforded, have parted with
them as they were earned, and that the State would have
been the loser, the individuals so much the poorer, and the
habits of thrift and good morals would have lacked the encouragement they now have.
Certainly, no wise government will tax institutions of
these kinds, conducted upon principles and with motives
such as govern the one here sought to be charged. They
stand on the same footing as schools, churchesi orphan asylums, hospitals, and those other foundations of religion and
charity, and providence for the poor, which make the honor
and glory of any land.
If well-known principles of law have settled it-as they
have-that every act placing an imposition or tax upon
the citizen is to be construed strongly against the government and liberally in favor of the citizen-that such acts are
never to be extended by implication, and that their application will be restricted to cases within their spirit as well as
to those within their words, with what an emphasis of reason
do the principles apply to a case like this, where the collector seeks to take from the capital deposited in these institutions,-the capital of the poor, of even the very poor; "men
who work for their daily pay; women who -perform domestic
services for their weekly wages; persons who have garnered
up their little treasures, the dearer treasure to them as it has
been pinched off and hoarded from the scanty supply of their
personal comfort;" persons who have little power to protect

Dec. 1865.]

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. THE COLLECTOR.

507

Opinion of the court.

themselves against the arm of power, and who now look to
this court only as their earthly avenger.
Mr. Speed, A. G., and Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Ashton, ota
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.*
Immediate purpose of the suit in this case was to restrain
the respondent, as the collector of internal revenue for the
sixth collection district of the State of New York, from collecting certain internal duties or taxes assessed against the
corporation complainants, by the commissioner of internal
revenue. Charter of the complainants was granted by a
special act of the legislature of the State of New York,
passed on the twenty-sixth day of March, 1819, and entitled
An Act to incorporate an association by the name of a Bank
for Savings in the City of New York.
Statement of facts as proved or admitted shows that the
complainants did business in the city of New York under
that act of incorporation, and certain other acts of the legislature of the State, as detailed in the record from the date of
their charter to the time of the filing of the bill of complaint.
Complainants denied that they were subject to the payment
of any internal duties or taxes as a savings bank, and they
accordingly neglected and refused to make any returns either
to the commissioner of internal revenue or to the assessor
of the district. Failing to receive such returns the assessor
of the district estimated the average amount of their deposits
for the periods specified in the record, and certified the same
to the commissioner of internal revenue as required by law
in case of delinquency.
'
Assessor's estimates as certified were adopted by the commissioner as correct, and he thereupon proceeded to assess
the duties or taxes in controversy, adding thereto certain
penalties for the neglect and refusal to make the returns as
*Field,

J., not having sat.

t,08

BANK FOR SAVINGS

v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

required by the act of Congress, and directed the respondent
as the collector of that collection district to collect the amount
so estimated and assessed.
1. Exemption from liability to taxation in the case is
claimed by the complainants upon the ground that the corporation is-not a bank, either in the ordinary and popular
sense or in the legal sense of that word, and they allege that
they have never transacted any business of banking within
the meaning of the acts of Congress under which the duties
or taxes were estimated and levied. Respondent in his answer alleged that the complainants were an incorporated
savings bank within the usual and proper meaning of that
term, and that as such they have been and were engaged in
the business of banking as assumed by the revenue officers.
Wholly unable to agree in opinion, the judges of the Circuit
Court certified five questions to this court for decision, but
in the view taken of the case it will not be necessary to examine the first two, as the answers to be certified to the
other three will enable the Circuit Court to dispose of the
cause.
2. Substantial import of the third question is whether the
complainants are liable under the internal revenue acts to
pay a duty of one-twenty-fourth of one per cent. per month
on the average amount of money which they receive and invest or loan, as described in the statement of facts exhibited
in the record.
Their powers are set forth in their charter and the other
acts of the legislature to which reference has been made.
Purpose of the charter as described in the preamble is to
encourage in the community habits of industry and economy, by receiving and investing in government securities

or in Federal or State stocks, such small sums of money as
may be saved from the earnings of tradesmen, mechanics,
laborers, minors, servants, and others. They are constituted
by the first section of the charter a body corporate and politic
by the name of the Bank for Savings in the City of New
York, and the provision is, that by that name they shall have
perpetual succession, and that they shall be capable of suing

Dec. 1865.]

BANK FOR SAvEnGs

z,.
TuE

COLLECTOR.

509

Opinion of the court.

and being sued, pleading and being impleaded, and defending and being defended in all courts and places whatsoever.
Power to hold real and personal estate to such an amount as
may be necessary for the purposes of the incorporation is
also conferred, provided that the clear annual value thereof,
exclusive of profits arising from interest or from the sale of
any stock in which the deposits made in the bank may be
invested, shall not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.
Trustees or managers are appointed by the act of incorporation, but they are forbidden to receive any pay or emolument for their services, and it is provided that they shall not
"issue any notes, make any discounts, or transact any business which belongs to or is transacted by incorporated banks,
other than is herein specified." Funds of the corporation
are required to be used and appropriated for the promotion
of the objects stated in the preamble, and the second section
of the charter provides, in effect, that the association shall
receive as deposits, from persons of the description mentioned in the recital to the act, all sums of money which
may, on the terms specified, be offered for that purpose, and
that the same shall be invested accordingly, and shall be repaid to the respective depositors when required, and at such
times, and with such interest, and under such regulations as
the trustees shall from time to time prescribe.
8. Such trustees may make by-laws and regulations, and
they are expressly required by the charter to regulate the
rate of interest to be allowed to depositors, so that they shall
receive a ratable proportion of all the profits of the bank
after deducting all necessary expenses. Authority is conferred upon the trustees to manage the affairs of the bank,
and for that purpose to appoint clerks and fix their salaries,
but they are required to make an annual report of their
funds to the legislature and to common council of the city.
Subsequent enactments very much enlarged the powers of
the trustees, and subjected the bank to a much closer scrutiny by the proper authorities of the State. Investment of
the funds under those additional provisions may be made in
any State stocks, where the faith of the State is pledged for

510

BANK FOR SAVINGS v. TiE COLLECTOR.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

their redemption, or the moneys received on deposit may be
loaned on bonds secured by mortgage of real estate in the
city where the bank is located. They are also authorized to
accumulate and "hold invested" a surplus fund, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of deposits, as a protection
to depositors against loss in case of the reduction in the
market price of their securities. Bank commissioners have
the power to visit and inspect the bank under existing laws
whenever they deem it necessary, or whenever thereto required by the comptroller of the State, and they are required
to report the general condition of the bank to the legislature
once at least in every three years.
4. Intention of Congress undoubtedly was, to impose a
duty of one-twenty-fourth of one per centum each month,
upon the average amount of deposits of money, subject to
payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates of
deposit, or otherwise, whether payable on demand, or at
some future day, if made with any person, bank, association, company, or corporation engaged in the business of
banking, except deposits with associations which were taxed
under and by virtue of the act "to provide a national currency," and with savings bank having no capital stock, and
whose business was confined to receiving deposits and loaning the same on interest, for the benefit of the depositors
only, and which were doing no other business of banking.*
Confirmation of that view is derived from the language of
the next clause, which imposes the same duty upon the average amount of the capital of any bank, association, company, or corporation, or person engaged in the business of
banking, beyond the amount invested in United States bonds.
Savings banks having no capital are not included in that
provision; nor are they included in the next succeeding
clause, which imposes a duty of one-twelfth of one per cent.
each month upon the average amount of circulation issued
by any bank, association, corporation, company, or person,
including as circulation, all certified checks, and all notes

Dec. 1865.] BANK

FOR

SAVINGS V. THE COLLECTOR.

511

Opinion of the court.

and other obligations calculated or intended to circulate or
to be used as money. Such savings banks having neither
capital nor circulation, did not fall within the words of either
of those clauses, and consequently it did not require any proviso to exclude them from the operation of those provisions.
But those banks, as banks of deposit, did fall directly within
the words of the first clause of the section, and therefore it
became necessary to insert the proviso near the close of the
section, to exclude them from the otherwise plain meaning
and operation of the clause.
Precise language of the proviso is, that the section shall
not apply "to any savings bank having no capital stock, and
whose business is confined to receiving deposits, and loaning
the same on interest, for the benefit of the depositors only,
and which do no other business of banking." More exact
description of the corporation complainants than is expressed
in the language of that proviso, could not be conceived; and
it amounts to a legislative enactment, that the receiving of
deposits and loaning the same on interest, for the benefit of
the depositors, is a business of banking. Throughout the
section the distinction between deposits, capital, and circulation as separate objects of taxation, is clearly maintained
and enforced, both in respect to the monthly returns and the
monthly payment of the duties.
Same remarks apply to the seventy-ninth section of the
act, which requires bankers to pay a certain sum for a license, and defines the meaning of the word as used in the
section. Doubt cannot be entertained that the definition as
there given would have included savings banks having no
capital stock, but for the proviso annexed to the clause,
which is in the very words of the proviso under considera-

tion.
5. Argument for the complainants is, that the proviso was
only inserted out of abundant caution, and that it was unnecessary, inasmuch as such an association was not included
in the substantive words of the section; but it is not possible
to sustain that proposition for the reasons already given, as
well as others which will be briefly stated. 1. Unquestion-

512

BANK FOR SAVINGS V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ably the complainants receive deposits as one of the primary
purposes of the charter, and the second by-law of the bank
provides, that "deposits of one dollar, or any number of
dollars, may be received, but are not, in the whole, to exceed one thousand dollars from any depositor, without the
special direction of the attending committee." General rule
is, that no depositor is allowed to have deposits beyond one
thousand dollars; but he may have that amount, and, in
special cases, when it is made to appear that he can find no
other investment, he may exceed that amount. 2. By the
terms of their charter they are obliged to pay each depositor,
when required, "and at such times, and with such interest,
and under such regulations as the trustees shall from time
to time prescribe."
Obligation of repayment exists throughout, and it cannot
make any difference as to the liability of the complainants
in this case that the entries are made in a pass-book, and
that the depositors can only obtain their deposits at certain
stated periods. Deposits are made to be invested for the
benefit of the depositors, and the bank is under obligations
to repay the amount when demanded, agreeably to the bylaws and charter. 3.Only remaining condition to bring the
case within the words of the body of the act is, that the
deposits should be made with a person, bank, association,
company, or corporation engaged in the business of banking. Agreed case shows that the corporation complainants
were engaged in receiving deposits, and loaning the same
on interest for the benefit of the depositors. Irrespective of
the definition given to that phrase in the language of the
proviso, the same conclusion must be adopted from the facts
exhibited in the statement of the case, unless it can be established that the receiving of deposits by a chartered company,
and loaning or investing the same for the benefit of the depositors, is not a business of banking.
Banks, in the commercial sense, are of three kinds, to wit:
1, of deposit; 2, of discount; 3,of circulation. All or any
two of these functions may, and frequently are, exercised by
the same association; but there are still banks of deposit,

Dec. 1865.] BAxN

FOR SAVINGS

v. TE COLLECTOR.

513

Opinion of the court.

without authority to make discounts or issue a circulating
medium.*
"Banks for savings," says McCulloch, "are banks established for the receipt of small sums deposited by the poorer
class of persons for accumulation at interest."t Definition
given by Grant is more extended, but it amounts to the
same thing.1 Courts of justice, also, as well as text writers,
recognize the well-known distinction between banks of deposit and banks of discount or circulation.ยง
6. Beyond all controversy the proviso, while it continued
in force, had the effect to exclude the corporation complainants from the operation of the substantive words of the section. Since the passage of the act, however, the proviso has
been stricken out, and the palpable effect of the repeal is to
leave the body of the act in full force and operation, without
any such qualification as was imposed by the proviso.1l Although the proviso is repealed, still it is proper to resort to
it as well as to the proviso in the seventy-ninth section of
the same act, as affording a legislative exposition of what is
meant by the phrase, engaged in the business of banking,
as employed in the first clause of the section under consideration. Looking at the case, therefore, in any point of view,
it is clear that the answer to the third question must be in
the affirmative.
7. Fourth question presented for decision is, whether the
moneys so received on deposit and invested, are deposits
within the meaning of the act of Congress. Obviously the
question as presented is substantially answered by the remarks already made in disposing of the preceding question.
All the moneys received by the bank, whether for safe-keeping or for investment, are deposits within the meaning of
their by-laws, and within the very words of their charter.
Answer to this question, also, must be in the affirmative.
Angel & Ames on Corporations,

55; McCulloch's Commercial Dic-

tionary, 73.
t Id. 146.
Grant on Banking, 614.
Duncan v. Savings Institution, 10 Gill & Johnson, 309; People v. Utica
Insurance Co., 15 Johnson, 390; Grant on Banking, 1, 6, 381, 614.
1113 Stat. at Large,479.
OL. IIL

83

THE BERMUDA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

8. Fifth question is, whether moneys received on deposit
in any one month, and invested during the same month, are
deposits within the meaning of said acts, so as to render the
complainants liable to pay a tax thereon for such month.
Moneys received, as already explained, whether invested or
not, are deposits within the meaning of the acts of Congress,
and if so, then it is clear that the amount, whatever it may
be, is liable to taxation as soon as it is received by the bank,
because when received by the bank, it becomes deposits,
and continues to be such till it is repaid to the depositor.
An affirmative answer must also be certified to this question.
No answers will be certified to the first two questions,
because the court is of the opinion that those given to the
others are sufficient to dispose of the cause.
ANSWERS ACCORDINGLY.

GRIER and NELSOI, JJ., dissented; FIELD, J., who,
as already said, had not sat in the case, took no part in the
judgment.

THE BERMUDA.
1. No trade honestly carried on between neutral ports, whether of the same
or of different nations, can be lawfully interrupted by belligerents; but
good faith must preside over such commerce: enemy commerce under
neutral disguises has no claim to neutral immunity.
2. Neutrals may establish themselves, for the purposes of trade, in ports
convenient to either belligerent; and may sell or transport to either such
articles as either may wish to buy, subject to risks of capture for violation of blockade or for the conveyance of contraband to belligerent
ports.
S. Goods of every description may be conveyed to neutral ports from neutral
ports, if intended for actual discharge at a neutral port, and to be brought
into the common stock of merchandise of such port; but voyages from
neutral ports intended for belligerent ports are not protected in respect
to seizure, either of ship or cargo, by an intention, real or pretended, to
touch at intermediate neutral ports.
4. Neutrals may convey to belligerent ports, not under blockade, whatever
belligerents may desire to take, except contraband of war, which is

