TiE LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mington to Halifax was a continuous one; that there was
no intention to terminate it at Nassau, and that the cargo of
the Argyle ,was to be -eshipped with unbroken ownership
and control, so that it could be taken to a port which furnished a better market. If such was the intention, when
the cargo left Wilmington, then its status is fixed, and the
original guilt continued to the time of the capture, notwithstanding the stoppage at an intermediate port, and transhipment.*
A case of "probable cause" is clearly made out, and it is
unnecessary to discuss the evidence with a view of showing
whether the cargo or vessel should have been condemned,
as the captors do not complain of the judgment of the court
below.
The District Court committed no error in refusing to give
the claimants damages and costs, as against the United
States, or the captors.
DECREE APFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE LOUISIANA.
1. A vessel drifting from her moorings and striking against another vessel
aground on a bar out of the channel or course of navigation will be
liable for damage done to the vessel aground, unless the drifting vessel
can show affirmatively that the drifting was the result of inevitable
accident, or of a vis major, which human skill and precaution could not
have prevented.
2. The fact that a vessel on arriving at a wharf is moored in a way which,
in reference to the state of the tide and wind at that time, is proper,
and that in this position she is made as fast as she can be, is not an excuse
for her breaking away on a change of tide and wind, if ordinary nautical skill would have suggested that such a change would produce
different and reversed conditions of risk.
DURING

the .Southern rebellion, the Louisiana, a large

* The Thomyris, Edwards, 17; The Maria, 5 Robinson, 365; The Maria,
6 Id. 201; The Oharlotte Soph'a, Id. 204, note; The William, 5 Id. 385.

'Dec. 1865.]

THE

LOUISIAIi.

Statement of the case.

steamer, loaded with sick and wounded soldiers from our
army in the South, and bound for Philadelphia, stopped at
Fortress Monroe; her purpose in going there having been
the twofold one of landing certain of the soldiers who were
too sick to proceed on their course, and of taking in supplies
of coal. At this time, on a place in Hampton Roads known
as Hampton Bar, was a steamer (c) called the Flushing, lying
aground. (See map at p. 167.) She had been there seventytwo days, unsuccessful efforts only having been made by
her owners to float her. The spot where the vessel lay was
one that had been selected for the location of a buoy to mark
the bar and warn vessels off, and the Flushing had gone
aground because the buoy had been carried away. Having
lain in this place one hundred and thirty-three days she was
finally abandoned by her owners, and was then raised by the
wreck-masters. Under orders of the government, in whose
service she was, the Louisiana proceeded to a wharf (A),
called the old wharf; there being a little below another and
much better one (B), called the new one. This old wharf
was a narrow projecting pier, having at its extremity toward
the roads a widening; the whole being somewhat in the
shape of a T; but even at its front the wharf was but eightytwo feet wide. The steamer laid and fastened herself in the
only way in which vessels could lay and fasten themselves
to this wharf; that is to say, along its front. The Louisiana
being, however, a long vessel, two hundred and seventy-five
feet long, a small part of her, less in fact than one-third, was
capable of being placed in juxtaposition to thewharf. Moreover, as soldiers were to be landed and coal taken in at the
same time, it was apparently necessary to have two gangways in operation at once; and, as the after-gangway could
not be used in consequence of the narrowness of the front
of the wharf, both gangways were rigged forward. This
threw the stern part of the boat naearly one hundred and fifty feet
distantfrom the nearest point of the wharf. In addition, owing
to the extent to which the wharf ran out into the sea, it was
not practicable to fasten the vessel by lines, which should run
from her extreiities and at riqht angles to them to the shore.

THE

LOUISLNA.

[Sup.

t

Statement of the case.

All that could be done was to fasten her towards her boav
(where she lay in juxtaposition to the wharf) by lines running at right angles from her to posts, &c., on the wharf;
while from the extremities, and more especially the stern,
lines ran to fastenings on the wharf also. These stern-lines,
running transversely, operated of course much more to steady
the boat than actually to hold her. The diagram, in which
from necessity the top of the page is made to represent the
east, will elucidate the matter.
In the morning, when the Louisiana arrived at the old
wharf, the tide was ebb; that is to say, was coming from the
west; swinging round the land somewhat to the northeast.
On the other hand, the wind, at this time quite gentle, was
from the northeast. Tide and wind, in their action on the
boat's fastenings, thus counteracted each other. The vessel
was placed with her bow against the .tide; that is to say, to
the west. She put out three lines, one at the stern and two
forward; these being sufficient at this time to hold her.
Later in the day the tide changed from ebb to flood; that is,
it ran west, or somewhat round the land from the northeast,
and the wind rose; coming still from the northeast; tide
and wind now acting of course in one direction. Shortly
before this time the captain, who was about to leave the boat
to go and see the surgeons of the fort in regard to the sick
and wounded soldiers on his steamer, gave the boat into the
mate's charge. He and the two mates conversed, however,
previously on the subject of the fastenings. They "did not
anticipate the breaking away of the vessel, and thought the
lines sufficient to hold her;" though the captain told the
first mate that if he thought it necessary he could put more
fastenings still. With the change of tide and the rising of
the wind new ropes were accordingly put out by the mate.
Five ropes now ran out front and four aft; the "bights" of
these last going over the same posts. The ropes were seven
and nine inch ropes, and all were new. No more ropes in
fact could be applied forward than were applied. The cleets
being all employed, the capstan was used besides. By
degrees the wind increased and became high. It came "in

Dec. 1865.]

THE LOUISIAxA.
Statement of the case.
LI
z,

/

A. The old wharf, where the
Louisiana was moored.

I

B. The new and better wharf.
C. The bar where the Flushing
was lying aground.

/

THE LOuisiANA.

[SLIP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

squalls," "a pretty taut breeze," "a little more than ordinary;"
"blowing fresh," "blowing half agale." In this gale the vessel-snapping her stern-lines first, and then on being forced
round with her broadside to the wind, tearing, away at the
bow-broke off violently from her fastenings. At the stern,
as already said, her lines broke; but at the bow the lines were
so strong that they did not part. It was only by the cleets
and capstan being torn up out of their places and so giving
way that the vessel finally at this part got loose. Drifting
sideward, to the west, with her bow towards shore, and past
the new wharf, the Louisiana came down upon the Flushing,
injuring her essentially. The captain and mates considered
Other vessels, of
that "the accident was unavoidable."
which there were several in the neighborhood, kept to their
fastenings; nor was there any other collision or accident of
any kind in Hampton Roads on that day. The mate, under
whose charge the vessel had been after the captain left her,
said, on examination, "According to my judgment, the vessel was made sufficiently fast to lay at that wharf." When
asked why he did not change the position of the boat to meet
the change of tide and wind, he said, "I did not think there
was any necessity for the change. We were lying very nice at
the wharf; nor did I think it necessary to do more than I
had done."
The distance from the old wharf to where the Flushing
lay aground was about 800 feet. Testimony tended to show
that if an anchor had been dropped anywhere within the first
400 feet of the distance over which the Louisiana driftedthat is to say anywhere between the two wharves, where the
water is shallow-it might perhaps or probably have brought
her up. No anchor, however, was thrown until she had
drifted nearly 700 feet.
The testimony in regard to her manceuvres after she broke
loose was not very clear. It was plain that she had drifted
against the Flushing; nor did the witnesses agree as to the
movements of her machinery. The captain "backed" her
machinery, though not at immediately on breaking loose,.
which if he had then done would have cleared the Flushing.

Dec. 1866.]

THE LouisiAN~A.
Argument for the appellants.

The Circuit Court for Maryland, reversing a decree of
the District Court in Admiralty, which had held the Louisiana not in fault, decreed against her for the full damage
done, each party to pay his own costs. The case was now
here for review.
Mr. Schdey, for the overs of the Louisiana,appellants in the
suit: The case shows that the owner of the Flushing had
been guilty of neglect in suffering her to remain so long on
Hampton Bar. She was a public nuisance. It was because
she was improperly there at the time, that she was injured
by the collision and did injury to the Louisiana. Even then,
if the Louisiana was in fault, as the most favorable result
for the Flushing, the damages of both should have been
blended and divided. But this rule ought not to apply, in
a case of public nuisance, especially as against one who did
not wilfully commit injury. The owner of the Flushing
might have abandoned the wreck, and would thus have escaped responsibility. But, holding possession, responsibility
attached. In Brown v. .allett,* Maule, J., delivering the
judgment of the C. P., said:
"There seems no doubt that it is the duty of a person using
a navigable river with a vessel of which he is possessed and has
the control and management, to use reasonable skill and care to
prevent mischief to other vessels,

. .

.and the liability is the

same whether his vessel be in motion. or stationary, floating or
aground, under water or above it. In all these circumstances
the vessel may continue to be in his possession and under his
management."

And this view was approved in a later case, in the Exchequer, by Baron Alderson, speaking also for the court:
"The mere fact that one vessel strikes and damages another does not," said the late Chief Justice Taney,t "of
itself, make her liable for the injury. The collision must,
in some degree, be occasioned by her fault. A ship, pro5 Manning, Granger & Scott (57 English Common Law), 615.
- Brig James Gray v. Ship John Fraser, 21 H1oward, 194.

TiiE LOUISIANA.-

[Sap. Ot.

Argument for the appellants.

perly secured, may, by the violence of a storm, be driven
from her moorings, and be forced against another vessel, in
spite of her efforts to avoid it. Yet she certainly would not
be liable for damages, which it was not in her power to
prevent." In The Ligo,* Sir 0. Robinson said: "The law
requires that there should be preponderating evidence to fix
the loss on the party charged, before the court can adjudge
him to make compensation." And in Te Boli'na,t Dr.
Lushington decided, that where there is no prrnd facie evidence of negligence and want of seamanship, the onus does
not necessarily attach to the party proceeded against, alleging inevitable accident, to prove it; but, on the party, seeking indemnification, to prove that blame attaches to the
other party.
The mere fact, therefore, of the Louisiana breaking away
from the old wharf is no sufficient evidence of fault.
It will be remembered that soldiers had to be landed and
coal to be taken in, at the same time. The vessel was laid
at the wharf and rigged in the only way practicable; her
stern necessarily projecting far past the wharf. Expedition
was a duty. It was a time of war. It is not pretended that
sufficient fastenings were not made forward. 1o more ropes
could be passed through the cleets, and therefore the capstan also was used; and to show the sufficiency and strength
of the fastenings forward, the facts are shown, that the cables
forward did not part; th.at the cleets gave way, and the capstan was broken. It is clearly proved that when the wind
increased and the tide changed, additional lines were put
out. The argument, therefore, must rest on the alleged insufficiency of the fastenings from the stern of the boat to
the wharf. Iow, the case shows that, when the vessel first
laid at the wharf, she had three lines out; one at the stern,
and two forward. Subsequently, the two forward were increased to five; and the one aft was increased to four; and
the bights of those lines went over the same posts, which,
f

2 Haggard, 360.
3d Notes of Cases, 208, in 5 English Admiralty Reports, 208.

Dec. 1865.]

TnE LOUISIANA.
Argument for the appellants.

in effect, doubled the number. There is nothing in the case
to show specially that the boat was carried off by any regular action of the reversed tide and increased wind. Against
these the captain and mate guarded. We infer that it was
some one irregular action of the water-something not to
have been foreseen as a result even of the changed conditions
of tide and wind, which lifted up the stern of the vessel,
slackened the stern fastenings, and thus enabled the storm
at one special loment to get hold of the boat, and to cause
the lines to snap, the wharf to give way, or the vessel to be
torn asunder; no matter how strong the lines were. To
consider this result as evidence of neglect, would destroy
the notion of a special and inevitable accident, and would
make the owners responsible not only for the storm, but for
those hidden perils of the sea, not to be calculated against.
Will it be said that seamanship required of the captain to
change his position at the wharf when the tide changed;
that is to say, to liberate the steamer from her fastenings,
and to go out into Hampton Roads, and come back to the
wharf, and lay her bow to the eastward,facing the wind and
tide? It is easy to be wise after a catastrophe; easy to avoid
perils on which the stern-lights of experience are shining.
But the question is, what was obligatory before the accidcnt ?
The fact that the captain and mate of this vessel were appointed by the government to the discharge of a most responsible duty raises a presumption of their general capfcity
and carefulness. A general competency for their office of
seamen must be inferred from it; and indeed is otherwise
presumable. INow, as a matter of fact, the captain and mates
believed that the vessel, fastened as she was, was safe. They
thus thought upon considering the matter and looking at
the case with all the evidences of risk before them. It was
'their conclusion super materie subjectam, -after discusion
and advisement upon it. It was no fault of theirs that
they thus believed; and as matter of fact, we repeat, they
did thus believe. Now, suppose, believing as they thus
truly did, that the vessel was safe-that the risks of stxying
still were greatly less than those of any attempt to rehnd in

THE LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the appellants.

a high wind-that they had, nevertheless, cut loose, put out,
attempted to reland, and in such attempt had met with some
terrible disaster to their sick and wounded charge and cargo,
what words, on such a result, would be wanting to express
indignation at their rashness and folly? If in the effort to
change the position of the steamer, the captain had been
caught by a sudden squall, he would have been without excuse. It would then have been said, that he would have
done right if he had remained at the whart, and that if, in
remaining there, he had been driven from its moorings, it
would have been a case of inevitable accident. The Juliet
.Erskine*would have been quoted on him. Dr. Lushington
there says: "Where a collision takes place, when every
prudent measure, consistent with ordinary seamanship, has
been adopted, and carried into effect by the vessel proceeded
against," it is a case of inevitable accident. So would the
language of Taney, 0. J., already cited. The argument then
would be that the captain had abandoned a sure protection,
and had undertaken an unwise and dangerous and improper
experiment.
Will it be said that the steamer was not properly managed
after she broke loose? Even if this had been the case, great
allowance should be made for any seeming errors, if such appeared, and the remarks in The Genesee Chieft would apply.
In that case the court say: "If in the excitement and alarm
of the moment, a different order might have been more fortunate, still, under the special facts, the court will not hold
the party who might have given it responsible. He was
in a situation where there was no time for thought. If an
error had been committed, it would not, under the circumstances have been a fault." But, to those familiar with
Hampton Roads, this mate's conduct was, in a high degree,
judicious, and his orders precisely such as were necessary.
When the steamer broke loose, she was drifting sideways
and westward, her bows towards the beach. Unless backed
Fhe would have grounded; and, even if she had escaped the
6 Notes of Cases (5 English Admiralty Reports, 534).
12 Howard, 461.

Dec. 1865.]

Tim LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the court.

shoal, she would have come into collision with the vessels
at the "new wharf." She was, therefore, properly backed,
and escaped both. There was no room to work her, unless
her bow could be brought to face the wind and tide, both
of which were from the east. He cast an anchor-not for
the purpose of riding to the anchor-but to produce the
effect of changing the position of the steamer. This was
the right manceuvre.
After an excellent argument by Mr. Bernard Carter, of
Baltimwre (his first before this bench), and .Air J. .A1 Campbell, contra,
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The steamer Flushing being aground on Hampton Bar,
out of the channel or course of vessels navigating the bay or
harbor, and incapable of motion, cannot be justly charged
with any participation in causing the collision.
The collision being caused by the Louisiana drifting from
her moorings, she must be liable for the damages consequent
thereon, unless she can show affirmatively that the drifting
was the result of inevitable accident, or a vis major, which
human skill and precaution, and a proper display of nautical
skill could not have prevented.
Now the facts show that the Louisiana has entirely failed
to establish her defence.
1. The drifting of this vessel was not caused by any sudden hurricane which nautical experience could not anticipate. None of the other numerous vessels, at that time in
the harbor, were driven from their moorings. The wind
which arose was only of such a character that its effects
might have been anticipated, and, by proper precaution,
prevented;--" a half gale," "a stiff breeze," "a little more
than ordinary."
The fact that the steamer was ordered by the government
officers to take in coal at the old wharf, which had a narrow
front when compared with the great length of the vessel,
could not relieve the officers of the boat from the duty of
securing her in such a manner as to prevent her drifting

THE LouIsiANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

when the change of the tide and winds changed the direction of the forces acting upon the vessel. And the fact
that under these* circumstances she did drift, is conclusive
evidence that she was not sufficiently and properly secured.
It requires no assumption or affectation of any very great
nautical skill in this court to point out the defects of the
management of this vessel by the mate, who was left in
charge of her. If the tide and wind could have been reasonably expected to remain as it was when, according to the
mate's idea, the vessel was lying so "very nice to the wharf,"
we should probably not have heard of this case.
So long as things were in the condition in which they
were when the vessel was first moored, she wds sufficiently
secured to meet any stress or force likely to be opposed to
her in that direction. * But when the tide changed so as to
strike the stern with a momentum increased by a high wind,
and multiplied by the leverage resulting from the length of
the vessel exposed below the wharf, the "necessity" for a
change of position ought to have suggested itself to a person of nautical skill, as a proper precaution against a danger
which might justly have been anticipated. The fact that
the captain and mate "did not anticipate the breaking
away of the vessel, and thought the lines sufficient to hold
her," may prove their want of judgment, but not that "the
accident was unavoidable;" and this more especially, as
other persons of nautical skill-disinterested witnesses in
this case-found no difficulty in securing their vessels at
the same place, and under similar circumstances.
2. It is not necessary to a decision of the cause to show
that this collision might have been averted by a proper use
of the anchors of the Louisiana, after she had broken away
fr'om her mooring at the wharf; or by a proper use of her
steam power, further than to say, that the testimony in the
case would well justify that conclusion.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the appellant has failed
to show that the collision is the result of inevitable accident,
a-d that the decree of the Circuit Court should be
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

