Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. ORAWFORDS.

Syllabus.

BLACKBURN V. ORAWFORDS.
1. Though on a question of marriage and legitimacy, it is competent, in
order to prove an heirship asserted, to give in evidence the declarations
of any deceased member of that family to which the person from whom
the estate descends belonged, yet it is not competent to give the declarations of a person belonging to another family,-such person being
connected with the person from whom the estate descends only by an
asserted intermarriage of a member of each family.
2. Independently of statute requiring it to be kept, a baptismal register of
a church, in which entries of baptism are made in the ordinary course
of the clergyman's business, is admissible to prove the fact and date of
baptism, but not to prove other facts, as, ex. gr., that the child was baptized as the lawful child of the parents, and hence to infer A marriage
between them.
8. By the law of Maryland a finding by a jury-on an issue directed by the
Probate Court-that a party who has applied for administration on the
estate of one whom he asserts to be his uncle, is illegitimate, and a consequent grant of administration by the court to another party, is conclusive of the illegitimacy as between theseparties,in an action of ejectment subsequently brought by the party rejected.
4. 'Where there has been no official registry of marriages kept in the church
where a clergyman ministered, a private memorandum, in which the
minister, in the ordinary course of his business, has entered or intended
to enter, as it occurred, each marriage celebrated by him, is admissible
on a question whether such minister ever did or did not celebrate a
particular marriage in question.
But the memorandum ought itself to be produced; and if the testimony
of the minister proving the memorandum is taken by commission, the
memorandum ought itself to be annexed to the deposition; r-if the
deposition is taken in a foreign country and the possessor of the memorandum be unwilling to part with the original-a proved copy.
However, if neither the original nor such copy has been annexed, the objection to the want of such original or copy should be taken in some
form (such as motion to suppress) before the trial. If made first on
the trial it is too late. York Co. v. Central Railroad,2 (sura,p. 107),
on this point, affirmed.
6. On a question whether a particular priest of the Roman Church ever
celebrated a marriage at a particular church between parties who had
been previously living in fornication, his statement that no official
registry of marriages was kept, but that he kept a private memorandum for himself (producing and annexing it as above specified), and
that the alleged marriage did not appear in it; that he was aware the
law imposed a penalty for performing the ceremony without a license;

BLACKBURN V.

CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
that he never married parties without a license; that he always required the presence of two witnesses; and that he never celebrated a
secret marriage between parties living in sin, one or both of whom
would only be married on the condition that such marriage was to be
kept secret-is admissible.
6. On a question of marriage and legitimacy, an attorney, who drew a will
for the alleged husband now deceased, in which the children of the connection set up as wedlock are described as the "natural children" of
the testator, may, without violating professional confidence, testify
what was said by the testator about the character of the children and
his relations to their mother, in interviews between the testator and
himself preceding and connected with the preparation of the will.
7. If parties having had children in concubinage, marry and after the marriage recognize and treat such children as theirs, such children by the
laws of Maryland are regarded as legitimate.
8. A marriage in the District of Columbia, if celebrated by a clergyman in
fadie eeclesim is not invalid for want of a marriage license.
9. Although parties have lived long together, and a marriage has been
sworn to and the circumstances particularly described by one of the
parties, and other witnesses have testified to facts indicative of wedlock
as distinguished from a concubinate, still a jury may find, on counter
evidence, that the cohabitation during the whole term was illicit.
10. In ejeetment, where a regular marriage by a clergyman infacie ecclesice
at a specific time and place is. set up as evidence of the legitimacy of
children suing as heirs-at-law to recover, and all the testimony in the
case clusters about and relates to such a marriage, it is error to refer it
to the jury to consider whether the parents were at any time married;
and in such a case, unless they find that a marriage was in fact celebrated, they cannot find that the connection was wedlock or that the
issue from it is legitimate.
11. It is error to instruct a jury that if a man and woman live together as
husband and wife and the man acknowledge the woman as his wife
and always treat her as such, and acknowledge and treat the children
which she bore him as his children and permit them to be called by
his name,-then that the presumption of law is in favor of their legitimacy. The question of legitimacy, under such circumstances, is a
question for the jury; the law making no presumptions about it.

DR. CRAWFORD, of Prince George's County, Maryland,
died intestate, in December, 1859, the proprietor of large
landed estates there; Greenwood Park, Waring's Grove,
Federal Hill, Westphalia, Itanleigh, &c. He left no wife,
nor child, nor brother nor sister surviving him. Claimants
to such estates, however, were not long wanting. On the
one hand were relatives of the name of Blackburn, con.

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Statement of the case.

fessedly his cousins-german ; on the other, persons bearing
his own respectable Scottish name of Crawford: George
Thomas Crawford, Mary Elizabeth Crawford, Sarah Jane
Crawford, and Anna Victoria Crawford, the children of a
brother, Mr. Thomas B. Crawford, who had died before him.
The title of these children-as nephews and nieces, and
nearer of course than cousins-was clear, but for a single
difficulty; 'the fact that their legitimacy was called in question. It was asserted that their mother had been the mistress not the wife of their father. The intercourse of the
parties had, confessedly, in its origin been irregular; but
the allegation was that a marriage had subsequently taken
place.
The family name of the mother was Elizabeth Taylor.
In May, 1860, Mr. Crawford being then dead, she gave under
oath in a judicial proceeding her own account of her relations to him. She testified that thirty years before, she herself being then twenty-two years old, she became acquainted
with Mr. Crawford; she also knew Dr. Crawford, and became acquainted with him before she knew his brother;
she became acquainted with Mr. Crawford while she lived
with her mother, on a place rented from Mrs. Magruder.
Her intimacy commenced with Mr. Crawford at that place.
She and her mother afterwards removed to Monterey (a
seat some distance from the city of Washington), owned by
Mr. Crawford; where her mother died; she herself and her
brother, however, continuing to live there. Her eldest child
was born there. The house at Monterey was furnished by
Mr. Crawford, and he provided and paid all the servants.
Her intercourse with him was not commenced and assented
to by her under a promise of marriage. Soon after its commencement he often said he would like to marry her, but
owing to his family he could not marry her then. When
the child Sarah was about eight months old she went to
Washington City to have it christened, and also to visit her
sister, AIrs. Evans, who was the wife of the sexton of St.
Patrick's Church, in that city; the child was christened in
the church on Sunday, after eleven-o'clock service. As she
VOL.

III.

12

BLACKBURN V.

ORAWFORDS.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

went out the Rev. Xr. Fiziac, who had performed the ceremony, and was one of the officiating priests there, followed
her and had a long conversation with her about the mode
of her life. He told her that the salvation of her soul was
of more importance to her than all things else, and that she
could not be saved if she continued living in sin with Mr.
Crawford. The conversation was a long one, and at his
instance she made up her mind, if Mr. Crawford would not
marry her, to leave him; Mr. Crawford had sent the carriage up for her to come home; she sent it back on that
Sunday evening, with a request that Mr. Crawford would
come up the next day. He accordingly came up, and she
had a long interview with him; she related to him what
Mr. Fiziac had told her, and that the salvation of her soul
was of more importance to her than all things else in this
world; that she must separate from him if he would not
marry her. He replied that he did not know about it, but
that he could not marry her unless the marriage was kept
secret from his mother and from his brother, Dr. Crawford.
She assented that the marriage should be kept secret, and
he then consented to marry her; she agreed that the marriage should take place the next day. On the next day,
Tuesday, they went to St. Patrick's Church, and were there
married by the Rev. Mr. Fiziac; her sister, .Bfrs. Evans, and
her brother, Samuel Taylor, being present. lBoth of them
were now dead. Mr. Crawford returned home that evening.
She remained with her sister until the following Sunday,
and then returned home to Monterey in Mr. Crawford's
carriage. Mr. Crawford often, after the marriage, objected
to his brother, Dr. Crawford, knowing anything about it,
for, he said, if he did, that neither he nor his children would
ever get a cent of Dr. Crawford's property. Her children,
George and Victoria, were born after the marriage; George
was born some ten or twelve months after it. From the
time of the marriage she and Mr. Crawford lived together
as man and wife-about four years and a half before Mr.
Crawford's death. He took her and the children to live
with him at Greenwood, the place where the Crawford

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN

V. CRAWFORDS.

Statement of the case.

family had been living; she took charge of the house at
Greenwood, and sat at the head of the table; she made purchases for the family, and at the request of Mr. Crawford
kept his money. She always kept the marriage secret, and
never disclosed it until after the death of Dr. Crawford; she
then disclosed it to Ir. Hill, who called upon her and asked
her about it; he told her he had heard it rumored, and
wanted to know the facts from her; she then, for the first
time, told all about it to him. Mr. Crawford was always
very kind to her; he sent the children to school, first to
Wilson's, and afterwards sent the girls to Washington; the
school bills were paid by him through her; he gave her the
money to pay them; she also frequently purchased goods
for the family in Washington and elsewhere; when she went
to Washington she went in Mr. Crawford's carriage, and he
occasionally went with her. When she first went to Greenwood, Dr. Crawford came there more frequently than afterwards; she always avoided him when he came, because she
knew his dislike to her and the children. Dr. Crawford
ceased visiting Greenwood for some time before the death
of his brother, and was not there when he died. She was
with Mr. Crawford at the time of his last attack; he was
first attacked on the front porch at Greenwood; while in
the act of stooping to wash he fell; she was close by, in the
house, and was the first one to get to him; this was about
six o'clock in the morning; he was carried into the house
and placed upon a bed, and a physician immediately sent
for. He rallied partially about one o'clock, and called for
" Boss" (the nickname by which he called " our child,"
George); the child was handed to him, but he soon relapsed,
and did not again revive that she saw before his death.
This was a narrative sufficiently touching, and quite circumstantial, no doubt. Butwas it true? Was the case one
of a marriage solemnized in form, and kept a secret for fiveand-twenty years; a romance, perhaps-discovered only in
the end, by relatives not enriched, to be a reality. Or was
it one where the relations between the parties were meretricious merely?

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

This was, in fact, the great question in controversy in the
case; and the question to which the testimony was principally if not altogether directed.
There were facts that inferred a belief that it was the
former. There were facts that induced a conclusion that it
was the latter. Among those of the second class were the
following:
As soon as it was discovered that Dr. Crawford had died
intestate, the question arose, of course, "to whom shall administration of his estate be granted?" Mr. Blackburn
claimed it on the one hand. Mr. George Thomas Crawford
-the oldest of Mr. Crawford's children and his only sonupon the other. The Orphans' Court of Prince George's
County, to which a decision of the question belonged, referred it to a jury to decide. The matter was put before
them in the form of specific questions, one of them being,
"whether, either before or after the birth of the said George
Thomas Crawford, Mr. Crawford was ever lawfully married
to Miss Elizabeth Taylor or not?" On the evidence, as then
put before them, that jury found that he was not. Mr.
Crawford's other children, the three daughters, were, however, no parties to this proceeding. The administration
was finally granted to Blackburn.
So, too, a solemn act of Mr. Crawford himself, and his
directions when performing it, tended to the conclusion of
no marriage. In June, 1844, being desirous to make his
will, he called on his friend and general professional adviser,
Mr. Bowie, of Baltimore, to prepare a draft of it for him.
On that occasion, as it appeared at a later day, and from
Mr. Bowie's own narrative, he had a conversation with that
gentleman as to the best mode of securing his property to
his children; asking Mr. Bowie's advice in the matter. In
the course of this conversation Mr. Crawford produced
certain drafts of promissory notes, which he had signed, for
the payment of large sums of money to his children, and
stated that he had been advised to make the notes as provisions for them, by some one or other of his friends. He
asked Mr. Bowie what he thought of it? Mr. Bowie, who

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

-

Statement of the case.

believed that Elizabeth Taylor was no more than the mistress of Mr. Crawford, and that his children were illegiti-nate, gave his advice to Mr. Crawford on that hypothesis.
He objected to promissory notes, suggesting that they might
lead to difficulties between the children and Mr. Crawford's
relations, and explained to Mr. Crawford that there were
three modes by which he might safely provide for the children, to wit: iBy a deed of his property, reserving a life
estate to himself; or by his last will; or by marrying Elizabeth Taylor, and legitimating the children; Mr. Bowie
strongly expressing his preference for the last-named expedient. Mr. Crawford, however, at once rejected the proposition that he should marry Elizabeth Taylor, and with
great warmth declared that he would never do so. Upon
this, Mr. Bowie advised him to make a will, and so to provide for the children. In accordance with this advice, Mr.
Crawford directed Mr. Bowie to prepare the draft of a will,
which he (Mr. Bowie) accordingly then did, agreeably to Mr.
Crawford's instructions. Mr. Crawford especially instructed
Mr. Bowie to describe the children, in this will, as his natural children by Elizabeth Taylor; and in consequence of this
express direction the children were so described in the will,
which was on record in the proper office in Prince George's
County.
In time, matters came to the arbitrament of the Federal
courts. MIr. Blackburn being in possession of various estates,
of which his cousin, Dr. Crawford, had died seized, the children of Mr. Crawford, two of whom, it seemed, were born
before the alleged marriage and two afterward, brought
ejectment, in the Circuit Court for Mfaryland, to recover
them. The fact of the marriage described by the mother
of the children-by one side scrupulously styled Miss Elizabeth Taylor; by the other, as scrupulously, Mrs. Elizabeth
Crawford-was, as this court declared, "the central and
controlling question in the case." A great variety of evidence was taken. The lady who made so larg a feature
of the case was herself examined, and testified as it has been
already stated. Evidence was given, that before some per-

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

sons Mr. Crawford called her his wife, and recognized the
children as legitimate; as, also, that before others he called
-her "1
Miss Betsy," and did not, affirmatively at least, recognize them as born in wedlock at all.
In the progress of the trial, numerous exceptions were
taken by one siae or the other. Some related to the admission and rejection of testimony; others to the instructions
to the jury; the exception to these last being by the defendant only.
To prove the marriage, the counsel of the children, the
plaintiffs in the case, offered in evidence the deposition of
the Rev. 5. P. Donelan, to prove that he had frequently heard
Sairah .Eva??s* say that Mr. T. B. Crawford and Elizabeth
Taylor were married. In order to lay a foundation for this
testimony, it was proved aliunde that Sarah Evans was the
sister of Elizabeth Taylor, and that she had been dead several years. The testimony was admitted, under objection by
the other side.
They also offered in evidence the following entry in the
baptismal register of St. Patrick's Church, in the city of
Washington:
"1837, July 80. George Thomas, son of Thomas B. Crawford and Elizabeth Taylor, his wife, born 7th of September, 1836.
'Sponors, John and Sarah Evans."

They proved that the ritual and usage of the church required such a register to be kept, and baptisms to be entered
in it; and that this entry was in the handwriting of the Rev.
Mr. Donelan, who, at its date, was the assistant pastor of the
church. The defendant objected to the evidence as inadmissible for any purpose. But if it should be admitted, he
contended that it was competent to prove no more than the
fact and date of the baptism. The court overruled both
objections, and admitted the entry as evidence, as well of
the fact of the said baptism, and of the date thereof, as of
the fact that the said George Thomas Crawford was baptized
* The person already mentioned (supra, p. 178) as having been present
at the marriage.

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V.

CRAWFORDS.

Statement of the case.

as the laufud child* of Thomas B. Crawford and Elizabeth
Taylor, his wife.
On the other side, the counsel of the defendant, Blackburn, then offered in evidence a transcript of the record in
the Orphans' Court of Prince George's County, Maryland,
of the proceedings instituted in that court, touching the
grant of administration upon the estate of Dr. Crawford,
wherein the defendant, Mr. Blackburn, was petitioner, and
George Thomas Crawford, one of the plaintiffs, was defendant, and wherein one of the issues ordered to be tried was,
whether Mr. T. B. Crawford was ever lawfully married to
Elizabeth Taylor, either before or after the birth of the said
George Thomas Crawfbrd. It was proposed by the counsel
of Mr. Blackburn to read from the transcript the finding of
the jury-which was in the negative-and also to read the
order of the court made thereupon. The Circuit Court rejected the evidence.
The same counsel then offered the deposition of the Rev.
Timoleon Fiziac, the priest by whom Elizabeth Taylor declared that she was married to MNir. Crawford. FatherFiziac
was a native of France, who, after officiating for some years
in America, had returned to his own country, and was now
resident at the convent of the Sisters of St. Joseph de Cluny,
at Limoux. His deposition was taken there under a commission, upon interrogatories. He testified that he was the
officiating priest of St. Patrick's Church from 1831 to 1836;
that no official register of marriages was kept, but that he
kept a private memorandum for himself, and that the alleged
marriage did not appear in it; that he was aware the law
imposed a penalty for performing the ceremony without a
license; that it was his habit to require its production, and
that he always required the presence of two witnesses. He
declined to annex the memorandum to his deposition. In
his cross-examination he said he had no acquaintance with
* The entry, in regard to one of the earlier children, described it as the
"8naturalchild" of the uarties.

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the parties, and had no recollection of ever having seen
them. The ninth and tenth cross-interrogatories, and the
answers, were as follows:
"9th. State whether you would not have celebrated a secret
marriage between parties living in sin, one or both of whom
would only be married on the condition that such marriage was
to be kept secret?
"Answer. I never did, indeed.
"10th. Are you aware that the penalty for marrying parties in
Washington, without a license, was merely a pecuniary fine?
"Answer. I don't recollect whether I was aware of any penalty;
but I never marriedparties without a license."

The court excluded all that part of the deposition which
related to the memorandum, the answer to the ninth crossinterrogatory, and that portion of the answer to the tenth,
which is in italics.
The defendant gave in evidence the will of Mr. Crawford,
and proved by Mr. Bowie that it was drawn in conformity
to the instructions of the testator. It spoke, as we have
already said, of the defendants in error as his natural children by Elizabeth Taylor, and provided for them accordingly. It spoke of her as probably enceinte at that time, and
provided for the unborn child. The defendant then offered
to prove, by Mr. Bowie, what was said by the testator in
their intervi&ws preceding the preparation of the will concerning the illegitimacy of the children and his relation to
their mother. The court excluded the evidence.
All the evidence being gone through, the plaintiff asked
the court to give certain instructions, of which the first and
third were thus:
"1st. That if the jury find, from the evidence of Elizabeth
Crawford, that she was married at St. Patrick's Church, in the
city of Washington, by the Reverend Timoleon Fiziac, then the
assistant minister of said church, on the first of September, 1835,
to Mr. T. B. Crawford; and shall further find, from the evidence,
that two of the lessors of the plaintiff were children of the said

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V.

CRAWFORDS.

Statement of the case.

T. B. Crawford and the witness, born prior to the marriage, and
subsequently to the marriage were recognized and treated by
said T. B. Crawford as his children; that the other two lessors
of the plaintiff were children of T. B. Crawford and Elizabeth
Crawford, were born subsequently to said marriage, -then the
verdict must be for the plaintiff.
"18d.That a marriage celebrated as deposed to by the said
Elizabeth Crawford, if the jury shall find that it was so celebrated, would not be invalidated because no marriage license
bad been obtained."
These instructions the court gave; no opposition being
made to their being given by the other side.
The defendant asked the court to charge thus:
"1. That it will be competent for the jury, on all the evidence,
to find that the cohabitation between Mr. Crawford and Elizabeth Taylor, during the entire period of such cohabitation, was
illicit, and that no marriage was ever solemnized between them;
and if they so find, their verdict ought to be for the defendant.
"2. That it is competent for them, on all the evidence, to
find that no marriage was ever celebrated between the said
Crawford and Elizabeth Taylor; and unless they find that a
marriage was in fact celebrated between them, their verdict
ought to be for the defendant."
These instructions the court refused to give; and independently of requests from either side, charged-in substance
thus:
"1. If the jury find that T. B. Crawford and Elizabeth Taylor were married at any time, and that two of the lessors of
the plaintiff were born subsequent to the said marriage, and two
of them were born before it, and that those two so born before
marriage were, subsequently to its date, acknowledged and recognized by Mr. Crawford as his children, then their verdict
must be for the plaintiff.
"2. The jury may find the marriage from the testimony of
Mrs. Crawford, if they believe her, or from the acts and declarations of Mr. Crawford, taken in connection with all the other
evidence in this case; and such marriage, to be valid in this
State, requires only the consent of the parties, and would be

BLACKBURN V.

CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

valid, although the jury may find that it was not solemnized
before any minister of the gospel.
"3. And if the jury shall find that at any time Mr. Crawford
and Elizabeth Taylor lived together as man and wife; that he
acknowledged that she was his wife, and always treated her as
such; and the children which she bore during that time as his
children, and permitted them to be called by his name, then the
presumption of law is in favor of the legitimacy of said children.
But if the jury shall find, from all the evidences in the case, that
no marriage ever took place between the parties, then that their
verdict should be for the defendant."
The jury found for the plaintiffs; thus finding a marriage.
After judgment, the case came on error here; where it was
thoroughly argued by lessrs. Beverdy Johnson and Alexander,
for Blackburn, the nephew, plaintiff in error; and by Xhessrs.
.Brent and Mlerriek, for the children, contra.
The questions considered by this court, on exceptions to
the evidence and instructions, in the order which precedes,
were these:
1. As to the evidence (the Rev. Mr. Donelan's deposition),
that Mrs. Sarah Evans, sister of Elizabeth Taylor, had fre
quently said that Mr. Crawford and her sister were married;
the counsel for the plaintiff in error contending that the
declarations of Mrs. Evans, who was in no way related by
blood to the family of Crawford, were inadmissible to prove
a marriage; and opposite counsel citing and relying on .Hloncton v. The Attorney-General,* a decision of Lord Brougham,
as establishing a wider doctrine, and to show that they were.
2. As to the entry on the baptismal register of St. Patrick's Church-was it admissible at all; there being no statute in Maryland requiring such registers to be kept? If it
was admissible, how far was it evidence? Did it tend to
prove legitimacy? or only the fact and date of the administration of the baptism?
8. The testimony of the Rev. Mr. Fiziac, and the action
of the court below upon it.
* 2 lussel & Iilne, 156.

Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Opinion of the court.

4. The proceedings in the Orphans' Court of Prince
George's County. What was their effect? a matter upon
which statutes of Maryland were cited.
5. The matter of Mr. Bowie's testimony. How far did
the law of privileged communication apply to the case?
6. The instructions requested, and those given to the jury.
How far were they right? and how far the reverse of it?
Mr. Justice SWAY E delivered the opinion of the court.
'We will consider the exceptions, so far as we deem necessary-both as respects the testimony and the instructionsin the order in which they are presented by the record; [the
order which precedes. REP.]
Thefirst exception relates to the admission of evidence as
to what Sarah Evans had said in regard to the marriage of
her sister, Elizabeth Taylor, with Mr. Crawford.* Was the
testimony rightly admitted?
Greenleaf says :t "It is now settled that the law resorts
to hearsay evidence in cases of pedigree, upon the ground
of the interest of the declarants in the person from whom. the
deseent is made out, and their consequent interest in knowing
the connections of the family. The rule of admission is
therefore restricted to the declarations of deceased persons
who were related by blood or marriage to the person, and
therefore interested in the succession in question."
It is well settled, that before the declarations can be admitted, the relationship of the declarant to the family must
be established by other testimony.t
Here the question related to the family of Dr. Crawford.
The defendants in error claimed to belong to the family,
and to be his nephew and nieces. To prove this relationship, it was competent for them to give in evidence the de.
",clarations of any deceased member of that family. But the
declarations of a person belonging to another family-such
person claiming to be connected with that family only by
Supra, p. 182.
1 Taylor on Evidence,

f On Evidence, ve. i,
676.

103.

.BLACKBURN V.

CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

the intermarriage of a member of each family-rests upon
a different principle. A declaration from such a source of
the marriage which constitutes the affinity of the declarant,
is not such evidence aliunde as the law requires.
It is insisted by the defendants in error, upon the authority of JMoncton v. The Attorney- General,* that it was sufficient
to show the relationship of the declarant to Elizabeth Taylor.
As we understand that case, it has no application to the
point under consideration. None of the writers on the law
of evidence have given it so wide a scope. Hubback thust
states the principle which it decides: "It is sufficient that
the declarant be connected by extrinsic evidence with one
branch of the family, touching which his declaration is tendered." Lord Brougham himself said in that case: "I entirely agree that, in order to admit hearsay evidence in pedigree, you must, by evidence dehors the declarations, connect
the persons making them, with the family. To say that you
cannot prove the declarations of A., who is proved to be a
relation by blood of B., touching the relationship of B. with
C., unless you have first connected him with C., is a proposition which has no warrant, either in the principle upon
which hearsay is let in, or in the decided cases." If it had
been proved by independent testimony that Sarah Evans
was related by blood to any branch of the family of David
Crawford, and her declarations had been offered to prove
the relationship of another person claiming, or claimed to
belong also to that family, this case would be in point. But
the declaration of Sarah Evans, offered to prove that her
sister was connected by marriage with a member of that
family, was neither within the principle nor the language of
that authority.
In -Edwardsv. Harveyl an issue out of chancery was directed, to try the question whether "A. B., from whom the
plaintiff claimed, was not proved to be related to C. D., who
was the granting party in the conveyance to the plaintiff."
A new trial was moved for, on the ground that the court
had rejected a paper offered in evidence by the plaintiff.
* 2 Russel & MIilne, 156.

t On Succession, 660.

$Cooper, 38.

:Dec. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Opinion of the court.

"It was a pedigree drawn out by Bridget Lloyd, a maiden
lady, deceased, showing that C. D., who was her relative,
was related to A. B." The master of the rolls "refused a
new trial, because if Miss Bridget Lloyd's pedigree, written
by herself, were evidence for her relation, so would her declaration have been, to show that she was herself entitled to
the estate."
In -Doe v. Faller* Chief Justice Best said: "If there were
no other evidence than the declarations of John to show that
James was a member of the family, they could not have
been received, as that would be carrying the rule as to the
admissibility of hearsay evidence further than has ever yet
been done, viz., to allow a party to claim an, alliance with a
falnily by the bare assertion of it."
We think the court erred in admitting the testimony.
The next question is as to the entry in the baptismal register of St. Patrick's Church.t The plaintiff in error objected to it as inadmissible for any purpose. If admitted,
he contended that it was competent to prove but the fact
and date of the baptism. The court overruled both objections, and admitted the entry as evidence, as well of the
fact and date of the baptism, as of the fact that the child was
baptized "as the lawful child of Thomas B. Crawford and
Elizabeth Taylor, his wife."
The register was admissible upon the ground that the
entries in it were made by the writer in the ordinary course
of his business.
How for such an entry is evidence, is a different question.
Upon that subject, Starkiel thus lays down the rule: "An
entry of the time of a child's birth, although contained in a
public register, is not evidence as to the time of the birth, unless it can be proved that the entry was made by direction
of the father or mother; and this seems to be received as a
declaration made by one of them-for a clergyman has no
authority to make an entry as to the time of the birth, and
$

2 :Moore & Payne, 24.
On Evidence, 612; 2d Lond. ed.

t Supra, p. 182.

190

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

possesses no meown for making any inquiries as to the fact."
Greenleaf* says: "It is to be remembered that they are not
generally evidence of any fact not required to be recorded
in them, and which did not occur in the presence of the registering officer. Thus a parish register is evidence only of
the time "of the marriage, and of its celebration defacto, for
these are the only facts necessarily within the knowledge of
the party making the entry."
Without further evidence, the court ought not to have
admitted the entry in question for any purpose but to prove
the baptism of the child, and the date of the administration
of the rite. We think this proposition too clear to require
discussion.
The third matter is as to the transcript of the record in
the Orphans' Court of Prince George's County, Maryland.
It was proposed by the plaintiff in error to read from it the
finding of the jury which, upon one issue directed,-that
namely whether Mr. Crawford ever lawfully married Elizabeth Taylor, either before or after the birth of George
Thomas Crawford-was in the negative: and also to read
the order of the court made thereupon.t The court below
rejected the evidence.
Such a result, under the laws of Maryland, to which our
attention has been called, has all the elements of res jztdicata. The transcript was competent evidence against George
Thomas Crawford. As to him it was an estoppel, and barred
his right of action. But it did not affect the other defendants in error, who were not parties to the proceeding. If
they proved a marriage, as alleged, they were entitled to
recover the entire property. This they might have done,
althougha the demise was laid in the declaration as made
jointly by all the parties. By a statute of Maryland, a joint
demise is made several as well as joint, and a recovery may
be had accordingly, by one or more of the lessors. In this
case it was immaterial to the plaintiff in error, who recovered. A verdict in favor of one or all was alike fatal to
*On E vidtence,

493.

t Supra, p. 183.

Dec. 1865.]

BLACK.BURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Opinion of the ourt.

his claim to the property in controversy. The error of the
court, therefore, did him no injury.
We come, in the fourth place, to consider the matter
of the testimony of the Reverend Mr. Fiziac, examined in
France on a commission, and whose deposition was offered
by the plaintiff in error, and in a large part excluded by the
court.*
The witness is not very explicit as to the "private memorandum" which he testifies that he kept. We understand,
fr'om what is said, that it was a book or paper, in'which he
entered, or intended to enter, each marriage as it occurred.
Such entries, being made by the writer in the ordinary
course of his business, are competent evidence.
If offered to prove a marriage, the production of the memorandum would have been necessary, for two reasons: it
would have been the best evidence of the existence and
contents of the entry, and would have given to the adverse
party the means, to which he was entitled, of a cross-examination. Here it was proposed to use the testimony negatively. The object was to draw the inference that the marriage had not occurred, from the fact that no entry of it was
found to exist. We think the same, considerations apply as
if the purpose had been to prove a marriage affirmatively.
While the memorandum was within the reach of the party,
proof that it did or did not contain a particular entry could
not be received without producing the memorandum itself.
In the absence of proof of a further eflort to procure the
original-or, failing that, of an effort to procure an examined copy-this objection, taken at the proper time, would
perhaps have been sufficient to exclude the testimony. If
it had been notified in season to the plaintiff in error that
the objection was to be made, he might have obviated the
difficulty. The deposition was taken in France, under a
commission, upon interrogatories by both parties. The
objection could not, therefore, be made before the taking
officer. It should have been presented, before the trial, by
a motion to suppress. At the trial it came too late. It was
* Supra, p. 183.

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

then to be considered as finally waived.* The court, therefore, erred in rejecting the testimony.
In regard to the other exception relating to this deposition,
we entertain no doubt. The cross-interrogatories were not
very respectful to the witness. His answers were natural
and proper, and should have gone to the jury.
The fifth point raised relates to Mr. Bowie.t Was the testimony of this gentleman-the attorney who drew the will
of Mr. Crawford, and by whom the plaintiff in error offered
to prove what was said by the testator in their interviews
preceding the preparation of the will, and, in that connection, concerning the illegitimacy of the children and his
relation to their mother-rightly excluded?
It is asserted that the communications upon these subjects
to the attorney were covered by the seal of professional confidence, and that he could not, therefore, be permitted to
disclose them.
The principle of privileged communications was ably considered by Lord Brougham in Greenough v. Gaskel.t He
said: "The foundation of the rule is not difficult to discover.
It is not (as has sometimes been said) on account of any
particular importance which the law attributes to the business of legal professors, or any particular disposition to
afford them protection, though certainly it may not be very
easy to discover why a like privilege has been refused to
others, and especially to medical advisers. But it is out of
regard to the interests of justice, which cannot be upholden,
and to the administration of justice, which cannot go on,
without the aid of men skilled in jurisprudence-in the
practice of courts-and in those matters afecting the rights
and obligations which form the subject of all judicial proceedings. If the privilege did not exist at all, every one
would be thrown upon his own legal resources. Deprived
of all professional assistance, a man would not venture to
* York Co. v. Central Railroad, supra, p. 107.
j Supra, p. 184.
1 1 Mylne & Keen, 98.

Dec. 1865.]

D]LAOKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Opinion of the court.

consult any skilful person, or would only dare to tell his
counsel half his case."
In .ussel v. Jaekson,* the contest was between the heirsat-law and a devisee. The heirs claimed that the devise
was upon a trust, unexpressed, because illegal. The question was, whether the solicitor by whom the will wAs drawn
should be allowed to testify what was said by the testator
contemporaneously upon the subject? The devisee claimed,
the benefit of the rule. The Vice-Chancellor said: "W-hen
we pass f-om cases of conflict between the rights of a client
and parties claiming under him-and those of third persons-to cases of a testamentary disposition of a client, do
the same reasons apply? The disclosure in such cases can
affect no right or interest of the client; and the apprehension
of it can present no impediment to a full statement to the
solicitor, unless he were contemplating an illegal dispositiQn-a case to which I shall presently refer; and the disclosure, when made, would expose the court to no greater
difficulty than it has in all cases when the views and intentions of parties, or the objects for which the disposition is
made, are unknown. In the case, then, of a testamentary
disposition, the very foundations on which the rule proceeds
seem to be wanting; and, in the absence of any illegal purpose entertained by the testator, there does not seem to be
any ground for applying the rule in such a case. Can it be
said, then, that the communication is protected because it
may lead to the disclosure of an illegal purpose? I think
not; and that evidence, otherwise admissible, cannot be rejected upon such grounds. Another view of the case is, that
the protection which the rule gives, is the protection of the
client; and it cannot be said to be for the protection of the
client that evidence should be rejected-the effect of which
would be to prove a trust created by him, and to destroy a
claim to take beneficially by the parties accepting the trust."
This reasoning applies to the declarations of the testator
here in question. How can it be said to be for his interest
* 15 Jurist, 1, 117.
VOL. IMI.

1

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to exclude any testimony in support of what he solemnly
proclaimed and put on record by his will? Especially can
this be said in regard to property to which he never had or
assumed to have any title, and in regard to a claim by others
to that property, which he did all in his power, by his will,
to foreclose?
But there is another ground upon which we prefer to place
our decision. The client may waive the protection of the
rule. The waiver may be express or implied. We think it
as effectual here by implication as the most explicit language
could have made it. It could have been no clearer if the
client had expressly enjoined it upon the attorney to give
this testimony whenever the truth of his testamentary declaration should be challenged by any of those to whom it
related. A different result would involve a perversion of
the rule, inconsistent with its object, and in direct conflict
with the reasons upon which it is founded.
Finally, as to the instructions to the jury asked and refused, and as to those given.*
The first and third instructions offered by the defendants
in error were properly given. The two instructions submitted by the plaintiffs in error were unexceptionable, and
should also have been given. The three instructions given
by the -ourt sua sponte were characterized by a common
error. They submitted to the jury, as a question to be conside'ed, whether there was not a marriage at a different time
and place, and contracted in a different manner from that
alleged by the putative wife, Elizabeth Taylor. Her testimony was clear and positive. It was wholly inconsistent
with such a proposition. If there were none as alleged by
her, clearly there was none at anytime. This was the hinge
upon which turned the controversy. All the testimony clustered about and related to that inquiry. The jury should
have been so instructed, and their deliberations confined
accordingly. Lord Hale says, they should be told "where
the main question or the knot of the business lies."t The
* Sura,pp. 184-6.

t History of the Common Law, 266

J_ cc. 1865.]

BLACKBURN V. CRAWFORDS.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

further inquiry did not arise in the case. What was said
could hardly fail to mislead and confuse. It permitted them
to substitute conjecture for deduction, and opened a field
beyond the sphere of the case, where the means of error
were abundant.
The third of these charges is liable to a further objection.
It instructed the jury, that if the facts were as there stated,
"the presumption of law was in favor of the legitimacy of
the children." Under such circumstances the law makes
no presumption. The question to be determined was one
of fact and not of law. The facts referred to were a part of
the evidence. They were to be weighed against the countervailing evidence. They might, by possibility, all be true,
and yet no marriage have occurred, and the children all be

illegitimate.
In our view of the case, the question of a marriage per
r,'bn, de presenti did not arise.
e have, therefore, not considered that subject.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with costs, and the case remanded

to the Circuit Court, with an order to issue a venire de novo.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case, and
that is all I think it necessary to say in reply to several of
the prominent topics discussed in the opinion of a majority
of the court. But there are three propositions laid down in
the opinion to which I desire specially to refer as not receiving my assent, because I think they are of some practical importance.
1. The Circuit Court admitted the church record, or evidence of its contents, after proof of its loss. The effect of
the decision here is that it was not admissible. Unless I am
greatly deceived, the ruling of the Circuit Court is sustained
by all the authorities upon the subject. Apart from authorities it seems to me that it was correct in principle, as evi
denced by the general course of practice.
2. Second proposition referred to has respect to the testi.

BLOSSOM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mony of the attorney. I think it was properly excluded as
falling within the rule of privileged communication; and I
am also of the opinion that the suggestion of waiver is utterly without foundation or just pretence.
3. Reference is made in the third place to the construction given to the charge of the Circuit Court. Rightly interpreted, the charge, as it seems to me, is correct; but the
opinion of the majority of the court places a construction
upon it which I think does great injustice to the judge who
presided at the trial.
Having stated the three propositions to which I dissent, I
do not wish to add anything to the statement.

BLOSSOM v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. A bidder at a judicial sale at public auction, -whose bid has not been ai
cepted,-the sale being adjourned for sufficient cause and finally di&
continued-cannot insist, even though he have been the highest ana
best bidder, on leave to pay the amount of his bid, and have a confirmation of the sale to him.
2. The marshal, or other officer, who makes a sale of real property under a
decree of foreclosure, possesses the power, for good cause shown, in the
exercise of a sound discretion, and in subordination to the superior
control of the court over the whole matter of the sale, to adjourn the
sale from time to time.
8. In a case where the decree was that the sale should be made unless the
mortgagorsshould previously pay the mortgage debt, a few short adjournments for the purpose of enabling the mortgagors to make an arrangement to pay it, are adjournments for sufficient cause, although such
adjournments have been made by direction of the complainant's solicitor. And if, prior to the day to which the sale stands adjourned,
the mortgagors -come in and pay the complainants the amount of the
decree, &c., the sale may properly be discontinued altogether.

TnE Milwaukee and Chicago Railroad having mortgaged
their raili oad, and suit having been brought in the Federal
court for Wisconsin, to foreclose the mortgage, a decree
was obtained that the mortgaged premises should be sold at

