Dec. 1865.]

BROWN

v.

TARKINGTON.

Syllabus.

Judgment, in that case, was given by Lord Campbell, and
in a subsequent case he repeated and enforced the reasons
on which the former judgment rested.* Voyage, in the last
case, was from Liverpool to Callao. Ship was driven on a.
bank by a storm, near the port of departure. Cargo was
discharged and transported back to the port whence it came,
and some days afterwards the ship was got off, taken to the
port, and repaired, and again took the cargo on board and
proceeded on the voyage; and it was held that the saving
of the ship and of the cargo was one continued transaction,
and that the expenses were general average, to which the
ship, freight, and cargo must contribute. Considering that
the goods remained under the control of the ,aster until the
ship was got off, repaired, and was enabled to take the goods
on board and prosecute her voyage, it is clear that the decision was correct, and entirely consistent with the previous
adjudication.t
Applying those principles to the present case, we are of
opinion that there was no community of interest remaining
between the ship and the cargo when the master, as declared
in the statement of the case, abandoned the ship, and left
her in charge of the agent of the underwriters, after the consignees of the ship had declined to authorize the master to
incur any further expense.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to issue a
NEW VENIRE.

BRowN

v.

TARKINGTON.

Promissory notes given for a balance found due on settlement in a transaction itself forbidden by statute and illegal, or for money lent to enable a party to pay bills which the person taking the promissory notes
* Moran v. Jones, 7 Ellis & Blackburne, 532.

t Maclachlan on Shipping, 578, 576.

BRowN v. TARKINGTON.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.
had himself assisted, in violation of statute, to issue and circulate, cannot be enforced.
2. The fact that such promissory notes are given for a balance found due,
or to enable a principal party in the illegal transaction to pay notes
that have got into public circulation and are unpaid, does not purge
them from the infirmity which belonged to the original vicious transaction.
3. Where a deposition, after a motion on grounds set forth has been unsucoessfully made at one term to suppress it, as irregularly taken, is at
another read on trial without objection or exception, it cannot be ob
jected to here on the grounds that were made for its suppression, or
at all.

THIS was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana.
The case was this: The suit was brought by Brown, the
plaintiff in error, to recover against Tarkington and others,
defendants, the amount of four promissory notes, and another small sum, in the aggregate exceeding twelve thousand dollars. The defendants were stockholders in the Bank
of Tekama, in the Territory of Nebraska, organized under
a charter granted by the legislature, February 13, 1857.
The notes were signed by its president, S. ]L. Campbell.
By an act of Congress passed July 1, 1836, it was provided, "that no act of Territorial legislature of any of the
Territories of the United States, incorporating any bank, or
any institution with banking powers and privileges, hereafter passed, shall have any force or effect whatever, until
approved and confirmed by Congress." The charter of this
bank, as already observed, was passed in 1857. Three of
the notes were given on the 9th June, 1858, and the fourth
on the 28th April of the same year. The consideration of
the three notes of the 9th of June, was for a balance due the
plaintiff from the Bank of Tekama on a settlernent of accounts;
and of the other, for moneys advanced to Campbell, the president, to enable hin, to redeem the paperof the ban/I in circulation.
Much evidence was given, in the course of the trial, tending to prove that the plaintiff was connected with the officers
and directors of the bank in conducting its operations, in
aiding and assisting, personally, and by his credit and means,

Dec. 1865.]

Dec. 1865.]

[BROWN v. TARKINGTONT.
BRowN v. TARRINCTON.
Statement of the case.

to extend the circulation of its bills; and also tending to
prove that the plaintiff was familiar with the charter of the
bank, and the articles of association, and. knew of the ille.
gality of the association, and participated, in common with
the officers and directors, in very unscrupulous, if not fraudulent contrivances, to keep up the credit of the bank and its
bills, to the injury and loss of the business public, after they
had knowledge of its utter insolvency and inability to redeem the paper already in circulation.
Indeed, it was apparent from the evidence that the institution possessed very little, if any, capital, during the whole
term of its existence. The nominal capital was 9800,000,
divided into shares of one hundred dollars each, payable in
instalments of ten dollars each. The third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth instalments were
made due and payable at such times as the board of directors might designate. The bank began business in September, 1857, and ceased in the May following, with an outstanding circulation of its bills of some ninety thousand
dollars.
In the course of the trial the plaintiff read without objection the deposition of Campbell; and, of course, being thus
read, no exception was taken to it. The record however disclosed the fact that at a for',ter' ter),z there had been a motion
to suppress and exclude this deposition, as not having been
taken in conformity with the 30th section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, under which the counsel moving to suppress,
assumed it to have been taken; and disclosed also the fact
that the motion had been overruled.
At the trial, the court below, after referring to the act of
Congress forbidding the Territorial legislature to pass any
law chartering a bank without its consent, and to the viola"tion of this organic law in the present charter, and to the
facts which had been proved, instructed the jury that the
charter and the organization of the bank under it, as well
as the banking business conducted and carried on through
the means of this organization, were all illegal and void; and
that if the plaintiff participated in these transactions, aiding

BROWN v. TARKINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff.

and assisting the officers and directors in giving credit to
the bank, and to its bills in circulation, thereby co-operating
in the imposition and fraud upon the business community,
with a knowledge of the illegality of the charter and of the
organization of the bank, and that the consideration of the
notes in question grew out of these illegal transactions, he
was not entitled to recover.
Verdict and judgment went accordingly for the defendants.
On error here, Mr. G. AL1 Lee, for the plaintiffs, contended
that various instructions requested below and which he presented,-but which, as having been aside fi-om the ground
on which the case was put before the jury, need not perhaps, here, by the reporter, be particularized-were not
given by the court below, as asked. He argued farther
that the charge as given was, in itself, wrong: for conceding
argumenti gratis, what was otherwise not to be conceded,to wit, that the bills of the Tekama Bank as originally
issued were not obligatory on the persons by whose authority they were put forth-still that here the plaintiff, in so
far as he lent his money to the defendants to enable them to
pay debts, and the pay'nent of which was not illegal whatever
the incurring of them might have been-was not censurable,
but, contrariwise, praiseworthy; that here too was a promise,
not the immediate nor necessary offspring of the old acts,
nor tainted by their infirmity, if they had any; and that
thus standing on its own and on new ground, such promise
was good.* He contended that the court below had disregarded the purpose to which part of the money was applied,
and disregarded the new and independent promise; and by
charging, substantially, that if the plaintiff had furnished
funds to enable the bank to do business he could not recover, had cast into the background or out of view entirely,
* Petrie v. Hannay, 3 Term. 418; 6 Id. 410; Bird v. Appleton, 8 Id.
.562; Faikney v. Reynous, 4 Burrow, 2069; Farmer v. Russell, 1 Bosanquet
& Puller, 296; Ex parte Bulmer, 13 Vesey, 313; Hodgson v. Temple, 5
Taunton, 181; Toler v. Armstrong, 4 Washington, 297; Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheaton, 258; Catts v. Phalen, 2 Howard, 376.

Dec. 1866.]

BRowN V. TARKM'GTON.
Opinion of the court.

one of the most salient and distinguishing features of-the
case; herein, he argued, committing error in the charge.
Mr. Fames, contra.
Mr. Justice XELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
We perceive no valid objection to the charge given by the
learned judge below. It referred to the facts with great
particularity and accuracy. The principle of law which it
laid down is familiar, and the evidence in the case called for
its appliction. The illegality of the charter of the bank,
and of the organization under it, as well as the business of
banking conducted through its means, were matters not in
controversy upon the evidence. The only material question
open was, whether or not the plaintiff was particeps criminis?
If he was, he was disabled, under the maxim, to recover.
The law leaves the party thus situated where it finds him.
If either has sustained loss by the bad faith of his associates,
it is but a just punishment for the illegal adventure.
To the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff-that
admitting the banking transactions to be illegal, yet that
the settlement of the balance and giving notes for the same
purged the new promise, as he calls it, from the original
taint-the answer is, that the new promise is founded upon
the illegal consideration; a debt or demand growing out of
the illegal transactions: and is as infirm, in the eye of the
law, as the implied promise that existed previous to the
giving of the notes.
There were several prayers for instructions on the part
of the plaintiff, which were refused in the form presented.
Most of them were irrelevant and immaterial, and neither
even alluded to the ground upon which the case was placed
before the jury. The court embraced in its charge all that
was material or pertinent in the instructions prayed for.
It is also insisted for the plaintiff that the deposition of
S. L. Campbell, the president of ihe bank, was improperly
admitted on account of an irregularity in taking it under
the act of Congress. It appears that a motion had been

882

McGuIrE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

made, at a previous term of the court, to set aside this deposition on the ground stated; which was denied. On the
trial, when the deposition was offered, no objection was
made to it. The question, therefore, is not in the bill of exceptions; on the contrary, if any valid objection existed, it
was waived by not taking advantage of it at the trial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See Orchard v. Hughes, 1 Wallace, 73; Brooks v. .Iarlin, 2 Id. 70.-RB

'.]

MCGUIRE v. THE COMMONWEALTH.
(MoTIoNS.)
1. Where a party is indicted in a State court for doing an act contrary to
the statute of the State, and sets up a license from the United States
under one of its statutes, and the decision of the State court is against
the right claimed under such last-mentioned statute, this court has
jurisdiction under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
2. A writ of error from this court is properly directed to the court in which
the final judgment was rendered, and by whose process it must be
executed, and in which the record remains, although such court may
not be the highest court of the State, and although such highest court
may have exercised a revisory jurisdiction over points in the case, and
certified its decision to the court below. The omission in the record
of these points, and the action in the highest court upon them, make no
ground for certiorarion account of diminution.
8. Circumstances under which the inability of leading counsel to prepare
for argument, within a time previously fixed by the court, and the
sickness of his associate, do not make a sufficient ground for continuance of a cause.
4. Where the counsel of a plaintiff in error withdraw their appearance, the
defendant in error, under the 16th rule, has the right either to have the
plaintiff called and the suit dismissed, or to open the record and pray
an affirmance.

A STATUTE of Massachusetts makes it an indictable offence,
punishable with heavy fine and imprisonment, to keep any
building for the sale of intoxicating liquors. Under this

