210

TURNPIKE CoMPANY v. THE STATE.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

viously sanctioned in numerous cases,* and was expressly
laid down by the chancellor in the case of Kelley v. Irae/,t
which is one of the latest cases upon the subject.
But the record shows, in this case, that the bid of the
appellant was never accepted, and that the adjournments
were made by the direction of the solicitors of the complainants to enable the respondents to pay the mortgage
debt and save the mortgaged property from sacrifice. Negotiations to that effect were opened between the parties to
the suit on the day the first bid of the appellant was made,
and they were completed within two days, so that all concerned knew, or might have known, that a sale had become
unnecessary. Subsequent postponement took place to enable the respondents to carry the arrangements into effect.
They paid the debt, and the complainants executed a discharge for the same. Justice has been done, and all are
satisfied except the appellant, and he has no just ground of
complaint.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

TURNPIKE COMPANY v. THE STATE.
1. If a State grant no exclusive privileges to one company which it has incorporated, it impairs no contract by incorporating a second one which
itself largely manages and profits by to the injury of the first.
2. In such a case it is no defence to a sire facias against the first for nonuser or abuser of its franchises, that the State had incorporated the
second, was in part managing it, and largely profiting by it; and in
consequence of all this, that the revenues of the first company were so
far lessened that it could observe its charter no better than it did.
8. If a State injure one incorporated company by the unlawful grant of a
charter to another and rival one, the remedy of the first company is by
proper proceedings to restrain the second from getting into operation,
and not by neglecting its own duties.

IN 1812 the State of Maryland incorporated a company to
* Tinkham v. Purdy, 5 Johnson, 345; McDonald v. Neilson, 2 Id. 190;
Keightly v. Birch, 3 Campbell, 821; Leader v. Denney, 1 Bosanquet & Pul,
ler, 369.
1 11 Paige, 164.

Dec. 1865.]

TURNPIKE COMPAN-

v. THE STATE.

211

Statement of the case.

build a turnpike road between Baltimore and Washington.
The company by its charter had power to take tolls and was
bound to erect bridges and keep them and the road in good
repair. In regard to its privileges generally, there was nothing
special about it.
In 1831 the same State granted a charter to a railroad
company to make a railroad between the same cities, the
line of which ran near to and parallel with the track of the
turnpike.
The turnpike company not having kept its road and
bridges in repair, while it yet denanded tolls, the legislature
of the State in 1860 directed their attorney-general to issue
a scirefacias against it, to forfeit its charter; which writ was
issued accordingly.
It was set up as a defence to the sei.fa. that the State had,
in disregard of the Constitution of the United States, passed
laws "impairing the obligation of contracts," in that with
the grant of a charter to the turnpike company in force, it
had incorporated a company to make a railroad right alongside of it, which second road had every year been transporting great numbers of persons and large amounts of property
that but for it would have been carried on the turnpike,
and had now by statute directed the sci. fa.; that the turnpike company being by the charter to the railroad corporation deprived of much of the income which but for this
they would have received, it had become "impracticable
for them, with all the income that they received from such
persons and property as pass upon the turnpike road, to
maintain and keep it in any better order and repair than it
was kept in."
The turnpike company further set up that the railroad
had been made not only under the authority of the State
but to a considerable extent with the State's own money;
the State, in addition, managing it largely, and getting from
it one-fifth of the whole amount received for the transporta
tion of passengers.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland, where the case finally
got, considered the defence insufficient, and gave judgment

TURNPIKE COmPANY V. THE STATE

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

of ouster of the franchise. The charter of the turnpike company was thus annulled. The case was now here on error.*
_essrs. -Dobbinand i obinson,for the turnpike company, plaintiffs in error, contended that the charter of 1812 made a contract, persons having parted with their property on the faith
of it ;t that under this charter the turnpike company had a
right to take and enjoy the tolls and other privileges and immunities granted by it, and for which the original cost of
constructing the road and the obligation, by continuing outlays to keep it in order, was a consideration. That the State,
by authorizing a rival road, had violated that contract; and
by diverting and carrying away the tolls from the turnpike
company-as owing to the new road being a railroad and
having greater facilities for carrying passengers and freight it
did-it had, itseyf, disabled the turnpike company from keeping its road in repair. That the State having thus prevented
the turnpike company from performing its duty, and still
furthering a prevention-being itself a gainer moreover by
what it did and was still doing-it could not take advantage
of the resulting incapacity of the turnpike company to keep
its road in order.
The case was argued with profound reference to the books;
and the learned counsel cited very numerous authorities, beginning with the Year Books, Keilwey, Sir Francis Moore,
Bulstrode, Godbolt, and other early reporters,t and coming
down to the latest of the modern,ยง to show a universal con* Under the 25th section, of course, of the Judiciary Act of 1789. See
supra,p. 57.
t Hathorne v. Calef, 2 Wallace, 21; approving Curran v. State of Arkansas, 15 Howard, 313.
1 Among the early cases were: Joan, Queen of England, widow of Henry
IV, v. Lyle, 9 Henry VI, Year Book of Henry VI, folio 44; Placitum
25 another case in the Year Book of 6 Edward IV, folio 1-2; Placitum
4: both explained in West v. Blakeway, 2 Manning & Granger, 745, notes
c and b; Keilwey, 34 b, a case in 13 Henry VII; Bedels' Case, 2 Leonard,
115; Carrell v. Read, Owen, 65; S. C., Moore, 402; Slade v. Thompson,
Cro. Jac. 374, S. C., Rolle, 136; City of London v. Greyme, Cro. Jap.
181; S. C., Moore, 877; Quick v. Ludborrow, 3 Bulstrode, 30.
Among the later cases, People t Bartlett, 3 Hill, 570; Cort v. Amber

Dec. 1865.]

TURNPIKE COMPANY v. THE STATE.

213

Opinion of the court.

currence of the courts on the subject; and that it was an
ancient, settled, and most just rule of law and morals, that a
covenantor was discharged from his obligation when the party
for whose benefit it is made has performed an act by which
such covenantor is incapacitated to observe his contract; and
that where forfeiture was the penalty provided for breach,
the other party was not permitted to take advantage of it.
$1essrs. Randall and Poe, contra, citing among other cases,
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge ;* Richmond Railroad
b. v. Louisa Railroad Co. ;t Washington and Baltmore Turnpike Company v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co.1
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The difficulty of the argument in behalf of the turnpike
company, and which lies at the foundation of the defence is,
that there is no contract in the charter of the turnpike company that prohibited the legislature from authorizing the
construction of the rival railroad. No exclusive privileges
had been conferred upon it, either in express terms, or by
necessary implication; and hence whatever may have been
the general injurious effects and consequences to the company, from the construction and operation of the rival road,
they are simply misfortunes which may excite our sympathies, but are not the subject of legal redress.
It might have been very proper for the State, when chartering the railroad, to have provided for compensation for the
prospective loss to the turnpike company, as has frequently
been done in other States, under similar circumstances; but
this was a question resting entirely with the legislature of
the State, and their action is conclusive on the subject.
There is another answer to the defence in this case, even
assuming that the charter of the turnpike company con.
tained exclusive privileges that forbade the legislature of
the State incorporating the railroad company.
gate Railway, 17 Adolphus & Ellis, New Series (79 English Common Law),
146; Pole v. Cetchovitch, 9 Common Bench, New Series (99 E. C. L.), 438.
* 11 Peters, 536-553.
t 13 Howard, 81..
$ 10 Gill & Johnson, 392

THE CORNELIUS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The remedy was not in neglecting to repair the road, and
at the same time collect the tolls. It was in restraining, by
.the proper proceedings, the railroad company from constructing their road. The breach of the contract on the
part of the State furnished no excuse for the turnpike company in disregarding their part of it which was a burden, to
wit, the repairs, while, at the same time, insisting upon the
observance of the part beneficial, to wit, the collection of
the tolls.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See mpam, p. 51; The Binghamton Bridge.]

TnE

CORNELIUS.

1. Presumption of an intent to run a blockade by a vessel bound apparently
to a lawful port, may be inferred from a combination of circumstances,
as ex. gr. the suspicious character of the supercargo; the suspicious character of the master, left unexplained, though the case was open for
further proof; the fact that the.vessel, on her outward voyage, was in
the neighborhood of the blockaded place, and within the line of the
blockading vessels, by night, and that her return voyage was apparently
timed so as to be there by night again; that the vessel (though in a
leaking condition, that condition having been known to the master
before he set sail), paid no attention to guns fired to bring her to, but,
on the contrary, crowded on more sail and ran for the blockaded shore;
and that one witness testified iprearato'o that the master, just before
the capture, told him that he intended to run the blockade from the
first.
2. Although in such cases it is a possible thing that the intention of the
master may have been innocent, the court is under the necessity of acting on the presumption which arises from such conduct, and of inferq
ring a criminal intent.

THE schooner Cornelius and her cargo were captured by

the government vessel Restless, and condemned as prize of
war by the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for an attempt to run the blockade established by

