Dec. 1865.]

BLANCHARD v. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

BLANCb

ARD V. BROWN.

In Illinois, and under its statutes relating to ejectment, when a question of
fraud in obtaining a title to real estate has been submitted, in a suit in
ejectment, to a jury, and determined against the party setting it up,
such party, notwithstanding the nature of the action, cannot go into
equity and ask relief there, setting up essentially the same frauds, and
sustaining them by the same evidence that he relied on to make out his
case in the suit in ejeetment at law.
The doctrine of IltEs v. Caldwell (2 Wallace, 35), a case from Missouri,
giving the same conclusive effect to a verdict and judgment in ejectment as to verdicts in other actions--the form of the ejectment not
being fictitious-held applicable in Illinois, and under its statutes.

VARious judgments had been given against a debtor in

Chicago owning real estate there; among them one in favor
of Lyman. Execution issued in April, 1847, and on it, in
April, 1848, the premises were sold to Blanchard.
A certain Hart had also obtained judgment against the
same party. Execution issued in 1845; but was not returned into the clerk's office until 1852. The execution, it
seemed, recited a judgment of the Cook County Court of
Common Pleas; a court not at the time in existence; that
court having been created by act of legislature only in 1848;
and the name of the court in which the judgment was really
given,-to wit, the "Cook County Court,"--having in that
act been changed to it. An alias was subsequently issued
on the same judgment, and the land sold for $71 to Brown;
its actual value, at the time, being about $2000, or, as was
alleged, even $4000.
Blanchard being in possession, Brown brought ejeetment
against him. Both parties, of course, claimed under the
same judgment debtor, and by virtue of their respective
judgments and execution sales; the judgment under which
Blanchard claimed being junior to the one on which Brown
rested his title, and judgments being liens in Illinois according to their priority. Blanchard set up, as his ground of
defence on this ejectment, that the sale under the judgment
in favor of Hart, and under which Brown sought to dispossess

[Sup. cL,

BLANCHARD v. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

him, was a fraudulent sale, made to defeat subsequent eneumbrancers, and, accordingly, that Brown had no title.
-To show the fraud, evidence was given of the value of the
property compared with the price for which it sold; that it
was sold in a body, instead of having been sold, as it might
naturally and much more profitably have been, in a divided
form; that false representations were made as to the encumbrances on it, the representations .aving been that it was
largely encumbered when it was not so; that no proper
notice of the sale had been given, the advertisement which
gave the notice having announced only that the sale would
be on a day named, "between 9 o'clock

A.M.

and sunset."

Blanchard set up, also, that irrespective of fraud (of which,
indeed, the execution process was said to be one evidence),
the sale was void for the irregularity in such process, and
put in evidence the facts connected with this part of the
proceeding.
The suit resulted in a verdict and judgment for Brown;
and a second trial had the same termination. Blanchard,
tendering the money paid by Brown and ten per cent. interest from the day of sale, now filed a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, asking to
have the estate upon equitable terms. Under his bill some
new evidence-objected to as being in breach of professional
confidence-was introduced; but with it all admitted, he
made in effect the same attack on the judgment-title of
Brown that he did in the previous actions of ejectment.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and this court was
now asked by Blanchard, appellant in the case, to reverse
the decision.
It is here necessary to state, that in Illinois the old English form of ejectment does not prevail. Ejectment, like
other actions, is brought by a real plaintiff against the
party actually claiming; and is for the specific property demanded, with damages for its detention. A statute of the
State. it should also be said, declares* "that everyjudgrmeni
* Revised Laws of 1845, chap. xxxvi,

39.

Dec. 1865.]

BLANOHARD V. ]BRowN.
Argument ior the appellant.

in the action of ejectment, rendered upon a verdict, shall be
conclusive as to the title established in such action upon the
party against whom the same is rendered; and all persons
claiming from, through, or under such party, by title accruing after the commencement of such action."
One defence, among others made to the bill and argued
by 31&.1.Fuller, was that Blanchard now set up in his bill
substantially what he had done in his ejectments, and that
the case could not be distinguished from M1iles v. Caidwel!,*
decided at the last term of the court; a case which, though
from another State, Missouri, was obligatory, in the circumstances, in this case from Illinois. In the case cited, a statute
of Missouri enacted that in ejectment, as in other actions,
a judgment, except one of nonsuit, "shall be a bar to any
other action between the same parties, or those claiming
under them, as to the same subject-matter;" and this court
held, that as ejectment was in Missouri an actual, as distinguished from a fictitious proceeding, a title decided in it
could not be reviewed in chancery any more than any other
matter tried and decided at law.
Or. Hitcheock, for Blanchard, the appellant: The reply to
what is argued by Mr. Fuller is twofold.
1st. The suit at law concerned only the legal title. This
bill to redeem is based on an equitable one. The sheriff's
sale was sufficient to pass the legal estate, and upon it the
purchaser could maintain ejectment. It is altogether another question whether the sale was attended by such circumstances of fraud and irregularity as will induce a court
of equity to relieve against its legal effect. The object of the
action at law was to assert such paramount legal title. The
object of this suit in chancery is to get rid of such title by
redemption. A mortgagee may recover upon his fee at law,
but he cannot assert such recovery as a bar to redemption
in chancery. Fraud will avoid a deed at law only when it
relates to the execution of it; but a recovery upon such a
* 2 Wallace, 35.

BLANCHARD V.

B RowN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

deed cannot be urged as a bar to a bill to compel the surrender and cancellation of it, for fraud in the consideration.*
A trustee may recover, in'ejectment, against his cestui que
trust; but such recovery would not bar proceedings in chancery to assert the equitable title. "A court of law may,
indeed, investigate some questions of fraud, and, when
proved, treat a deed as a nullity, and conveying no title; as
where a party was induced to execute a deed supposing it
was another paper; but, in general, it will not go behind
the naked legal title and inquire where the equities are."t
The case of Miles v. Caldwell, cited by opposite counsel,
establishes only the principle, which is not controverted,
that a party cannot appeal from a judgment at law to a
court of chancery upon the relative merits of the legal titles
involved in the controversy at law. There, a court of law
had passed upon the validity of a deed alleged to have been
fraudulent as against creditors, a matter over which courts
of law have always exercised jurisdiction.
There was in the present case no doubt about the power
of the court to administer full relief. In Illinois, the distinction between courts of law and chancery is fully maintained, and matter which furnishes no defence at law may
be good ground for relief in chancery.
2d. It has been expressly decided in that State that such
irregularities cannot be taken advantage of, collaterally, in
the action of ejectment.T And such is the general rule
of law.
It is believed that no case can be found in which a sale has
been successfully attacked, in collateral proceedings at law,
.upon similar grounds.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The common-law form of the action of ejectment does not
* Dorr v. Munsell, 13 Johnson, 430; Parker v. Parmele, 20 Id. 130;
Stevens v. Judson, 4 Wendell, 471.
f- Reece v. Allen, 5 Gilman, 241; decided in the State in which this case
was tried.
+ Swiggart et al. v. Harber et al., 4 Scammon, 375.

Dec. 1865.]

:BLANCHARD

v.

BROWNg.

Opinion of the court.

prevail in Illinois. There the action is without fictions, and
is between the real parties in interest, and for the possession
of a specific estate, and damages for its detention. On account of the fictitious character of the common-law action
of ejectment, a judgment was not a complete bar, as in other
actions. But in Illinois, by statute, it is declared, "that
every judgment in the action of ejectment, rendered upon a
verdict, sholl be conclusive as to the title established, in such
action, upeu the party against whom the same is rendered,
and all persons claiming from, through, or under such party,
by title accruing after the commencement of such action."
One verdict alone was not deemed satisfactory by the legislature. The ancient reverence for the tenure by which
lands are b4d had its influence, and the unsuccessful party,
of r;gt, is entitled to one new trial, and the court can,
if satisfied that justice will thereby be promoted, grant a
second. Af r this the litigation is ended, and the verdict
and judgmenqt" have the same conclusive effect as in other
actions. In MIissouri, a judgment in ejeetment is also a bar
to any othei action, between the same parties, on the same
subject-matter; and this court, in the case of MZiles v. C0ddwell,* in con.;truing a statute, no broader than the Illinois
enactment, hld that whatever is conclusive of the title to
land in the courts of a State, is equally conclusive in the
Federal couits; that it is, in fact, a rule of property. A per.fect solution is, therefore, given to this case when it is ascertained what was tried and determined in the ejectment suit.
The evidence on this point is so full as to leave no room
for doubt.
Blanchard did not resist Brown's recovery in the action
of ejectmnt on the sole question of paramount legal title,
which he had the right to do, and then endeavor to get rid
of it in chancery on the question of superior equities. He
chose rather to risk his whole defence in the impeachment
of B :own's title for fraud, and because the sale was vitiated
by h rcgularities and the property sacrificed. Having failed
* 2 Wallace, 44.

DANIELS v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

before the jury, he is estopped from investigating the same
matters in another jurisdiction. He waived his right to have
the question of fraud litigated in a court of chancery, when
he presented it, as a defence to the action at law. And the
defence was legitimate and proper, for such questions of
fraud and irregularity as were raised could be disposed of
as well at law as in chancery.
A grossly inadequate price is, under some circumstances,
evidence of fraud, and a fit subject of inquiry by a jury, in
determining the validity of a sale made under legal process.
If the sale on the Hart execution was not made for the purpose of satisfying the judgment, but fraudulently to defeat
subsequent encumbrancers, and Brown was not a bond fide
purchaser for value, then his title was bad; and it was
equally bad, if the irregularities were such as to render the
sale void.
Evidence was given on all these matters, and was never
withdrawn from the consideration of the jury. In fact the
whole record shows that Blanchard claims equitable relief
on substantially the same grounds, and sustained by the
same evidence that he relied on to defeat the action of ejectment. The decision in Miles v. Caidwell is, therefore, applicable. In that case, as in this, the question of fraud had been
submitted to the jury, and determined against the complainant; and this court held that he was barred by the proceedings in ejectment, and could not raise anew in chancery the
same questions that were heard at law.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

DANIELS V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Under the act of April 29, 1802 ( 6), providing "that whenever any guesiion shall occur before a Circuit Court upon which the opinions of the
judges shall be opposed, the point upon which tbe disagreement shall
happen shall . . . be certified . . . to the Supreme Court, and shall
by the said court be finally decided"-the court will not even by con-

