Dec. 1[865.]

UNITED STATES V. FISK.
Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES v. FIsK.
"Bankers" wbo sell the Federal securities no otherwise than for the United
States and for themselves, and who, therefore, do not sell them for
others or for a commission, are not liable to pay the duties imposed by
the 99th section of the Internal Revenue Act, of June 80, 1864, imposed upon "brokers and bankers doing business as broker-"

THE "Internal Revenue Act," of 30th June, 1864, "to
provide ways and means for the support of government, and
for other purposes," declares, by its 99th section, as follows:

"All brokers and bankers doing business as brokers, shall be subject to pay the following duties and rates of duty upon the sales
of merchandise, produce, gold and silver bullion, foreign exchange, promissory notes, stocks, bonds, or other securities, and
shall also be subject to all the provisions of the act for making
returns, assessments, and collection of the duties."
The ninth paragraph of the 79th section of the same act
says:
"1Brokersshall pay $50for each license. Every person, firm, or
company (except such as hold a license as banker), whose business it is as a broker to negotiate purchases or sales of stocks,
exchange, bullion, coined money, bank notes, promissory notes,
or other securities, shall be regarded as a broker [and shall make
oath or affirmation that all their transactions are made for a
commission], provided that any person holding a license as a
banker shall not be required to take out a license as a broker."
On the 3d of March, 1865, Congress passed an act to
amend the former act. The last act amends the former by
inserting, after the words "other securities" (given above in
italics), the words "for themselves or others;" and by striking out from the paragraph that part of it above included in
brackets.
In this state of the statutes it was decided, in the preceding case of United States v. Cutting, that "brokers" were
liable to pay the duties and rates of duty prescribed by

UNITED STATES v. FIsK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the 99th section of the act of 1864, whether the sales were
made for themselves or for others.
In the present case a different question arose.
Fisk & Co. were bankers, doing a general business as such,
making returns, and paying duties and taxes imposed by
law upon their capital and deposits. As such they negotiated and sold for the United States large amounts of government securities. At the same time they bought and sold
government securitiesfor themselves, and not for others or for a
commission.
The distinction, then, between the two cases was:
1. That, in the present case, the defendants were licensed
as "bankers," and carried on the business of banking and
nothing else, and did not act as "brokers;" while the defendants in the preceding case were licensed as "brokers,"
and did business as such, as well as on their own account.
2. That the sales by the defendants in this action, upon
which the duty was sought to be recovered, were of government securities only, held and owned by them in their own
right; while the sales by the defendants in the preceding
case embraced other stocks, bonds, and securities, as well as
government securities.
On a suit by the government against Fisk & Co., for duties
on sales made by them, the question was, whether on these
sales they were liable to pay the duties imposed by the 99th
section upon "brokers, and bankers doing business as brokers,"
in addition to those imposed upon them as bankers?
The first paragraphs of the 79th section of the act of 1864,
which concerns bankers as distinguished fiom brokers, is as
follows:
"_Bankers using or employing a capital not exceeding the sum
of $50,000, shall pay $100 for each license; when using or employing a capital exceeding $50,000, for every additional $1000
in excess of $50,000, $2.
" Every person, firm, or company, and every incorporated or
other bank, having a place of business where credits are opened
by the deposit or collection of money or currency, subject to be

Dec. 1865.]

e .xITEDSTATES v. FIsK.
Opinion of the court.

paid or remitted upon draft, check, or order; or where money is
advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange,
or promissory notes; or where stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of
exchange, or promissory notes, are received for discount or sale,
shall be regarded a banker under this act."
The 110th section prescribes the additional duties (beside
the license tax) to be paid by "any person, bank, association, company, or corporation engaged in the business of
banking."
The Circuit Court for New York, where the suit originated, was of opinion that "bankers" were not liable on such
sales as those made in this case. The matter was now
brought here by the government on error.
.2WI.Speed, A. G., for the United States; .3essrs.Allen, Burrill, and .Evarts, con m.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
In the construction of statutes, it is the duty of the court
to ascertain the clear intention of the legislature. In order
to do this, courts are often compelled to construe "or" as
meaning "and," and again "and" as meaning "or."
The purpose and intent of the legislature, in the amendment made to the ninth paragraph, was evidently not to
change the correct definition given of the term "broker,"
and to make it mean that every man who sold his own stock
was a broker, and liable to pay fifty dollars for a license.
The obvious purpose of the amendment was to compel
brokers to render an account of all sales made, whether for
themselves or others, and to pay the duty on them. As is
often the case in statutes, though the intention is clear, the
words used to express it may be ill chosen.
The evil intended to be remedied by the amendment was
transparent. If the amendment had been properly expressed, it should have been added as a proviso to the 99th section, which relates to the rates of duty to be paid on sales
made in the stock-market by brokers or others licensed and

GREEN V. VAN BUSCERK.

[p
[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

doing business as such, and in the preceding case the court
have so construed it.
Now, a banker pays a much higher license tax than a
broker, and is permitted to "prosecute or carry on" the
business or profession of a broker without paying any further license; but if he prefers, he may not combine that
business with his own. The 110th section prescribes the
duties to be paid by a banker. It is not amended so as to
require him to render an account of his purchases or sales
of government stocks for himself. The case before us,
therefore, presents no other question than the construction
of the 99th section. It enacts that "all brokers and bankers
doing business as brokers shall be subject to the following
duties," &c.
Now, in order to subject a banker to the duties prescribed
by this section, we are asked to interpolate the important
word "not," and to construe it as including bankers who do
not, as well as those who do transact "business as brokers."

This would not be a construction of the statute, but an
amendment thereof in direct contradiction of its language.
This we do not feel at liberty to make.
JUDGMENT ATIMED.

GREEN v. VAN BusKERK.
The ten days given by the 23d section of the Judiciary Act, to take a writ
of error from this court, run from the day when judgment is entered
in the court where the record remains; and when judgment is given in
the highest court of a State on appeal or writ of error from an inferior
one, and, on affirmance, the record is returned to such inferior court
with order to enter judgment there, they run from the day when judgment is so there entered.

THIs was a motion made by Mr. A. J. Parker, in behalf
of Green, plaintiff in error, for a supersedeas to stay execution upon a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
of New York.

