DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1865.

LOVEJOY V. MURRAY.

1. A bond of indemnity given by a plaintiff in an attachment to induce
the officer to hold, after levy, property not subject to the writ, makes
such plaintiff a joint trespasser with the officer as to all that is done
with the property afterwards.
2. A judgment against one joint trespasser is no bar to a suit against another for the same trespass. Nothing short of full satisfaction, or that
which the law must consider as such, can make such judgment a bar.
8. A plaintiff in attachment who indemnifies the attaching officer, and
afterwards takes upon himself the defence when that officer is sued, is
concluded by the judgment against that officer where such plaintiff is
afterwards sued for the same trespass.

LOVEJOY brought suit in one of the courts of Iowa against
0. I. Pratt, and the sheriff attached certain personal property, which was assumed to be the property qf Pratt. A
certain Murray, however, claimed it as his. The sherif,
now in possession, was unwilling to proceed further in the
attachment, or to sell the property under it, unless indemnified by Lovejoy & Co. These parties accordingly executed
a bond, in which, reciting that the sheriff had attached and
taken possession of the property, they bound themselves to
pay all damages, &c. The sheriff then proceeded to sell the
property under Lovejoy & Co.'s attachment, and under direction of their attorneys.
This being done, Murray sued the sheriff for an alleged
trespass. The sheriff gave notice of this suit, as soon as
VOL. 111.

1

(1)

[Sup. Or.

LovEToY v. MURiAY.
Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

brought, to Lovejoy & Co., and they defended it; counsel,
whom they paid, having taken exclusive charge of it. In
this suit, LMurray obtained
Judgment against the sheriff for
.
"Which the sheriff, without execution issued,
satisfied to the extent of
.
Leaving a balance unsatisfied of

.

$6233
830

5403

Murray then brought suit against Lovejoy GCo. for this
same trespass; and the facts being agreed on in a case stated,
the court gave judgment for the plaintiffs for the amount of
the judgment against the sheriff less the $830 paid by him.
On error here from the Massachusetts Circuit (where
Lovejoy & Co. had been sued), three questions were made.
1. Did Lovejoy & Co., in giving the bond of indemnity to
the sheriff, become thereby liable as joint trespassers with
him in what was done under the attachment?
2. Did Murray, by suing the sheriff alone, and getting
partialsatisfaction of the judgment against that officer, bar himself of a right to sue Lovejoy & Co. for the same trespass?
3. Was Murray's judgment against the sheriff conclusive
against Lovejoy & Co. in this suit against them?
The case was thoroughly argued on both sides, in this
court, on the authorities, ancient and modern, English and
our own.
Mr.Hutchins,for Lovejoy & Co., plaintiffs in error.
On the first point, the effect of the bond of indemnity. One
may indemnify an officer for an act committed by him, without being himself liable for that act. He may defend a suit
against a trespasser without becoming himself a trespasser.
"It is sometimes said," remarked Chief Justice Gibson, of
Pennsylvania,* "that in levying an execution the sheriff is
the plaintiff's agent. Having received a sufficient bond of
indemnity, or a tender of it, he is certainly bound to follow
* Fitler v. Fossard, 7 Pennsylvania State, 541; and see Sowell v. Champion.
6 Adolphus & Ellis, 417.

Dec. 1865.]

LOVEJOY V. 'AIRRAY.
Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

his instructions; but the relation between them is not that
of master and servant; for the sheriff is bound to act, not
by force of the plaintiff's command, but by force of the
command of his writ. He is the agent of the law; and,
therefore, it is that when he seizes by the plaintiff's direction the goods of a stranger on afierifacics against the goods
of a defendant, the parties do not stand in the relation ofjoint
trespassers. The plaintiff creditoi' is not a trespasser at all;
for the sheriff is bound to stand the brunt of the stranger's
action. He acts at his peril, but not without a means of
security; and it is his fault if he does not use it."
Ot the second and prbwcialpoint; how fin' thejudgnient acn.gst
the sheriff operated as a bar to the suit against Lovejoy . Co.
There seems to be a great conflict of opinion in the books,
whether a judgment alone against one tort-feasor operates as a
bar to a suit against another; some holding it to be an absolute bar, others that judgment with execations is necessary, and
others that satfaction is necessary.
In numerous cases which may be referred to in this country, it has been either decided, declared, or assumed, as we
read the cases, that jucdgment alone operates cs a bar.* This
is the direction certainly in which these cases set. Other
cases would indicate that judgment and execution so operate;t and in one casel it has been held that absolute satisfaction was necessary.
It is impossible to reconcile the American cases. The
English courts keep clear of the whole difficulty by treating
the judgment, of itself, as a bir; and this we submit is the
better doctrine.
* Wilkes v. Jackson, 2 Henning & Munford,
Hunt et al. v. Bates,
H55;
7 Rhode Island, 217; Rogers et al. v. Moore, 1 Rice S. C. 60, 62; Floyd v.
Browne, Adm'r, 1 Rawle, 121; Marsh v. Pier, 4 Id. 288; Fox v. Northern
Liberties, 3 Watts & Sergeant, 103, 107; Merrick's Estate, 5 Id. 9, 17;
Norris v. Beckley, 2 Mills' Constitutional Reports, S. C., New Series, 228;
Johnson et al. v. Packer, Nott & M3cCord, 1; 'Wilburn v. Bogan, 1 Spear,
179; Trafton et al. v. United States, 3 Story, 646; Town of Marlborough v.
Sisson et al., 31 Connecticut, 332; Ayer v. Ashmead, 31 Id. 447, 453.
t" Livingston v. Bishop, 1 Johnson, 290; White v. Philbrick, 6 Greenleaf, 147; Campbell v. Phelps, 1 Pickering, 65.
1 Sanderson v. Caldwell, 2 Aikin, 195.

4

LovEJoy v. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

The leading English case is Brown v. Wootton, temp.
James I, reported by three different reporters, Yelverton,
Croke, and Moore, all essentially in one way.* Sir Henry
Yelverton gives the case thus:
"In trover of certain goods in particular, the defendant
pleaded that the plaintiff had brought the like action against
J. S. for the same goods before this action brought, in which
suit he so farprosequtus est 'against J. S. that he had judgment
and execution against J. S., and averred that the goods contained in both actions were the same goods. Upon which the
plaintiff demurred, and it was adjudged againstthe laintiff."
This is much in point, and the case was decided in the best
days of the old English law; Popham being Chief Justice;
Fenner, Gawdy, Sir 0. Yelverton, and Williams, eminent
names in judicial history, his associates. Mr. Theron Metcalf (now Mr. Justice Metcalf, of the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts), commenting on it, A.D. 1820, in his excellent edition of Yelverton, says: "NAo case has been found in
which the precise point adjudged in the text, viz., that in
the action of trover a former recovery against one of two or
more joint tort-feasors for the same conversion and a writ of
execation sued out is a bar, has been otherwise decided."
In Kinig v. Hoare, A.D. 1844, the Court of Exchequert decided that a judgment, without satisfaction, recovered against
one of two joint debtors, is a bar to an action against the
other; though secus where the debt is .joint and several.
The court, Baron Parke giving its judgment, refers to Brown
v. Wootton, just cited, and declare that "a joint contract cannot be distinguished from a joint tort;" thus assuming Brown
v. Wootton to have been rightly decided, and in effect affirming it.
Buckland v. Johnson, decided ten years later in the CornMoore, 672.
t 13 2Meeson & Welsby, 504; see, also, Leachmere & Fletcher, 1 Crompton & Meeson, 634; and what is admitted by the S. G. arguendo, in Bird v.
Randal, 3 Burrow, 1347.
* Yelverton, 67; Croke Jac. 73;

Dec. 1865.]

LovEjoy v. AlurnAy.
Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

mon Pleas of England,* is to the same result. In that case
it appeared that a father and son had wrongfully converted
the gods of the plaintiff by selling them; that the proceeds
of the sale, £150, were received by the son alone; and that
the plaintiff had sued the father, and recovered a verdict for
£100 as the value of the goods so converted; but that in
consequence of his insolvency he had obtained no satisfaction. He now sued the son. But Jervis, C. J., says: "If two
jointly convert goods, and one of them receives the proceeds,
you cannot, after a recovery against one in trover, have
an action against the other for the same conversion, or an
action for money had and received to recover the value of
the goods for which a judgment has alreadypasse, in the formier
actim. . . The fallacy of the plaintiff's argument arises
from his losing sight of the fact, that by the judgment in
the action of trover the propprty of the goods was changed,
by relation, from the time of the conversion, and that consequently the goods from that moment became the goods of
the son;" and his lordship quotes with approbation the language of Baron Parke in the case last cited: "The judgment
of a court of record changes the nature of that cause of
action, and prevents it being the subject of another suit;
and the cause of action, being single, cannot afterwards be
divided into two."
But if the court shall be of the opinion that a party may
sue and recover separate judgments against co-trespassers,
and then elect which judgment he will enforce, then we say
that the recovery of judgment against the sheriff, and the
receipt of partialsat;sfaetion on that judgment from him before the commencement of this suit, will operate as a bar to
this suit. How can the court proceed now to try the original trespass when it has been 2artially settled for? How
would a declaration be framed? How would the court proceed at the trial? What becomes of the 800 paid? MN
ust
it not be credited in some way, or deducted? and if so, how?
The plaintiff is seeking to recover full damage for a wrong
partially redressed.
* 15 C. B. (80 English Common Law), 145.

:LovEjoy v.

M:URr.Ay.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

In the Vermont case of Sanderson v. Caldwell,* which is
opposed to our general view, the judgment first recovered
twas in no part satisfied.
On the third point, the effect of the judgment against the sheriff;
is it conclusime?
Lovejoy & Co., we think, are not estopped to defend this
suit because they gave the sheriff a bond of indemnity, or
because they took part in the defence of the suit against
him. If this were a suit by sheriff against Lovejoy & Co.
upon their bond of indemnity to him against that suit, and
upon notice or otherwise they had defended the suit against
him, then perhaps as between them and the officer they
would have been concluded by the judgment against him.
But that is not the question here. The defendants were
neither parties nor privies to the judgment against the
sheriffit
31r. Ball, contra:
On thefirst question: All persons who direct or request another to commit a trespass are liable as co-trespassers, and
giving a bond of indemnity in such case makes the party a
trespasser. The proposition is well-established elementary
law, and need not be unfolded or enforced. Upon the facts
the court will readily apply what we conceive to be both
true and applicable.
On the second and principalquestion: It is a settled principle
that all torts are several as well as joint, and that the injured
party can maintain an action against all the tort-feasors
jointly or against each one separately. Hence such party
must have the right to pursue each tort-feasor to judgment
and execution till he gets satisfaction. That satisfaction is
the essential matter appears even in cases contemporary
with Brown v. Wootton, reported in Yelverton, and which
seems to be the foundation of the recent decisions in England, and is one of the citations of the opposite counsel. In
* 2 Aiken, 195.

- See Sprague v. Waite, 19 Pickering, 458; Eastman v. Cooper, 15 Id.,
279: Church v. Leavenworth, 4 Day, 278.

Dec. 1865.]

LOVEJOY V. MURRAY.
Argument for the defendant in error.

Cbcke v. Jwer, reported by Lord Hobart,* the court in
speaking of joint trespassers says:
"If they be sued in several actions, though the plaintiff mako
choice of the best damage, yet when he bath taken one satisfaction he can take no more; and if be require two an audita querela
will lie."
The same idea is presented in Corbett v. Barnes,which arose
soon after and is reported in Sir William Jones.t The report is in Norman French, but translated, reads in the material parts, thus:
"Barnes brought trespass of assault and battery, in London,
against Hill in the Common Bench and recovered; and after.
wards trespass of assault and battery against Corbett in the
King's Bench, and two others for the assault and battery in
Hertfordshire. Hill was taken in judgment, and afterwards
judgment given against the three others in the King's Bench.
Hill paid the damages recovered against him, and satisfaction
was entered. Then Corbett was taken in execution, when he
and the other two brought an audita querela, setting forth the
whole matter, with an averment that the said assault and battery in London and Hertford was the same assault. And by
Justices Jones, Croke, and Barkeley, the audita querela lies; for
although for the same assault the plaintiff may have several
actions and recover, yet when a recovery is had against one, and
satisfaction, he cannot have another satisfaction; just as where
an obligation is made jointly and severally, and the obligee sues
in the Common Bench one by several writ, and recovers, and
afterwards sues another in the King's Bench upon the same
obligation, nevertheless if one of them makes satisfaction, the
other shall have an audita querela to avoid the execution; for
the plaintiff cannot have nisi unica satisfactio. So here the plaintiff can have several recoveries, but if one satisfy, the other shall
have audita querela to set aside the execution against him."
* Hobart, 66.

- Sir W. Jones, 377; sometimes cited as first Jones, to distinguish it from
Sir Thomas Jones, in the subsequent reign cited as second Jones.
-

ILOVEJOY V. M URRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Many American cases decide or declare this explicitly.*
So in the recent English case of Cooper v. Shepherdt the
former judgment had been paid, although that fact is by mistake omitted in the marginal note. The court say, "The
plaintiff, after he has once received the full value, is not entitled to further compensation in respect to the same loss,
and according to the doctrine of cases cited in the argument,
by a former recovery in trover and payment of the darnages,
the plaintiff's right of property is barred, and the property
vested in the defendant in that action. See Adams v. Broughton (2 Strange, 1078), and Jenkins, 4th Century, Case 88,
p. 189, where it is laid down in trespass against B. for taking
a horse, A. recovers damages by this recovery and execution
done thereon, the property in the horse is vested in B., solutio
pretii emptionis loco habetur."
On the third question. It is submitted that the judgment
against the sheriff is conclusive upon Lovejoy & Co. The
sheriff was their agent. They directed the attachment and
sale; they gave the bond of indemnity; they defended the
suit against him, and were the real defendants in it; they
paid the attorneys and counsel, and had the exclusive control of the defence. Privies, as well as parties, are concluded
by a judgment. Lovejoy & Co. cannot, therefore, again contest the case on its original merits.t
Mr. Justice MI]LLER delivered the opinion of the court:
The record before us raises three questions, all of which
depend upon the principle* of the common law exclusively
for their solution.
We will consider them in the order in which they naturally
arose on the trial, and in which also they have been argued.
* See Livingston v. Bishop, 1 Johnson, 290; Sanderson v. Caldwell, 2
Aiken, 195; Osterhout v. Roberts, 8 Cowen, 43; Blann v. Crochern, 20
Alabama, 320; Knott v. Cunningham, 2 Sneed, 204.
j 3 Manning, Grainger & Scott, 266.
1 Rapelye v. Prince, 4 Hill, 119, 123; Calkins v. Allerton, 3 Barbour, 173;
Glass v. Nichols, 35 Maine, 328; Warfield v. Davis, 14 B. Monroe, 41, 42;
,Castle v. Noyes, 14 New York, 329; Farnsworth v. Arnold, 3 Sneed, 252;
Griffin v. Reynolds, 17 Howard, 609.

Dec. 1865.]

L[OVEJfOY V. M URRIAY.
Opinion of the court.

1. -Did the dejendants, in giving a bond of indemonity to the
sheriff, thereby become liable as joint trespassers with hint in the
proeeed;ngsunder the attachment?
The question arises upon the hypothesis that a writ of
attachment was issued in favor of the present defendants
against one 0. 1. Pratt, which was wrongfully levied by the
sheriff on property of the present plaintiff. The bond of
indemnity given by the present defendants recites upon its
face that the sheriff has already levied the attachment; and
there is nothing in the case, except the bond, to show that
in making the levy, or in anything done by the sheriff prior
to the giving of the bond, he acted nimder the direction or
instruction of the defendants, or at their request. That the
attaching creditor is not answerable for the act of the officer,
unless he in some manner interferes so as to make himself
liable, must be conceded. And unless the defendants have
so interfered in this case as to incur this responsibility the
action cannot be sustained.
It is contended by counsel that a trespass cannot be ratified like a contract so as to make the party liable ab initio.
But it is not necessary to decide, in this case, whether the
defendants by giving the bond became liable for what had
been done previous to that time. It is sufficient, if they
become liable for what was done by the sheriff after they
gave the instrument. The trespass complained of was a continuing trespass, and consisted of a series of proceedings,
ending in the sale of the plaintiff's property under execution. At the time the bond was given, the sheriff had
merely taken possession of the goods under the attachment.
No great injury had, probably, been done. The demand for
indemnity, and the giving of it by the defendants, proceeded
upon the supposition that the sheriff would without it go no
further in that direction, but would give up the property to
the claimant, the present plaintiff, and make his peace on the
best terms he could. By the present statute of Iowa he had
a right to do this, if the plaintiff in attachment refused to
assume the hazard of indemnifying him. And if there were
no such statute, he had a right to deliver the property to the

LOVEJOY v. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

claimant, and risk a suit by the plaintiff in attachment,
rather than a contest with a rightful claimant of the goods.
The giving of the bond by the present defendants must,
therefore, be held equivalent to a personal interference in
the course of the proceeding, by directing or requesting the
sheriff to hold the goods as if they were the property of the
defendants in attachment. In doing this they assumed the
direction and control of the sheriff's future action, so far as
it might constitute a trespass, and they became to that extent
the principals, and he their agent in the transaction. This
made them responsible for the continuance of the wrongful
possession, and for thf sale and conversion of the goods; in
other words, for all the real damages which plaintiff sustained.
The first question must, therefore, be answered in the
affirmative.
2. Did the plaintiff, by suing Hayden, the sheriff, alone, recovering judgment for about six thousand dollars, and recdving from.
him eight hundred and thirty dollars on the saidjudgment, thereby
preclude hiNself from maintaining this suit against these defendants for the same trespass? Is the judgment, or the judgment
and partpayment, in that ease a bar to this action?
Parke, Baron, in the case of .Kingv. HUoare,* speaking in
reference to the same proposition in its application to actions
on joint contracts, says, in 1846, that it is remarkable that
the question should never have been decided in England.
It is equally remarkable that the proposition here presented
should be an open question at this day.
The faithful and exhausting research of counsel, in this
case, shows that there are conflicting authorities, not only
on the main proposition, but on several incidental and collateral points closely connected with it. Two propositions,
Thowever, seem to be conceded by all the authorities, which
bear with more or less force on the main question, and
which may as well be stated here.
1. That persons engaged in committing the same trespass
* 13 Meeson & Welsby, 502.

Dec. 1865.]

LOVEJOY V.

MTURRAY.

Opinion of the court.

are joint and several trespassers, and not joint trespassers
exclusively. Like persons liable on a joint and several contract, they may be all sued in one action; or one may be
sued alone, and cannot plead the nonjoinder of the others in
abatement; and so far is the doctrine of several liability
carried, that the defendants, where more than one are sued
in the same action, may sever in their pleas, and the jury
may find several verdicts, and on several verdicts of guilty
may assess different sums as damages.
2. That no matter how many judgments may be obtained
for the same trespass, or what the varying amounts of those
judgments, the acceptance of satisfaction of any one of them
by the plaintiff is a satisfaction of all the others, except the
costs, and is a bar to any other action for the same cause.
In the latest English case upon the principal question,
namely, .BwklaWd v. Johnson,* Jervis, C. J., holds the former
judgment against the son, although fruitless, to be a bar to
the second suit against the father for the same goods, upon
the ground that by the former judgment the property in the
goods was vested in the defendant in that action. As this is
the latest case in the English courts which expressly decides
the point, it may, perhaps, be received as the English doctrine. But this concession must be made with some hesitation in view of opinions expressed in other cases decided in
the same country. In the very case in which that judgment
is rendered, the chief justice takes occasion to correct what
he supposes to be an erroneous statement of Tindal, C. J., in
Cooper v. Sheplierd, to the effect, "that, according to the doctrine of the cases which were cited in argument by a former
recovery in trover amd paynent of danzages, the plaintiff's
right of property vests in the defendant in that action."
It was, therefore, the opinion of C.J. Tindal, that payment
qf Mhe damages recovered is essential to vest the property in
defendant, and this only a few years before the case of John
son v. BwHwdand was decided. That case was decided in 1854,
and mainly on the authority of .Brown v. Wootton, reported in
* 15 C. B. 145.

LOVEir

o v.AUnRRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Yelverton, as also by Croke, J. The reason for the decision,
as given by Popham, C. J., is thus stated in the latter book:
"In the cause of action being against divers, for which damages uncertain are recoverable, and the plaintiff having
judgment against one person for damages certain, that
which was uncertain before, is reduced in rernjudicatam,and
to certainty, which takes away the action against others."
If the only object, or indeed the principal object, in obtaining a judgment in trespass, was to render certain the extent
of plaintiff's injuries, or the amount of damages which would
compensate for those injuries, we might be able to comprehend the force of this logic. But as it is the purpose of the
law, and the main purpose for which courts of justice are
instituted, to procure satisfaction for these injuries, we do
not see the sequence in the reasoning of the learned judge.
Brown v. Wootton was decided in Trinity Term, 3 James
I. Prior to that time, the law had been thought to be the
other way.* In Claxton v. Swift,t Shower said, "it was never
pretended, until the case of Brown v. Wootton, that a bare
judgment should be a bar."
In Coeke v. Jenner, reported by Hobart, and which was
in Trinity Term, 12 James I (only nine years after Brown
v. Wootton), the question arose on a release of one joint trespasser, which was held to be a bar to a suit against the other,
on the ground that it was equivalent to satisfaction; yet the
language of the report leaves a strong impression that it was
the opinion of the court that several judgments might be
had, and that only satisfaction, or its equivalent, would bar
proceedings against all who were liable. And the case of
Corbelt v. Barnes, cited from Sir W. Jones (time of Charles
the First), which was on auxlita querela, while it holds that
only one satisfaction can be had, implies clearly that several
judgments may be rendered against joint trespassers. Indeed, that very case was where one judgment had been
rendered in the King's Bench against one, and in the Coin
mon Pleas against three others, for the same trespass.
* See Brooke's Abridgment, P1. 98; Morton's Case, Cro. Eliz. 80.
t- 2 Shower, 494.

.Dec. 1865.]

LoVEJoY V. MURRAY.
Opinion of the court.

These cases show that, after as well as before the case of

.Brown v. Wootton, the law was supposed, by some of the ablest
judges in England, to be otherwise than what it decides; and
we know of no case in which it was followed in England
as implicit authority, until Buckland v. Johnson, in 1854.
The rule in that case has been defended on two grounds,
and on one or both of these it must be sustained, if at all.
The first of these is, that the uncertain claim for damages
before judgment has, by the principle of transit in ren judicallon, become merged into a judgment which is of a higher
nature. This principle, however, can only be applicable to
parties to the judgment; for as to the other parties who may
be liable, it is not true that plaintiff has acquired a security
of any higher nature than he had before. Nor has he, as to
them, been in anywise benefited or advanced towards procuring satisfaction for his damages, by such judgment.
This is now generally admitted to be the true rule on this
subject, in cases of persons jointly and severally liable on
contracts; and no reason is perceived why joint trespassers
should be placed in a better condition. As remarked by
Lord Ellenborough, in -Drakev. Miltchell,* "A judgment recovered in any form of action, is still but a security for the
original cause of action, until it be made productive in satisfaction to the party; and, therefore, till then, it cannot operate to change any other collateral concurrent remedy which
the party may have."
The second ground on which the rule is defended is, that
by the judgment against one joint trespasser, the title of the
property concerned is vested in the defendant in that action,
and therefore no suit can afterwards be maintained by the
former owner for the value of that property, or for any in-jury done to it.
This principle can have no application to trespassers
against the person, nor to injuries to property, real or personal, unaccompanied by conversion or change of possession.
Nor is the principle admitted in regard to conversions of
3 East, 258.

LovEJoY V. MURRAY.

[Sup- ct

Opinion of the court.

personal property. Prior to Brown v. Wootton, the English
doctrine seems to have been the other way, as shown by
Kent, in his Commentaries,* referring to Shepherd's Touchstone,t and Jenkins.1
We have thus far confined ourselves to the examination
of the English authorities, and the principles discussed in
them, and we are forced to the conclusion that even at this
day the doctrine there is neither well settled nor placed on
any satisfactory ground.
In turning our attention to the American cases, we have
been able to find but two in which the point directly in issue
has been ruled in favor of the bar of the former judgment;
although there are some other cases which hold that the
right of property is transferred by the judgment. The first
of these two cases is Wilkes v. Jackson.§ This was an early
case in the Court of Appeals of Virginia, which seems to have
passed without much consideration, and was mainly rested
on the judgment of the same court in a former case, which
does not appear to sustain it.
The other is the Rhode Island case of Hunt v. Bates.l It
is a very recent case, decided in 1862; but the absence of
any other reasoning than a mere recapitulation of the English cases, and the remark that upon their authority the
court is obliged to rest its decision, deprives it of any other
weight than what should be attached to those cases. This
we have already considered.
In addition to this, it has been decided in South Carolina
and Pennsylvania, that the recovery of a judgment for the
value of the goods converted, transfers the title to the defendant. Boyers v. -ltoore; Floyd v. Brown.**
On the other hand, in the case of Livingston v. Bisho,tt in
the Supreme Court of New York, in 1806, Kent, C. J., overrules Brown v. Wootton, and holds that judgment alone is not
a bar.
* 2 Kent, 388.

"-Title "Gift."
2 Henning & Munfbrd, 355.
I Rice, 60.
** I Rawle, 121.

T Page 109, Case 88.
117 Rhode Island, 217.
ff 1 Johnson, 290.

Dec. 1865.]

LOVEJOY V.

MURRAY.

Opinion of the court.

In Sheldonv. Kibbe,* decidedin 1819, in the Supreme Court
of Connecticut, the court, by Hosmer, C. J., enters into an
elaborate examination of the authorities, and a full consideration of the question on principle, and lays down the doctrine that neither a judgment, nor the taking of the body of
the defendant in execution, will bar a second action against
a co-trespasser. Nqothing short of satisfaction or release can
have that effect.
In Sanderson v. Caldwel,tf in the Supreme Court of Vermont, in 1826, it is held that neither judgment, nor issuing
execution, nor anything short of satisfaction, is a bar to a
second suit brought against another joint trespasser.
Osterkltot v. Roberts,+ a year later, in the Supreme Court
of New York, was a plea that defendant's son had been
sued, had a judgn,'.nt rendered against him, and had been
taken in execution and imprisoned sixty days for the same
trespass. Yet the plea was held bad. The trespass was for
taking a watch.
In Elliott v. porter,§ Robertson, C.J., of the Court of Appeals of Kentacky, examines the whole subject fully, both
on principle and authority, and holds that the first judgment
is no bar, and that the title to the property does not pass by
judgment in trespass or trover. This case is affirmed by the
same court, in Sharp v. Gray.11
Blan v. Cochen, in Alabama, was an action of trespass.
The defendant pleaded a former recovery against a co-trespasser, and payment of the judgment and costs so recovered,
to the clerk of the court. But the plea was held bad, because it was not averred that it was accepted by the plaintiff.
In Kvott v. C0nnbngham,** the Supreme Court of Tennessee held that a former judgment against one tort-feasor, was
no bar to a suit against another, for the same tort, without
satisfaction.
In Page v. Freernan,ttthe Supreme Court of lissouri held
the same doctrine.
3 Connecticut, 214.
5 Dana, 299.
2 Sneed, 204.

t- 2 Aiken, 195.
115 B. Monroe, 4.
ft- 19 Missouri, 421.

: 8 Cowen, 43.
[ 20 Alabama, 320.

IOVEJOY V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In Floyd v. .Browne,* Gibson, 0. J., of Pennsylvania, while
holding that after a judgment in trover against two trespassers without satisfaction, plaintiff cannot bring assumpsit
against another trespasser, uses this language: "A plaintiff
is not compelled to elect between actions that are consistent
with each other. Separate actions against a number who
are seiverally liable for the same thing, or against the same
defendant on distinct securities for the same debt or duty,
are concurrent remedies. Trespass is, in its nature, joint
and several, and in separate actions against joint trespassers,
being consistent with each other, nothing but satisfaction
by one will discharge the rest." Trover and assumpsit,
however, he holds to be inconsistent remedies.
If we turn from this examination of adjudged cases, which
largely preponderate in favor of the doctrine that a judgment, without satisfaction, is no bar, to look at the question
in the light of reason, that doctrine commends itself to us
still more strongly. The whole theory of the opposite view
is based upon technical, artificial, and unsatisfactory reasoning.
'We have already stated the only two principles upon
which it rests. We apprehend that no sound jurist would
attempt, at this day, to defend it solely on the ground of
transit in rem judicatum. For while this principle, as that
other rule, that no man shall be twice vexed for the same
cause of action, may well be applied in the case of a second
suit against the same trespasser, we do not perceive its force
when applied to a suit brought for the first time against another trespasser in the same matter.
In reference to the doctrine that the judgment alone vests
the title of the property converted, in the defendant, we have
seen that it is not sustained by the weight of authorities in
this country. It is equally incapable of being maintained on
principle.
The property which was mine, has been taken from me
by fraud or violence. In order to procure redress, I must
* 1 Rawle, 125.

Dec. 1865.]

LOvEJOY V.

MUIRAY.

Opinion of the court.

sue the wrong-doer in a court of law. But, instead of getting justice or remedy, I am told that by the very act of obtaining a judgment-a, decision that I am entitled to the
relief I ask--the property, which before was mine, has become that of the man who did me the wrong. In other
words, the law, without having given me satisfaction for my
wrong, takes from me that which was mine, and gives it to
the wrong-doer. It is sufficient to state the proposition to
show its injustice.
It is said that the judgment represents the price of the
property, and as plaintiff has the judgment, the defendant
should have the property. But if the judgment does represent the price of the goods, does it follow that the defendant
shall have the property before he has paid that price? The
payment of the price and the transfer of the property are, in
the ordinary contract of sale, concurrent acts.*
But in all such cases, what has the defendant in such
second suit done to discharge himself from the obligation
which the law imposes upon him, to make compensation?
His liability must remain, in morals and on principle, until
he does this. The judgment against his co-trespasser does
not affect him so as to release him on any equitable consideration. It may be said that neither does the satisfaction by
his co-trespasser, or a release to his co-trespasser do this;
and that is true. But when the plaintiff has accepted satisfaction in full for the injury done him, from whatever source
it may come, he is so far affected in equity and good conscience, that the law will not permit him to recover again
for the same damages. But it is not easy to see how he is
so affected, until he has received full satisfaction, or that
which the law must consider ais such.
We are, therefore, of opinion that nothing short of satisfaction, or its equivalent, can make good a plea of former
judgment in trespass, offered as a bar in an action against
another joint trespasser, who was not party to the fl&t j udgment.
* 2 Kent, 388-9; Greenleaf on Evidence, 533; Hyde v. Noble, 13 New
Hampshire, 500; Hepburn v. Sewell, 5 Harris & Johnson, 211.

VOL. I1.

2

LovEJOY V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The second question must, therefore, be answered in the
negative.
3. Is the jt'dgrnent of plaintiff,against the sheriff, .Hayden,conclusive against the defendants in this action?
The facts on which this proposition is based, are the giving of the bond of indemnity by the defendants, and that
Hayden, when sued, notified them of the suit, and called on
them to defend it; that they did employ counsel to defend
it, and that the counsel so employed had exclusive control
of the defence of the suit.
The legal facts necessary to enable plaintiff to recover in
the present suit are, first, his title to the goods which had
been converted; second, the value of those goods; and,
third, the participation of the defendants in the conversion.
The latter point, we have already seen, is established by the
indemnifying bond to the sheriff. Does the record of the

judgment against Hayden conclusively establish the other
two points, under the circumstances just stated ?
We are of opinion that it does.
We have already shown that the effect of giving the bond
was to make defendants principals in the transaction, and
that so far as the action of the sheriff after that was a trespass, it was directed by them, and was for their benefit.
With a just appreciation of their relations to each other in
the transaction, he called on them, when sued, to assume
the defence; and they did so. They were defending their
own acts, although the suit was in the sheriff's name. They
had full right to make all defence there, which they could
make here. They could adduce witnesses, and cross-examine those of plaintiff, and could have taken an appeal.
The case is wanting in none of the elements so happily
stated by Mr. Greenleaf,* as rendering a former judgment
conclusive in a pecond suit. "Justice requires," he says,
"that every cause be once fairly and impartially tried; but
the public tranquillity demands that, having been once so
tried, all litigation of that question, and between the same
* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

522-3.

Dec. 1865.]

LOVEJOY V. MURRAY.
Opinion of the court.

parties, should be closed forever. It is also a most obvious
principle of justice, that no man ought to be bound by proceedings to which he is a stranger; but the converse of this
rule is equally true, that by proceedings to which he was not
a stranger, he may well be bound. Under the term parties,
in this connection, the law includes all who are directly
interested in the subject-matter, and had a right to make
defence, or to control the proceedings; and to appeal from
the judgment. This right involves, also, the right to adduce
testimony, and to cross-examine the witnesses adduced on
the other side. Persons not having these rights are strangers to the cause. But to give full effect to the principle
by which parties are held bound by a judgment, all persons
who are represented by the parties, and claim under them,
or in privity with them, are equally concluded by the same
proceedings." "The ground, therefore, upon which persons
standing in this relation to the litigating party are bound by
the proceedings to which he was a party is, that they are
identified with him in inter'est; and wherever this identity
is found to exist, all are alike concluded." The authorities
cited by the learned author fully sustain these propositions.
The present ease comes within them, and must be governed
by them. In addition, various cases have been examined,
which affirm the conclusiveness of former judgments, under
circumstances which we are unable to distinguish, in principle, from the one before us, and' in several instances the
analogy in the facts is perfect. They are presented in the
note below.*
This last question must, therefore, be answered in the
affirmative.
As the rulings of the Circuit Court were in accordance
with the principles here decided, the judgment of that court
must be
AFFIRMIED,

WITH COSTS.

Ferris v. Arden, Cro. Eliz. 667; Kennedy v. Cope, Douglas, 517; White
v.Philbrick, 5 Greenleaf, 147; Roberts v. Prince, 4 Hill; 19; Calkens v. Allerton, 3 Barbour S. C. 173; Glass v.Nichols, 85 'Maine, 328; Castlev. Noyeq,
11 New York, 829; W arfield v. Davis, 14 B. Monro, 41.

