Dec. 1865.]

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY V. HAYDEN.

315

Statement of the case.

the value of this rotten hull; and we see no reason to doubt
the correctness of the decision of the district judge on the
subject.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be therefore reversed, and the judgment of the District Court affirmed with
costs.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY V. HAYDEN.
I. Where a party having made application for a patent for certain improvements, afterwards, with his claim still on file, makes application for another but distinct improvement in the same branch of art, in which
second application he describes the former improvement, but does not
in such second application claim it as original, the description in such
second application and non-claim of it there, is not a dedication of the
first invention to the public.
2. In cases where there is no established patent or license fee, general evidence may be resorted to in order to get at the measure of damages;
and evidence of the utility and advantage of the invention over the old
modes or devices that had been used for working out similar results is
competent and appropriate.
8. The jury, in ascertaining the damages, upon this sort of evidence, is not
to estimate them for the whole term of the patent, but only for the
period of the infringement. And a recovery does not vest the infringer
with the right to continue the use.
4. Where the patent-office grants a patent for one invention, and afterwards, upon a claim filed previously to that on which such patent has
been granted, issues another, the second patent, not the first, is void.

IN December, 1854, Hayden, being the inventor of improvements in cotton cleaners, made application to the commissioner for a patent therefor.
I The improvements consisted in certain described changes
made by Hayden in the interior arrangements of an elongated
trunk previously in use for cleaning cotton.
While this application was still pendig, Hayden made another distinct improvement, not in the interior arrangements
of the elongated trunk, but in the form of the trunk. This

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY V. HAYDEN.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Statement of the case.

improvement consisted in increasing, towards the rear end
of the trunk, that part of its area above the screen (which
divided it horizontally into two distinct parts), so that as the
air moved through the trunk towards its rear, the space for
its passage being enlarged, the air would gradually move
more slowly.
Hayden desired, apparently, to claim this new improvement in the form of the trunk, both separately, and in combination with his other improvements in the interior arrangements
of the trunk, as to which his application was then pending.
Accordingly, in 1ovember, 1855, he filed his application for
a patent, and on the 17th day of March, 1857, letters were
issued to him, in the specification whereof he claims the improvement in the form of the trunk, both separately, and in
combination with his improvements in the interior arrangements of the trunk; but he made no claim in this specifteation
to his improvements in the interior arrangementsof the trunk.
It did not appear that Hayden was guilty of any laches, or
was in any default in reference to the delay of the commissioner to act on his first application for a patent for improvements in the interior arrangements of the trunk made in
December, 1854. For some cause, however, the commissioner had not acted on that application down till June,
1857; and in that month Hayden made another application
for a patent, for what the judge at the trial, at the request
of the defendants, ruled to be the same improvements, previously applied for in December, 1854; and upon this second
application a patent was granted, bearing date December 1,
1857.
[It may be here mentioned incidentally, since the matter
was made a point by counsel and is referred to by the court
-though the patent of December 1, 1857, was the only one
in suit-that the commissioner finally acted on the original
application of December 1854, and on the 11th of September,
1860, granted on it a patent-and as was alleged, though not
proved, for the same improvement covered by the patent of
December 1, 1857.]
Hayden having sued the Suffolk Manufacturing Con-

Dec. 1865.]

THE SUMOLK COIPANY V. HAYDEN.

317

Statement of the case.

pany, in the Massachusetts District, for infringement of this
last-mentioned patent, the defendants' counsel at the trial,
requested the judge to rule that the patent was void, because
the improvements in the interior arrangements of the trunk,
which were described and claimed in it, being also described
and not claimed in the patent of the 17th of March, were by
the legal operation of the last-mentioned patent surrendered to the
public use.
The judge refused so to rule, and on error this refusal
raised here the first question; the counsel for the Suffolk'
Company taking the same position here as below.
A second question was on the law as delivered to the jury
on the matter of damages.
It appeared that no sales had been made of the patentright by the plaintiff, or of licenses for the use of it, so as to
establish a patent or license-fee as a criterion by which to
ascertain the measure of damages. The court below accordingly permitted evidence, after objection, as to the uses and
advantages of this improvement over the previous methods
of cleaning cotton. And an expert testified that the results
were-a more thorough cleaning of the cotton, the saving
of all the good fibres, less damage to the staple, the freeing
of the room from dust, and the machinery from dust, dirt,
and sand; the keeping of the machinery in better order at
less cost, and dispensing with one grinder of the cards in
consequence of the diminution of dirt and sand, expelling
fine dust and dirt not before got out, less breakage of the
yarns, &c.
There was, also, evidence of the amount of cotton that
had been cleaned at the defendants' mills by the plaintiff's
improvement within the period for which the damages were
claimed.
The court below, in its charge to the jury, stated the rule
as prescribed by the statute, which is the actual damages
that the plaintiff has sustained from the infringement; and,
while speaking of the patent of December, 1857, among
other things, observed:
"Then you will look at the value of the thing used, and ascer.

THE SUFFOLK COMPANY

v.

HAYDEN.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court,

tain that value by all the evidence as to its character, opera.
tion, and effect. You will take into view the value of that
which the defendants have used belonging to the plaintiff, to
aid you in forming a judgment of the actual damage the plaintiff has sustained."
The jury having found for the plaintiff and damages
$1774, the charge as above given was assigned by the defendant for error; and made a second question in this court;
the counsel for the defendants arguing that the court in the
instructions quoted gave a latitude to the jury in the estimate of damages beyond that of the use or value of the improvements comprised in the patent in question; that they
might take into view the improvements on the patent of the
17th March, 1857; and arguing also that the value of the
improvement was not a proper matter for the jury to consider when making their estimate of damages.
Messrs. Caleb Gushing and Causten Browne, for the Suffolk
Company, plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice NTELSON delivered the opinion of the court.*
The first point of the plaintiff in error is, that the description, in the patent of March, of the improvement patented
the December following, and on which the. present suit is
brought, and omission to claim it on such earlier patent,
operated as an abandonment or dedication of it to the public, and that for this reason the subsequent patent of 1st
December was void. But the answer to this ground of defence is, that it appeared that Hayden, the patentee. had
pending before the commissioner of patents an application
for this sa'me improvement at the time he described it in the
specification of the 17th March, which was, doubtless, the
reason for not claiming it in this patent. The description in
no sense affected this application thus pending before the
commissioner; and, while it remained before him, repelled
any inference of abandonment or dedication from the omission to again claim it.
* The Chief Justice and Davis, J., not having sat, being out of town.

Dec. 1865.]

TnE SUFFOLK OoMPANY v.

HAYDEN.

319

Opinion of the court.

This original application before the commissioner for a
patent, among other things, for an improvement in the
screen of the long trunk, not having been acted upon by
that officer, a new application was made by Hayden, separately, for this improvement, and which resulted in the
patent of 1st December, 1857, on which the present suit is
brought.
We do not perceive any objection to this proceeding. It
simplified the application, and disembarrassed it fiom its
connection with other improvements claimed; and, doubtless, hastened the granting of the patent. The office, however, subsequently acted upon this original application, and,
on the 11th September, 1860, granted a patent to the plaintiff, and, as is alleged, for the same improvement embraced
in the patent of the 1st December, 1857, the one in question.
And it is insisted that, for this reason, this prior patent for
the same improvement is void. This is, obviously, a misapprehension. The last, not the first, is void.
We may add, on looking at the patent of 11th September, 1860, it does not appear that it was granted for the
same improvement. It is a patent for a combination of this
improvement with other devices.
As to the question of damages. It is supposed by the counsel for the defendants that the court, in the instructions
quoted on preceding pages, gave a latitude to the jury in
the estimate of damages beyond that of the use or value of
the improvements embraced in the patent in question; that
they might take into consideration the improvements on
the patent of the 17th March, 1857, for widening one end
of the trunk. But it is quite apparent that the court was
speaking all the time with reference to the improvement
in the patent in suit, and the only one in contestation. It
is, also, urged that the value of the improvement was not
a proper subject for the consideration of the jury in estimating the damages. This may be admitted. But looking
at the term value, in the connection in which it was used,
it is quite clear that it had reference only to the utility and
advantages, or value of the use of the improvement over

CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

the old mode of cleaning cotton; not the value of the patent
itself.
This question of damages, under the rule given in the
statute, is always attended with difficulty and embarrassment both to the court and jury. There being no established patent or license fee in the case, in order to get at a fair
measure of damages, or even an approximation to it, general
evidence must necessarily be resorted to. And what evidence could be more appropriate and pertinent than that of
the utility and advantage of the invention over the old
modes or devices that had been used for working out similar results? With a knowledge of these benefits to the persons who have used the invention, and the extent of the use
by the infringer, a jury will be in possession of material and
controlling facts that may enable them, in the exercise of a
sound judgment, to ascertain the damages, or, in other words,
the loss to the patentee or owner, by the piracy, instead of
the purchase of the use of the invention.
It is proper to say, as was said in the court below, that the
jury, in ascertaining the damages upon this evidence, is not
to estimate them for the whole term of the patent, but only
for the period of the infringement. A recovery does not
vest the infringer with the right to continue the use, as the
consequence of it may be an injunction restraining the defendant from the further use of it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.
1. The action of a Circuit Court relative to a motion and order for judgment, is a matter within the Circuit Court's discretion, and not a subject for review here.
2. Under a statute of California, which provides that new matter in an
answer shall on the trial be deemed controverted by the adverse party,
witnesses may properly be examined, in a case where such an answer
having new matter is put in.

