.Tim

"HERALD.

[Sup. Ct.-

Statement of the case.

THE HERALD.
Knowledge of a recently established blockade inferred against a neutral
from facts stated in the case.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court at Philadelphia
condemning the Herald and cargo as prize of war, for breach
of blockade in an attempted exit from Beaufort, North Carolina; in part as enemy's property, &c. The case was thus:
On the 27th April, 1861, President Lincoln, reciting the
insurrectionary action which had been for some time going
on in the South,* and the blockade which he had, on the 19th
previous, announced of polts of Sou :h Carolina, &c.; reciting
also insurrection in Xorth Carolina and Virginia, proclaimed
that

"An efficient blockade of the ports of those States WILL also
be established."
And on the 30th of the same month Commodore Pend'ergrast, commanding the Home Squadron, issued the following manifesto from his flag-ship:
UNITED STATES FLAG-SHIP CUMBERLAND,

OFF FoRTnEss MONROE, VA., April 30, 1861.

To all whom it may concern:
I hereby call attention to the proclamation of his Excellency,
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, under date of
April 27, 1861, for an efficient "blockade" of the ports of Virginia and North Carolina, and warn all persons interested that
I have a sufficient naval force HaE. for the purpose of carrying
out that proclamation.
All vessels passing the capes of Virginia, coming from a distance, and ignorant of the proclamation, will be warned off; and
those passing Fortress Monroe will be required to anchor under
the guns of the fort, and subject themselves to an examination.
G. J. PENDERaRAST,
Commanding the flome Squadron.
* The firing on Sumter was on the 12th of April, 1861.

Dec. 1865.]

THE HERALD.
Statement of the case.

In this state of public announcements, emanating as mentioned, the "Herald," a British built, and originally a wholly
British owned vessel, arrived at Boston on the 20th May,
1861. She carried a British register and a British flag. A
portion of her was owned, however, by De Wolf, a merchant
of New York. This interest, acquired in 1854, was never
registered, nor was it evidenced by any proprietary document.
I
On May 24, 1861, while lying in Boston harbor, the vessel
was, as alleged, chartered, through the master, to a Mr. Williams, a citizen of the United States and a resident merchant
of New York, for a voyage from Boston to Beafort, and
tience to Lhciepool. Three copies of the charter appear to
have been executed by the master.
Having effected this charter with Williams at New York,
the master returned to Boston, and cleared his vessel at the
custom-house there for Turk's Island. "The reasons why I
cleared for Turk's Island," said the master after capture,
"were, that I did not wish my crew to know that I intended
to go to a Southern port; and I also designed, in case I found
Beaufort blockaded, to go next to Turk's Island for a cargo."
With this clearance on board, the "Herald," on the 25th
of May, set sail from Boston, without cargo, and arrived at
Beaufort very early on the morning of the 9th of June.
The master did not go in on arriving. He gave this account:
"The wind being then off shore, I hauled the brig up by the
wind and fetched in close to the land, about twenty miles to the
southward of Beaufort harbor, and then I tacked and stood off
and on all that, the ninth day of June, till about seven or eight
o'clock P. 3., when and because the wind was ahead, and the
lights at the entranee of the harbor being out, I anchored about
seven miles to the southward of the entrance to Beaufort harbor, where I remained till about half-past one o'clock on the next
morning, when, the wind being more favorable, I got under way
and stood up towards Beaufort harbor; and on my way up, the
morning being dark, I ran aground. I got off again, and proceeded up towards the harbor till daylight. Soon after I hove
VOL. 1iX.

49

770

THE HERALD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

to, and set the English ensign at the fore as the signal for a
pilot, who, in about half an hour, came alongside, and of whom
I then asked if the port was or had been blockaded; and he answered me that it had not been and was not, and that no vessel of
war had been seen off that port."
He immediately reported his arrival to a Mr. Charles
Parmlee, of Goldsboro, North Carolina, and delivered to
him a sealed letter which he ha& received in NTew York
fr'om Mr. Williams, the charterer. Its contents could
only be inferred by the court. Under the direction of Mr.
Parmlee and his brother a cargo consisting wholly of the
staples of North Carolina-turpentine, tar, rosin, tobacco,
&c.-was shipped; a portion of it consigned by Parmlee, as
"agent," to the consignees of the vessel at Liverpool, and
the rest by various shippers of Newbern, Wilmington, Beaufort, and Petersburg, places in North Carolina then in war
against the United States, to Fraser, Trenholm & Co., and
W. A. and G. Maxwell & Co., of Liverpool; firms, the former by distinction, in close and active complicity with the
rebel enemies of the United States.*
The vessel remained at Beaufort about a month, taking in
a cargo there, and at Morehead City, and meeting some opposition, as the captain testified, from the civil and military
persons then in control, and who, he stated, supposed that
the cargo might belong to merchants in the North, and contemplated a seizure of it. He sailed for Liverpool July 14th,
got fairly out to sea-a hundred and forty-five miles from
Beaufort-testifying that it was not till then that "he saw
or heard of any blockade or blockading vessel." He then
heard of it; being captured. lfe had no copy of the charter
aboad. On his examination in preparatorio,while saying
that he "had seen no blockade yet," he added:
"About three weeks before I came out of Beaufort I saw what
I supposed to be a man-of-war, from the tops of the buildings.
I saw two spars, but no hull, with a glass, and saw she was
standing to the northward, almost a week before sailing. The
* See The Bermuda, supra, 517.

Dec. 1865.]

771

THE HERALD.'
Statement of the case.

British ship Gladiator came near the bar.
men-of-war I saw before the capture."

These are all the

A ship-hand, Homer, said that he knew no cause why the
vessel had been captured, other th.n that she came out of a
Southern port. Interrogated as to what vessels he had seen,
and what notice was given, he added:
"During the time we were lying at Beaufort, I saw three different men-of-war off the harbor; and during the last two weeks
we were there I saw a man-of-war as often as once in three
days. No notice or warning, as far as I know, was given to the
captured vessel."
The mate of the vessel testified"I suppose we were captured because we sailed from a Southern port; but we saw no blockading force off Beaufort. It was
reported three times from Fort Macon that a man-of-war was off
the harbor, but I only saw ole while we were lying there."
A letter, from which what follows are e:ktracts, found on
the Herald, gave some information on the same matter:
BEAUFORT, July 11, 1861,

3fESSRS. FRASER, TRENUOL'.% & Co., Liverpool:
GENTLE-MEN: We take the liberty of addressing you these
lines, as our country has become divided into North and South,
and we, asfldl-blooded ,Southeraers, shall carry this matter out.
Formerly our business has been done principally by New
York merchants. We have dealt with them and owned vessels
together, and have no fault to find with them directly, odly they
are North and we are South. Circumstances have changed, and
we, as well as a great many of our Southern friends, intend to
change our business.
We are carrying on the distillery business, and buying spirits,
and hope soon to have the chance of making you a good shipment from this place. , T. Thomas and ourselves have on board
the Herald ninety casks of spirits shipped to you.
There is a great chance here for any English vessel that comes
and can get in to this place clear of the Federal men-of-war. When
they fall in with an English vessel bound to a Southern port

THE flERALD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

they only order them off, and not let them enter. There is no
blockade at this place that can be considered as such up to this
time. There has been but one steamer, off this place, near
tn'mugh to see the hull, and no time near enough to tell what
she was by her colors. There has been a smoke seen off in the offing
at one time, and it was thought to be one of the blockadingsquadron;
can't say whether it was one or not. I see no difficulty for your
vessels; if they should be ordered off, they could go elsewhere,
and if they get in they can get a splendidfreight.
Very respectfully, yours, &c.,
THOMAS DUNCAN & CO.

The libel demanded the forfeiture of the brig and cargo
as prize of war. The master prayed restoration of the vessel
in behalf of six alleged owners, all British subjects, of whom
five were domiciled in Nova Scotia, and one in New York.
He also prayed restitution of a part of the cargo, which consisted wholly of turpentine, tar, rosin, and tobacco, products
of North Carolina or Virginia, in behalf of owners living in
North Carolina; 'and of another part, in behalf of persons
believed to have an interest, residing in New York, South
Carolina, and in England. Restitution of the rest of the
cargo was claimed by Williams, already mentioned as a merchant, native and resident of New York. No proof of ouership of cargo was made, except in behalf of Williams and the
parties living in North Carolina.
Condemned, as already mentioned, by Grier, J., the case
was now here for review.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Ashton, for the United States.
Mr. Donnohue, contra.
The CHIEF J-USTIOE delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question in this case is, was the brig lawful
prize? She was a neutral vessel, and the answer to the
question must depend on her employment at the time of
capture.
The actual establishment of the effective blockade of the

Dec. 1865.]

THE

HERALD.

Opinion of the court.

ports of North Carolina, in pursuance of the President's
proclamation of the 27th of April, 1861, was notified by
Commodore Prendergast on the 80th April; and it is a matter of history that the notification, as well as the proclamation, became at once well known throughout the country.
It is impossible to believe that the master of the Herald, at
Boston, on the 22d May, could have been ignorant of facts
so notorious. His conduct on arrival near Beaufort strohigly
indicates his apprehension of capture. The lights at the
entrance of the harbor bad been destroyed by the insurgents, and yet, though arriving in the morning of the 9th, he
lay off and on, some twenty miles south, all that day, and
went in during the succeeding night.
We know of no case of prize in which a captured vessel
has been restored under such circumstances; but we need
not rest the decision of this case upon this evidence of attempt to enter a blockaded port.
The vessel, when once within the harbor, proceeded to
take in a cargo. Some difficulties were encountered from
the action of the rebel military authorities, and from the
disturbed condition of the country; but the lading was at
length completed, and the vessel sailed, as already stated.
During the month which elapsed from arrival till departure, the effectiveness and stringency of the blockade were
materially increased. The master, it is true, asserts that he
still remained ignorant of its existence; but the evidence
shows that it was the common topic of conversation in Beau.
fort and Morehead City; and he says himself that, while he
was taking in cargo, about three weeks before sailing, he
saw from the tops of the buildings, with a glass, a man-ofwar off the harbor. It remained there, for he saw the same
vessel about one week before sailing. Another witness,
a hand on the brig, says, during the time the vessel was
lying at Beaufort, he saw three different men-of-war ofi
the harbor; and during the last two weeks he saw a manof-war as often as once in three days. A letter from one
of the shippers of the cargo, found on the brig, iaforms
his correspondent that "a smoke had been seen off in the

DEmON v. BERNAL.

I [Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

offing at one time, and it was thought to be one of the
blockading squadron."
It would be difficult to make more conclusive proof of the
existence of the blockade, or of notice of the fact to the
master of the captured vessel.
The cargo was shipped to be conveyed from the port by
this brig, and was in the same offence.
The facts of the case supply other grounds of condemnation. The shares of the vessel owned in New York, and
the portions of the cargo belonging to Williams, of New
York, might be condemned for trading with the enemy;
and other portions of the cargo might be condemned as
enemy's property; but it is enough that vessel and cargo
were equally involved in the attempt to violate the blockade. Both were rightfully captured.
DE REE AFFIRMED.

DEnOx V. BERNAL.
1. When the United States and the claimant to whom a Iexican grant has
been confirmed are bath satisfied with its location, any other person
who seeks to contest such a location must show some title, legal or
equitable, to some part of the land covered by the survey, before the
court will disturb it at his instance, or in his alleged interest.
2. When all the elements of location prescribed by a decree of the District
Court cannot possibly be complied with, and a survey conforms as much
with the decree confirming the grant as it can well be made to do, this
court will not disturb it.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of the United

States for the Northern District of California, confirming a
survey of a Mexican grant.

The appeal was not taken by the United States, nor by
the claimant whose grant was confirmed, but by one Dehon,
who was permitted to intervene in the District Court, on the
ground that the survey covered land in which he was in-

