CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

the old mode of cleaning cotton; not the value of the patent
itself.
This question of damages, under the rule given in the
statute, is always attended with difficulty and embarrassment both to the court and jury. There being no established patent or license fee in the case, in order to get at a fair
measure of damages, or even an approximation to it, general
evidence must necessarily be resorted to. And what evidence could be more appropriate and pertinent than that of
the utility and advantage of the invention over the old
modes or devices that had been used for working out similar results? With a knowledge of these benefits to the persons who have used the invention, and the extent of the use
by the infringer, a jury will be in possession of material and
controlling facts that may enable them, in the exercise of a
sound judgment, to ascertain the damages, or, in other words,
the loss to the patentee or owner, by the piracy, instead of
the purchase of the use of the invention.
It is proper to say, as was said in the court below, that the
jury, in ascertaining the damages upon this evidence, is not
to estimate them for the whole term of the patent, but only
for the period of the infringement. A recovery does not
vest the infringer with the right to continue the use, as the
consequence of it may be an injunction restraining the defendant from the further use of it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.
1. The action of a Circuit Court relative to a motion and order for judgment, is a matter within the Circuit Court's discretion, and not a subject for review here.
2. Under a statute of California, which provides that new matter in an
answer shall on the trial be deemed controverted by the adverse party,
witnesses may properly be examined, in a case where such an answer
having new matter is put in.

Dec. 1865.]

CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

3. In debt for custom-house duties, a judgment for so many dollars, "payable in gold (and silver) money of the United States" for duties, is good;
[nothing but gold and silver coin having been made a legal tender for
this species of debt to the government; though Treasury notes were
by a statute of 1862 made a legal tender in regard to most other debts.]
4. If the judgment have been originally entered "payable in gold coin of
the United States," &-c., it may be amended during the term by the
insertion of the words, "and silver," as above indicated.

A STATUTE of the United States,* relating to the Circuit
Court for California, enacts that, by consent of parties,
"issues of fact in civil cases may be tried and determined
by the said Circuit Court without the intervention of a
jury."
Under this statute the court, in giving its decision, is to
state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately;
and a review by this court is to be limited to a determina
tion of the sufficiency of the facts found to support the
judgment, and to the rulings of the court in admitting or
rejecting evidence, and in the construction of written documents.
With this act in force, the United States sued Sun CheangKee, by claim in the nature of debt for duties for goods imported by him into the port of San Francisco, on the 13th
of August, 1862; and after the passage of the statuteof 25th
February, 1862, which enacted, that Treasury notes of the
United States should be lawful money, and a tender in payment of all debts, public and private, except duties on imiports,
c. Kgee put in his answer according to the practice customary in the State of California. Its defence was, payment
of the duties, as ascertained by the collector of the port under
a statute in force prior to the 14th July, 1862, in ignorance
on his part, and on the part of the importer, of an enactment which was made of that date imposing higher rates.
It alleged that the existence of the act of July was unknown
in California until after the duties had been assessed and
paid, and the goods delivered to the importer and sold; and
insisted that, under the circumstances, the government was
* Act of February 19, 1864; 13 Stat. at Large, ch. xi,

VOL. 111.

21

7, p. 5.

CIEANG-'EE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

concluded by the act of the collector in assessing and receiving the duties under the act previously in force.
In this state of things, the parties having consented that
the case should be tried and determined by the court., the
counsel for the United States moved for judgment on the
pleadings and according to the claim, which order the court
made. For some reason not stated on the record-but
which the reporter supposes was a difference of opinion discovered subsequently to the date of the order, to exist between the counsel of the parties as to whether, if judgment
were rendered on the pleadings, the facts set forth in the
answer would on error be assumed as true-the same counsel subsequently moved the court to set aside the order;
which motion the court granted.
The cause was then tried by the court. Witnesses were
examined and counsel heard, and the court found:
1. That the defendant imported the goods as alleged.
2. That the duties on the importation, under the law then
in force, amounted to 51432.55.
3. That the defendant paid on account of said duties,
$211.70, leaving due $1240.85; and,
4. As a conclusion of law, that the United States were
entitled to judgment for the balance due, with interest,
amounting to $1388.10, payable in gold coin, for duties,
with costs.
These findings excluded the defence set up by the answei
upon the facts.
In the course of the trial, exceptions to-what had been
done were presented thus:
1. That the counsel of the plaintiffs had moved for judg
ment on the pleadngs, and that the court had ordered judg.
ment accordingly.
2. That with this order in force the same counsel had
afterwards moved the court to vacate and set aside the
same; which the court had also done.
3. That on the trial subsequently had, the court had heard
evidence upon the issue, notwithstanding (as the reporter
understood the point of the objection to be) the previous

Dec. 1865.]

CHEAMNG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.

328

Argument against the judgment.

judgment on the pleadings. This proceeding the counsel
for the defendant objected to as irregular.
The court gave judgment for the United States for the
balance already mentioned, of $1888.10, "payable in gold
coin," the judgment, being amended during the term so as
to read payable "in gold and silver coin." (The record of
the judgment recited the findings, thus showing that the
amount for which the judgment was entered was "for
d/i'es.") The exceptions were now brought here; error
being also assigned in the rendering of judgment for the
United States payable in gold coin of the United States "for
duties;" as the counsel put it in their assignment of errors;
ao arguing it also. Objection was also made to the amendment, which made the judgment read, in gold (and silver)
coin, &c.
il. Gould,for Kee, Mke plaitff ii error:
1 and 2. The first two exceptions, although apparently
inconsistent with each other, are not really so. The motion
of the plaintiff was for judgment on the pleadings. The motion admitted, impliedly and in effect, that the answer was
true. This was an important admission for us. When made,
we had a right to it. It gave as in effect a "case stated,"
for this court. We could, indeed, have proved the truth of
our answer by witnesses, when the court below, under the
statute, would have found the same thing. But it was unjust to set aside the finding at the plaintiff's request, and to
require us to summon witnesses anew, and pay the fees for
their attendance, to say nothing of time or trouble. 'We
did not see fit to do so; relying rather on our writ of error.
The record, in exact words, ran thus:
"As a conclusion of law, the court finds that plaintiffs are entitled to a
judgment against defendant for the said sum of thirteen hundred and eightyeight % dollars, payable in gold and silver coin of the United States, for
deiles, with the costs of this action. And it was thereupon ordered that
jdJg,uet be entered inaecordwee with he .aid findings.
" WHEREFORE, by reason of the law and the premises, it is ordered ane
adjudged that the said plaintiffs do have and recover of and from the said
defendant the sum of thirteen aundred and eighty-eight 'o dollars, in gold
[and ilver] coin of the United States, together with his costs of this action,
taxed at :--, and that plaintiffs have execution therefor."

CI[EAING-KEE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

Argument against the judgment.

3. [On this third exception nothing was said or explained.]
4. This assignment of errors is to the peculiar form of the
judgment. We object, also, to the amendment.
The Federal courts have uniformly held that "debt" is
the proper action to recover what is due by an importer to
the government, after he has received his goods.* The present action is in the form of that action. When the goods
are delivered to the importer, duties are converted into
debts. We do not pretend that duties are originally merely
a debt. They are also a species of tax. In their capacity
of tax, they operate in inviturn, and are a lien upon property;
and the property, before delivery to the importer, may be
sold by the government, as provided by law, to satisfy the
duties; and as government may declare in what coin or species of property taxes shall be paid, so, if they are unpaid,
it may at a sale thereof receive nothing in payment but the
particular currency or species of property in which taxes
may be reserved.
The government is thus armed with two remedies, each
distinct from the other:
1st. The right to enforce the lien on the goods by an ex
parte sale, and at such sale to require payment in the specific
coin in which the duty is payable; and
2d. To sue the importer in an action of debt, to recover
the pecuniary value of the duty.
The power of the government (provided it has not lost its
lien on the goods) is complete to require and compel payment in the specific coin. It has the power, in the language
of the Constitution, "to lay and collect duties." But if then
there is a mere debt due by the importer to the government
for the amount of the duties, such debt may be discharged
by any lawful money of the United States. The form of the
judgment is therefore erroneous; and the fact that it is an
unusual form of judgment is itself a great argument against
its being a right form. "A universal silence, in Westminster Hall, on a subject which frequently gives occasion for
* Meredith v. United States, 13 Peters, 493.

Dec. 1865.]

CHEANG-KEE V. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the judgment.

325

litigation," is spoken of by Buller, J., in a great case,* as
"a strong argument," to prove that a matter now first
spoken of does not exist. "By Littleton it appeareth," says
Lord Coke, "that the formes of judgments, pleas, and other
legal proceedings, doe much conduce to the right understanding of the law." The "formes" of the law are indeed both
the indices and conservatories of its principles, and the form
of judgments for money, ever since courts of common law
began to exist, has been simply for money, without specifying the commodity from which it may chance to be manufactured.
It has moreover been expressly decided that even where
a contract is, in terms, payable in gold coin, courts of law
have no power to render a judgment payable in such coin,
or otherwise than for current money.t
If it was error to make the judgment "payable in gold
[and silver] coin of the United States," what shall we say of
the statement "for duties?" If there be one principle of
law more elementary than another, it is that a judgment
is a merger of the plaintiff's demand. If the judgment is
for so much current money, then the effect of these words,
so far as they have any, is practically to prevent a merger of
the plaintiff's demand, and to keep alive its original cause
of action. It has not hitherto been the custom of courts, in
their judgments, to inform the public what the extent of the
original cause of action was. 'What would be thought of a
judgment in these words: "That the plaintiff recover from
the defendant the sum of one thousand dollars for a note,
payable in gold coin ?" We have a right to ajudgment absolute on its face. The court must tell us categorically what
we must do, and not leave our liabilities to the construction
of the marshal.

.31. Speed, A. G., and ...

Lale, D. A. for Cforni4

eontra.
Le Caux v. Eden, Douglas, 594.
f Wood v. Bullens, 6 Allen, 516; Schoenberger v. Watts, 1 American
Law Register, iN.S., 558.

CHtEANG-KEE V.

'UNITED STATES.

[Silp Cto

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first two exceptions-those relating to the motion
.and order for judgment, and to the motion and order to
set aside what had been directed-relate to matters wholly
within the discretion of the Circuit Court, and, are not reviewable here. This is not merely settled by repeated decisions, but is expressly directed by an act of Congress prescribing the limits of this court's jurisdiction upon writs of
error to the Circuit Court of California.*
The third exception related to the examination of witnesses on the trial. This exception must rest on the assumption that inasmuch as the pleadings consisted only of claim
and answer, the answer must be taken as true, and could
not be contradicted by witnesses.
But the statute of the State, which has been adopted as a
rule by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California, expressly declares that new matter in an
answer shall, on trial, be deemed controverted by the adverse party.t Under that statute the answer of the defendant below could not be taken as true. -Witnesses, therefore, were properly examined.
The only other exception is to the form of the judgment,
which was originally for the amount due, payable in gold
coin, for duties; and afterwards, during the term, amended
by order of the court so as to make it "payable in gold and
silver coin, for duties." The objection is to the amendment
and to the statement in the judgment that it is "payable in
gold and silver coin, for duties." The amendment, made
during the term, was clearly within the power of the court.
The statement merely declared the legal effect of the judgment. The whole case shows that the judgment was for
duties on imports, and nothing but gold and silver coin has
been made a legal tender for this description of indebtedness
to the government. This statement, therefore, is strictly
correct, and though unnecessary, could not affect the validity
of the judgment.
- Act of February 19,1864, P 7.

A:FFIRMED WITH
COSTS.

- 2 General Laws of California, P65005.

