THE MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree of the District Court in this cause is affirmed.
-It is impossible to imagine a plainer case for condemnation
for breach of blockade. The statements of the captain as
to breaking the blockade are explicit, and the mate says
substantially the same thing as he does.
We cannot approve the conduct of the counsel who advised this appeal. An appeal is a matter of right, and, if
prayed, must be allowed; but should never be prayed without some expectation of reversal. We impose penalties
when writs of error merely for delay are sued out, in cases
of judgments at law for damages; and if the rule were applicable to, the ease before us we should apply it.

THE MOHAWK.
1. The act of December 23, 1852, authorizing foreign vessels wrecked and
repaired in the United States, to be registered or enrolled, is to be
taken as a part of our system of registration and enrolment.
2. Vessels engaged in the foreign trade are registered, and these engaged in
the coasting and home trade are enrolled; and the words "register"
and "enrolment"' are used to, distinguish the certificates granted to
those two classes of vessels.
8. The two statutes providing generally for registry and enrolment of vessels, are the act of December 81, 1792, applicable exclusively to registry
of vessels engaged in foreign commerce, and the act of July 18, 1793,
applicable exclusively to vessels engaged in domestic commerce.
4. The penalty of forfeiture of a vessel for the use of a certificate of registry
to which she is not entitled, found in,the 27th section of the act of
1792, is not imported into the act of 1793 ; and there is no forfeiture
urder that act for the use of a fraudulent enrolment.
5. But the act of March 2d, 1831, concerning vessels used on our northern
frontiers, which are necessarily engaged in both the foreign and home
traffic at the same time, makes the certificate of enrolment equivalent
to both registry and enrolment.
6. This act does, by the proviso to its 3d section, apply the penalty of for.
feiture contained in the 27th section of the act of 1792 to an enrolment
having the effect of a register-fraudulevztly obtained.

Dec. 1865.]

THE MOHAWK.
Statement of the case.

AN act of Congress of 1792" (section 27th), provides that
"if any certificate of registry or record shall be fraudulently
or knowingly used for any ship or vessel not then actually
entitled to the benefit thereof, according to the true intent
of this act, such ship or vessel shall be forfeited to the
United States."
An act of 1793t concerning the enrolment of vessels engaged in domestic commerce, enacts (section 2d) that "in
order for the enrolment of any vessel, she shall possess the
same qualifications, and the same requisites, in all respects,
shall be complied with, as are necessary for registering ships
by the registry law; and the same duties are imposed on all
officers with the same authority in relation tor enrolments,
and the same proceedings shall be had touching enrolments."
An act of December 23, 1852,1 authorizes the Secretary
of the Treasury to issue a register or enrolment for any vessel built in a foreign country, whenever such vessel may
have been, or shall hereafter be wrecked in the United States,
and shall have been, or may hereafter be purchased and repaired by a citizen or citizens thereof; provided, that it
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Treasury, that the repairs put upon such vessel shall be
equal to three-fourths of the cost of said vessel, when so
repaired.
Intermediate in date between the act last mentioned and
the one of 1793 just before it set forth, there is another act.
This act, dated March 2, 1831,ยง provides by its third sect~ou
that any vessel of the United States navigating the waters
of our northern, northeastern, and northwestern frontiers,
otherwise than by sea, shall be enrolled and licensed in such
fbrm as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
"which enrolment and license shall authorize any such vessel to be employed either in the coasting or foreign trade;
and no certificate of registry shall be required for any vessel
* December 31, 1792; 1 Stat. at Large, 287.

t February 18, 1793; Id.
4 Id. 487.

05.

$ 10 Id. 149.

THE MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the forfeiture.

so employed on said frontiers; provided, that such vessel shall
be in every other respect liable to the rules, regulations,and penalties
now in force relating to registered vessels on our northern, northeastern, and northwesternfrontiers."
With these four different statutes in force, Sloan and
others, wishing to give to a Canadian-built and owned vessel, the advantages of one with American papers, scuttled
her and pretended that she had been accidentally made a
wreck. They then raised her and put her in order; and
falsely swearing, for the purpose of changing her to an
American vessel, that the repairs were "equal to threefourths of her cost when so repaired," procured American
papers for her from the Secretary of the Treasury under the
act of December 23, 1852.
The United States now libelled her in the District Court
of Michigan, with the ideal.That under the three acts, first above mentioned, to wit,
the acts of 1792, 1793, and 1852 alone, she was liable to forfeiture.
2. That if this was not so, she was certainly liable under
these acts in connection with the act of March 2, 1831.
The District Court thought that the acts were not so essentially parts of one system as that the earlier ones could
be imported into the latter, and dismissed the libel; and of
this view was the Circuit Court. On appeal by the United
States, the matter was now here for review.
Mr.WF. A. Moore, in favor of the decrees below: The idea of
the United States in libelling this vessel has been, that the
act of 1852 is to be read as if it was a part of the original
act of 1792; and that by this process the vessel will become
subject to the 27th section of the latter act. The government assumes the acts to be acts in parimaterid;and accordingly concludes that they are to be read as one act. But
this is a misapplication of a sound maxim. The rule ofpari
nmaterid is one of construction simply. Acts on the same
subject are to be read together, that you may get such light
as all the parts throw on each part, and thereby more aceu-

Dec. 1865.]

5069

THE 'MOHAWK.
Argument against the forfeiture.

rately interpret any doubtful provisions. The language of
Lord Mansfield is: "They shall be taken and construed
together as one system, and explanatory of each other."*
For no other purpose are different acts to be taken as one
law. There is no case which authorizes a court to import
independent and distinct provisions from one act into another; to tack the independent provisions of one act to
another. There could not be; for, under the rule of pari
maler ,, laws which have expired, or which have been repealed, may be considered. Now, it would be absurd to say
that the repealed or expired acts were to be taken as a part
of the law itself. Yet such would be the logical effect, if we
accepted the meaning which government gives the rule.
An act may, indeed, be amended; and this by substitution, addition, diminution, or other qualification. The legal
effect is, of course, to substitute the amended form for the
original form, and to render it subject to the same relation
to all other parts of the act. In this case, the amendments
become a part of the amended law, in the most literal sense.
It becomes such by incorporation. But this is not the sense
which the rule pari nateriO contemplates, when it says that
different acts are to be taken together as one law.
The government has probably proceeded, we suppose, on
a misapplication of the rule which the cases lay down for
construing revenue statutes. The court, under the rule
referred to, reads the whole revenue code together, in order
to interpret its different parts; to see how far a subsequent
act has repealed or modified a former act; to see what provisions of the former acts, relating to the same particulars,
are still in force, &c., &c. Thus, in Stuart v. 3Iax'elit the
question was, whether the Tariff Act of 1846 repealed certain provisions of the Tariff Act of 1842; and in order to
reach a sound interpretation, the court read both acts togethei. So in Riifg v. l[ax~well,j the question was, whether
a provi-ion of the Tariff Act of 1842 had been repealed by
a subsequent act. These were both correct applications of
v. Loxdale, 1 Burrow, 447.
: 17 Id. 14'
*Rex

t 16 Howard. 158

.570

THE. MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the rule. The critical observations of Curtis, J., in the last
case,* confirms both of our positions.
Applying this rule to the case, we are unable to see that
the decree should be reversed. We think it plain that the
penalty of forfeiture found in the 27th section of the act of
1792 is not imported into the act of 1798; and that it would
be straining to hold even that the proviso to the 3d section of
the act of March 2, 1831, applied the penalty cohtained in
the section above named of the act of 1792, to any enrolment.
.r. Speed, A. G., and Mfr. AssistantAttorney- General Ashton,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLE R delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of December 23, 1852, authorized the Secretary
of the Treasury to issue a register or enrolment for any
vessel built in a foreign country, whenever such vessel may
have been, or shall hereafter be, wrecked in the United
States, and shall have been, or may hereafter be purchased
and repaired by a citizen or citizens thereof: provided, that
it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Treasury, that the repairs put upon such vessel shall be
equal to three-fourths of the cost of said vessel, when so
repaired.
In this act, under which the owners of the Mohawk procured the enrolment, and the whole of which we have just
quoted, there is nothing which inflicts such forfeiture, or
any other penalty for fraud or false swearing, in procuring
the action of the secretary.
This act is, however, to be construed as a part of our
system of registry and enrolment of vessels, and as merely
adding another class which may be registered and enrolled
to those enumerated in the previous statutes. Whatever,
therefore, may be found in those statutes imposing a penalty
for fraud in procuring the enrolment of a vessel, may well
be held to apply to an enrolment under the act of 1852.
'We emphasize the word enrolment, because the registry
* Pages 150-1.

Dec. 1865.]

THE M0H1AWK.
Opinion of the court.

of a vessel and the enrolment of a vessel are essentially
different things, are provided for by different statutes, and
are applicable to vessels engaged in different and distinct
pursuits. Hence the act of 1852 says that the secretary
may issue to a vessel, such as it describes, "a register or
enrolment."
The purpose of a register is to declare the nationality
of a vessel engaged in trade with foreign nations, and to
enable her to assert that nationality wherever found. The
purpose of an enrolment is to evidence the national character
of a vessel engaged in the coasting trade or home traffic, and
to enable such vessel to procure a coasting license.*
The distinction between these two classes of vessels is
kept up throughout the legislation of Congress on the subject, and the word register is invariably used in reference
to the one class, and enrolment in reference to the other.
There are two statutes in force making general provisions
for the subjects of registry and enrolment of vessels. One
of them is the act of December 31, 1792, which applies
exclusively to vessels engaged in foreign commerce and to
their registry, and the other is the act of February 18, 1793,
which relates to vessels engaged in the coasting trade and
fisheries, and to their enrolment.
The act of 1792 provides, that "if any certificate of registry or record shall be fraudulently or knowingly used for
any ship or vessel not then actually entitled to the benefit
thereof, according to the true intent of this act, such ship or
vessel shall be forfeited to the United States." This section
does not refer to an *enrolment, because neither the word
registry or record is usually applied to an enrolment, and
because the true intent of the act can have reference to no
other class of vessels than those engaged in foreign comnerce, which are required to take out a register.
The act of 1793, concerning the enrolment of vessels engaged in domestic commerce, enacts, by the second section,
that "in order for the enrolment of any vessel, she shall
* Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 'Wheaton, 214.

THF MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

possess the same qualifications, and the same requisites, in
all respects, shall be complied with, as are necessary for
registering ships by the registry law; and the same duties
are imposed on all officers with the same authority in relation to enrolments, and the same proceedings shall be had
touching enrolments." From this it is argued, that forfeiture shall take place under like circumstances as is provided for in the registry law. But there is not only nothing
in the terms used which refers to penalties, but there is
nothing which can be held to have such reference by any
fair implication. These provisions concern the class or
qualifications of vessels which may be enrolled, the requisites to be complied with before enrolment, the duties and
authority of officers connected with the enrolment, and the
proceedings to be had in obtaining enrolment. In all these
particulars the rules of the registry law are adopted. The
act makes sufficient provision for false affidavits, and has its
penalties for them, but forfeiture of the vessel is not one of
them.
But the act of March 2, 1831, undertakes, as its title imports, to regulate both the foreign and coasting trade, on
the northern, northeastenn, and northuestern frontiers of the
United States.
In these regions the domestic and the foreign trade are so
blended that the same vessel is almost necessarily engaged
in both at the same time, and often during the same voyage.
To meet this kind of trade the third section of that act says,
in reference to vessels engaged in navigating those waters,
that "they shall be enrolled and licensed in such form as
may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury; which
enrolment and license shall authorize any such boat, sloop,
or other vessel, to be employed either in the coasting or foreign trade, and no certificate of registry shall be required
for vessels employed on said fiontiers; provided, that such
boat, sloop or other vessel, shall be in every other respect
liable to the rules, regulations, and penalties now in force
relating to registered vessels, on our northern, northeastern,
and northwestern frontiers."

Dec. 1865.]

VAN

ALLEN v. THE ASSESSORS.

573

Statement of the case.

It is the obvious policy of this act to enable a class of vessels which are engaged in both the foreign and the coasting
trade at the same time, to do so without the necessity of
taking out both a register and an enrolment. Fqr this purpose the act makes the enrolment equivalent to both register
and enrolment. In giving to the enrolment the effect of a
register, it very properly subjects the vessel to all the rules,
regulations, and penalties relating to registered vessels. One
of these penalties, as we have already seen, is the forfeiture
of the vessel, for the fraudulent use of a certificate of registry, when she is not actually entitled to the benefit thereof.
The statements of the libel and the evidence in the case
which supports them bring the Mohawk within this penalty.
DECREE REVERSED, and the case remanded, with instructions to enter a decree of forfeiture and condemnation of the
vessel.
VAN ALLEN V. THE AssEssoRs.
1. The act of June 2, 1864, "To provide a national currency," &c., rightly
construed, subjects the shares of the banking associations authorized by
it, and in the bands of shareholders, to taxation by the States under
certain limitations (set forth in its 41st section), without regarA to the
fact that a part or the whole of the capital of such association is invested in national securities declared by the statutes authorizing them
to be "exempt from taxation by or under State authority."
2. The act thus construed is constitutional.
8. The act of 9th Mareh, 1865, of the legislature of New York, sometimes
called the Enabling Act, and which enacts that shares in any of these
national banking associations held by any person or body corporate
shall be "included in the valuation of the personal property of such
person or body corporate, in the assessment of taxes in the town or
ward where such banking association is located and not elsewhere,"
&c., but which did not provide that the tax imposed should not exceed
the rate imposed upon the shares of any of the banks organized under
the authority of the State, is not warranted by the act of Congress, and
is void: there having been under the legislation of the State no tax
laid on shares in State banks at all ; though there was a tax on the
capital of such banks.

was a suit involving the question of right, on the part
of States, to tax shares in the national banking associations
THIS

