THE P9LYMIOUTHa.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

T,

PLOUTH

1. 'Where a damage done is done wholly upon land, the fact that the cause
of the damage originated on water subject to the admiralty jurisdiction
does not make the cause one for the admiralty.
2. Hence, where a vessel lying at a wharf, on waters subject to admiralty
jurisdiction, took fire, and the fire, spreading itself to certain storehouses on the wharf, consumed these and their stores, it was held not to
be a case for admiralty proceeding.

THE steam-propeller Falcon, employed by its owners in
navigating our great northern lakes, anchored beside the
wharf of Hough & Kershaw, in Chicago River; "navigable
water." Upon the wharf large packing-houses were built,
and these, at the time, were filled with valuable stores.
Owing to the negligence of those in charge of the Falcon,
the vessel took fire; and the flames, stretching themselves
to the wharf and packing-houses, set these last on fire,
which with their stores were wholly consumed. Hough
& Kershaw filed, accordingly, in the District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, a libel in admiralty, for cause
of damage, civil and maritime, against the owners of the
Falcon, and attached a vessel of theirs called the Plymouth.
The District Court, regarding the case as not one for the
Admiralty, dismissed the libel for want of jurisdiction. The
Circuit Court, on appeal, considered that the dismissal was
rightly made. The case was now here for review.
It is necessary to say that, by act/ of Congress,* the District Courts of the United States possess admiralty j urisdiction "in matters of contract and tort arising in, upon, or
concerning steamboats or other vessels," on our great northern lakes, the same as they do in cases of the like steamboats, and other vessels employed in navigation and commerce on the high seas and tide-waters.
* Act of February 26, 1845; 5 Stat. at Large, 726.

Dec. 1865.]

THE PLYMOUTH.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

.r. A. TW. Arrgtoa, infavor of the jurisdieion:
The question is, has a court of admiraltyjurisdiction to
decree compensation for the damage done by the Falcon?
The question, as respects instance at least, is one Pi2hce
inipressionis. We can adduce no precedent identical in its
circumstances. Two reasons exist for this:
1. Until a recent period the admiralty jurisdiction was
repressed and hindered from attaining its appropriate extension by the jealous interference of the common law courts,
in England, and by the servile adoption of the English rule,
without comment or qualification, in America. That rule
excluded the jurisdiction, not only fr6nm all waters unaffected
by the ebb and flow of the tide, but even from tide-waters
within the body of a county. Hence, during the prevalence
of such a rule, no case like the present could arise; because,
ships could not be the means of setting fire to wharves or
houses, without penetrating the body of some county, and
then, ipsofaeto, admiralty jurisdiction would be excluded by
the English rule.
2. The local distance betwixt the sites of houses and the
possible anchorage of vessels, in most parts of the world,
prevents, ex necessitate, the existence of an occurrence like
the one in controversy. It is only at Constantinople, in the
Golden Horn; in the harbor of Chicago; and in a few other
favored ports of the world, that, in the beautiful language
of Gibbon, "ships may rest their prows against the houses,
while their sterns are floating in the water."
But the objection that this case is the first of its kind,
must be pronounced invalid, in the light of leading decisions
of this court. The same objection was urged, with all the
weight which learning and eloquence could give it, against
those very adjudications which have now become fixed in
admiralty law, and was urged in vain; while, at the same
time, those adjudications overruled the supreme authority
of prior cases, and cases seemingly established among the
most permanent doctrines of Federal jurisprudence. Thus,
in the TIomas Jefferson,* in 1825, this court held that the
* 10 Wheaton, 428.

THE PLYMOUTH.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

admiralty jurisdiction was confined "to the sea, or waters
within the ebb and flow of the tide."
In Peyroux v. Howard* this doctrine of the former case
was approved; the court deciding that if one termimis of a
voyage was above the flow of tide-water, the mere fact precluded the exercise of jurisdiction. The law of these cases
was followed by all the district and circuit courts. The firmness of an enduring principle seemed to have been obtained.
In truth, the structure wanted but one thing to insure its
permanence,-rational accordance with the spirit of the age
and nation, as developed by the characteristics of the physical geography of America.
In 1848, in Waring v. Clarke,t the Supreme Court took its
first step in a path divergent from the via trita of the ancient
English rule, by adjudging that admiralty had jurisdiction
in a case of collision, though happening infra cotpus eomitatus. This was the germination of a new idea. But the
full development of reason was reserved for the year 1851,
when, in the Geesee Chief v. Fitzhugh,t this same tribunal
shook off the yoke of English authority forever, by declaring
that "tide-water" constituted no proper test of admiralty
jurisdiction. That case has been succeeded by a series of
judgments, which established the true criterion of jurisdiction as being " navigable .water" per se, in contradistinction
to water not navigable, and to nothing else. Now, the case
of the Genesee Chief was the first of its kind. There had
been nothing like it, either in England or America, since
the days of Lord Coke. It was not only a novelty, but one
in clear contradiction of all previous authority.
The objection, therefore, has been overruled in advance.
It must be noted, in liozine, that the present case, although
new in the instance, is not so in principle. On the contrary,
the inference we seek to deduce is the logical result of doctrines as old as the common law; and is confirmed, besides,
by the analogy of adjudged cases.
First. Let the court consider the nature and character* 7 Peters, 324.

f 5 Howard, 441.

1: 12 Id. 443.

Dec. 1865.]

THE PLYMIOUT11.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

istics of the two things concerned in the case of damage,the object injured, and the agent causing the injury.
I. The object, or part of the object, injured-the wharfwas unquestionably a maritime thing. A wharf is the necessary kr, -ibuw, a quo and ad queem, of every voyage, in cer-

tain lines of trade; and becomes thus indispensable to commerce and navigation. It is an instrument of navigation.
And it has been decided that the lien of a wharfinger appertains to the jurisdiction of the admiralty.* It has even been
adjudged that the owner of a shipyard, who employs a railway cradle and other fixtures for hauling vessels out of the
water, can sue in the admiralty for his services, though the
repairing may be done by other parties.t
II. The agent producing the damage, the vessel which
communicated fire to the wharf, was a maritime thing. That
fact is conceded.
Hence, since both the object and the agent were maritime
things, and within the admiralty jurisdiction, would it not
shock common sense to exclude from that jurisdiction the
injury received by.one from the other, in a case of manifest
and admitted tort?
IMI The locality was maritime. The ship, the maritime
agent, in the very act of committing the injury, was moored
in a maritime place, namely: in "navigable water." And
this court has determined that "navigable water" is the test
of admiralty jurisdiction, in cases of tort.t
IV. Another legal principle, in connection with the preceding, covers the case.
The principle is this: That the incident, or that which is
accessary, always follows, or is drawn to, the principal thing
in a given combination of circumstances. Or, as the maxim
is announced by Lord Coke,ยง "aceeessorium von ducit sed sequitur s-uumt prtieicale."
The maxim has been applied to the admiralty jurisdiction
Johnson v. The McDonough, Gilpin, 101.
t 2 Parsons on Maritime Law, 639.
$ Jackson v. The Magnolia, 20 Howard, 301, 802.
P Coke Littleton, 152 a.

Tin PLYMOUTH.

Lsup. Ut.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

in cases reported by Croke, Levinz, Comberback, Saunders,
and others,* and always to this effect: "That when the
principal cause is within the jurisdiction, there is also juris
diction over the incidents."
In a case in Siderfint a suit was sustained in the admiralty for beaconage, of a beacon standing on a rock in the
sea, for the reason that the admiral had jurisdiction of beacons, although the rock was part of the earth and appertained to the inheritance.
All these are common law cases, running back, too, to the
cradle of the system; and they all concur to establish the
point ruled, at a later period, in Le Caux v. Eden :j "That
when the admiralty has jurisdiction of the original matter,
it ought to have jurisdiction of everything incidental."
Hence, the question is, what was the principal matter or
thing in this case of damage? What was the original, or,
in the language of the schoolmen, the efficient, cause of the
injury? The answer is: The original cause was the ship;
or, rather, the ship in action, and performing a wrongful
deed to the damage of others. The composition or chain of
causes and effects is simple, being constituted by six links:
1. The ship, a maritime thing, and within the admiralty
jurisdiction.
2. The inception of the fire, through the negligence of
the master and crew, a maritime wrong, and also clearly
within the jurisdiction.
8. The wharf, a maritime thing, and alike within the
jurisdiction.
4. The communication of the fire to the wharf.
5. The communication of the fire to the packing-house.
6. The destruction of both the wharf and the packinghouse.
Such was the series implexa causarmn,in logical as in chro* ladley v. Egglesfield, 2 Saunders, 259 e; S. 0. 2 Levinz, 25; 1 Ventris,
173, 174; Anonymous, Id. 308; Anonymous, Croke Elizabeth, 685; Tremoulin v. Sands, Comberback 462.
t Crosse v. Diggs, p. 158.
1 Douglas, 580.

Tim PLYMOUTH.

Dec. 1865.]

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

nological order. The ship, or the tortious act of the ship,
we repeat, was "the original matter, the principal thing,"
the efficient cause, in the case of damage; and the destruction which followed, in natural sequence, was the incident.
If this be so, then, according to all the authorities, the
whole case is within the admiralty jurisdiction.
This conclusion, too, is in harmony with scientific theory.
It is a law of positive philosophy, that every action in nature
derives its specific character and denomination from the
agent or principal cause, and not from the object or mere
passive thing afieted by the action. In a philosophical
sense an action is a mere abstract idea, and, in the concrete,
means nothing more than an agent acting in a particular
manner.
Then, if a tort be perpetrated by a maritime agent, through
the instrumentality of a maritime thing, and in a maritime
place, must not the tort itself be maritime? To hold otherwise would not only render the law discordant with the
beauty of scientific thought, but absurd to common apprehension.
Finally, uirder this head, it has been determined by this
court, that it is sufficient for the agent or principal thing to
be maritime, to bring the case within the jurisdiction of the
admiralty, although the other thing concerned did not appertain to such jurisdiction. In Fretz v. Bull* it was decided that the jurisdiction attached as against a steamer, by
the fault of which a flatboat (of itself, not the subject of admiralty jurisdiction), was sunk in the Mlississippi.
Seeomd. This case is a mixed one; and in "mixed cases,"
arising partly on land and partly at sea, or upon "navigable
waters," admiralty has jurisdictiop.t Here the wrongful
action of the maritime agent commenced upon "navigable
water," and was continued to its consummation upon the
shore.
ThIrd. The same inference is supported by the analogy
of prize cases, in which, even in England, "the jurisdiction
12 Howard, 466.

t United States v. Coombs, 12 Peters, 72, 76.

Tim, ILYMOUTir.

[Sup. t

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

depends, not on locality, but on the subject-matter."* The
reason of the difference between the respective jurisdictions
of the prize and instance courts, in England, arose from the
fact that the judges of common law never attempted to restrain the jurisdiction of the admiralty prize court, as to the
land; nor to control it by the principle of locality.
Fourth. We claim no more, in this case, than belonged
to the admiralty before the jealousy of the common law
courts had curtailed its jurisdiction. This, in the language
of the commissions to the admiralty judges, comprised "all
injuries done upon public rivers," and "upon the shores
and banks adjoining them."t In the time of the Commonwealth, the jurisdiction included "all cases of prejudice to
the banks of navigable rivers," or to "the docks, wharves,
quays," or anything whereby shipping may be endangered.$
.Fifth. The jurisdiction of our colonial vice-admiralty
courts was equally extensive, including "all trespasses and
injuries, between owners of ships and other persons, done
upon the shores of public rivers."ยง
Sixth. The general maritime law of continental Europe
regards only the character of the transaction, and therefore
extends to all cases of service, contract, tort, or accident,
"relating to ships, shipping, and marine commerce."11
Can a reason be assigned why the jurisdiction of the
American admiralty should not be as broad and beneficial
as that of any system of cultivated justice? We are not
bound in fetters, by the constitution, to the English rule.
If we break the constitution by departing from the English
rule, we have already broken it into atoms. We broke it
when we suffered the jurisdiction to penetrate into the body
of a county. So we brqke it when the limit of tide-water
was discarded, with the sovereign arbitrament of the moon.
"And we broke it again, when admiralty jurisdiction was
applied to revenue cases.
* Brown's Admiralty, 208.

SBenedict,

IId. 211.

107.

t De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallison, 452 n.
Id. 11.

:Dec. 1865.]

THE PLYMOUTH.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

On the other side, there is but one thing to be said,
namely, "that in cases of tort, the jurisdiction depends on
the locality of the act done, and that it must be done on
navigable water." This is properly denominated the "rule
of locality."
Now we submit that a bare inspection of the terms comprising the rule shows it to be ambiguous. It may mean
that the agent acting must be on navigable water, or that
the object must be on navigable water; or that both the
agent acting and object acted upon must be on navigable
water, and that the total effect must be there too.
But no case has ever so defined the rule of locality as to
restrict it to the two latter suppositions. No lawyer ever
intimated that both the agent and object must be on navigable water at the time when a tort is committed.
The truth is, that all general rules, all definitions in
sciences, other than the mathematical, are what logicians
call dida see uadw q d; in other words, are postulated with
a qualification. It is only in the strict mathematics that the
subject can take the place of the predicate, and vice versc?,
by the change of simple conversion. And especially all
legal propositions are see mnd quid with respect to the cases
upon which they are founded.
Let us then see what are the cases adduced in support of
the rule of locality.
In TIoiws v. LEae,* a circuit case, the libel was for a tort
committed by the master of a vessel upon a mariner. And it
was decided that the admiralty had no jurisdiction, because
the libel did not allege the trespasses to have been committed
on tide-water; while a part of the charge, to wit, the imprisonment, was expressly stated to have been on shore, in
the port of Havana. In delivering the opinion, Story, J.,
!,iaid: "In regard to torts, I have always understood that the
jurisdiction of the admiralty is exclusively dependent upon
the lovx'ty of the act. The admiralty has not, and never, I
believe, deliberately claimed to have, any jurisdiction ovet
* 2 Sumner, 9.

Tim PLYMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

torts, except such as are maritime; that is, such as are committed on the high seas, or on waters within the ebb and flow
of the tide."
Here we have the "locality of the act" as the test of jurisdiction, and the circumstance that such act must "be committed on waters within the ebb and flow of the tide," as the
explication of the test.
But what were the facts of the case which called for the
application of the rule? The case was, that both the agent
of the wrong and the object that suffered it were on the
shore. The imprisonment was on the shore. The entire
act of causation, as well as the entire effect, was on the
shore.
If the master, in Thomas v. Lane, had stood on the deck
of his ship while the mariner was chained on the adjacent
shore, and had scourged his victim with a long whip, the
case would be analogous to ours. But, in such a case,
would any court of admiralty in the civilized world have
refused to entertain jurisdiction ?
But what is the locality of an act? The term needs a definition, and this court must supply the need; for you will
search the books in vain for anything approximating the
desideratum. Where, then, is the locality in question? Is it
where the agent acts? Or is it where the object is affected?
According to science and common sense, it is both conjointly, and neither exclusively. The locality of an act
embraces the entire space occupied by the agent and the
object, and the spatial distance passed over by the causal
influence in accomplishing the effect. Who shall declare
the locality of a battle? Is it at the spot where the cannon
stands? Or at the spot at which the ball that issues from it
strikes its victim? In neither. The locality is the entire
field. Where is the locality of the sunbeam? In the mighty
orb from which it parts? or in the boundless track through
which it passes? or on the earth which it animates with life,
and health, and warmth? In no one, assuredly, alone. All
are but parts of one stupendous whole; spreading undivided,
and which operates unspent.

Dec. 1865.]

TiiE IFLYMOUTI.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

In ntdled States v. Coombs,* the rule of locality was announced, by this court, with a qualification. The indictment
was for stealing a quantity of merchandise belonging to a
ship cast away on the shore of 1ew York. The goods were
taken above high-water mark on the beach in Queen's
County. The indictment was sustained under the constitutional power to regulate commerce. But the court denied
that it could be sustained as falling within the admiralty
jurisdiction. Of course, they denied that; because both the
agent and object were on the shore. The thief stole the
goods on the shore above high-water mark. Story, J., delivering the opinion, said: "Our opinion is, that in cases
purely dependent upon the locality of the act done, admiralty jurisdiction is limited to the sea, and to tide-waters as
far as the tide flows, and that it does not reach beyond highwater mark. MNixed cases may arise, and, indeed, often do
arise, where the acts and services done are of a mixed nature; as where salvage services are performed partly on
tide-waters and partly on the shore, for the preservation of
the property saved; in which the admiralty has constantly
exercised jurisdiction to the extent of decreeing salvage."
And he adds: "If the libel is founded on one single continued act, which was principally on the sea, though a part
of it was upon the land, as if the mat of a ship be taken
upon the sea, though it be afterwards brought ashore, no
prohibition lies."
:Now,

as we have already submitted, ours is a mixed case.

The efficient cause was on navigable water. The negligence
was there. The act of wrong was committed there. Whatever power for injury the ship possessed originated there,
and was exerted th~ere. The ship did not go on shore, the
rmaster and mariners did not go on shore, to commit the
offence The principal thing, the act of negligence, the
destroying agency, was on navigable water, was within the
admiralty jurisdiction; and only the incidental effect was
produced on the shore.
* 12 Peters, 72.

[slip. COt.

THE PLYMOUTH.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

United States v. Davis,* a case like Thomas v. Lane, of circuit ruling only, and not authoritative therefore, may be
thought to be opposed to our view. The facts were these
A gun was fired on an American ship lying in the harbor of
one of the Society Islands, by which a person on board a
schooner belonging to the natives was killed. "Held, that the
act was, in contemplation of law, done on board the foreign
schooner where the shot took effect; and that jurisdiction
of it belonged to the foreign government, and not to the
courts of the United States. under the Crimes Act of 1790."
A similar case is that of United States v. MeGili.t The
facts were, that the prisoner, the mate on the brig Rover, in
the harbor of Cape Franqois, gave the deceased a mortal
stroke with a piece of wood. The latter was carried on
shore alive, and died the following. day. The prisoner's
counsel made the point, that both the death and blow must
happen on the high seas, to give the court jurisdiction under
the act of Congress. The court so decided, for the reason
that the act of Congress applied only to murder on the high
seas, and because the term murder, ex vi ternini, implied
death.
Both these were criminal cases, and the decisions are in
accordance with the technical distinctions of the ancient
common law. For -under that, by a strange absurdity, " if
an offence was commenced in one county, and consummated
in another, the venue could be laid in neither, and the offender went altogether unpunished." And so if the blow
was given on the land, and the death happened on the sea,
and vice versO, neither the courts of common law, nor the admiral's court had any jurisdiction of the crime.t
This ridiculous non sequitur resulted, according to Blackstone, from the technical formula prescribed for the grand
jury, since they were only to inquire pro corpore comritatas.
Thus, if the blow happened in county A., the grand jury of
county B. could not inquire of that;. and if the death happened in B., the grand jury of A. could not inquire of that.
* 2 Sumner, 482.

: 1 Ohitty's Criminal Law, 177, 180.

- 4 Dallas, 426.

Dec. ]865.]

Dec. SG5.]Tun,
PLYMOUTH.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

And the same logic applied with equal force to the land and
sea.
This species of reasoning, or rather, this reductio ad absurdion of the reasoning process itself, was in perfect accord
with the philosophy of the age. It was the age of the scholastic philosophy-an age of dicta and contradieta-an age,
when the highest human ingenuity-was perverted to inquiries respecting the eternal puzzles that lie beneath the basis
of all finite knowledge; when the mightiest minds sought to
postulate the difference between entities and quiddities; when
the all-engrossing questions were, whether angels existed in
or out of space? And, if in space, how many angels could
dance on the point of a needle? And whether the Deity
loved an actual entity of the lowest grade better than a possible entity of the highest?
This was the philosophy in vogue when the common law
distinctions as to venue were fabricated. And the law always derives the methods of its logic from the philosophical
character of the time when it is elaborated.
The reasoning of the early English courts on the subject
of venue was nearly akin to the old Eleatic demonstration
as to the impossibility of motion. " If a body moves at all,"
argued Zeno, "it must either move where it is, or where it
is not: but it cannot move where it is; and surely it cannot
move where it is not; ergo, it cannot move at all." And the
only answer to the logic that all antiquity could make, was
given by Diogenes, who got out of his tub, and walked.
By the same process of reasoning that the English courts
employed to exclude the jurisdiction when the blow was
struck in one county, and the death happened in another, it
is easy to prove that the man was not killed at all. Thus, if
this man was killed at all, he must have been killed at some
particular place: but he was not killed at any particular
place.; therefore, he was not killed at all. Or thus: If a
man is killed at all, he must be either killed on the land
or sea; but this man was not killed on the land, because the
mortal blow was not given there, but on the sea; and he
was not killed on the sea, because he did not die there, but

32

THE PLYMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

on the land: therefore, he was not killed at all. There you
have as good a deinonstration as the schoolmen ever uttered.
And that is the precise argument, mutatis rnutandis, that is
urged against the admiralty jurisdiction in the present case.
But is this a case, is this an age, is this the court, for the
,prevalence of such parodies on' all scientific ratiocination?
Contrariwise, is not this rather a case for the exercise of that
kind of logic which appertains more to the enlarged policy
of the most enlightened and liberal statesmanship than to the
technical quibbles of puerile and perverted dialectics? For,
whatever reasons justify the admiralty jurisdiction in any
case, must justify it in this. Upon what reason is the jurisdiction founded? Is it the necessity for process as speedy
as the hoisting of the sails; that shall go at once velis levatis,
as Lord Mansfield worded it? That reason exists in such a
case as this. Or is it the necessity for a tribunal thoroughly
versed in maritime laws and usages? That reason exists
here. And as we have shown, there is nothing opposed to
the jurisdiction in this case, but a false and preposterous
construction of the rule of locality, and which has not the
sanction of a single authoritative case.
We do not ask the court to amplify the jurisdiction of
the admiral; we but ask it to deduce from his original jurisdiction that which is logically and consequentially involved.
If any continent exists entitled to have the jurisdiction amplified to its full extent it is ours,-a continent which, by
distinction from all others, may be called the continent of
waters,-a continent covered by mighty rivers and majestic
lakes. Though not subjects of admiralty jurisdiction, as
once understood here and as still understood in England, we
have been compelled to bring these under such control. It
is fitting that the further development should come from the
region of these great waters; which has thus already cast
the rich hues of its western sunlight upon the east. The
necessity of a power to administer justice speedily and surely
is great; and will become greater with the incalculable expansion of trade and commerce on the western lakes and
rivers. The vessel which has done the wrong speeds away,

Dec.1865.]

Tim IPLYMOUTH.
Opinion of the court.

and with the winds and currents is carried thousands of
miles from the scene of the wrong she has done. Why send
Uhe injured suitor to a distant State in order to have redress?
The ultimate question reverts. Will you be fettered in
the freedom of your judicial action by a fiction of the scholastic ages, or yield to the force of a present reality? Will
you follow the example of the most enlightened continental
jurisprudence, and which is in harmony with the physical
geography of this grand new world; or will you cling with
servile submission to the petty precedents of little England,
whose people, beyond all people, are individual and local in
their views, and in more senses than one remain the "penitus toto dWisos orbe B ritainos "

.OIr.Spaldin q, eontra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
The court below dismissed the libel for want of jurisdiction; and that question is the only one that has been argued
in this court.
It will be observed, that the entire damage complained of
by the libellauts, as proceeding from the negligence of the
master and crew, and for which the owners of the vessel
are sought to be charged, occurred, not on the water, but
on the land. The origin of the wrong was on the water,
but the substance and consummation of the injury on land.
It is admitted by all the authorities, that the jurisdiction of
the admiralty over marine torts depends upon locality-the
high seas, or other navigable waters within admiralty cognizance; and, being so dependent upon locality, the jurisdiction is limited to the sea or navigable waters not extending beyond high-water mark.
In the case of Thonas v. Lane,* Mr. Justice Story, in a case
where the imprisonment was stated in the libel to be on
shore, observed: "In regard to torts, I have always understood that the jurisdiction of the admiralty is exclusively
dependent upon the locality of the act. The admiralty has
2 Sumner, 9.
VOL. III.

8

THE PLYMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not, and never, I believe, deliberately claimed to have, any
jurisdiction over torts, except silch as are maritime torts;
that is, torts upon the high seas, or on waters within the ebb
and flow of the tide." Since the case of the Gemesee Cidef,
navigable waters may be substituted for tide waters. This
view of the jurisdiction over maritime torts has not been
denied.
But it has been strongly argued that this is a mixed case,
the tort having been committed partly on water and partly
on land; and that, as the origin of the wrong was on the
water, in other words, as the wrong began on the water
(where the admiralty possesses jurisdiction), it should draw
after it all the consequences resulting from the act. These
mixed cases, however, will be found, not cases of tort, but
of contract, which do not depend altogether upon locality as
the test of jurisdiction, such as contracts of material-men,
for supplies, charter-parties, and the like. These cases depend upon the nature and subject-matter of the contract,
whether a maritime contract, and the service a maritime
service to be performed upon the sea, or other nav igable
waters, though made upon land. The cases of torts to be
found in the admiralty, as belonging to this class, hardly
partake of the character of mixed cases, or have, at most,
but a very remote resemblance.*
They are cases of personal wrongs, which commenced on
the land; such as improperly enticing a minor on board a
ship and there exercising unlawful authouity over him. The
substance and consummation of the wrong were on board
the vessel-on the high seas, or navigable waters-and the
injury complete within admiralty cognizance. It was the
tortious acts on board the vessel to which the jurisdiction
attached.
This class of cases may well be referred to as illustrating
the true meaning of the rule of locality in cases of marine
Thomas p. Lane, 2 Sumner, 2; The Huntress, per Ware, J., Davies,
85; United States v. MIagill, 1 Washington 0. C. 463 ; 4 Dallas, p. 345, 2d
ed.; rlumer v. Webb, 4 Mason, 383-4; 1 Kent, 867* and n.

Dec. 1865.]

THE PLYMOUTH.
Opinion of the court.

torts, namely, that the wrong and injury complained of must
have been committed wholly upon the high seas or navigable
waters, or, at least, the substance and consummation of the
same must have taken place upon these waters to be within
the admiralty jurisdiction. In other words the cause of
damage, in technical language, whatever else attended it,
must have been there complete.'
Much stress has been given to the fact, by the learned
counsel who would support the jurisdiction, in his argument, that the vessel which communicated the fire to the
wharf and buildings, was a maritime instrument, or agent,
and, hence, characterized the nature of the tort. In other
words, that this characterized it as a maritime tort, and, of
course, of admiralty cognizance.
But this, we think, is a misapprehension. The owner of a
vessel is liable for injuries done to third persons or property
by the negligence or malfeasance of the master and crew
while in the discharge of their duties and acting within the
scope of their authority. It is upon this principle that the
defendants are liable, if at all, to the libellants for the damages sustained. The circumstance that the agents were in
the employment of the owners on board the vessel, and that
the negligence occurred, while so employed, and which occasioned the damage, gives to the libellants the right of
action. But, if they had been employed upon any other
structure in the river-on a raft, or floating platform, for
work, on the river, and the fire had been communicated to
the wharf and buildings on account of their negligence
while so engaged, the right of action would have been the
same. The jurisdiction of the admiralty over maritime torts
does not depend upon the wrong having been committed
on board the vessel, but upon its having been committed
upon the high seas or other navigable waters.
A trespass on board of a vessel, or by the vessel itself,
above tide-water, when that was the limit of jurisdiction,
was not of admiralty cognizance. The reason was, that it
was not committed within the locality that gave the jurisdic.
tion. The vessel itself was unimportant. The fact, there-

TuE

PLYmOUTir.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fore, of its having taken place on board the propeller Falcon, in the present case, is not an element that imparts any
peculiar character to the nature of the tort complained of.
This is so in cases of collision, in which the offending vessel
may be attached and proceeded against as one of the remedies
for the wrong done. The jurisdiction of the admiralty does
not depend upon the fact th'at the injury was inflicted by the
vessel, but upon the locality-the high seas, or navigable
waters where it occurred. Every species of tort, however
occurring, and whether on board a vessel or not, if upon the
high seas or navigable waters, is of admiralty cognizance.
We can give, therefore, no particular weight or influence
to the consideration that the injury in the present case originated from the negligence of the servants of the respondents
on board of a vessel, except as evidence that it originated on
navigable waters-the Chicago River; and, as we have seen,
the simple fact that it originated there, but, the whole da
mage done upon land, the cause of action not being complete
on navigable waters, affords no ground for the exercise of
the admiralty jurisdiction. The negligence, of itself, furnishes no cause of action; it is damnum absqe injrwia. The
case is not distinguishable from that of a person standing on
a vessel, or on any other support in the river, and sending
a rocket or torpedo into the city, by means of which buildings were set on fire and destroyed. That would be a direct act of trespass; but quite as efficient a cause of damage,
as if the fire had proceeded from negligence. Could the admiralty take jurisdiction? We suppose the strongest advocate for this jurisdiction would hardly contend for it. Yet,
the origin of the trespass is upon navigable waters, which
are within its cognizance. The answer is, as already given:
the whole, or at least the substantial cause of action, arising
out of the wrong, must be complete within the locality upon
which the jurisdiction depends-on the high seas or navigable waters.'
The learned counsel, who argued this case for the appellants with great care and research, admitted that it was one
of first impression; that he could find no case in the books

Dec. 1S65.]

THE KIMBALL.
Statement of the case.

like it. The reason is apparent, for it is outside the acknow
ledged limit of admiralty cognizance over marine torts,
among which it has been sought to be classed. The remedy
for the injury belongs to the courts of common law.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE ]KIMBALL.
1. Stipulations in a charter-party requiring the delivery of the cargo within
reach of the ship's tackle, and providing that the balance of the chartermoney remaining unpaid on the termination of the homeward voyage
shall be " payable, one-half in five, and one-half in ten days after discharge" of the cargo, are not inconsistent with the right of the owner
to retain the cargo for the preservation of his lien.
2. A clause in a charter-party, by which the owner binds the vessel, and
the charterers bind the cargo, for the performance of their respective
covenants, is sufficient to repel doubt arising upon the construction of
other stipulations not plainly controlling them, as to whether the lien
for freight was intended to be waived by the parties.
3. By the general commercial law a promissory note does not extinguish
the debt for which it is given, unless such be the express agreement of
the parties; it only operates to extend until its maturity the period ';,r
the payment of the debt. The creditor may return the note when dishonored, and proceed upon the original debt. The acceptance of the
note is considered as accompanied with the condition of its payment.
And although in M3assachusetts the rule is different, and the presumption of law there is that a promissory note extinguishes the debt for
which it is given, yet there the presumption may be repelled by evidence
that such was not the intention of the parties; and this evidence may
arise from the general nature of the transaction, as well as from direct
testimonyto the fact.
4. Upon this ground it is not to be presumed that the owner of a ship, having
a lien upon a cargo for the payment of the freight, intended to waive
his lien by taking the notes of the charterers drawn so as to be payable
at the time of the expected arrival of the ship in port. The notes being
unpaid, he may return them and enforce his lien.

TiE owner of the Kimball chartered her, in July, 1856,
to a Boston firm, for a round voyage from New York to
Melbourne, Calcutta, and Boston. The charter-party, in
most of its provisions, was in the usual form. A portion of
the charter-money was to be paid, and was paid, before or

