UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

We tnink all the objections which were taken to the introduction of this record in evidence were properly overruled by the Circuit Court.
Whether the record from Adams County-read in evidence as a foundation for the introduction of a deed from
Dexter, the executor, which was a link in Green's chain of
title-was properly received, depends altogether upon the
laws of Illinois. In 1853, the legislature of that State
provided for the conveyance of real estate by non-resident
executors. The substance of the act has been stated on a
preceding page.* What the act requires was done in regard
to the will of Mr. J.B. James, and the record which was
resisted shows that the executor complied literally with its
requirements, and was authorized to execute the powers
given in the will, so far as to convey real estate in Illinois.
A certified copy of the record of the County Court of Adams
County became, under the general laws of the State, evidence.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. GOME .
1. Though the general rule in cases of appeal undoubtedly is thet the transcript of the record must be filed and the case docketed at the term next
succeeding the appeal, yet the rule necessarily has exceptions; and
where the appellant, without fault on his part, is prevented from seasonably obtaining the transcript by the fraud of the other party, or by
the ill-founded order of the court below, or by the contumacy of its
clerk, the rule will not apply.
2. Mandamus is the proper remedy, generally speaking, where the petition
for appeal is improperly denied, and it is an appropriate remedy to
compel the clerk, in case of refusal, to prepare and deliver the transcript; but where it is doubtful whether the remedy would be effectualas where the proceedings had been such that the question as to pendency of the appeal itself, could not well be determined without an inspection of the record-a resort to it is not obligatory. In such cases
* See supra, p. 748.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V.

GomEZ.

Statement of the case.
if the suit be an appeal in a land case from the California district, in
which the United States is a party, it may apply to the district attorney
for a transcript; the latter as well as the clerk having power under
an act of Congress of March 3, 1861, in such cases of appeal, to transcribe and certify the record to this court.
8. In proceedings under the act of March 3, 1851, for the settlement of private land claims in California, where the claimant produces neither a
concession nor a grant, and does not prove that he ever had possession
of the land described in his petition, the claim is rightly disallowed.
4. Where a decree was obtained by fraud, still if in form correct, it is sufficient as against the appellee to sustain the appeal, correct the error,
and dispose of the case.
THIS was an appeal, by the United States, from a decree
of the District Court for Southern California, under the act
of March 3, 1851, to settle private land claims in California,
reversing a decision of the Board of Land Commissioners,
and confirming to one Vincente Gomez a claim for a tract or
ran ho called the Panoche Grande.
So far as the title involved in the claim of Gomez was
concerned, the case could embrace nothing, of course, but
the question, whether title was shown or not; whether the
claim was well founded, or the reverse of it?
As respeeted this matter of the eclan. The petition of the
claimant to the governor was for a place described as Panoche Grande, of the extent of three square leagues. Appended to it was the customary i fdrme; but there was no
concession dr grant, nor sufficient evidence of the issue of a:
title. It was asserted, but not proved, that the claimant had
obtained the map in the record from the proper officer. One
witness only, of several examined, alleged that he had ever
seen the grant, and no possession was shown. A neighbor
of Gomez, who had lived for twenty years in the vicinity of
the land claimed, and had known Gomez and his father
before him, had never heard, as it appeared afterwards, of
Gomez having any land thereabouts. The commissioners
rejected the claim. Whether the District Court, on appeal,
if it had examined the case and been acting advisedly, would
have done the same, can only be inferred. It did not, however, examine the case, nor act advisedly. The person who
VOL. II1.

48

TTNTED STATES V. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

had been the counsel of Gomez, one Ord, having become the
representative at law of the United States as the district attorney for that part of California, entered into a bargain with
Gomez to allow a reversal, by the District Court, of the
decree of the board, and a consequent confirmation of the
claim, on condition of receiving himself a portion of the
land; which afterwards he did receive. By such an abuse
and betrayal of his official trust, as the reporter understood
the case, the decree above mentioned was obtained. So far
as Gomez was concerned, therefore, whatever title he had
derived no validity from the decree.
The allegation was, however, that the land was now owned
by MeGarrahan, who purchased it in December, 1857, after
a decree of confirmation was pronounced by the court, who
having had no'suspicion that there was anything fraudulent
in the judicial proceedings by which the title was confirmed,
was not affected by Ord's fraudulent act, and who stood in
the position of an innocent purchaser, without notice.
Representing this person, and desiring to get the case
di.mnissed from the court, as the first step in establishing his
title, 31essrs. Cushing and Stone, in his behalf, set up that this
court had no jurisdiction of the case. Urging, with what
force they could on the evidence, MleGarrahan's title as a
bon fide purchaser for value of a title regular on its face,
'they set up further, pressing it strongly, that the court had
no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal.
1st. Because the appeal was not taken within five years
from the date of the decree.
2d. Because there was no citation.
3d. Because the appeal was not entered at the term of
this court next succeeding the appeal.
4th. Because the pretended, appeal, by virtue of which this
entry was made, lost all its legal effect, by reason of the
subsequent proceedings, in the District Court, on the part
of the United States District Attorney.
5th. Because the decree appealed from was not a final
decree.
To understand these grounds, a narrative must be borne

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES v. GOMEZ.

Statement of the case.

with by the reader. Its particulars are complicated and
dull, perhaps, as well. The history has been once told in
the reports of two years since.* But not to refer the reader
for half the case to a volume which he may not have at
hand, the reporter must request him to tolerate a repetition,
and read it again.
The case was heard in the District Court of Southern
California, June 5, 1857; on which day the court delivered
its "opinion," confirming the claim for three leagues; and
ordering "a decee" to be entered up in conformity with the
opui/o. But no decree was entered at that time. Was it
that a thing begun in fraud found its author infirm of purpose, and was followed by irregularity? The cause did not
appear. On the 7th January, 1858, a decree in exei tmso was
filed, describing the land confirmed as "three" leagues.
The decree ended thus:
"And it appearing that, on the 5th June, 1857, the lands had
been confirmed by the court to the said claimant, and it having
been omitted to sign and enter a decree therefor, at the date la-st
aforesaid, it is ordered that the same be done now for then."
On the 4th of'Februaryof the same year, the court ordered
that the claimant "have leave to amend this decree by substituting anotklr in its stead." Gomez did accordingly, on
the day following, procure another decree to be entered. It
was much like the other, giving the name of the tract and
boundaries, as it did; describing it, however, as containing
four leagues. This decree ended thus:
"It appearing that, heretofore, to wit, on the 5th June, 1857,
&c., the claim in this case had been confirmed by the court, but
that it had been omitted by the court to sign the decree of confirmation at the time the same was made. It is, therefore,
further ordered by the court that the same be signed now as
then."
In due time, the sin of the district attorney found him
out. He withdrew from the country. And on motion of
* United States, v Gomez, 1 Wallace, 690,

UNITED STATES V. GomEZ.

[Sup. ct

Statement of the case.

the United States it was, on the 21st March, 1861, ordered
by the court (Ogier, J., sitting),
"That all proceedings heretofore had in the cause be set aside,
and the cause be put on the calendar, and set for trial de novo,
according to law."
But, behold a new incident! Mr. Justice Ogier died.
Another judge sat in his seat, and he, thinking that, after
the lapse of a year, no power had rested with his deceased
brother to alter or modify a decree, except to correct some
clerical error, "with great reluctance," on the 4th August,
1862, vacated the order of March 21, made by his predecessor.
The ease thus stood a decree entered on the 7th of January,
1858 (or possibly on the 5th of February following), as of
the 5th of June, 1857.
At the same term, on the 25th August, 1862, on motion in
open court-no citation having been issued-an appeal was
allowed the United States "from the decision and decree of
this court co)fIlrming the claim of the claimant herein:" and on the
6th October following, the district attorney, reciting that the
claimant was "desirous of moving the court to set aside the
order for appeal," agreed by entry made on the minutes that
all proceedings should be stayed till the next term, "so as
to give the claimant an opportunity to make such motion."
On 1st December, 1862, a motion to vacate the appeal was
made and heard, and on the 4th the order for appeal was
vacated; the grounds of the order being that the decree
having been entered nunc pro tune, took effect as from June
5th, 1857; and not from 7th January, 1858; thus, of course,
making more than five years to the 25th August, 1862, when
the appeal was allowed.
And now came an episode; one of a sort rather unusual
in judicial doings. The clerk of the District Court refused
to give a copy of the record. The appellants, represented by
Mr. Goold, of the California bar, "special counsel of the
United States," had asked for a copy on the 10th October,
after the appeal was allowed, and the clerk had promised to

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. GOMiEZ.
Statement of the case.

give it to him. Not getting it at the promised time, he asked
for it again on the 2d of December; the clerk now informed
the counsel "that he had eltaiuged his rnind on the subject, and
would not prepare or deliver a transcript in said cause."
Mr. Goold "offered to pay said clerk his customary fees for
a transcript of said record; but said clerk persisted in his
refusal to prepare one."
In anticipation, it would seem, of what was about to happen, the Congress of the United States had intervened, and
on the 6th of August, 1861, passed a statute enacting:*
"That the district attorney of the United States of any district in California may transcribe and certify to the Supreme
Court of the United States the records of the District Court of
his proper district in all land cases wherein the United States is
a party, upon which appeals have been or may be taken to the
Supreme Court of the United States; and records so certified by
such district attorney under his hand and filed in the Supreme
Court of the United States shall be taken as true and valid transcripts to the same intent and purpose as if certified by the clerk
of the proper district."
AefGarrahan in turn applied, 6th April, 1868, to the District Court (Hlaight, J.) for an injunction on the clerk and
attorney to restrain them from making out any transcript;
the ground of the application being that the copy asked for
was for the purpose of an appeal, and that no appeal was
pending. The court refused an injunction as not a proper
remedy, but-observing that no appeal was pending, or
from the lapse of time ever could be taken, and that the
district attorney had no power to certify copies under the
act of Congress except there was one, and that his certificate
would be null, accordingly-declared that procuring copies
on behalf of the United States iusuch a case was a fraud on
the government, and not to be tolerated, and that "in this
case as in most litigations which had come under his observation, private parties were seeking their own ends and
* 12 Stat. at Large, 320.

UNITED STATES v.

GoEZ.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

conducting litigations at the expense of the United States,
wherein the final result was matter of entire indifference so
far as the interest of the government was concerned,"
The attorney-general, Mr. Bates, in person now int.-rposed.
He wrote to the judge, and by letter sent to Mr. Go3old, at
San Francisco, directed him to obtain a copy, callivg on the
district attorney of the United States at San Frmacisco for
any needed "aid." Provision was again made for I he clerk's
fees. Telegrams were sent across the continent. But it was
in vain. Neither request, entreaty, demand, nor ,ffered fees
besides, procured the record.
The district attorney accordingly set to worl to prepare
and certify a roll himself. But the custody of rElls was not
with him. They were in the power of the clerk, ts had been
his own sign manual and official seal. The distr.ct attorney
could control the one no more than he could ,ontrol the
others. He happened, however, to possess copits of all the
parts of the record except the transcript sent ur. by the late
Board of Land Commissioners. Putting all ir- proper sequence, he prepared a transcript of a record, certilying "that
the foregoing one hundred and seven pages are a full, true,
and correct copy of all the proceedings, entries, and files in
the District Court for the Southern District of California, except the transcript from the late board, &c., in the case of
United States v. Gomez, No. 393, for the claim called Panoche
Gr'ande."

On this record the case came here, and was docketed in
February, 1864.
Soon after it came the then counsel of Gomez, or of his
successor in interest, made a motion to distmiss the case. The
ground of the motion was that the court had no jurisdiction
to hear and determine the same1. Becaune the five years within which an appeal can be
taken had expired before the appeal was claimed and allowed.
2. Because the entry of the appeal was made without
authority and had been set aside.
3.Because there was no citation.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES

v. GOMEZ.

Statement of the case.

4. Because the appeal was not seasonably prosecuted.
5. Because the transcript of the record was incomplete.
Comparing the reasons now assigned (see sup)ra, p. 754) by
27esss. Cuttiny J- Slone, on the regular calling of the case,
for refs
' fiag
to hear, with those just mentioned as assigned
two years ago, by other counsel, iW advance of regular call,
on a motion to dismdss, the reader will perceive that they are
in effect, except in the fifth one, the same reasons. And if
the court on the mere motion to dismiss had deemed it best
to take up and consider all the five reasons on that motion
assigned, and fully and finally to dispose of each one-the
fact that they had refused to dismiss the case would have
been, of course, a bar to a further presentation of any of
those same reasons now: as a cause for declining to hear it.
But they did not deem this best. They considered the 1st,
3d, and 5th of the reasons, in the order in which they stand
just preceding. Considering tMewz, they declared them not
well founded: holding1st. That the decree dated from 7th January, 1858, and
not from the prior date of June 5th, 1857.
3d. That a citation was unnecessary.
5th. That the transcript certified by the district attorney
was sufficient.
But on the 2d and 4th reasons assigned they said nothing:
and remarked in conclusion as follows:
"In view of the whole case our conclusion is that the motion
to dismiss the appeal must be overruled. Effect of the motion
if granted would be to leave the decree below in fullforce and unreversed; wh ieh is a result that at presentwe are not pre6paredto Savct,on . TVheit the cause comes up 'uponits "meritswe shall desire to
hear the counsel on the question whether there is any valid decree
in the case, and if not as to what will be the proper directions
to be given inthe cause. Those questions are not involved in
the motion to dismiss."
The case had now "come up upon its merits;" when, interpreting the old case "as really nothing more than a declaration that the court were not then prepared to pass finally

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.

[Sap. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

upon the rights of the parties," the counsel for the appellee
put forward all the old points again. Those already distinctly
passed upon, the court did not, however, consider open.
The second one it considered as disposed of by what was
said about the first. And, disincumbered of a quantity of
irrelative matter, by which they were surrounded and confused, the questions now before the court were:
1. Whether under the circumstances of this case the appeal, if a final decree, and legally taken and allowed, had
been ineffective for want of seasonable prosecution; the
general rule being confessedly that the transcript must be
filed here and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the appeal?
2. If the appeal had not become iaeffective, how did the
claim stand upon merits?
3.Whether, if the decree was invalid and void, it had
such vitality as that this court would sustain an appeal upon
it, and reform and correct it.
Messrs. Black and Gooldifor the United States.
Mr. Jastice CLIFFOIRD delivered the opinion of the court.
Claim of the appellee, as described in his petition to the
land commissioners, was for a tract of land situated in California called .Panoche Grande, of the extent of four square
leagues, and he alleged that the tract was granted to him, in
the year 1844, by Governor Manuel Micheltorena. Unable
to exhibit his title-papers, as required by the act of Congress
upon the subject, he relied upon parol proof to show their
existence, loss, and contents. Commissioners rejected the
claim, and the claimant appealed to the District Court,
where the claim for the whole tract was confirmed. Final
decrce, as amended, was entered on the fifth day of February, 1858; and on the twenty-fifth day of August, 1862,
the appeal of the United States was allowed.
1. Appellants insist that the claim is utterly without merit,
and that the decree of the District Court should be reversed.
01 the other hand, the claimant denies that this court has

Dee. 1865.]

U.NITED STATES

,e. GoiiEZ.

Opinion of the court.

jurisdiction of the cause, and contends that the appeal should
be dismissed. Principal difficulty in the case grows out of
certain proceedings in the cause, which have taken place
since it first made its appearance in this court. Docket
entries for the December Term, 1858, show that the case was
first presented here at that term by the claimant, as an appeal not prosecuted, and that it was, on the production of
the record, on his motion, dismissed in conformity to the
rules of court for the want of prosecution. Mandate of the
court dismissing the appeal was, on the eighteenth day of
March following, delivered to the assignee of the claimant.
2. Yothing further was done in the cause in this court
until the December Term, 1859, when the attorney-general
filed a motion to rescind the decree dismissing the cause,
and to revoke the mandate, basing the motion upon the
ground that the decree and mandate had both been procured
by misrepresentation and fraud. Minutes of the clerk, also,
show that he filed his motion on the twenty-seventh day of
January, 1860, and that the claimant, on the second day of
March following, filed three other motions. First motion
of the claimant was for mandamus to the District Court, to
compel the judge to file the mandate and permit the execution of the decree confirming the claim. Second motion
was for mandamus to compel the District Court to dismiss
an application before it to open the decree and grant a rehearing. Third motion was for mandamus'to compel the
surveyor-general to survey the land confirmed by the decree.
All those motions were heard at the same time, and the
court overruled the several motions of the claimant, and
entered a decree rescinding the decree dismissing the appeal, and revoked and cancelled the mandate as moved by
the attorney-general.* Affidavits offered showed that no
appeal had been taken by the United States, and that the
statement that such an order had been made as was exhibited
in the transcript and filed in the case was false. They showed
not only that the United States had not appealed, but that a
V United States v. Gomez, 23 Howard, 326.

UNITED STATES V.

GoMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

motion filed by their special counsel for a rehearing was still
pending in the District Court. Decision of the court, therefore, was, that the appeal was not before the court when the
cause was docketed and dismissed.
3. Next appearance of the cause here was at the December Term, 1863, which is the appeal now before the court.
Record was filed and the cause docketed on the twenty-ninth
day of February, 1864; and on the thirty-first day of March
following the claimant filed a motion to dismiss the appeal,
because, as therein alleged; this court had no jurisdiction
"to hear and determine the same." 1. Because the five
years within which an appeal can be taken, had expired
before the appeal was claimed and allowed. 2. Because the
entry of the appeal was made without authority, and had
been set aside. 3. Because there was no citation. 4. Because the appeal was not seasonably prosecuted. 5. Because the transcript of the record was incomplete. Parties
were heard upon that motion, and on the eighteenth day of
April, of the same year, it was unanimously overruled.:-4. Coming to the present term of the court, the docket
entries show that the motion under consideration was filed
by the claimant on the ninth day of February last. He
moved the court to strike out certain matters printed in the
record, and requested the court to determine the fourth
cause assigned in the motion of the preceding term for the
dismissal of the cause, which, as he alleges, was not noticed,
considered, or decided, when the motion was overruled and
denied. Both branches of the motion were subsequently
argued by counsel, and on the twenty-sixth day of February
last the motion was overruled; but the Chief Justice, in announcing the result, remarked that the question of jurisdiction would be open when the cause should be argued upon
the merits.
Since that time, the cause has been reached in the regular
nall of the docket, and has been fully argued on both sides.
Claimant still denies the jurisdiction of the court, and the
* United States v. Gomez, 1 Wallace, 698.

Dec. 1865'.]

UNITED STATES

v. GOmEz.

Opinion of the court.

counsel have reargued all the questions of jurisdiction presented for decision in the original motion to dismiss.
5. Three of those questions, to wit, the first, third, and
fifth, were carefully examined and decided by this court
during the same term in which the motion was filed, and it
is only necessary to refer to that decision as the final determination of the court.* Special mention was not made of
the second question presented in the motion, because what
was said by the court, in disposing of the first question,
rendered any further remarks upon that subject unnecessary. Express statement of the opinion is, that the appeal
to this court was allowed on the day therein specified. But
the suggestion is, that the court did not decide the fourth
question presented for decision, and the suggestion, so far
as it applies to the opinion of the court, is certainly well
founded.
Fourth objection to the jurisdiction of the court was, that
the appeal, even if legally taken and allowed, became null
and void for the want of seasonable prosecution. General
rule, as established by repeated decisions, undoubtedly is,
that the transcript must be filed here, and the case docketed
at the term next succeeding the appeal, in order to give this
court jurisdiction.t Argument upon that subject is unnecessary, as the rule has been reaffirmed at this term in an
opinion delivered by the Chief Justice.1 Unless the case,
therefore, falls within some exception to the general rule of
practice, as derived from the act of Congress allowing appeals, the motion of the claimant must prevail.
0. Certain exceptions to that general rule are recognized
and allowed, which are as well established as the rule itself.
They are admitted as indispensable limitations to guard
against fraud and circumvention, and to prevent a failure of
justice. Where the appellant, having seasonably procured
the allowance of the appeal, is prevented from obtaining the
transcript by the fraud of the other party, or by the order
United States v. Gomez, 1 -Wallace, 698.
t Steamer Virginia v. West, 19 Howard, 182.
$ Castro v. United States, suapa, 46.

UNITED STATES V.

GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the court, or by the contumacy of the clerk, the rule does
not apply, provided it appears that the appellant was guilty
of no laches, or want of diligence, in his efforts to prosecute
the appeal.* Order allowing the appeal in this case was
entered on the twenty-fifth day of August, 1862; but on the
sixth day of October following, a stipulation was entered in
the minutes, that the transcript should be withheld until the
next term of that court, in order to give the claimant an
opportunity to move the court to set aside the order of appeal. Such a motion was accordingly made by the claimant
on the first day of the succeeding December; and on the
fourth day of the same month the court directed that the
order allowing the appeal should be vacated and set aside.
Reason for vacating the appeal as assigned was, that the five
years had expired before it was allowed, which is directly
contrary to the decision of this court, and consequently
must be considered as overruled.t Although the decision
of the court was erroneous, still the proceedings under the
motion had the effect to prevent the appellants, in the meantime, from obtaining a copy of the transcript.
Session of this court for that term commenced four days
before the order of the District Court was announced, vacating the appeal. Suppose the explanatory facts stopped
here, it might well be assumed that it was the conduct of
the claimant and the action of the court which prevented
the appellants from seasonably perfecting the appeal; but
they do not, by any means, stop at that point. Appellants
demanded the transcript on the tenth day of October next
after the appeal was allowed, and the clerk agreed that it
should be prepared and delivered. Failing to obtain it,
they, on the second day of December following, again demanded it, and then, for the first time, were informed by
the clerk, that he would not furnish the document. Present
claimant, on the sixth day of April, 1863, instituted a proceeding in the District Court, to enjoin the clerk and district
* United States v. Booth, 21 Howard, 512.

t United States v. Gomez, 1 Wallace, 699.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. GoimEZ.
Opinion of the court.

attorney from making out and certifying the transcript of
the record, upon the ground that the order allowing the
appeal was entered without authority of law, and that the
appeal bad been properly revoked and set aside. Result
was, that the judge refused to grant the injunction; but he
reiterated his opinion that no appeal was pending, and remarked that the procuring copies for the United States, in
such a case, was a fraud upon the government and was not
to be tolerated.
Six times the demand was made of the clerk for the transcript, and the request, as often as it was made, was refused.
Such demand was made by the special counsel of the United
States, and by the district attorney, and by the authority
and direction of the attorney-general. Throughout, the
clerk refused to furnish the transcript; but finally consented
to furnish the attorney-general a copy of each paper in the
case; and those separate papers, it is understood, were appended together and duly certified by the district attorney,
as appears in the record.*
7. Assuming the facts to be as stated, it is obvious that
the case fhlls within the exception to the general rule, as
recognized and established in the case of United ,States v.
Bootb, to which reference has already been made. -Writof
error in that case was returnable at the December Term,
1855, and it was accompanied by a citation requiring the
defendant to appear on the first day of that term. No return, however, was made at that time, and on the first day
of February following, the attorney-general filed affidavits,
showing that the writ of error and citation had been duly
served, and that the State court had directed the clerk to
make no return. Whereupon this court passed an order
commanding the clerk of the State court to make the required return, and the cause was continued; but none such
was ever made. Unable to procure any such return, the
attorney-general was allowed, on the 27th day of February,
1857, to file the copy of the record produced when the ap* 12 Stat. at Large, 20.

J'NITED STATES V. GOmEZ.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

plication was made for the writ of error, and on the sixth
day of March following, the court ordered that it should
have the same effect as if it had been regularly filed by the
clerk. Evidently the power to retain jurisdiction in the case
before the court is even better supported than it was in that
case, because the transcript in this case is duly certified
under a new provision in a subsequent act of Congress.*
8. Mandamus unquestionably is the proper remedy where
the appeal is refused, and it is an appropriate remedy to
compel the production of the transcript. Strong doubts are
entertained, however, whether it would have been an adequate remedy in this case, because it is more than probable
that, if the motion had been made, the affidavits showing
the refusal of the clerk to furnish a copy, would have been
met by counter affidavits, showing that the appeal had been
vacated; and in that state of the case it would have been
difficult for the court to have decided what was right and
proper between the parties, without the opportunity of inspecting the record.
Grant, however, that the appellants might have had an
adequate remedy in a motion to this court for a mandamus,
still it is clear that they had a right, under the circumstances
of this case, to invoke the benefit of the special provision in
the act of Congress referred to as a cumulative means of
securing their rights. Application was accordingly made to
the district attorney, and he, without delay, made the certificate exhibited in the record. Conclusion therefore is, that
the case, in either point of view, is regularly before the
court, and all the motions to dismiss are overruled.
9. Regarding the case as regularly before the court, it becomes necessary to examine the merits of the claim. Some
suspicion attaches to the claim, because it is made for four
leagues of land, whereas the only document introduced in
support of it, which is of the least probative force, represents
the original claimant as having asked for but three leagues.
Document referred to purports to be the petition of the
* 12 Stat. at Large, 320.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES

v.

GOMEZ.

Opinion of the court.

-laimant to the governor, and there is appended to it the
usual iiforine; but there is no concession or grant, nor is
there any satisfactory evidence that any title of any kind was
ever issued by the governor to the claimant. Hle states in
his petition to the land commissioners, that he obtained the

map in the record from the proper officers of the department;
but the alleged fact is not satisfactorily proved. Four witnesses were examined by the claimant before the land commissioners, but only one of the number pretended that he
had ever seen the grant, and his statements are quite too indefinite to be received as satisfactory proof.
Instead of proving possession under the grant, it is satisfactorily shown that he never occupied it at all; and it is
doubtful if he ever saw the premises during the Mlexican
rule. Land commissioners rejected the claim, but before it
came up for hearing in the District Court, his attorney had
been appointed district attorney of the United States; and
the proofs show that he conveyed two leagues of the land to
the district attorney. Circumstances of the confirmation of
the claim in the District Court are fully stated in the opinion
of this court given when the mandate was revoked and recalled.* Comment upon those circumstances is unnecessary, except to say that the confirmation was fraudulently
obtained.
Although the decree was fraudulently obtained, still, inasmuch as it is correct in form, it is sufficient to sustain the
appeal for the purpose of correcting the error. Party who
procured it cannot be allowed to object to its validity as a
means of perpetuating the fraud, especially as he did not appeal friom the decree.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to
DIsMISS THE PETITION.

United States v. Gomez, 23 Howard, 389.

