BLOSSOM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mony of the attorney. I think it was properly excluded as
falling within the rule of privileged communication; and I
am also of the opinion that the suggestion of waiver is utterly without foundation or just pretence.
3. Reference is made in the third place to the construction given to the charge of the Circuit Court. Rightly interpreted, the charge, as it seems to me, is correct; but the
opinion of the majority of the court places a construction
upon it which I think does great injustice to the judge who
presided at the trial.
Having stated the three propositions to which I dissent, I
do not wish to add anything to the statement.

BLOSSOM v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. A bidder at a judicial sale at public auction, -whose bid has not been ai
cepted,-the sale being adjourned for sufficient cause and finally di&
continued-cannot insist, even though he have been the highest ana
best bidder, on leave to pay the amount of his bid, and have a confirmation of the sale to him.
2. The marshal, or other officer, who makes a sale of real property under a
decree of foreclosure, possesses the power, for good cause shown, in the
exercise of a sound discretion, and in subordination to the superior
control of the court over the whole matter of the sale, to adjourn the
sale from time to time.
8. In a case where the decree was that the sale should be made unless the
mortgagorsshould previously pay the mortgage debt, a few short adjournments for the purpose of enabling the mortgagors to make an arrangement to pay it, are adjournments for sufficient cause, although such
adjournments have been made by direction of the complainant's solicitor. And if, prior to the day to which the sale stands adjourned,
the mortgagors -come in and pay the complainants the amount of the
decree, &c., the sale may properly be discontinued altogether.

TnE Milwaukee and Chicago Railroad having mortgaged
their raili oad, and suit having been brought in the Federal
court for Wisconsin, to foreclose the mortgage, a decree
was obtained that the mortgaged premises should be sold at

Dec. 1865.]

BLossoM v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

:publie auction, under the direction of the marshal, wnless the
mortgagors, previously to such sale, should pay to the coprnlainants the sum of 8254,175-the amount of the decree. The
marshal, accordingly, offered the premises for sale on the
6th of June, 1862, but no bids being received, he adjourned
it "by direction of the complainant's solicitor," to the 19th
of the same month, at the same hour and place. At the
time and place of adjournment he put up the premises again,
and one Blossom bid $250,000 for them; this being the highest and best bid received at that time. Fearing that the
property would be sacrificed, if the sale should be completed,
the agent of the stockholders applied to the solicitors of the
comnptlainats, requesting that the sale might be postponed
for a short time to enable the respondents to make some
arrangements to pay the amount of the decree without a
sale of the property. The solicitors gave such directions, and
the marshal again adjourned the sale; the adjournment being
to the 21st June-two days-and the marshal giving notice
that at the expiration of this time the sale would be opened
at the same hour and place, and with the bid of $250,000
already made by Blossom. During these two days the mortgagors made arrangements to pay the mortgage, but had
not been able by the 21st to have the money actually in
hand. The sale, after being opened, and after Blossom had
increased his bid to the full amount of the mortgage debtbut no other bids being received-was again adjourned by
direction of the cornplabant'ssolicitor; this adjournment being
to the 1st October, 1862, and being also the second adjournment made by direction of the solicitor aforesaid, after the
bid of $250,000 had been made. On this 1st October the
sale was again opened, and by the same direction further adjourned till the 15th January, 1863; this being, of course,
the third adjournment made by the same direction, and after
Blossom's bid. Previous to this 15th January, however, the
company had paid the amount of the decree, and the marshal by order of the complabant's solicitor discontinued the
sale altogether.
On the 9th October, 1862, Blossom, by petition to the

BLOSSOI V.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the appellant.

court below-sworn to and stating that "he made both bids
in good faith, and has been ever since and now is ready to
comply with his said bid, and hereby offers to bring that
amount into court"-applied to have the sale confirmed to
him on his bid as increased to the full amount of the decree
of foreclosure and sale, but the court denied the petition,
and he appealed here.
It having been lately decided in this court, on a motion to
dismiss his appeal, that he was entitled to be heard here,*
his case now came on upon its merits.
Messrs. Cushing and Carpenter,for the appellant Blossom.
I. As to the effect of the bid: When this case was here before,
the court said: "A purchaser or a bidder at a master's sale
in chancery subjects himself quoad hoc to the jurisdiction of
the court, anid can be compelled to perform his agreement
specifically. It would seem that he must acquire a corresponding right to appear and claim at the hands of the court,
such relief as the rules of equity proceedings entitle him to."
What then are the rights which a purchaser, a stranger to
the suit, acquires, by making a bond fide bid, which he offers
to give effect to by payment to the marshal?
In foreclosures under decree in chancery, the mortgagee
asks the court to take to itself the mortgaged premises, and
hold or dispose of them for his benefit. This the court does
by ordering the property to be sold to raise the amount due.
"1Adecree for a sale to effect a partition, or to pay debts,
virtually," says one case,t "takes possession of the estate and
vests it in the court for the purpose of distribution." The rights
of all parties are in fact merged in the decree of foreclosure,
and possession is vested by the decree of sale in the court,
for the purpose of enabling it to sell the property and give
possession. In one New York case,t the chancellor says:
"Both parties appear to have fallen into the very common
error of supposing that the owner of the decree had the
* Blossom v. Railroad Co., 1 Wallace, 655.
t Williams's Case, 3 Bland, 215.
1 Snyder v. Stafford, 11 Paige, 76.

Dec. 1865.]

BLOSSOM1 v. RAILROAD COMPA,3TY.
Argument for the appellant.

right to control the action of the master, and to direct which
parcel should first be sold;"-an error which the chancellor
repels. In another,* it was held, that the complainant in
whose favor a decree had been rendered in a foreclosure
case, could not control its execution to the prejudice of other
parties interested; and that defendants might apply to the
court to have the execution of the decree committed to
them, if the complainant unreasonably neglected to proceed
to a sale. In a third,t Nelson, J., speaking of sales by the
master in foreclosure causes, says: "I am aware that these
officers usually follow the direction of the plaintiff, or his
solicitor, in this respect, and their interest perhaps may lead
them to do so, as they are usually selected by the parties,
but there is nothing in the nature of the office, or the duties belonging to it, which puts them under the control of the parties. The
interposition of an officer to sell the property of defendants
at auction would be a useless ceremony if the officer wavs to be
vnder the direction of theplaintff. If the master is not only
independent of the party, but bound to execute the functions
of his office, I should like to know upon what principle the
bid of a party or his solicitor can be at all sustained. The
party would be substantially both auctioneer and bidder."
In sales under decrees, according to the English practice,
there is no such thing as striking off or knocking down the
property. The bids are received, and the best bid is reported
to the court. The form of a report is as follows :t "George
Ansley attended the sale," &c., and offered to give for the
purchase of, &c., "and no person having offered to give
more for the said," &c., "Ido allow the said George Ansley
to be the best purchaser thereof," &c., &c. In all the English cases the language is, "A. R. having been reported the
best bidder or purchaser."
In Blount v. Blount,ยง Lord flardwicke, says: "Where
estates for lives have dropped in between a person's being
* Kelly v. Israel, Id. 147.

- Collier v. Whipple, 13 Wendell, 224.
: Bunnet'OMaster, 125.
3 Atkyns, 637; and see Ex parte Manning, 2 Peere Williams, 410.

BLOSSOM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

reported the best purchaser by the master, and his taking
possession," &c. ;-showing that the master does not pretend
to strike off the property, but simply reports the facts to the
court. It is the court then that enters into contract relatons with strangers to the suit, whom it invites by its advertisement to become purchasers of the property; and it is
of no consequence whether the marshal strike off the property or not. He cannot thereby complete the sale: it must
be confirmed by the court. In sales on execution the officer
completes the sale, and therefore it is the striking off of the
property that evidences its consummation. But in a sale
under decree, the officer need only report to the court who
is the highest and best bidder.
In the New York case of Brown v. Frost,* it was asserted
at the bar to be a rule of chancery that the right of redemption remains after the biddings until the sale was confirmed
by the court. But the chancellor says: "If such a rule exists it is one which I never heard of before; and no such
right has ever been claimed by the owner of mortgaged premises, in any suit or proceedings before me, during the fifteen years in which I have presided in this court. .

.

. The

fon-aer owner of the equity of redemption cannot prevent the completion of the sale, and the confirmation of the report, by tendering
or offering to pay the amount of the decree, with interest and costs."
If Blossom had refused to perform his part of the contract, or had been unable to do so, the court might have
ordered the property to be resold at his risk, holding him
liable for any deficiency.t The bid compelled him to keep
this large sum at command to meet it. Good faith and
public policy require that he should be protected in the corresponding rights acquired by him as a purchaser.
I. As to the adjournments. Here are no less than four different adjournments-running over a term of seven months
-for the mere purpose of enabling a delinquent debtor to
* 10 Paige, 246-7.
- Ahillikin v. 21illikin, 1 Bland, 541; Harding v. Harding, 4 Mylne &
Craig, 514; Gray v. Gray, 1 Bevan, 199.

Dec. 1865.]

BLossoM v.

RAiLROAD COMPANY.

201

Argument for the appellees.

redeem. Blossom, on the 19th June,-the day when the sale
was adjourned for the second time,-having bid nearly the
whole amount of the debt due, the large sum of $250,000.
If this court shall hold that he acquired no rights by so
doing; that the complainants had the right to control the
marshal, and continue the sale from time to time, at their
pleasure, until the purchaser should be ruined by keeping
his money at command, what bon fide bidder will ever again
incur the hazard and inequality of such a rule, by bidding
for property hereafter offered for sale by a Federal court?
Certainly the right claimed by the complainants would put
every mortgaged railway corporation in the power of its
mortgagors, and would enable them to acquire its property
at their own price. For if they have the power to adjourn
the sale three times, they may a hundred, and until every
competent bidder is ruined, or consents to withdraw from
the biddings. The complainants can then buy for what
they will.
MIessrs. Cary, Buckley, and Brown, contra.
I. What was thte effect of the bid? By appearing at the sale
and bidding for the property, Blossom simply made a proposition, which, if it had been accepted, would have bound
him to its performance; but until it was accepted, and the
sale was consummated by the property, on that bid, being
struck off, he was not bound, and he was at liberty to withdraw his bid at any time he chose before such acceptance.
The American practice ofjudicial sales is to sell at auction,
and in all cases the officer making the sale designates the
purchaser by accepting his bid, and formally strikig off the
property to him, in presence of the spectators. In this case
the order of the decree was express that the property should
be sold at public auction, and the well-settled rule that a
bidder may at any time retract, of course applies.
Again, the officer does in all cases report that he has sold
the property, naming the person purchasing; also, stating
the amount for which the sale was made, and that it was the
highest and best bid. It is true that all such sales are within

BLOSSOM V.

RAILROAD

OMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

the power of the court, either to confirm or to set aside. But
the court never cQnfirms or sets aside a sale until it has been
made and reported by its officer; and probably the case at
bar is the first instance of an attempt in this country to have
an unaccepted bid, at a judicial sale, declared a valid and
binding sale, and confirmed as such. Under our practice,
there is no difference whether the sale is on execution or
under a decree, so far as striking off the property to the
highest bidder is concerned, in order to consummate a sale.
We are aware that the English practice is somewhat different; but their practice, in this respect, is not in force in
this country. If, however, the practice of the English courts
of chancery is to govern, then no bid was ever made. In
England, the officer has a book in which each person writes
out his proposition and signs it. N1o other form of bids is
considered; here there was no written offer, and no memorandum made by the marshal or signed by them. And even
after the biddings are closed and the purchase-money paid,
the bidder in England acquired no interest in the land until
after confirmation. And if the premises are destroyed by
fire, the bidder is not bound by his bid.*
II. As to the adjournments. The decree itself gives the
defendant the right to pay off the mortgage at any time
before the sale; not before the day of sale, or the hour of
sale, or before the first bid, but before the sale itself. But
when has a sale taken place? It is when the biddings are
completed as required by the rules and practice of the court;
when the marshal has ascertained by actual experiment
(crying the property, and awaiting a reasonable time) that
higher bids than those already made cannot be obtained;
and has by public declaration so determined, that the sale
has taken place.
That a defendant cannot, at any time before a sale of his
property is consummated, prevent such a sale by the payment of the judgment or decree, to satisfy which alone the sale
is made, is a doctrine not to be entertained. The object of
* Ex parte Minor, 11 Vesey, 559; Turgg v. Fifield, 18 Id. 517.

Dec. 1865.]

BLossoM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

courts of chancery is not to punish the mortgagor or sell his
property, but to protect the ultimate rights of the mortgagee.
It will, therefore, allow the defendant every indulgence consistent with those rights. Even at law the officer is bound
to protect the property against sacrifice, and may postpone
the sale in the exercise of a sound discretion, after bids.*
The case does not at all show that Blossom was compelled,
as argued on the other side, to keep a large sum of money
on hand to meet his bid, or that he ever could have raised
it. He made no tender of money, and this alone would be
conclusive against him.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Respondents mortgaged their railroad to certain trustees
as a security for moneys loaned and advances of various
kinds, and to defray the current expenses of operating the
railroad and of keeping the same in repair. Suit was brought
by the trustees and certain creditors, named in the bill of
complaint, to foreclose the mortgage for a breach of the conditions, and the cause proceeded to a decree of foreclosure
and of sale. Substance of the decree was that the mortgaged
premises should be sold at public auction, under the direction of the marshal of the district, unless the mortgagors
should pay to the complainants, previous to the sale, the sum
of two hundred and fifty-four thousand one hundred and
seventy-five dollars, with interest from the date of the decree. Pursuant to that decree, the marshal, on the 6th day
of June, 1862, offered the mortgaged premises for sale, but
as no bids were received he adjourned the sale, under the
instructions of the solicitors of the complainants, to the 19th
day of the same month, at the same hour and place.
Report of the marshal also shows that he again offered the
premises for sale at the time and place of adjournment, and
that the appellant bid for the same the sum of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, which was the highest and best
* Tin1hham v. rurdy, 5 Johnson, 345; Leader v. Denney, 1 Bosanquet &
Fuller, 859.

BLOSS0M V. RAILROAD COMXPANY.

[Sup. Ct'

Opinion of the court.

bid received at that time. Fearing that the stock would be
sacrificed if the sale should be completed, the agent of the
stockholders made application to the solicitors of the complainants, requesting that the sale might be postponed for a
short time, to enable the respondents to make some arrangements to pay the mortgage debt without a sale of the property. Yielding to that suggestion the solicitors gave such
directions, and the marshal accordingly adjourned the sale
for the period of two days, giving notice at the time that the
sale at the expiration of that period would be again opened
at the same hour and place, and that the bid of the appellant
would be regarded as pending.
Such an arrangement having been negotiated during those
two days, a further adjournment became necessary to enable
the parties to carry it into effect; but when the sale was
opened for that purpose the appellant was present and increased his bid to the full amount of the mortgage debt,
including interest, costs, and expenses of sale. No other bids
having been made the sale was adjourned, as directed, to the
1st day of October, and afterwards to the 15th day of January following, but before the day to which the last adjournment was made the respondents paid the amount of the
decree to the complainants, and the sale was discontinued.
Record also shows that the appellant applied to the court
by petition on the 9th day of October, 1862, to have the sale
confirmed to him on his bid as increased to the full amount
of the decree of foreclosure and sale, but the court denied
4he prayer of the petition, and from that order the petitioner
appealed to this court.
1. Appellant contends that inasmuch as he bid the full
amount of the decree, interest, and costs, at a time when the
mortgaged premises were duly offered for sale, and inasmuch
as his bid was the highest and best bid offered for the prem"ises, it became and was the duty of the marshal to have struck
off the property to him as the legal purchaser of the same,
and that the District Court erred in denying his petition for
the confirmation of the sale. On the other hand, the respon-

Dec. 1865.]

BLossoM V. RAILRLOAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

dents deny that any sale was ever made, and insist that the
bid of the appellant was a mere ofer of purchase, which he
might withdraw at any time before the bid was accepted or
the property was struck off to him, and an entry to that
effect was made by the marshal.
2. Sales of mortgaged premises under a decree of foreclosure and sale are usually made in the Federal courts by
the marshal of the district where the decree was entered, or
by the master appointed by the court, as directed in the
decree. Such sales must be made by the person designated
in the decree, or under his immediate direction and supervision, but he may employ an auctioneer to conduct the sale
if it be made in his presence. Express directions of the
decree in this case were that the mortgaged premises should
be sold at public auction, unless the respondents, as mortgagors, should, previously to such sale, pay to the complainants the amount of the mortgage debt, as specified in
the decree.
3. Contracts for the purchase and sale of goods or lands at
public auction are contracts founded upon mutual promises
and a mutuality of obligation, and consequently they cannot
be regarded as having been perfected and made binding
unless they have received the consent of the parties. Consent of parties being essential to the contract set up in this
case, it becomes important to ascertain in what way and to
what extent such assent must be manifested, and to distinguish accurately between mere offers or proposals by the
one party not accepted or approved by the other, and mutual
and positive engagements which neither party can retract or
withdraw.*
Unaccepted offers to enter into a contract bind neither
party, and can give rise to no cause of action; as, for example, if one merchant offer to sell goods to another, such
an offer is not binding until it has been in some form accepted by the party to whom it was made. Liability cannot
arise in such a case, because the party making the offer can.
* Addison on Contracts (ed. 1857), 23-154.

BLOSSOM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not be held answerable to the other for not selling the goods,
unless that other by accepting the offer has bound himself
to purchase.
4. Biddings at an auction, says Mr. Addison, are mere
offers, which may be retracted at any time before the hammer is down and the offer has been accepted.* Leading case
upon that subject is that of Paine v. Cave,t where it was
expressly held that every bidding at an auction is nothing
more than an offer on one side until it has received the
assent of the auctioneer as the agent of the owner. Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania held, in the case of F'isher v. Leitzer,j

that a bidder at a sheriff's sale has a right to retract his bid
before the property is struck down to him, and that the
sheriff has no right to prescribe conditions which will deprive him of such a right. Express ruling was that a bid at
an auction before the hammer falls is like an offer before
acceptance, and that when the bid is withdrawn before it is
accepted there is no contract, and that such a bidder cannot
be regarded in any sense as a purchaser. Rule, as laid down
in the last edition of "Story on Sales," is substantially the
same as that adopted in the preceding case. Speaking of
ordinary sales at an auction, the author says that the seller
may withdraw the goods or the bidder may retract his bid
at any time before they are struck off, and the reason assigned for the rule is, that so long as the final consent of both
parties is not signified by the blow of the hammer there is
no mutual agreement to a definite proposition.ยง But as soon
as the hammer is struck down, says the same author, the
bargain is considered as concluded, and the seller has no
right afterwards to accept a higher bid nor the buyer to
withdraw from the contract.II Same rules prevail upon a
sale under common law process as in other cases of sales at
* Addison on Contracts (ed. 1857), 26.

j 3 Term, 148.
j 23 Pennsylvania State, 808.
1 Sugden on Vendors and Purchasers, 25.
lutlidge v. Grant, 4 Bingham, 653; Cook v. Oxley, 3 Term, 654t
Adams v. Linsdell, 1 Barnewall & Alderson, 681; Story on Sales, ?.
461.

Dec. 1865.]

BLOSSOM V. IAILROAD COMPANY.

207

Opinion of the court.

public auction, so far as respects the question now before
the court. Until the property is actually struck off to the
bidder he may withdraw his bid as a mere offer or proposition.*

5. Judicial sales made under the decretal orders of courts
of chancery, are also, in this country, governed substantially
by the same rules, except that such sales are usually made
by the marshal, or a master in chancery acting as an officer
of the court, and are always regarded as under the control
of the court, and subject to the power of the court to set the
sale aside for good cause shown, or open it any time before it
has been confirmed, if the circumstances of the case require
the exercise of that power. Doubtless such sales are usually
conducted under the advice of the solicitor of the complainant, and it is sometimes said that the solicitor, in all questions arising between the vendor and purchaser, must be
considered as the agent of all the parties to the suit; but it
is believed that the remark must be received with some
qualification.t Suppose it to be so, however, in a qualified
sense; still it is true that the marshal or master, as the case
may be, is the officer of the court, and that as such his acts
and proceedings are subject to the revision and control of
the court.1 In sales directed by a court of chancery, says
Judge Story, the whole business is transacted by a public
officer, under the guidance and superintendence of the court
itself. Even after the sale is made, it is not final until a
report is made to the court and it is approved and confirmed.
Either party may object to the report, and the purchaser
himself, who becomes a party to the sale, may appear before
the court, and, if any mistake has occurred, may have it
corrected. He, therefore, becomes a party to the proceeding, and may represent and defend his own interest, and
may be compelled by process of the court to comply with
the terms of the contract.ยง
* Crocker on Sheriffs, 201.
f Dalby v. Pullen, 1 Russel & Mylne, 296.
$ Collier v. Whipple, 13 Wendell, 229.
J Smith v. Arnold, 5 Mason, 420.

BLOSSOM V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

6. Subject to those qualifications, and perhaps some others
which need not be noticed, the question of sale or no sale,
when it arises under a state of facts such as are exhibited in
this record, may be fully tested by substantially the same
rules as those which apply in cases of sales under common
law process, or in other cases of sales at public auction.
Tested by those rules, it is clear to a demonstration that
there was no sale of the mortgaged premises in this case,
because the property was never struck off to the appellant,
nor was his bid, by act or word or in any manner, ever
accepted by the seller, and the record shows that, at the
hearing in the court below, nothing of the kind was pretended by the appellant. Instead of setting up that pretence,
his complaint was that the marshal erred in refusing to
accept his bid, which, if possible, is less defensible upon the
facts and circumstances of the case than the theory of the
sale and purchase.
7. Officers appointed under such decrees, and directed to
make such sales, have the power to accomplish the object;
but they are usually invested with a reasonable discretion as
to the manner of its exercise, which they are not at liberty
to overlook or disregard. Acting under the decree, they
have duties to perform to the complainant, to the vendor
and purchaser, and to the court, and they are bound to exercise their best judgment in the performance of all those
duties. Such an officer, in acting under such a decree, if
directed to sell the property, should adopt all necessary and
proper means to fulfil the directions; but he should, at the
same time, never lose sight of the fact that, unless he is
restricted by the terms of the decree, the time and manner
of effecting the sale are, in the first instance, vested in his
sound discretion. Usual practice undoubtedly is, that the
officer in selling the property acts under the advice of the
solicitor of the complainant; but it cannot be admitted that
his advice is, under all circumstances, obligatory upon the
officer.
Granting that solicitors may properly advise the officer,
still it must be borne in mind that the authority and discre

Dec. 1865.] BLOSSO'M

V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

209

Opinion of the court.

tion in making the sale are to a certain extent primarily
vested in the officer designated in the decree. Unreasonable directions of the solicitor are not obligatory and should
not be followed, as if the solicitor should direct the property
to be struck off at great sacrifice when but a single bidder
attended the sale. Under such circumstances, the officer
might well refuse to do as he was directed, and he might be
justified in postponing the sale to a future day to prevent
the sacrifice of the property. Every such officer has a right
to exercise a reasonable discretion to adjourn such a sale,
and all that can be required of him is, that he should have
proper qualifications, use due diligence in ascertaining the
circumstances, and act in good faith, and with an honest
intention to perform his dutyGeneral rule is, that a sheriff is not bound to obey the
directions of the attorney of the creditor to make an unreasonable sale of the property of the debtor, if he sees that
the time selected, or other attending circumstances, will be
likely to produce great sacrifice of the property; but he may
in such a case, if he thinks proper, postpone the sale, especially if it appears that the creditor will not sustain any considerable injury by the delay; and no reason is perceived
why the same rule may not be safely applied in judicial sales
made under the decretal order of a court of chancery.
8. Courts often say that an auctioneer is solely the agent
of the seller of the goods until the sale is effected, and that
then he becomes also the agent of the purchaser, for certain
purposes; but the marshal or master, in carrying out a decretal order, is more than an auctioneer. They have duties to
perform for all concerned, and in the performance of those
duties they may adjourn the sale for good cause shown.
Repeated decisions have established, that rule, and in the
leading case of Collier v. Whipple,* the court went further,
and held that such an officer was bound to exercise a reasonable discretion in that matter. Same rule had been pre* 13 Wendell, 229.
VOL. III.

14

210

TURNPIKE CoMPANY v. THE STATE.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

viously sanctioned in numerous cases,* and was expressly
laid down by the chancellor in the case of Kelley v. Irae/,t
which is one of the latest cases upon the subject.
But the record shows, in this case, that the bid of the
appellant was never accepted, and that the adjournments
were made by the direction of the solicitors of the complainants to enable the respondents to pay the mortgage
debt and save the mortgaged property from sacrifice. Negotiations to that effect were opened between the parties to
the suit on the day the first bid of the appellant was made,
and they were completed within two days, so that all concerned knew, or might have known, that a sale had become
unnecessary. Subsequent postponement took place to enable the respondents to carry the arrangements into effect.
They paid the debt, and the complainants executed a discharge for the same. Justice has been done, and all are
satisfied except the appellant, and he has no just ground of
complaint.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

TURNPIKE COMPANY v. THE STATE.
1. If a State grant no exclusive privileges to one company which it has incorporated, it impairs no contract by incorporating a second one which
itself largely manages and profits by to the injury of the first.
2. In such a case it is no defence to a sire facias against the first for nonuser or abuser of its franchises, that the State had incorporated the
second, was in part managing it, and largely profiting by it; and in
consequence of all this, that the revenues of the first company were so
far lessened that it could observe its charter no better than it did.
8. If a State injure one incorporated company by the unlawful grant of a
charter to another and rival one, the remedy of the first company is by
proper proceedings to restrain the second from getting into operation,
and not by neglecting its own duties.

IN 1812 the State of Maryland incorporated a company to
* Tinkham v. Purdy, 5 Johnson, 345; McDonald v. Neilson, 2 Id. 190;
Keightly v. Birch, 3 Campbell, 821; Leader v. Denney, 1 Bosanquet & Pul,
ler, 369.
1 11 Paige, 164.

