BUCK v. COLBATH.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The court having examined the case, Mr. Justice GRIER
now delivered its opinion, and after stating the identity of
the present case with the former, what was decided in the
former and involved in this, and the history as above given,
expressed himself in behalf of the Bench as follows:
This is another, and it is to be hoped the last attempt to
persuade this court to reverse their decision in this case.
Where questions arise which affect titles to land it is of
great importance to the public that when they are once decided they should no longer be considered open. Such decisions become rules of property, and many titles may be
injuriously affected by their change. Legislatures may alter
or change their laws, without injury, as they affect the future
only; but where courts vacillate and overrule their own decisions on the construction of statutes affecting the title to
real property, their decisions are retrospective and may affect
titles purchased on the faith of their stability. Doubtful
questions on subjects of this nature, when once decided,
should be considered no longer doubtful or subject to change.
Parties should not be encouraged to speculate on a change
of the law when the administrators of it is changed. Courts
ought not to be compelled to bear the infliction of repeated
arguments by obstinate litigants, challenging the justice of
their well-considered and solemn judgments.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan, in conformity with the opinion of this court twice pronounced on
the same title, is hereupon
AFFIRmED WITH COSTS.

Bucx v.

COLBATH.

1. A suit prosecuted in the State courts to the highest court of such State,
against a marshal of the United States for trespass, who defends himself on the ground that the acts complained of were performed by him
under a writ of attachment from the proper Federal court, presents a
case for a, writ of error under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,

11ec. 1865.]

BucK v. COLBATIT.
Statement of the case.

when the final decision of the State courts is against the validity of the
authority thus set up by the marshal.
2 The case of Freeman v. Howe (24 Howard, 450)-an action of replevindecided that property held by the marshal under a writ from the Federal court, could not be lawfully taken from his possession by any process issuing from a State court; and decided nothing more.
3 The ground of that decision was that the possession of the marshal was
the possession of the court, and that pending the litigation, no other
court of merely concurrent jurisdiction, could be permitted to disturb
that possession.
4. An action of trespass, for taking goods, does not come within the principle of that case, inasmuch as it does not seek to interfere with the
possession of the property attached; but it involves the question, not
raised in that case, of the extent to which the Federal courts will protect their officers in the execution of their processes.
5. With reference to this question, all writs and processes of the courts,
may be divided into two classes:
i. Those which point out specifically the property or thing to be seized.
A. Those which command the officer to make or levy certain sums of
money, out of property of a party named.
6. In the first class the officer has no discretion but must do precisely what
he is commanded. Therefore, if the court had jurisdiction to issue the
writ, it is a protection to the officer in all courts.
7 But in the second class the officer must determine for himself whether
the property which he proposes to seize under the process, is legally
liable to be so taken, and the court can afford him no protection against
the consequences of an erroneous exercise of his judgment in that determination. He is liable to suit for injuries growing out of such mistakes
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
8. A. plea, therefore, which does not deny that the property seized was the
property of the plaintiff, or aver that it was liable to the writ under
which it was seized, is bad in any court.
19 he rule that among courts of concurrent jurisdiction, that one which
first obtains jurisdiction of a case has the exclusive right to decide
every question arising in the case, is subject to some limitations; and
is confined to suits between the same parties, or privies, seeking the
same relief or remedy, and to such questions or propositions as arise
ordinarily and properly in the progress of the suit first brought; and
does not extend to all matters which may by possibility become involved in it.

sued Buck in one of the State courts of Minnesota, in an action of trespassfor taking goods. Buck pleaded
in defence, that he was marshal of the United States for the
District of Minnesota. and that having in his hands a writ of
attarchment against certain parties whom he named, he levied
COL ATH

BUCK V. COLBATI.

[Sup. ct

Argument for the marshal.

the same upon the goods, for taking which he was now sued
by Colbath. But he did not aver that they were the goods of the
defendaits in the writ of attachment.
On the trial Colbath made proof of his ownership of the
goods, and Buck relied solely on the fact that he was marshal
and held the goods under the writ in the atachment suit.
The court refused to instruct the jury that the defence
thus set up was a sufficient one; and the plaintiffhad a verdict and judgment. This judgment was affirmed on error
in the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and the defendant
brought the case here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act; an act which, as most readers will remember,
provides that a final judgment in any suit in the highest
court of a State where is drawn in question "the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision
is againstits validity," may be reviewed in this court.
31'. Peckham, for the marshal,plaintiff in error, contended
that the question whether the fact of his office, set up by
the marshal, was or was not a sufficient defence to the suit
brought against hfm, had been settled in the affirmative by
the case of Freeman v. Howe in this court.* In that case
White sued a railway company in the Federal court and the
marshal attached a number of rail-cars: seizing and taking
them into his own possession. W-hile thus in his custody,
the sheriff, under process from one of the State courts, sought
to take them out of his possession under a writ of replevin.
The marshal, in the replevin suit, set up by way of defence
the authority under the Federal court by which he held the
property; in other words, that he held it as marshal of the
United States. And this court held that a sufficient defence.
If the present action were replevin instead of trespass it
cannot be doubted that the plaintiff below would fail. The
fact that the 'suit is one of trespass makes no difference.
The thing has nothing to do with forms of action. The
court, we may almost say, so declared in Freeman v. howe.
* 24 Howard, 450.

BUCK V. COLBATH.

Dec. 1865.]

Argument for the marsbal.

Quoting a former case in this court,* and declaring specifically that they "agree" to it, they say:
"It is a doctrine of law too long established to require citation of authorities, that where a court has jurisdiction it has a
right to settle every question which occurs in the case . . . and
that where the jurisdiction of a court and the right of a plaintiff
to prosecute his suit in it have once attached, that right cannot
be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another court."
Now, this question whether the property which the marshal seized, was or was not liable to the attachment, does
occur "in the case." It springs immediately out of it.A.
suit against him in a State court for a trespass in taking the
property does, moreover, in effect "arrest"-for it obstruets
and hinders-the proceedings in the Federal court. It subjects the marshal and those under whose directions he acts
to the annoyance of a multiplicity of actions in various jurisdictions for things springing out of the same "question."
Independently of which, trespass and replevin are universally concurrent remedies for taking goods as these have
been taken. To hold that this action wasproperly brought
and not overrule Freeman v. Rowe, would be to hold that the
marshal had the right to take these goods and was yet liable
for a trespass; was bound to hold them, and yet should suffer
for the detention.
The principles, we suppose, upon which Freeman v. IKowe
went were these:
1. That where the officers of a court, State or national,
have taken possession of a res, under process of attachment
or execution, as the property of the defendant in such process, such res is in the custody of the law, and the possession
of such officers or court is exclusive.
2. That the question, whether such res, so seized as the
property of the defendant in the process, is rightfully seized
by the marshal as the property of the defendant in the process, or otherwise subject to the exigency of the writ, is one
*Peck

VOL. 11.

v. Jenniss, 7 Howard, 624.
22

338"

BUCK V.

COLDATH.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the marshal.

of jurisdiction, the authority to decide which belongs exclu-

sively to the court issuing the process; or, in the language
of this court, the "question is one of right and title to the
property under the Federal process, and which belongs to
the Federal, not the State courts to determine."
There was nothing new in these principles. Hogan v.
Lucas,* and Taylor v. Caryl,tf asserted the first; and other
casest assert in effect the second.
The last principle was thus stated by Mlarshall, C. J., in
Slocum v. Mayberry:
"If the officer has a right under the United States to seize
for a supposed forfeiture, the question, whether that forfeiture

has been actually incurred, belongs exclusively to the Federal
courts, and cannot be drawn to another forum."
It was argued, in Day v. Gallup,ยง that a State court would
have jurisdiction to try the question after the case in the
Federal court was concluded, and thus no longer pending,
and the question had not therein been raised or decided.
But the argument is not sound. If a court has "exclusive"
jurisdiction to decide "every question which occurs in the
case," other courts cannot be trying these questions either
at the same time or at any other.
Neither is there any hardship or inconvenience in the law
as we assert it. The fact-if it be a fact, as is probablemay be objected, that the marshal and Colbath, the two
parties to this suit, are citizens of the same State; that the
question, whether these goods belonged to Colbath or not,
and whether Buck, the marshal, was or was not a trespasser,
was not in issue in the attachment suit, out of which the suit
below sprung; and that, being citizens of the same State,
Colbath could not sue the marshal in the Federal court, nor
ever have the question of trespass decided in that jurisdiction to which we say that the question exclusively belongs.
* 10 Peters, 400.

t 20 Howard, 583.

Slocum v. A~yberry, 2 Wheaton, 1; and Peck v. Jenniss, 7 Howard
624.
2 Wallace, 113

Dec. 1865.]

:BUCK V. COLBATH.

Argument for the jurisdiction.

The same sort of objection was made in Freemw, v. Howe.
It was there argued by counsel for the defendant in error
that the plaintiffs in the replevin suit were remediless in the
Federal courts, both parties being citizens of the same State.
But the court says "that this is a misapprehension, and that
a bill in equity may be filed to restrain or regulate the suit
at law, and to prevent injustie or an inequitable advantage;
such bill being supplementary to the original suit, and maintainable without reference to the citizenship of the parties."
It says, moreover, "In a proceeding in reem, any person claiming an interest in the property paramount to that of the libellant, may intervene by way of defence for the protection of
his interest;" and adds, that "the same is equally true of a
proceeding by attachment."
Colbath had, therefore, a complete means of righting himself in the Federal court; which was first seized of the case;
which knew its history from the beginning; and which,
friom the extent of its knowledge in the matter, and from
having all parties before it, was best able to do full and
complete justice to all concerned.
3 r. Carlisle, contra, for Colbath, defendant hierror, replied
ably to these positions. The full and very luminous manner in which the whole subject is handled by the court,
deciding in favor of the cause maintained by Mr. Carlisle,
di-enses, however, with the necessity of presenting this
gentleman's arguments, or of remarking more than that
along with them he suggested, not pressing it strongly, a
point of jurisdiction. On that point he observed that the
pleadings presented a single issue: whether the goods taken
were the goods which the marshal was authorized to take
under the process which he held? The pleadings did not
admit that the Federal process in the hands of the marshal
authorized or purported to authorize him to take the goods
of Colbath. Nor did they question or deny his authority to
take the goods of the defendants named in the writ. On the
contrary, they plainly admitted this authority, and limited
the plaintiff's ground of action to the abuse of that authority,

B UCK V. COLIBATI.

[Sup. 6%

Opinion of the court.

and to the misapplication of it to subjects not purporting to
be comprehended or affected by it. It was nothing to the
purpose, Mr. Carlisle observed, that the marshal did the act
complained of by color of his office and of process in his
hands, if that process did not purport to authorize the act.
Here, then, was not drawn in question "the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States." The Federal
process was admitted to be valid in the case in which it was
issued. It was, therefore, not a case within the provisions
of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Day v. Gallup, which closely resembled this case (being an
action of trespass under like circumstances), was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction; although the taking complained of
plainly appeared to have been upon process of execution,
issued out of the Federal court, it being held that no case
under the 25th section necessarily presented itself upon the
record.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
There seems to be no reason to doubt that the case comes
within the provisions of the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act. The defendant claimed the protection of "an authority exercised under the United States," and the decision was
against the protection thus claimed; or, in other words,
against the validity of that authority, as a protection to him
in that action. Whether the authority which he thus set up
was valid to protect him, is a question for this court to decide
finally, and is properly before us under the writ of error to
the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
Upon the merits of the case, the plaintiff in error relies
mainly on the case of Freemanv. Howe, decided by this court,
and upon the opinion by which the court sustained the decision.
That was a case like this in every particular, with the
single exception, that when the marshal had levied the writ
of attachment on certain property, a writ of replevin was
instituted against him in the State court, and the property

Dec. 18G5.

Bucr v.

COLBATH.

841

Opinion of the court.

taken out of his possession; while in the present case the
officer is sued in trespass for the wrongful seizure.
In that case it was held, that although the writ of attachment had been wrongfully levied upon the property of a
party not named in the writ, the rightful owner could not
obtain possession of it by resort to the courts of another
jurisdiction.
It must be confessed that this decision took the profession
generally by surprise, overruling, as it did, the unanimous
opinion of the Supreme Court of fassachusetts-a court
whose opinions are always entitled to great considerationas well as the opinion of Chancellor Kent, as expressed in
his Commentaries.*
We are, however, entirely satisfied with it, and with the
principle upon which it is founded; a principle which is
essential to the dignity and just authority of every court, and
to the comity which should regulate the relations between all
courts of concurrent jurisdiction. That principle is, that
whenever property has been seized by an officer of the
court, by virtue of its process, the property is to be considered as in the custody of the court, and under its control
for the time being; and that no other court has a right to
interfere with that possession, unless it be some court which
may have a direct supervisory control over the court whose
process has first taken possession, or some superior jurisdiction in the premises. This is the principle upon which the
decision of this court rested in Taylor v. Garyl,t and .Hoganv.
Lw*ica both of which assert substantially the same doctrine.
A departure from this rule would lead to the utmost confusion, and to endless strife between courts of concurrent
jurisdiction deriving their powers from the same source; but
how much more disastrous would be the consequences of
such a course, in the conflict of jurisdiction between courts
whose powers are derived from entirely different sources,
while their jurisdiction is concurrent as to the parties and
the subject-matter of the suit.
*Vol.

i, 410.

j 20 Howard, 583.

: 10 Peters, 400.

BUCK V. COLBATH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This principle, however, has its limitations; or rather its
just definition is to be attended to. It is only while the
property is in possession of the court, either actually or constructively, that the court is bound, or professes to protect
that possession from the process of other courts. Whenever
the litigation is ended, or the possession of the officer or
court is discharged, other courts are at liberty to deal with
it according to the rights of the parties before them, whether
those rights require them to take possession of the property
or not. The effect to be given in such cases to the adjudications of the court first possessed of the property, depends
upon principles familiar to the law; but no contest arises
about the mere possession, and no conflict but such as may
be decided without unseemly and discreditable collisions.
It is upon this ground that the court, in _Day v. Gallup,
held that this court had no jurisdiction of that case. The
property attached had been sold, and the attachment suit
ended, when the attaching officer and his assistants were sued,
and we held that such a suit in the State court, commenced
after the proceedings in the Federal court had been concluded, raised no question for the jurisdiction of this court.
It is obvious that the action of trespass against the marshal in the case before us, does not interfere with the principle thus laid down and limited. The Federal court could
proceed to render its judgment in the attachment suit, could
sell and deliver the property attached, and have its execution
satisfied, without any disturbance of its proceedings, or any
contempt of its process. While at the same time, the State
court could proceed to determine the questions before it in-

volved in the suit against the marshal, without interfering
with the possession of the property in dispute.
How far the courts are bound to interfere for the protection of their own officers, is a question not discussed in the
case of Freemanv. Hfowe, but which demands a passing notice
here. In its consideration, however, we are reminded at the
outset, that property may be seized by an officer of the court
under a variety of writs, orders, or processes of the court

Dec. 1865.]

.[BUOK v.

COLBATt!,

Opinion of the court.

For our present purpose, these may be divided into two
classes:
1. Those in which the process or order of the court describes the property to be seized, and which contain a direct
command to the officer to take possession of that particular
property. Of this class are the writ of replevin at common
law, orders of sequestration in chancery, and nearly all the
processes of the admiralty courts, by which the res is brought
before it for its action.
2. Those in which the officer is directed to levy the process upon property of one of the parties to the litigation,
sufficient to satisfy the demand gainst him, without describing any specific property to be thus taken. Of this class
are the writ of attachment, or other mesne process, by which
property is seized before judgment to answer to such judgment when rendered, and the final process of execution,
elegit, or other writ, by which an ordinary judgment is
carried into effect.
It is obvious, on a moment's consideration, that the claim
of the officer executing these writs, to the protection of the
courts from which they issue, stands upon very different
grounds in the two classes of process just described. In the
first class he has no discretion to use, no judgment to exercise, no duty to perform but to seize the property described.
It follows from this, as a rule of law of universal application,
that if the court issuing the process had jurisdiction in the
case before it to issue that process, and it was a valid process
when placed in the officer's hands, and that, in the execution
of such process, he kept himself strictly within the mandatory clause of the process, then such writ or process is a
complete protection to him, not only in the court which
issued it, but in all other courts.
And in addition to this, in many cases the court which
issued the process will interfere directly to protect its officers from being harassed or interfered with by any person,
whether a party to the litigation or not. Such is the ha.
bitual course of the court of chancery, operating by injunetion against persons who interfere by means of other courts.

BUCK V.

COLBArH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

And instances are not wanting, where other courts have in
a summary manner protected their officers in the execution
of their mandates.
It is creditable, however, to the respect which is paid to
the process of courts of competent jurisdiction in this country, that the occasion for the exercise of such a power is
very rare.
In the other class of writs to which we have referred, the
officer has a very large and important field for the exercise
of his judgment and discretion. First, in ascertaining that
the property on which he proposes to levy, is the property
of the person against whom the writ is directed; secondly,
that it is property which, by law, is subject to be taken
under the writ; and thirdly, as to the quantity of such property necessary to be seized in the case in hand. In all these
particulars he is bound to exercise his own judgment, and is
legally responsible to any person for the consequences of
any error or mistake in its exercise to his prejudice. Hle is
so liable to plaintiff, to defendant, or to any third person
whom his erroneous action in the premises may injure.
And what is more important to our present inquiry, the
court can afford him no protection against the parties so
injured; for the court is in no wise responsible for the manner in which he exercises that discretion which the law reposes in him, and in no one else.
In the case before us, the writ under which the defendant
justified his act and now claims our protection, belongs to
this latter class. Yet the plea on which he relied contains no
denial that the property seized was the property of plaintiE,
nor any averment that it was the property of either of the
defendants in the attachment suit, or that it was in any other
manner subject to be taken under that writ.
Seizing upon some remarks in the opinion of the court in
the case of Freeman v. .owe, not necessary to the decision
of that case, to the effect that the court first obtaining jurisdiction of a cause has a right to decide every issue arising in
tho progress of the cause, and that the Federal court could
not permit the State court to withdraw from the former the

Dec. 1[865.]

BucK v.

COLBAT]r.

Opinion of the court.

decision of such issues, the counsel for plaintiff in error insists that the present case comes within the principle of those
remarks.
It is scarcely necessary to observe that the rule thus announced is one which has often been held by this and other
courts, and which is essential to the correct administration
of justice in all countries where there is more than one court
having jurisdiction of the same matters. At the same time,
it is to be remarked that it is confined in its operation to the
parties before the court, or why may, if they wish to do so,
come before the court and have a hearing on the issue so to
be decided. This limitation was manifestly in the mind of
the court in the case referred to, for the learned judge who
delivered the opinion, goes on to show, that persons interested in the possession of the property in the custody of the
court, may, by petition, make themselves so far parties to
the proceedings as to have their interests protected, although
the persons representing adverse interests in such case do
not possess the qualification of citizenship necessary to enable them to sue each other in the Federal courts. The proceeding here alluded to is one unusual in any court, and is
only to be resorted to in the Federal courts, in extraordinary
cases, where it is essential to prevent injustice, by an abuse
of the process of the court, which cannot otherwise be remedied. But it is not true that a court, having obtained jurisdiction of a subject-matter of a suit, and of parties befbre it,
thereby excludes all other courts from the right to adjudicate upon other matters having a very close connection with
those before the first court, and, in some instances, requiring
the decision of the same questions exactly.
In examining into the exclusive character of the jurisdiction of such cases, we must have regard to the nature of the
remedies, the character of the relief sought, and the identity
of the parties in the different suits. For example, a party
having notes secured by a mortgage on real estate, may,
unless restrained by statute, sue in a court of chancery to
foreclose his mortgage, and in a court of law to recover a
judgment on his notes, and in another court of law in an

BUCK V.

COLBATII.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

action of ejectment to get possession of the land. Here in
all the suits the only question at issue may be the existence
of the debt mentioned in the notes and mortgage; but as
the relief sought is different, and the mode of proceeding is
different, the jurisdiction of neither court is affected by the
proceeding in the other. And this is true, notwithstanding
the common object of all the suits may be the collection of
the debt. The true effect of the rule in these cases is, that
the court of chancery cannot render a judgment for the
debt, nor judgment of ejectment, but can only proceed in its
own mode, to foreclose the equity of redemption by sale or
otherwise. The first court of law cannot foreclose or give a
judgment of ejectment, but can render a judgment for the
payment of the debt; and the third court can give the relief
by ejectment, but neither of the others. And the judgment
of each court in the matter properly before it is binding and
conclusive on all the other courts. This is the illustration
of the rule where the parties are the same in all three of the
courts.
The limitation of the rule must be much stronger, and
must be applicable under many more varying circumstances,
when persons not parties to the first proceeding are prosecuting their own separate interests in other courts.
The case before us is an apt illustration of these remarks.
The proceeding in the attachment suit did not involve the
question. of the title of Colbath, defendant in error, to the
property attached. The whole proceeding in that court,
ending as it might in a judgment for the plaintiff, an execution and sale of the property attached, and satisfaction
thereby of the plaintiff's debt, may be, and in such cases
usually is, carried through without once requiring the court
to consider the question of title to the property. That is all
the time a question between the officer, or the purchaser at
his sale, on the one side, and the adverse claimant on the
other. There is no pretence, nor does any one understand,
that anything more is involved or concluded by such proceedings, than such title to the property as the defendant in
attachment had when the levy was made.

Dec. 1865.]

D..CANDREWS V. THATCHER.
Syllabus

ilence it is obvious that plaintiff in errcr is mistaken
when he asserts that the suit in the Federal ',eurt drew to
it the question of title to the property, and that the suit in
the State court against the marshal could not withdraw that
issue from the former court. No such issue was before it,
or was likely to come before it, in the usual course of proceeding in such a suit.
It is true, that if under the intimations in Freean-v. Hfowe,
the claimant of the property had voluntarily gone before that
court and asked by petition that the property be ieleased
from the attachment and restored to his possession, he might
have raised such issue, and would have been bound by its
decision. But no such application was made, no such issue
was in fact raised, and no such issue belonged ordinarily to
the case. We see nothing therefore in the mere fict that
the writ issued from the Federal court, to prevent the marshal from being sued in the State court, in trespass fo his
own tort, in levying it upon the property of a man against
whom the writ did not run, and on property which was not
liable to it.
JUDGIENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MCANDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

The liability of a cargo to contribute, in general average, in favor of the
ship, does not continue after the cargo has been completely separated
from the vesel, so as to leave no community of interest remaining.
This principle illustrated in the following case:
A ship was stranded near her port of destination, and the underwriters
upon her cargo sent an agent to assist the master in getting her off.
The master and agent made all proper efforts to do this, for two days;
when not succeeding at all, and the water increasing in the vessel, they
began to discharge the cargo in lighters, still making efforts to sve the
ship. This discharge of the cargo occupied four days; by which time
the whole of it was taken off, and, with the exception of a very small
fraction in the lower hold and not discovered, taken to the ship's agents,
who subsequently delivered it to its consignees, they giving the usual

