OCTOBER, TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

FORT SMITH & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL. v. MILLS, RECEIVER OF FORT SMITH
& WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.'
No. 42.

Argued December 13, 1917.-Decided June 1, 1920.

The Act of September 3, 5, 1916, known as the Adamson Law, although
by its general terms purporting to apply to all railroads and railroad employees subject to the Act to Regulate Commerce, was not
intended to govern the exceptional case of an insolvent railroad

operating at a loss under an agreement with its men, which they desired to keep, allowing them less wages than the act prescribed.
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, considered.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. C. Dustin, with whom Mr. James B. McDonough
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Alex. Koplin and Mr. S. Milton Simpson were on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill of equity brought by the Fort Smith and
Western Railroad Company and the trustee of a mortgage
given to secure bonds of that road, to enjoin the receiver of
the road from conforming to the Act of September 3, 5,
1916, c. 436, 39 Stat. 721, in respect of.hours of service and
wages, and to enjoin the District Attorney of the UniteA
States from proceeding to enforce the act. The bill alleges

FT. SMITH & W. R. R. CO. v. MILLS.
206.

Opinion of the Court.

that the physical property is worth over $7,000,000, but
that no dividends ever have been paid upon the stock, that
no interest has been paid upon the bonds since October 1,
1907, and that there is a yearly deficit in the earnings of the
road. The receiver was appointcd in proceedings to foreclose the mortgage. The bill further alleges that the
railroad now (1917) is being carried on uhder an agreement
with the men which the men desire to keep, but that the
receiver, yielding to the threats of the District Attorney to
prosecute him unless he does so, purposes to substitute the
much more onerous terms of the act. It is set up that the
act if construed to apply to this case is void under the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. The bill was
dismissed by the District Court, on motion, for want of
equity, and the plaintiffs appealed.
The act in question, known as the Adamson Law, was
passed to meet the emergency created by the threat of a
general railroad strike. I fixed eight hours as a day's
work and provided that for some months, pending an
investigation, the compensation of employees of railroads
subject to the Act to Regulate Commerce should not be
"reduced below the present standard day's wage," and
that time in excess of eight hours should be paid for pro
rata at the same rate. The time has expired long since but
the rights of the parties require a decision of the case.
In Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, it was decided that the
act was within the constitutional power of Congress to
regulate commerce among the States; that since, by virtue,
of the organic interdependence of different parts of the
Unioh, not only comfort but life would be endangered on
a large scale if interstate railroad traffic suddenly stopped,
Congress could meet the danger of such a stoppage by
legislation, and that, in view of the public interest, the
mere fact that it required an expenditure to tide the
country over the trouble would not of itself alone show a
taking of property without due process of law. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

held that these principles applied no. less when the emergency was caused by the combined action of men than
when it was due to a catastrophe of nature; and that the
expenditure required was not necessarily unconstitutional
because it took the form of requiring the railroads to pay
more, as it might have required the men to take less,
during the short time necessary for an investigation
ordered by the law.
But the bill in Wilson v. New raised only the general
objections to the act that were common to every railroad.
In 'that case it was not necessary to consider to what
extremes the law might be carried or what were its constitutional limits. It was not decided, for instance, that
Congress could or did require a -railroad to continue in
business at a loss. See Brooks-Scanlan Co. v. RailroadCommission of Louisiana,251 U. S. 396, It was not decided that
there might not be circumstances to which the act could
not be applied consistently with the Fifth Amendment,
or that the act in spite of its universal language must
be construed to reach literally every carrier by railroad
subject to the Act to Regulate Commerce. It is true that
the first section of the statute purports to apply to any
such carrier, and the third to the compensation of railway
employees subject to this act. But the statute avowedly
was enacted in haste to meet an emergency, and the
general language necessary to satisfy the demands of the
men need not be taken to go further than the emergency
required or to have been intended to make trouble rather
than to allay it. We cannot suppose that it was meant to
forbid work being done at a less price than the rates laid
down, when both parties to the bargain wished to go on as
before and when the circumstances of the road were so
exceptional that the lower compensation accepted would
not affect the market for labor upon other roads.
But that is the present case. An insolvent road had
succeeded in making satisfactory terms with its men,

JOHNSON v. PAYNE.
206.

Syllabus.

enabling it to go on, barely paying its way, if it did so, not
without impairing even the mortgage security, not to
speak of its capital. We must accept the allegations of
the bill and must assume that the men were not merely
negatively refraining from demands under the act but,
presumably appreciating the situation, desired to keep on
an they were. To break up such a bargain would be at
least unjust and impolitic and not at all within the ends
that the Adamson Law had in view. We think it reasonable to assume that the circumstances in which, and the
purposes for which the law was passed import an exception in a case like this.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR.
JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS agree

with this decision limiting the effect of the Adamson Law
as stated, but adhere to the views concerning the constitutionality of the act expressed by them in Wilson v. New.

UNITED STATES EX REL. JOHNSON ET AL. v.
PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 291.

Argued April 29, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

In completing the rolls of members of the Five Civilized Tribes pursuant to the Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, ยง 2, 34 Stat. 137, the
Secretary of the Interior had jurisdiction, on March 4, 1907, to revoke without notice his approval of a report of the Commissioner
to the Five Civilized Tribes in favor of applicants for enrollment;

