OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Aigument for Petitioner.

253 U. S.

or that sensitiveness to it may vary with "temperaments"
and be incapable of measurement. We see no error in the
instruction.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY
dissent.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. SZARY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 355.

Argued January,8, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

An employee of a railroad engdged in both interstate and intrastate
commerce, whose duty it was to dry sand in stoves in a small structure near the tracks and supply it to the locomotives, whether
operating in the one kind of commerce or the other, was injured
while returning from an ash-pit whither he had gone to dump ashes
taken by him from one of the stoves after sanding several locomotives
bound to other States. Held, employed in interstate commerce
within the meaning of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 89.
Erie R. R. Co. v. Collins, ante, 77, followed.
259 Fed. Rep. 178, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Theodore Kiendl, Jr., with whom Mr. William C.
Cannon and Mr. Coulter D. Young were on the brief, for

petitioner:
Plaintiff's duties as sand-drier, apart from actually
delivering sand to an engine, may be divided into (1) preparing the sand for storage, and (2) caring for the stove
and fire with which the sand was prepared for storage.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SZARY.
86.

Argument for Petitioner.

It seems clear that the preparation of the sand for, or
placing it in, storage would not constitute interstate commerce. Cf. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Harrington,241 U. S. 177.
If the plaintiff had been placing the dried sand in storage he would have been engaged in the same kind of work
as Harrington was, not interstate commerce. But the
plaintiff here was even more remote from an act of interstate commerce, for he was, at best, engaged in work which
was antecedent to putting engine materials into storage,
viz., the work of caring for the fire which prepared the
sand for storage. Cf. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. Barlow,
244 U. S. 183; Hudson & Manhattan R. R. Co. v. Iorio,
239 Fed. Rep. 855; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v.
Winters, 242 U. S. 353.
As to the other phase of the plaintiff's employment:
At the time of his injury he was not even engaged in removing the ashes. But assuming that his act was a part
of his cleaning the stove, it did not have to do with any
interstate operation. Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556.
It would seem that the nearest the plaintiff came to
being engaged in interstate commerce at the time of his
injury was in removing ashes from a fixture. To paraphrase the language in the Shanks opinion, the connection
between the fixture and the interstate transportation was
remote at best, for the only function of the fixture was
to convey heat to sand which was placed in storage and
then used in supplying engines, some of which were used
in interstate transportation. All this stove was used for
was heating and drying of sand as it was moved from storage to storage and such a use cannot be said to make it
an instrument of interstate commerce, as the sand which
was prepared might never have been used in such commerce. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v.
Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

There is no conceivable way in which the plaintiff can
be held to have been employed in interstate commerce
unless we are to disregard the decisions in the Harrington,
Yurkonis and Shanks Cases. See also Illinois Central
R. R. v. Cousins, 241 U. S. 641; Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co. v. Branson, 242 U. S. 623; Southern Ry. Co. v. Pitchford, 253 Fed. Rep. 736; Giovio v. New York Central R. R.
Co., 176 App. Div. 230; 223 N. Y. 653; Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473; Minneapolis & St.
Louis R. R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353; O'Dell v. Southern Ry. Co., 248 Fed. Rep. 345.
Mr. John C. Robinson for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for damages under the Employers' Liability Act,
for the loss of a leg in the railroad company's service.
The verdict and judgment were for $20,000. The contest
in the case is whether the injury was received in interstate or intrastate service.
The judges below concurred in the judgment but disagreed upon the grounds of it. Judges Hand and Hough
concurred on the authority of the Collins Case (259 Fed.
Rep. 172), though Judge Hand did not sit in it, and
Judge Hough dissented from its judgment.
As we have just affirmed that case, if it is not distinguishable from the case at bar, the latter must also be
affirmed. A distinction is not asserted but both cases
are attacked. In our opinion in the Collins Case, ante, 77,
we have reviewed most of the cases upon which the company relies in this, and whether their principle applies
depends upon the facts. We collect them from the testimony and represent them as the jury had a right to consider them, omitting conflicts.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SZARY.
86.

Opinion of the Court.

Sand is necessary to an engine and must be used dry.
Szary and two others were employed in its preparation,
which was done in what is called the "sand house," a
small structure standing in the yards of the company
along side of the tracks. The drying was done in four
large stoves which it was the duty of Szary and his associates to attend. Soft coal was the heating means and
the resulting ashes were dumped in an ash pit, to do
which a track had to be crossed.
On the night of the accident, January 5, 1917, Szary
began his duties at 6 o'clock, and sanded about seven
engines whose destinations were other States. He sanded
the last engine at 9 o'clock, and after doing so, he removed
the ashes from the stove and carried them to the ash pit
in a pail according to his custom; in doing which he was
compelled to cross one of the tracks. He emptied the
pail and left it on the ground while he went to the engineroom to get a drink of water, and when returning for the
pail and crossing the track he was hit by an engine. He
had looked and saw no engine and heard no signal. He
described the night as "very dark and very foggy and
rainy and misty," and testified that he could not see anything, the steam and smoke from the engines in all parts
of the yard being so thick that he could see nothing.
The engine that hit him was running backwards and
without a light. He was picked up and carried to a
hospital and his left leg was amputated' the same night
from two to three inches below the knee.
We think these facts bring the case within the Collins
Case and the test there deduced from prior decisions.
There were attempts there, and there are attempts here,
to separate the duty and assign it character by intervals
of time, and distinctions between the acts of service.
Indeed something is attempted to be made of an omission,
or an asserted omission, in the evidence, of the kind of
commerce in which the last engine served was engaged.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

The distinctions are too artificial for acceptance.

The

acts of service were too intimately related and too necessary for the final purpose to be distinguished in legal
character.
The conclusion that the service of Szary was rendered
in interstate commerce determines the correctness of the
ruling of the District Court upon the motion to dismiss
made at the close of plaintiff's evidence, and afterwards
for particular instructions and the objections to the charge
by the court. All of the rulings were based on the character of the commerce, the court adjudging it to be interstate.
It hence follows that the judgment must be and it is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VANDEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

WHITE, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIdRATION FOR
THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO, v. CHIN FONG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No., 506. Argued April

22, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

When a Chinaman seeking to reenter this country on the ground that
he was formerly engaged here as a merchant presents-due evidence
of his right as prescribed by the Act of November 3, 1893, c. 14, 28
Stat. 7, the immigration officials have no authority under the Exclusion Laws to ignore such evidence and exclude him upon the
ground that his original entry was in violation of them. P. 91.
The Exclusion Laws provide a judicial hearing to determine the liability to deportation in such cases and a mere executive order of
exclusion is void. P. 92.
258 Fed. Rep. 849, affirmed.

