PENNA. R. R. CO. v. KITTANNING CO.
300.

Syllabus.

St. Anthony, 173 Fed. Rep. 496; 184 Fed. Rep. 252; where
the auditor was appointed by consent of the parties, the
same court taxed both the auditor's and the stenographer's
fees against the losing party, holding that it had discretion,
if it was not obliged to do so; and a petition for writ of
certiorari was denied by this court; 220 U. S. 613.
Although the order was erroneous in declaring that the
expense of the auditor shall, instead of abiding the result of
the action, be paid, by one or both of the parties in accordance with the determination of the trial judge, the error
does not require that either of the extraordinary remedies
applied for here be granted. If the petitioner deems himself prejudiced by the error he may get redress through
application to the District Court for a modification of the
order; or after final judgment, on writ of error, from the
Circuit Court of Appeals. In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14,
26. The petition for writs of mandamus and/ or prohibition is
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY
JUSTIcE MCREYNOLDS dissent.

and MR.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KITTANNING IRON-& STEEL MANUFACTURING
COMPANY.
CERTIORARITO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 301.

Argued March 26, 1920.-Decided June 1, 192.0.

The policy of the "Uniform Demurrage Code" is to treat the car as
the unit and fix a standard of diligence in releasing cars independent
of thdcircumstances of the particular consignee. f. 324.

The "Uniform Demurrage Code" files 48 hours as the "Free Time"

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

during which a car may be held for unloading without demurrage
charge, but provides, (1) the "Bunching Rule," designed to relieve
from charges due to the carrier's act in delivering cars in numbers
exceeding the daily rate of shipment, and, (2) the "Average
Agreement Rule," under which the "Bunching Rule" is inapplicable
but charges for detaining cars more than 48 hours are reduced by
credit given for other cars released within 24 hours, during the
calendar month; and it further provides that demurrage shall not be
collected "When shipments are frozen while in transit so as to prevent unloading during the prescribed free time," provided the
consignees "make diligent effort to unload such shipments." Held,
that a consignee, party to the Average Agreement plan, which was
prevented from unloading a number of carloads of frozen ore during the free time, due to their accumulation and delivery by the
carrier in numbers exceeding its facilities for thawing and unloading, was not relieved from demurrage by the clause governing
frozen shipments. 'P. 323.
263 Pa. St. 205, reversed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl6 and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
for petitioner.
Mr. R. L. Ralston with whom Mr. H. V. Blaxter was on

the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Uniform Demurrage Code discussed in Swift & Co.
v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281, 283, was duly
published as a part ofthe freight tariffs of the Pennsyl-

vania Railroad prior to November 1, 1912. From time to
time during the months of December, 1912, and February
and March, 1913, the Kittanning Iron and Steel Manufacturing Company received from the railroad an aggregate of

227 cars of iron ore, all interstate shipments; and on
account of them the railroad claimed $1,209 for demurrage..

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. KITTANNING CO.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

The company refused to pay these, among other, demurrage charges, whereupon this action was brought in a state
court of Pennsylvania to recover the amount. The trial
court disallowed the claim. The judgment there entered
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State; and a
petition by the Railroad for a writ of certiorari was
granted, 249 U. S. 595.
Before receipt of any of the cars the Kittanning Company had entered into an average agreement with the
railroad as provided in Rule 9.1 The aggregate number of
days detention of these cars after they reached the company's interchange tracks (in excess of the free time under
the average agreement), was 1209; and the demurrage
'Rule 9. Average Agreement: When a shipper or receiver enters into
the following agreement, the charge for detention to cars, provided for
by Rule 7, on all cars held for loading or unloading by such shipper or'
receiver shall be computed on the basis of the average time of detention
to all such cars released during each calendar month, such average
detention to be computed as follows:
SECTrION A. A credit of one day'will be ollowed for each car released
within the first twenty-four hours of free time. A debit of one day will
6 charged for each twenty-four hours or fraction unereof that a car is
detained beyond the first forty-eight hours of free time. In no case
shall more than one day's credit be allowed on any one car, and in no
case shall more than five (5) days' credit be applied ii cancellation of
debits accruing on any car, making a i .'Iuum of seven (7) days that
any car may be held free; this to include Sundays and holidays.
SECTION B. At the end of the calendar month the total number of
days credited will be deducted from the total number of days debited,
and $1.00 per day charged for the remainder. If the credits equal or
exceed the debits, no charge will be made for the detention of the cars,
and no payment will be made to shippers or receivers on account of
such excess of credits, nor shall the credits in excess of the debits of any
one month be considered in computing the average detention for another month.
SECTION C. A shipper or receiver who elects to take advantage of
this average agreement shall not be entitled to cancellation or refund
of demurrage charges under Section A, Paragraphs 1 and3, or Section B
of Rule 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

charge fixed by Rule 7 was $1 for each day, or fraction
thereof, that a car is detained after the expiration of the
free time. The ore in these cars was frozen in transit; and
the company insisted that this detention of the cars
beyond the "free time" had resulted from this fact and
claimed exemption from demurrage charges under Rule
8, Section A, Subdivision 2, which declares that noneshall
be collected,
"When shipments are frozen while in transit so as to
prevent unloading during the prescribed free time. This
exemption shall not include shipments which are tendered
to consignee in condition to unload. Under this rule
consignees will be required to make diligent effort to
unload such shipments."
The Kittanning Company had at its plant a device for
thawing cars of frozen ore through "steaming." By this
means it was able to unload as much as five cars of frozen
ore a day. The daily average number of cars of frozen ore
received during the three months was far less than five
cars; but the number received on single days varied
greatly. On many days none were received; on some
only one or two; and on some, as many as thirty-five.
The railroad contended that the standard to be applied
for determining, under the rule here in question, whether
unloading within the prescribed free time was prevented
by the shipments being frozen, was, as in other cases under
the code, the conditions applied to the car treated asia
unit. It insisted, therefore, that the determination in any
case whether a detention was due to the fact that the
contents of a car were frozen could not be affected by the
circumstances that a large number of such cars happened
to have been" bunched"; and that, as each car considered
separately could have been unloaded within the free time,
the consignee must bear whatever hardship might result
from many having arrived on the same day, .unless relief
were available to him either' under the- "Bunching

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. KITTANNING CO.
319.

323

Opinion of the Court.

Rule" I or under the "Average Agreement." The question
presented is that of construing and applying the frozen
shipments clause. But, in order to determine the meaning
or effect of that clause, it is necessary that it be read in
connection with others.
The purpose of demurrage charges is to promQte car",
efficiency by penalizing undue detention of cars. The duty..
of loading and of unloading carload shipments rests upon:..,:;
the shipper or consignee. TO this end he is entitled to,'
detain the car a reasonable time without any payment in,
addition to the published freight-rate. The am of the code'
was to prescribe'rules, to be applied uniformly throughout
the country, by which it.right be determined-what detention is to be deemed reasonable In. fixi4g the free time
the framers of the code adopted an external standard; that
is, they refused to allow fhe citcumstances of the particular
shipper to be considered...
When they prescribed forty-eight hours as the free time
they fixed the period which,..in their opinion, was reasonably required by the average shipper to avail himself of
the carrier's service under ordinary circumstances. The
framers of the code made no. attempt to equalize conditions among shippers. it was'obvious that the period
fixed was more than would be required by many shippers
most of the time, at least for certain classes of traffic; and
that it was less than would be required by some shippers,
most of the time, for any kind of traffic. Among the
reasons urged for rejecting consideration of the needs or
1 Rule

8, Section B. Bunching. . . . 2. When, as the result of
the act or neglect of any carrier, cars destined for one consignee, at one
point, are bunched at originating point, in transit, or at destination,
and delivered by the railroad company in accumulated numbers in
excess of daily shipments, the consignee shall be allowed such free time
as he would have been entitled to had the cars been delivered in accordance with the daily rate of shipment. Claims to be presented to
railroad company's agent within fifteen (15) days.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

merits of the individual shipper, was the fear that, under
the guise of exempting shippers from demurrage charges
because of conditions peculiar to them, unjust discrimination and rebates to favored shippers might result.
In applying the allowance of free time and the charges
for demurrage, the single car was treated throughout as the
unit, just as it is in the making of carload freight rates.
Compare Darling & Co. v. Pittsburgh, etc., Ry. Co., 37
I. C. C. 401. The effect on the charges of there being
several cars involved was, however, provided for by two
rules: (1) The Bunching Rule, under which the shipper is
relieved from charges, if by reason of the carrier's fault,
the cars are accumulated and detention results. (2) The
Average Agreement Rule, under which a monthly debit
and credit account is kept of detention and the shipper is
relieved of charges for detaining cars more than fortyeight hours by credit for other cars released within
twenty-four hours.
It was urged that the use in this rule of the word
"shipment" and not "car," implies that the whole consignment is to be considered in determining whether the
delay was caused by the ore being frozen. Obviously the
word shipment was used because it is not the car, but that
shipped in it, which is frozen. Furthermore, the agreed
facts do not state whether the cars, which by their number prevented unloading within the forty-eight hours,
came in one consignment or in many.
Excessive receipts of cars is a frequent cause of detention beyond the free time even where shipments are not
frozen. From the resulting hardship either the Bunching
Rule or the Average Agreement ordinarily furnish relief.
If the company had not elected to enter into the Average
Agreement, the Bunching Rule might have afforded relief
under the circumstanc & which attended the deliveries
here in question. Since any one of the 227 cars on which
demurrage was assessed might have been unloaded within

CREAM OF WHEAT CO, v. GRAND FORKS.- 325
319.

Syllabus.

the forty-eight hours free time, the undue detention was
not the necessary result of the ore therein being frozen, but
was the result of there being an accumulation of cars so
great as to exceed the unloading capacity. Compare
Riverside Mills v. Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co.,
20 I. C. C. 153, 155; Central PennsylvaniaLumber Co. v.
Director General, 53 I. C. C. 523. It does not seem
probable that those who framed and adopted the frozen
shipment rule and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
which approved it, intended therein to depart from
the established policy of treating the single car as the unit
in applying demurrage charges as well as in applying
carload freight rates. Such was the conclusion reached in
the informal ruling of the Commission to which counsel
called attention.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
Reversed.

CREAM OF WHEAT COMPANY v. COUNTY OF
GRAND FORKS, IN THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA;
No. 302.

Argued April 29, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A State may tax a domestic corporation on the excess of the market
value of its outstanding stock over the value of its real and personal
property and certain indebtedness although the corporation does no
business within the State and has there no tangible real or personal
property nor any papers by which intangible property is customarily
evidenced, and it is immaterial whether the tax be considered a
franchise or a property tax. P. 328.
The limitation of the Fourteenth Amendment upon the power of a

