OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

F. S. ROYSTER GUANO COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 165.

Argued March 19, 22, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.

A state law which taxes all the income of local corporations derived
from business done outside of the State and business done within it,
while exempting entirely the income derived from outside the
State by local corporations which do no local business, is arbitrary
and violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 415.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Cadwallader J. Collins for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. D. Hank; Jr., Assistant Attorney General of the
Commonwealth of Virginia, with whom Mr. Jno. R.
Saunders, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
Virginia, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error is a corporation created by and existing
under the laws of Virginia, engaged in the business of
manufacturing and selling commercial fertilizers. It
operates a manufacturing plant in the County of Norfolk
in that State and several plants in other States. From the
operation of its plant in Virginia it made net profits during
the year ending December 31, 1916, amounting in round
figures to $260,000; and from the operation of its plants
in other States during the same year made net profits
amounting to about $270,000. Under the revenue law of

ROYSTER GUANO CO. v. VIRGINIA.
412.

Opinion of the Court.

the State (Act of April 16, 1903, Va' Acts, c. 148, p. 155,
as amended by Act of March 22, 1916, Va. Acts, c. 472,
p. 793), plaintiff in error returned for taxation as
income the former amount, omitting the latter. Under
appropriate provisions of law the state officials added
the latter amount, and assessed an income tax against
plaintiff in error upon the aggregate. It petitioned the
Corporation Court of the City of Norfolk for relief from
so much of the tax as represented the $270,000, amor g
other reasons upon the ground that, so far as c. 472 of 1916
taxed that part of its business which was transacted outside of the limits of Virginia, the. law imposed upon
plaintiff in error a burden not placed, upon domestic
corporations doing no part of their business in Virginia
but transacting business beyond the limits thereof, such
corporations, by c. 495 of 1916 (Va. Acts, p. 830), being
expressly exempted from a tax on income derived from
business done without the limits of the State; and hence
c. 472, as applied to the business of plaintiff in error
transacted beyond the limits of the State denied to it the
equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Other points were raised, but they require
no mention. The Corporation Court having sustained
the tax, plaintiff in error applied to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State for a writ of error and supersedeas to
review the judgment. That court being of opinion that
the decision was right, the application was denied and an
order entered in effect affirming the judgment of the
Corporation Court; whereupon this writ of error, directed
to the Supreme Court of Appeals in accordance with the
practice indicated in Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia,
225 U. S. 264, 269, was sued out under § 237, Judicial
Code, as amended September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
The statute thus assailed (Va. Acts 1916, c. 472) imposes an income tax of 1 per centum upon the aggregate
amount of income of each person or corporation," subject

. 414

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

to specified deductions and exemptions; including in
income "all profits from earnings of any partnership'or
business done in or out of Virginia," and also "all other
gains and profits derived from any source whatever."
Under this act, as applied to plaintiff in error by the state
officers, whose action was sustained by the court of last
resort, a tax was imposed upon the income derived from
its plants without. the State as well as from that within the
State. At the same time, c. 495, Laws 1916 (p. 830), approved on the same day, was in force. This reads as
follows: "Whereas, certain corporations have been organized under the laws of Virginia, and it is anticipated that
certain others will be organized thereunder, which do no
business within this State;. therefore--i. Be it enacted by
the general assembly of Virginia, That no' income tax
nor ad valorem taxes, State or local, shall be imposed upon
the stocks, bonds, investments, capital or other intangible
property owned by corporations organized under the
laws of this State which do no part of their business within
this State; and the mere holding of stockholders meetings
in this State by such corporations required by law, shall
not be construed ag doing any business in this State within
the meaning of this act; " with further matter not necessary to be quoted. It is not disputed that, under this act,
corporations created by and existing under the laws of
Virginia, and doing business in other States but none
within the State except the holding of stockholders'
meetings, are exempted from the payment of any income
tax.
Of course, these two statutes-c. 472 and c. 495-must
be considered together as parts of one and the same law;
and by their combined effect, if the judgment under review
be affirmed, plaintiff in errQr will be required to pay a tax
upon its income derived from business done without as
well as from that done within the State, while other
-corporations owing existence to the same laws and simul-

ROYSTER GUANO CO. v. VIRGINIA.
412.

4
'415

Opinion of the Court.

taneously deriving income from business done without the
State but none from business within it, are exempt from
taxation.
It is unnecessary to say that the "equal protection of
the laws" required by the Fourteenth Amendment does
not prevent the States from resorting to classification
for the purposes of legislation. Numerous and familiar
decisions of this court establish that they have a wide
range of discretion in that regard. But the classification
must be reasonable, not arbitrary, and must rest upon
some ground of difference having a fair and substantial
relation to the object of the legislation, so that all persons
similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike. The latitude of discretion is notably wide in the classification of
property for purposes of taxation and the granting of
partial or total exemptions upon grounds of policy. Bell's
Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 245, 293; Keeney
v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, 536; Citizens' Telephone Co.
v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329; Northwestern Life Ins. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 139. Nevertheless, a discriminatory tax law cannot be sustained against the complaint of a party aggrieved if the classification appear
to be altogether illusory. Now both of the taxing provisions here in question relate to corporations organized
under the laws of Virginia. It is the object of c. 495 to
exempt such corporations from income taxes (as well as
taxes upon intangible property) where they do no business
within the State except holding their stockholders' meetings therein; manifestly in recognition of the- fact that-.'
Virginia corporations so circumstanced derive no governmental protection from the State warranting the imposition of taxes upon their incomes derived from without
the State or property taxes upon their intangibles, and
in recognition of the impolicy if not injustice of imposing
such taxes upon them while they are liable, and presum-

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

ably subjected, to taxation in the State. or States where
their income-producing business is conducted. But no
ground is suggested, nor can we conceive of any, sustaining
this exemption which does not apply with equal or greater
force as a ground for exempting from taxation the income
of Virginia corporations derived from sources without
the State where'they also transact income-producing busi.
ness within the State. Corporations of this class deriv_
no more protection from the State of their origin with
respect to their outside business, and are no less subject
to taxation by the States in which such business is con-'
ducted, than corporations'of the other class; and they
are required to comply with the same laws as to the payment of organization taxes and annual registration fees
and franchise taxes to thb State of origin. Theirkbusiness
done within the State p)resumably is of some general
benefit to the State, certainly enriches its treasury by the
amount of the taxes they pay upon the income derived
therefrom; and the imposition upon them under c. 472 of
taxes not only upon this income but also upon income that
they derive from business conducted outside of the State
(similar income of the favored corporations being exempted) has the effect of discriminating against them for
that which ought to operate if at all in their favor. It
is obvious that the ground of difference upon which the
discrinination is rested has no fair or substantial relation
to the proper object sought to be accomplished by the
legislation. It follows that it is arbitrary in effect; and
none the less because it. is probable that the unequal
operation of the taxing system was due to inadvertence
rather than design.
We suggest that it was inadvertent because shortly
after the present suit was brought, and as if in recognition
of and in order to correct the discrimination, the revenue
act was amended by Act of March 14, 1918 (c. 219,
Va. Acts, p. 395), providing: "Persons and corporations

ROYSTER GUANO CO. v. VIRGINIA.
412.

BRANDEIS and HOLMES,"JJ., dissenting.

doing a part of their business within the State and a part
without the State, and having offices .or'other regular
places of business both within and without the State,
shall be taxed only upon such income as is derived from
business transacted and property located within the
State, which may be determined by an allocation and
separate accounting," etc. But this was not retrospective, and, for the reasons given, we are constrained to hold
that so far as c. 472 of the Laws of 1916 operated to impose
upon plaintiff in error a tax upon income derived from
business transacted and property located without the
State because of the mere circumstance that it also derived income from business transacted and property
located within the State, while at the same time, under
c. 495, other corporations deriving their existence and
powers from the laws of the same State, and receiving
income. from business transacted and property located
without the State but none from sources within the State,
were exempted from income taxes, there was an arbitrary
discrimination, amounting to a denial to plaintiff in error
of the equal protection of the laws within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS dissenting, with whom MR.
JUSTIcE HOLMES concurs.
It is settled that mere inequalities or exemptions in
state taxation are not forbidden by the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; that the
power of
the State to make any reasonable classification of property, occupations, persons or corporations for purposes
of taxation is not abridged thereby; and that the Amend-,
ment forbids merely inequality which is the result of
clearly arbitrary action and, particularly, of action

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

attributable to hostile discrimination against particular
persons or classes. Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S. 477, 4 '5;
Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, 463, 464;
Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237.
The question presented for our decision is whether the
action of Virginia in subjecting its domestic corporations
which transact business within the State to a tax on all
their income, wherever earned, while exempting from
the tax those domestic corporations which transact no
business within the State, is so clearly arbitrary or invidious, as to fall within the constitutional prohibition.
The court declares the act void on the ground that no
substantial reason for difference in treatment between
the two classes of domestic corporations has been suggested or can be conceived; and that the classification is
illusory and the States' action arbitrary. I can conceive
of a reason for differentiating in respect to taxation between the two classes of domestic corporations. The
following reason is, in my opinion, substantial, and shows
that the classification is not illusory, nor the State's action
necessarily arbitrary or invidious.
It is a matter of common knowledge that some States
have, in the past, made the granting of charters to nonresidents for companies, which purpose transacting business wholly without the State of incorporation, an important source of revenue. The action of those States
has materially affected the legislation of other States.
Sometimes it has led to active competition for the large
revenues believed to be available from this source. More
often, it has led to protective measures. The legislature
of Virginia may have believed that its own citizens interested in corporations whose business was transacted
wholly in other States or countries, might be tempted
to incorporate under more favorable laws of other States,
but that such temptation would proye ineffective where
the companies transacted a part of their business within

ROYSTER GUANO CO. v. VIRGINIA.
412.

BRANDYis

and

.419}

HOLMES, JJ., dilsenting.

the State of Virginia and enjoyed compensating advan-.
tages. If the legislature of Virginia enacted the laws of
1916 here in question because it held that view, we surely
cannot say that its action was unreasonable or arbitrary.
And with the wisdom of its action we have no concern.
If there were a doubt as to its reasonableness the facts
which were, or may have been, before the legislature
should be considered. Every private domestic busine3s
corporation makes a substantial contribution to the
revenues of Virginia even if it is not subjected to property
or income taxes. It pays an organization tax on incorporation; and annually thereafter both a registration fee
and an annual franchise tax. These fees and taxes are
graduated. For a corporation with a $1,000,000 capital
the organization fee is $200; the annual registration fee and
franchise tax $225. Laws of 1903, c. 148, §§ 37, 43, 41,
pp. 179, 182, 180; as amended respectively by Laws of
1912, c. 301; 1910, c. 58; 1908, c. 227. In the year 19151916 the fees and taxes from this source aggregated $114,175.80.1 The number of charters issued was 1067-many
of them, as the list indicates, to companies whose business
would be transacted wholly without the State of Virginia. 2 The dangers from competition incident to less
burdensome corporation laws of other States had, in
other connections, been considered by the Tax Commission. 3 It may well have been the case that the legislature did not wish to put in peril revenues already being
received from concerns which, as they transacted no business within the State, might easily have surrendered
their Virginia charters and reincorporated under the laws
of the other States; and it~would have been natural that
Report of Auditor of Virginia (1916), p. 66; Report of State Corpo.
ration Commission of Virginia (1916), p. 270.
2 Report of State Corporation Commission of ,V'irginia (1916),
pp. 226-248, 269.
3 Report of Virginia Tax Commission (1911), p. 354.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

to avert such loss the legislature should have relieved
such corporations from the payment of income taxes.
The Joint Committee on Tax Revision had recommended
that the income tax cover "all profits from earnings of
any partnership or business done in or out of Virginia,"
and had not suggested that domestic corporations should
be exempted from it.' It was reasonable that other domestic corporations should have been subjected, like natural
persons domiciled within the State to a tax on all incomewhether earned within or without the State. Compare
Cream of Wheat Co. v. County of Grand Forks, ante, 325.
The court calls attention to the Act of March 14, 1918
(c. 219, Va. Acts, p. 395), which exempts all individuals
and corporations from the burden of taxation on incomes
earned without the State. The effect of this act is, among
other things, to remove the alleged discrimination here
complained of. But its enactment does not, in my opinion,
indicate that the imposition of the tax was inadvertent.
To my mind it indicates rather that the legislatures of
the several States may safely be entrusted with the duty
of legislation.
I cannot doubt that the classification for purposes of
taxation made by the Act of 1916 was within the power
of the State. But if I did not. think the matter clear, I
should, for the reasons stated by me fully elsewhere, feel
constrained to resolve the doubt in favor of the constitutionality' of the act.
'Report of Joint Committee on Tax Revision (Virginia, 1914):
p. 203.

