SCOTT v. FRAZIER.
233.

Counsel for Parties.

if the State sees fit to enter upon such enterprises as are
here involved, with the sanction of its constitution, its
legislature and its people, we are not prepared to say that
it is within the authority of this court, in enforcing the
observance of the Fourteenth Amendment, to set aside
such action by judicial decision.
Affirmed.

SCOTT ET AL. v. FRAZIER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 508.

Argued April 19, 20, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A suit by taxpayers to enjoin payment of public moneys and issuance

of bonds by a State, in which jurisdiction is invoked solely because
of alleged violation of their constitutional rights, cannot be entertained by the District Court if it is not alleged that the loss or injury
to any complainant amounts to &3,000. P. 244.

258 Fed. Rep. 669, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. C. Young, Mr. Tracy R. Bangs and Mr. C. J.
Murphy for appellants.
Mr. S. L. Nuchols and Mr. W. S. Lauder, with whom
Mr. William Langer, Attorney General of the State of
North Dakota, was on the brief, for appellees.
Mr. Frederic A. Pike, with whom Mr. William Lemke
was on the brief, for Frazier, Governor, Hagan, Commissioner of Agriculture and Labor, and the Industrial Commission of North Dakota, appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.

This suit so far as the merits are concerned-is like No.
811, just decided, ante, 233. It was brought in the District
Court of the United States for the district of North Dakota to enjoin the payment of public funds in the State
Treasury and the issuing of state bonds under the constitution and laws of North Dakota. We have sufficiently
stated the nature of this constitution and the laws involved in the opinion in No. 811.
The jurisdiction was invoked because of alleged violation of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. The
complainants were taxpayers of North Dakota who alleged that suit was brought on behalf of themselves and
all other taxpayers of the State. There was no diversity
of citizenship and jurisdiction was rested solely upon the
alleged violation of constitutional rights. The District
Court rendered a decree dismissing the bill on the merits,
the judge stating that he was of opinion that there was
no jurisdiction and directing the dismissal on the merits
to prevent delay and to permit the suit being brought
here by a single appeal.
There is no allegation that the loss or injury to any complainant amounts to the sum of $3,000. It is well settled
that in such cases as this the amount in controversy must
equal the jurisdictional sum as to each complainant.
Wheless v. St. Louis, 180 U. S. 379; Rogers v. Hennepin
County, 239 U. S. 621.
The District Court was right in its conclusion that there
was no jurisdiction. The decree is reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
So ordered.

