SBEIDLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court..

BEIDLER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 260.

Argued April 27, 28, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.

Patent No. 1,057,397, granted to George C. Beidler, March 25, 1913,
for an improvement in photographing and developing apparatus, does
not contain a description of the claimed discovery adequate to

render it useful, and is therefore invalid for failure to disclose a
practical invention.

53 Ct. Chms. 636, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles J. Wi~liamsbn, with whom Mr. Frank S.
Appleman was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. DanielL. Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, .with whom Mr.. Assistant Attorney General Datis
and Mr. Edward G. Curtis, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE

CLARmE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to recover damages for the infringement of
five of the forty-one claims of Letters Patent No. 1,057,397, applied for March 23, 1907, and granted on March 25,
1913.
The specification describes the claimed invention as an
Improvement in Photographing and Developing Appara-

tus, and as designed primarily for reproducing writings,
drawings, pictures or the like,--" novel means being also
provided to convey the sensitized film through a series of
receptacles containing suitable developing and fixing fluids
or through suitable baths according to the requirements."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

The patent is for a machine made up of a combination
of elements all of which were old, to produce a result which
was old but by a method of co-ordination and operation
which it is claimed is new and useful. The invention is
declared in the specification to consist in "the details of
construction and in the arrangement and combination of
the parts," as "set forth and claimed" by the inventor.
Figure 1 of the drawings, forming a part of the specification, will aid in explaining the construction and function
of the invention as claimed and in determining the character and extent of the disclosures of the patent. [See p. 449.]
The described mode of operation is substantially as
follows:
W is a roll of sensitized paper or film placed immediately
below the exposure chamber F of a camera, with its
sensitized surface uppermost to receive the desired image,
reflected from the mirror H. This film is fed into the
chamber between the rollers b, and thence along the floor
thereof to the rollers D where it emerges from the camera
and is seized by "clips" or clamps N. These clamps are
supported and carried by a rack M, and may be moved
to and fro (reciprocated) by turning the pinions L on the
shaft K, by means of a crank.
I, J and J' are shallow pans or "tanks" in which suitable "developing," "fixing," and "washing" solutions or
fluids are placed and the whole of the construction to the
right of the camera, as we face the print, is enclosed in a
light-proof case E, referred to in the patent sometimes as a
'compartment'" and sometimes as a "chamber.'" The
rack M, ande the clamps which hold and support the film,
move above the tanks and necessarily above the level of
the liquid within them. By turning the pinion L, the rack
M is moved outwardly away from the camera, and the
clamps draw the film after them until the required length
is attained, when it is severed from the roll by a manually
operated cutter, 0. When the film is thus cut to the

BEIDLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
L0O57,297.

'LR

ttl

s

450

OCTOBEI TE M, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

'.

253 U.S.

desiied length, obv*i401y only, the'fre. nd'Will fall to the
surface of the solution in the tank I, and by continuing
the outward movement of the rack M, the specification
declare, "the film is carried through the several tanks."
The "clips " or clamps are set and released automatically
and at the limit of the' outward movement the film is
released and falls into the tank J.' By reversing the turning of the pinions L the rack and clamps are returned
inwardly to the camera, so that the operation,' just detailed, may be repeated.
The Court of Claims carries into its findings of fact
fourteen patents as illustrative of the prior art, and with
this exhibit before us we fully agree with that court that
the claim of invention of appellant must be restricted to
the disclosed construction and operation of the mechanism
for carrying the exposed section of film "through the
developing and other solutions or liquids" after it,leaves
he capera.
In the description of the operation of the machine as we
have just given it, there is no provision other than gravity
for causing the free end of the film, when it is cut from the
roll, to sink into the developing fluid, and the other end of
it is held between the clamps, above the surface of the
fluid, as it is drawn along from one tank to another. The
Court of Claims found that under such conditions of
operation all of the film would not be submerged with
sufficient rapidity and uniformity to secure a proper and
useful development of the image, and this conclusion is not
seriously disputed. But the appellant contends that the
required submergence may be obtained by oscillating the
rack and clamps (and thereby the film) back and forth
within the range of a few inches when the filn is over the
first tank, I, with the result that the free end of the film,
first sinking into the fluid, is turned under and over and
the exposed side of it wholly submerged and thereby
developed.

BEIDLER v. UNITED STATES.
447.

Opinion of te Court.

In reply to this it is contended -by the Government that
the disclosures of the patent do not contain any suggestion
of a short, reciprocating movement of the rack, such as is
thus relied upon, and that the drawings provide for a
construction of the machine which would be inoperative
if such movement were resorted to. I
Upon this subject the finding of the:!ourt of Claims i:;,
that the machine can be rendered operative only "by
resorting to the new oscillating mode of operation evolved
for submerging and developir.g
by.the claimant
the film," and that'such mode of operation is not disclosEd
in the patent. On the contrary, it is especially'found that:
"By the method contemplated and disclosed in the
patent, the film with the exposed side up, held at one end
by the clamps attached to the rack M and moving in a
plane above the pans containing the developing and fixing
fluids, is intended, by the outward movement of the rack,
to be drawn successively through thM developing and.
-'fixing fluids, the rack moving in one directi6n only
through its entire course, the end of the film next:.the knife
and away from the clamps falling, when severed by. the
knif6, on the surface of the developer in the first paii and
submerging by gravity."
Treating this finding by the court as an interpretation
of the patent and -therefoie as a- conclusion of law -md
subject to review, we are brought to the question whether
the short, reciprocating moement of the rack, confessedly
necessary to successful ope ation of the machine,kis dis-.
closed in the patent, as it m4st be to render'.it valid-. Rev
Stats., ยง 4888.
The only description of*.e mode of-operation of aR
pellant's machine, and the statute requires that this must
be the best mode known t the patentee' (Rev. Stats.,
ยง 4888), is found in the specification and is as follows:
"In order to draw the flnrS through the several compartments, I provide a mechaoism consisting of a!shaft K--

OCTOBER TERM, -1919.
.Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

having toothed wheels L' which, mesh witha rack M, the
said rack being suitably guided in the ,compartment E,
and being alternately reciprocated through the rotation of
the shaft, K, in .opposite directions. When- the shaft is
turned to.the right, the said rackwill be projected from the
compartment- until the inner end thereof is nearly above.
the shaft, K" When 'the shaft is rotated in the opposite
direction, the said rack will, of course, be retracted and
thrust into the compartment. It is the purpose of this.
invention that the said rack shall carry clips N, which are
designed to clamp on the edges of the film Y and as the
said rack is moved outwardly, the film is chrried through
the several tanks as indicatea. The clips are automatically
released and set through the contact with trips within the
casing in the path of travel of said clips."
We agree with the Court of Claims that this language
describes a movement of the rack M, carrying the clamps
N, in one direction only-.-outwardly and progressively
away from the camera-until the movement is completed
and the film is released, and that the reciprocating movement referred to in the patent is the.re'.turi of the mechanism for clamping and carrying the film to its initial position.
for the purpose of repeating the operation.
There is nothing in the disclosure or in the claims to
suggest the arresting of the outward movement of the
clamps as soon as the film is severed from the roll and the
initiating thereupon of a short oscillating movement of, the
mechanism to and fro, until the film shali have been
immersed in the developing liq'Uid-sufflciently to bring out
the image photographed. It is very clear that no such
operation can be derived from the disclosure in the patent,
and we agree with the further finding of the Court of
Claims that in order to permit "this new oscillating mode
of operation evolved by the claimant ",material changes
would be required in the construction of the machine,
from that disclosed in the description and drawings.

BEIDLER v. UNITED STATES.

447.

Opinion of the Court.

The statutes, which are the source of all patent rights,
provide that a valid patent may be granted for a new and
useful machine, or for a new and useful improvement
thereof (Rev. Stats., ยง 4886), but they require that every
applicant for a patent shall file a written description of the
manner and process of making and using his invention
"in such full, clear, concise, and exact" terms as to enable
any person skilled in the art to which it relates to make and
construct it, and in case of a machine the description must
disclose the best mode in which the inventor has conteniplated the application of his discovery. Rev. Stats
ยง 4888.
Ever since Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 247, it has been
consistently held that a correct and adequate description
or disclosure of a claimed discovery (which, in the case of a
machine, involves particularly, the operation of-it) is
essential to the validity of a patent, for the reason that
such a disclosure is necessary in order to give the public
the benefit of Lhe invention after the patent shall. expire.
The source of the power to grant patents, and the consideration for granting them, is the advantage which the
public will derive from them, especially after the expiration
of the patent monopoly, when the discoveries embodied
in them shall become a part of the public stock of knowledge.
The application of these requirements of the law to our
conclusion that the only form of construction of the
machine and the only method of operation of it which are
disclosed in the patent would not produce a sufficiently
uniform -and rapid development of the film to render it
useful, must result in the approval of the judgment of the
Court of Claims, that the patent is invalid and void, for
the reason that it fails to disclose a practical and useful
invention.

This result renders it unnecessary to consider the further conclusion of the court below that the use by the

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

United States of photo-copying machines of a type known

as "Photostat," manufactured and sold under warrant of
Letters Patent issued to J. S. Green, No. 1,001,019,
would not have constituted an infringement of appellant's
patent had it proved to be valid. However, for its bearing
on future possible controversy, we add that the constructi6ii and relation of the two appliances, designed to produce the same result or product, have been fully considered
and that we agree with the conclusion of the Court of
Claims.
Affirmed.

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE, AS COMMISSIONER
OF IMMIGRATION AT THE PORT OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH cIRcuT.
No. 313.

Argued April 30, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.

Upon- a demurrer to a petition for habeas corpus alleging unlawful
detention under the Chinese Exclusion Laws, the testimony and
other papers pertaining to the proceedings of the immigration
authorities, when added, by reference, to the petition and filed with
it and with the respondent's return, are to be considered in interpreting the allegatiorts of the petition; -P. 457.
An adverse decision of the Secretary of Labor upon the identity of a
Chinese person, claiming to be an American citizen by birth and as
such entitled to reenter the United States,.is not conclusive upon the
courts if the proceedings were manifestly unfair and if it clearly
appear that a fair investigation of his rights was thereby prevented.
P. 457 et seq.
In such cases, the essentials ofithe evidence produced before the examinig inspector by the person seeking to rednter must be preserved in
the record of the proceedings, no less for the information of the Commissioner of Immigration and the Secretary of Labor in exercising

