90

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

The distinctions are too artificial for acceptance.

The

acts of service were too intimately related and too necessary for the final purpose to be distinguished in legal
character.
The conclusion that the service of Szary was rendered
in interstate commerce determines the correctness of the
ruling of the District Court upon the motion to dismiss
made at the close of plaintiff's evidence, and afterwards
for particular instructions and the objections to the charge
by the court. All of the rulings were based on the character of the commerce, the court adjudging it to be interstate.
It hence follows that the judgment must be and it is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VANDEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

WHITE, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIdRATION FOR
THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO, v. CHIN FONG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No., 506. Argued April

22, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

When a Chinaman seeking to reenter this country on the ground that
he was formerly engaged here as a merchant presents-due evidence
of his right as prescribed by the Act of November 3, 1893, c. 14, 28
Stat. 7, the immigration officials have no authority under the Exclusion Laws to ignore such evidence and exclude him upon the
ground that his original entry was in violation of them. P. 91.
The Exclusion Laws provide a judicial hearing to determine the liability to deportation in such cases and a mere executive order of
exclusion is void. P. 92.
258 Fed. Rep. 849, affirmed.

WHITE v. CHIN FONG.

90.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom Mr.
H. S. Ridgely was on the brief, for petitioier.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. George W.
Hott was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Certiorari to review a judgment of the Court of
Appeals discharging respondent from the custody of the
Commissioner of Immigration, he holding respondent
for deportation as a Chinese person not entitled to be in
the United States. 258 Fed. Rep. 849. The judgment
of the Court of Appeals reversed that of the District
Qourt, the latter court having remanded respondent to
the custody of the Commissioner for deportation.
. The evidence establishes the fact that respondent
entered the United States as a merchant and was such at
a fixed place of business for at least a year befor6 his departure for China and that his stay in China was intended
to be temporary. He hence contends that the Commissioner, as representing the executive branch of the Government, had no authority to determine that his original
entry was unlawful. This contention the District Court
ruled against and the Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in
favor of, and constitutes the question in the case. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, by Circuit Judge Morrow,
passing upon it said: "The Acting Secretary of Labor,
in approving the decision of the Commissioner of Immigration, did so upon the ground that 'the original
entry of this man [respondent] was obtained by fraud;'
but this was not the question submitted to the Commissioner of Immigration or to the Secretary of Labor for

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 I. S.

decision. The question was not whether the applicant
was legally admitted in 1896-1897, or 1906. The question
was whether he had been a merchant in the United States
at least one year before his departure from the United
States in 1912 (Chin Fong v. Backus, 241 U. S. 1, 5),"
and upon that question, it was decided that, "the evidence was all one way, establishing beyond controversy
all the facts required by the statute and the rule of the
Department of Labor."
The conclusion was that the Commissioner did not
consider this evidence or pass upon it, but deciding that
respondent's original entry was fraudulent, ordered his
deportation. In other words, it was held that the Commissioner ignored the question presented to him and the
evidence pertaining to it, reviewed and reversed the
judgment of another time and tribunal, took away the
right' that had been exercised under it and which gave
the assurance that respondent could go to China and return again. The order of deportation was, therefore,
declared to be void. For this the court cited the case of
Chin 'Fong v. Backus, supra, and the various statutes
applicable to the exclusion of Chinese persons from entry
into the United States. 22 Stat. 58; 23 Stat. 115; 25 Stat.
476; 31 Stat: 1093, and the Act of November 3, 1893, c.
14, 28 Stat. 7.
In the case of United States v. Woo Jan, 245 U. S.552,
we had occasion to consider the difference between the
situation of a Chinese person in the United States, and
one seeking to enter it; and held that the former was entitled to a judicial inquiry and determination of his rights,
and that the latter was subject to executive action and
decision. We think the distinction is applicable here,
and that one who has been in the United States and has
departed from it with the intention of returning, is entitled under existing legislation to have his right to do so
judicially investigated with "its assurances and sanc-

WHITE v. CHIN FONG.
90.

Opinion of the Court.

tions," as contrasted with the discretion which may
prompt or the latitude of judgment which may be exercised in executive action.
And such is the provision of the Act of November 3,
1893, 28 Stat. 7. It is there provided that a Chinaman
who applies for admission into the United States on tire
ground that he was formerly engaged therein as a merchant, must establish the fact by two credible witnesses,
other than Chinese, that. he was such at least one year
before his departure from the United States, and had
not engaged during such year in any manual labor except
what was necessary in the conduct of his business.
The Government appeals against the explicit words
of the provision to the purpose of the exclusion laws,
which is, it is said, to keep the country free from undesirable Chinese, or if they fraudulently enter, to expel
them, and it is 'insisted that it would be a perfunctory
execution of the purpose to let one in who may be immediately put out again. That intention, it is urged,
should not be ascribed to the laws, and in emphasis it is
said, "such a legislative absurdity is unthinkable."' But
this overlooks 'the difference in the security of judicial
over administrative action, to which we have adverted,
and which this court has declared, and,in the present case)
the right that had been adjudged and had been exercised
in reliance upon the adjudication.
Judgment affirmed.

