JOHNSON v. PAYNE.
206.

Syllabus.

enabling it to go on, barely paying its way, if it did so, not
without impairing even the mortgage security, not to
speak of its capital. We must accept the allegations of
the bill and must assume that the men were not merely
negatively refraining from demands under the act but,
presumably appreciating the situation, desired to keep on
an they were. To break up such a bargain would be at
least unjust and impolitic and not at all within the ends
that the Adamson Law had in view. We think it reasonable to assume that the circumstances in which, and the
purposes for which the law was passed import an exception in a case like this.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR.
JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS agree

with this decision limiting the effect of the Adamson Law
as stated, but adhere to the views concerning the constitutionality of the act expressed by them in Wilson v. New.

UNITED STATES EX REL. JOHNSON ET AL. v.
PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 291.

Argued April 29, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

In completing the rolls of members of the Five Civilized Tribes pursuant to the Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, ยง 2, 34 Stat. 137, the
Secretary of the Interior had jurisdiction, on March 4, 1907, to revoke without notice his approval of a report of the Commissioner
to the Five Civilized Tribes in favor of applicants for enrollment;

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

and such applicants cannot secure their enrollment through mandamus upon the suggestion that the revocation was due to mistake.
Cf. Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249.
48 App. D. C. 169, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. CharlesH. Merillat, with whom Mr. W. C. Franklin
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
Generdl, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to require the
Secretary of the Interior to place the names of the petitioners upon the rolls of the members of the Creek Natibn.
The petition was dismissed by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia and the judgment was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. We are not called upon to consider
the antecedent facts of the petitioners' case as all that is
material can be stated in a few words. Rights as a member
of the Nation depend upon the approved rolls. March
4, 1907, was fixed by statute as the time when the rolls
were to be completed by the Secretary of the Interior and
his previously existing jurisdiction to approve enrollment
then ceased. Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, ยง 2, 34 Stat.
137, 138. Before that date the petitioners had on file an
application for enrollment, hearings had been had before
the proper tribunal, a favorable report had been made to
the Secretary and the Secretary had written a letter to
the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes, saying,
"Your decision is hereby affirmed." But on the last day,
March 4, 1907, the Secretary addressed another communication to the same official rescinding the former letter to

JOHNSON v. PAYNE.
209.

Opinion of the Court.

him, and reversing his decision. It was ordered that if the
petitioners' names were on the rolls they should be stricken
off. The Secretary gave no reasons for his action but it is
suggested that he acted under mistakes of law and fact,
and it is'argued that when the first letter was written
the petitioners' rights were fixed.
The last is the only point in the case and with regard to
that it is argued that this reversal of the first decision without a hearing was a denial of due process of law. It is not
denied that the Secretary might have declined to affirm
the decision below in the first instance, and that having
been his power, the only question is when it came to an
end. While the case was before him he was free to change
his mind, and he might do so none the less that he had
stated an opinion in favor of one side or the other. He did
not lose his power to do the conclusive act, ordering and
approving an enrollment, Garfieldv. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249,
until the act was done. New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S.
261, 266. Kirk v. Olson, 245 U. S. 225, 228. The petitioners' r ames never were on the rolls. The Secretary was the
final judge whether they should be, and they cannot be
ordered to be put on now, upon a suggestion that the
Secretary made a mistake or that he came very near to
giving the petitioners the rights they claim.
Judgment affirmed.

