ERIE R. R. CO. v. COLLINS.
Syllabus.

76.

the obligation which existed to erect cattle yards at every
station also established the duty to install a cattle scales
at every station. The judgment of the intermediary
court was therefore reversed and the order of the Board
affirmed.
Eliminating, as this conclusion did, all the questions
pressed before the Board obviously with the purpose of
taking the case out of the reach of the Minnesota decision,
based upon a supposed duty to put in scales because of the
advantage which would result to dealers in cattle, it
clearly follows that this case is decisively controlled by the
ruling in the Minnesota Case, and therefore leaves us only
the duty to apply that ruling. Coming to do so, the
judgment below is therefore reversed and the cause remanded with directions for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. COLLINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 348.

Argued January 8, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

Plaintiff's duties on a railroad engaged in interstate and intrastate
commerce were to attend to a signal tower and switches and also, in
a nearby building, to run a gasoline engine to pump water into a
tank for the use of the locomotives, whether operating intrastate or
interstate trains. While engaged in-the latter employment, he was
injured and disfigured by burns resulting from an explosion of
gasoline. Held, employcd, at time of injury, in interstate commerce,
within the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 82.
Damages may be allowed by a jury for shame and humiliation resulting
from an injury and personal disfigurement due to negligence. P. 85.
259 Fed. Rep. 172, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

253 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Ryan, with whom Mr. Adelbert Moot was
on the brief, for petitioner:
The character of employment at the time of injury,
whether interstate or intrastate, depends upon the work
in which the employee, at the time, was engaged. The
mere expectation of presently being called upon to perform a task in interstate commerce is immaterial. 'Erie
R. R. Co. v. Collins, 259 Fed. Rep. 172; Southern Ry. Co. V.
Puckett, 244 U. S. 571, 574; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478; Erie R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242
U. S. 303, 306. See also New York Central R. R. Co. v.
Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 163. As in Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439, respondent,
at the time of injury, was employed in preparing an article
for consumption by the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, and therefore was not employed in such commerce.
If a railroad employed an engineer to pump water from
the earth at a distance from its right of way and transported the water by cars or a pipe line to a water tank
upon its right of way, for use there upon engines engaged in
interstate commerce, we should have a situation exactly
like the one presented in the Yurkonis Case. The engineer
pumping the water has no closer relationship to interstate
commerce than the miner has in mining coal for use in
interstate commerce. In pumping water, the character of
the employment, whether interstate or not, does not
depend upon the proximity of the source of supply to the
point of use.
In addition to drawing the water from the earth, the
engine operated by respondent placed the water in a
tank from which it could be taken with convenience, as
required for use. This phase of the work was analogous
to that done by the injured employee in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Harrington,241 U. S. 177, who,

ERIE R. R. CO. v. COLLINS.
77.

Argument for Petitioner.

when injured, was placing cars of coal on a trestle from
which it could be unloaded through chutes to the tenders of
locomotives. See also Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. Barlow,
244 U. S. 183.
It is argued that, without the service which respondent
was rendering when injured, commerce would be seriously
interrupted, if it did not cease. Commerce would not
continue without machine shops for the repair of cars and
locomotives, but the courts have held that employment
in the shops in which cars and locomotives which hauled
interstate commerce were repaired, was not a part of interstate commerce. The erection and maintenance of the
structures in which the instrumentalities of commerce are
built, repaired and housed, the construction and repair of
the instrumentalities of commerce, the procurement and
placing for convenient use of the articles consumed in
commerce, when they have relationship to interstate commerce are properly classified as work for interstate commerce and not as work in interstate commerce. Shanks v.
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556.
See Kelly v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 238 Fed. Rep. 95;
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S.
353.
Gallagherv. New York Central R. R. Co., 180 App. Div.
88; 222 N. Y. 649 (certiorari denied 248 U. S. 655); and
Vollmers v. New York Central R. R. Co., 180 App. Div. 60;
223 N. Y. 571, indicate that the repair of the pump house in
which the gasoline engine was located, or the repair of that
engine itself, was not employment in interstafe commerce.
On the question of damages for mental suffering, the
following were cited: Southern Pacific Co. v. Heter, 135
Fed. Rep. 272; Kennon v. Gilmer, 131 U. S. 22, 26; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 611.
Mr. Hamilton Ward, with whom Mr. Irving W. Cole
was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for damages under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act brought in the District Court for the Western
District of New York.
The following are the allegations of the complaint
stated narratively:
December 25, 1915, and prior thereto, defendant was an
operator of a steam railroad and engaged in interstate
commerce. On and prior to that date plaintiff as an
employee of defendant operated a signalling tower and
watertank in the town of Burns, New York, the tower
being used for the operation of trains in interstate and
intrastate commerce. The tank was used for supplying
the locomotives of the trains with water, which was
pumped from a close by well into the tank by a gasoline
engine which plaintiff ran.
In the nighttime of December 25, 1915, while plaintiff
was engaged in starting the engine the gasoline suddenly
exploded burning him and seriously and painfully and
permanently injuring him, causing him immediate and
permanent suffering and the expenditure of large Sums of
money, by all of which he was damaged in the sum of
$25,000.
The engine was defective, which was the cause of the
explosion, plaintiff being guilty of no negligence.
Judgment was prayed in the sum of $25,000.
Defendant by demurrer attacked the sufficiency of the
complaint and the jurisdiction of the court.
The court (Judge Hazel) overruled the demurrer, and in
doing so expressed the conflicting considerations which
swayed for and against its strength, but finally held the
complaint sufficient, "and that plaintiff was engaged in
interstate commerce, or that his work was so closely connected therewith as to be a part of it." To this conclusion

ERIE R. R. CO. v. COLLINS.
77.

Opinion of the Court.

the court seemed to have been determined by Pedersen
v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146.
Defendant answered putting at issue the allegations of
the complaint, and set up as separate defences assumption
of risk and contributory negligence.
A trial was had to a jury during the course of which it
was stipulated that at the time of plaintiff's injury and
prior thereto "trains carrying interstate commerce ran
daily" and at such times "water from the water tank
.

.

.

was supplied daily in part to defendant's engines

at the time engaged in hauling interstate freight and in
part to

.

.

engines at the time hauling intrastate

freight."
Motions for nonsuit and for a directed verdict were
successively made and overruled;
The jury returned a verdict for plaintiff in the sum of
$15,000 upon which judgment was entered against motion
for arrest and new trial.
Error was then prosecuted to the Court of Appeals,
which court affirmed the judgment, and to review its action this certiorari was grant ed.
The evidence presents very few matters of controversy.
It establishes the employment of plaintiff by defendant,
and its character, and presents the question whether it was
in interstate commerce or intrastate commerce, in both of
which, it is stipulated, defendant was engaged. And on
this question the courts below decided the employment
was in interstate commerce though exhibiting some struggle with opposing considerations.
They seemed to have been constrained to that conclusion by the same cases, and a review of them, therefore, is
immediately indicated, to see whether in their discord or
harmony, whichever exists, a solution can be found for the
present controversy.
They all dealt with considerations dependent upon the

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

distinctions of fact and law between interstate and intrastate commerce. A distinction, it may at once be said, is
plain enough so far as the essential characteristics of the
commerces are concerned; but how far instruments or
personal actions are connected with either and can be
assigned to either, becomes in cases a matter of difficulty,
.and ground, it may be, of divergent judgments. With this
in mind "we review the cases.
But first as to the facts in this. Defendant is an interstate railroad and upon its line running from other States
to New York it operated in New York a signal tower and
switches to attend which plaintiff was employed. It also
had near the tower a pumping station, consisting of a
water-tank and a gasoline engine for pumping purposes
through which instrumentalities water was supplied to its
engines in whichever commerce engaged. While in attendance' at the pumping station plaintiff was injured.
And such- is the case, that is, while in attendance at the
pumping station, it being his duty to so attend, was he
injured in interstate commerce?
It can hardly be contended that while plaintiff was
engaged in the signal tower he was not engaged in interstate commerce, though he may have on occasion signalled
the approach or departure of intrastate trains. But it is
contended that when he descended from the tower and
went to the pumping station he put off an interstate
character and took on one of intrastate quality or, it may
be, was divested of both and sank into undesignated
employment. A rather abrupt transition it would seem at
first blush, and, if of determining influence, would subject
the Employers' Liability Act to rapid changes of application, plaintiff being within it at one point of time and
without it at another-within it when on the signal tower,
but without it when in the pump house, though in both
places being concerned with trains engaged in interstate
commerce.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. COLLINS.
77.

Opinion of the Court,

But let us go from speculation to the cases. 'Pedersen
v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co. v. Harrington, 241 U. S. 177; Shanks v. Delaware;
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, and Roush
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 243 Fed. Rep. 712, were
considered by the Court of Appeals. Some state cases
were also referred to.
In Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., it was held that one carrying bolts to be used in repairing an interstate railroad and who was injured by an
interstate train was entitled to invoke the Employers'
Liability Act. In other words, that one employed upon
an instrumentality of interstate commerce was employed
in interstate commerce. And it was said, citing cases,
"The true test always is: Is the work in question'a part
of the interstate commerce in which the carrier is engaged?"
In the Yurkonis Case the injury complained of happened
to Yurkonis in a mine or colliery of the railroad by the
explosion
of gases when Yurkonis was, engaged in and
about the performance of his duties. It was held that an
injury so received, though the coal was destined for use in
interstate commerce, was not one occurring in such commerce.
I In Roush v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 243 Fed. Rep.
712, the decision was that one employed in operating a
pumping station which furnished water to interstate and
intrastate roads was engaged in work incidental to interstate commerce. The court deducing that conclusioi: from
cases from which it liberally quoted.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Harrington,
241 U. S. 177, the Court of Appeals considered as sub-,
stantially the same in incident and principle with the
Yurkonis Case, supra. The case concerned an injury

,OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

while handling coal. It was a step or steps nearer the
instrumentality of use: It was being removed when the
injury complained of occurred from storage tracks to
chutes. The employment was considered too distant from
interstate commerce to be a part of it or to have "close or
direct relation to interstate transportation." The Yurkonis Case was cited and applied.
Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.,
239 U. S. 556, was considered of like character. The
employment asserted to have been in interstate commerce
was the taking down and putting up fixtures in a machine
shop for repairing interstate locomotives.
Before summarizing these cases we may add Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353, and
Southern Ry. Co. v. Puckett, 244 U. S. 571. In the Winters
Case the work was repairing an engine. The engine, it was
said, had no definite destination. "It simply had finished
some interstate business and had not yet begun upon-any
other." As to such instrumentalities the determining
principle was said to be that their character depends upon
their "employment at the time not upon remote probabilities or upon accidental later events."
In the Puckett Case an employee (car inspector) going to
the relief of another employee stumbled over some large
clinkers in his path while carrying a jack for raising a
derailed car. It was decided that he was engaged in interstate commerce, the purpose being to open the way for
interstate transportation.
These, then, being the cases, what do they afford in the
solution of the case at bar? As we have said regarding the
essential character of the two commerces the differences
between them are easily recognized and expressed, but, as
we have also said, whether at a given time particular
instrumentalities or employment may be assigned to one
or the other may not be easy, and of this the cases are
illustrative. What is their determining principle?

ERIE R. R. CO. v. COLLINS.
77.

Opinion of the Court.

In the PedersenCase it was said that the questions which
naturally arise: "Was that work being done independently
of the interstate commerce in which the defendant was
engaged, or was it so closely connected therewith as to be
a part of it"? Or as said in Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., supra, was the "work so
closely related to it [interstate commerce] as to be practically a part of it"? The answer must be in the affirmative.
Plaintiff was assigned to duty in the signal tower and in the
pump house and it was discharged in both on interstate
commerce as well as on intrastate commerce, and there
was no interval between the commerces that separated the
duty, and it comes therefore within the indicated test. It
may be said, however, that this case is concerned exclusively with what was to be done, and was done, at the
pump house. This may be true, but his duty there was
performed and the instruments and facilities of it were
kept in readiness for use and were used on both commerces as was demanded, and the test of the cases satisfied.
There is only one other assertion of error that demands
notice. The others (regarding assumption of risk and
contributory negligence) counsel neither argue nor submit;
their abandonment, therefore, may be assumed.
It is asserted against the verdict that it is "outrageously
excessive," caused by the instruction of the court that
plaintiff could recover "for shame and humiliation."
Counsels' argument is not easy to represent or estimate.
They say that "mental pain" of the designated character,
"the suffering from injured feelings, is intangible, incapable of test or trial," might vary in individuals," rests entirely in the belief of the sufferer, and is not susceptible of
contradiction or rebuttal." If all that be granted it was
for the consideration of the jury. It certainly cannot be
pronounced a proposition of law that personal mutilation
or disfiguration may be a matter of indifference to anybody

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Aigument for Petitioner.

253 U. S.

or that sensitiveness to it may vary with "temperaments"
and be incapable of measurement. We see no error in the
instruction.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY
dissent.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. SZARY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 355.

Argued January,8, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

An employee of a railroad engdged in both interstate and intrastate
commerce, whose duty it was to dry sand in stoves in a small structure near the tracks and supply it to the locomotives, whether
operating in the one kind of commerce or the other, was injured
while returning from an ash-pit whither he had gone to dump ashes
taken by him from one of the stoves after sanding several locomotives
bound to other States. Held, employed in interstate commerce
within the meaning of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 89.
Erie R. R. Co. v. Collins, ante, 77, followed.
259 Fed. Rep. 178, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Theodore Kiendl, Jr., with whom Mr. William C.
Cannon and Mr. Coulter D. Young were on the brief, for

petitioner:
Plaintiff's duties as sand-drier, apart from actually
delivering sand to an engine, may be divided into (1) preparing the sand for storage, and (2) caring for the stove
and fire with which the sand was prepared for storage.

