OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

no ground exists for equitable relief; but finally to decide
a defendant's rights upon the mere statement of his adversary, although apparently supported by ex parte affidavits and decrees of other courts, is not within the purview of the act. He is entitled to a day in court with
opportunity to set up and establish his defenses. The
motion for final judgment was properly overruled. Eagle
Glass & Manufacturing Co. v. Rowe, 245 U. S. 275, 281.
Petitioner's motion to enter a disclaimer must be denied.
If the two Circuit Courts of Appeals have expressed
conflicting views we cannot now declare which is right or
undertake finally to decide the several issues involved
upon their merits. The matter for review here is the action of the courts below upon the preliminary order for
injunction and we may go no further. Leeds & Catlin
Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 301, 311;
Lutcher & Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257,
267.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed. The cause will be remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Affirmed.

O'CONNELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 221.

Argued April 23, 26, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

A standing rule of a District Court extended the term for the purpose

of making and filing bills of exceptions and another provided that
the time allowed by the rules might be extended by order made
before its expiration but that no such extension or extensions should
exceed thirty days in all, without the consent of the adverse party.

O'CONNELL v. UNITED STATES.
142.

Statement of the Case.

Held, that the court lost its power to receive and settle a bill of
exceptions when the term as extended by rule had expired and
when a further period of less than thirty days, allowed by order
made before such expiration, had also expired; notwithstanding
further attempted extensions, each ordered before expiration of its
predecessor. P. 145.
Amendment of assignments of error may be allowed on motion, in
proper cases.. P. 147.
The constitutionality of the Selective Service and Espionage Acts
and the criminality of conspiracies to obstruct recruiting and enlistment by persuasion were settled by decisions of this court announced since the writ of error herein was sued out. Id.
In a trial on two counts the verdict, written apparently on a printed
form, declared the defendants "guilty on the - count of the Indictment, and - on the - count of the Indictment." No objection was made until after the case came to this court. Held, that
all parties evidently understood it as a-general verdict and that the
informality did not make it fatally defective or the sentence, on both
counts, invalid. P. 148.
That part of ยง 6 of the Selective Service Act providing "any person
who shall make or be a party to the making of any false statement or
certificate as to the fitness or liability of himself or any other person
for service under the provisions of this Act, or regulations made by
the President thereunder, or otherwise evades or aids another to
evade the requirements of this Act or of said regulations," applies
to persons who are not officers or charged with the duty of carrying
the act into effect. Id.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion. The second count
charged that the defendants conspired to make and caused
to be made false statements and certificates as to their
liability and as to the liability of certain other persons,
named or unknown, for military service under the Selective Service Law and regulations, and to aid and abet
such persons, they being of draft age and liability, to
evade the act and regulations, and particularly to aid and
counsel them to refuse and fail to present themselves for
the physical examinations, and for military service when
called, etc., with overt acts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Mr. Gilbert E. Roe, with whom Mr. Joseph L. Tepper,
Mr. Seth Shepard, Jr., Mr. David Jay Smith, Mr. Herman
B. Smith and Mr. T. C. West were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Plaintiffs in error were tried under an indictment with
two counts. The first charges a conspiracy to violate the
Espionage Act,-ยง 3, Act June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat.
217, 219--by obstructing the recruiting and enlistment
service; the second a conspiracy to violate the Selective
Service Law-ยง 6, Act May 18, 1917, c. 15, 40 Stat. 76, 80.
A demurrer, challenging the constitutionality of both
acts and the sufficiency of each count, was overruled.
The trial continued from September 12 to 25, 1917,
and resulted in the following verdict: "We, the jury,
find Daniel O'Connell, David J. Smith, Herman B. Smith,
Carl J. F. Wacher, Thomas Carey, and E. R. Hoffman
the defendants at the bar, guilty on the - count of the
Indictment, and -

on the

-

count of the Indictment.

Thomas H. Haskins, Foreman." No objection was made
to this verdict when returned, nor at any time prior to
May 31, 1919, long after the record came here, when permission was asked to amend the assignments of error.
Motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment were
overruled. The former attacked the verdict as contrary
to law and the evidence but said nothing concerning its
form. The latter recited "And now after verdict against
the said defendants and before sentence, come the said
defendants in their own proper persons and by Daniel
O'Connell their attorney and move the court here to
arrest judgment herein and not pronounce the same,"

O'CONNELL v. UNITED STATES.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

and specified the following grounds: (1) The indictment
fails to set forth facts sufficient to constitute an offense;
(2) The first count is repugnant to itself for reasons set
forth in the demurrer; (3) The second count is based on
the Act of May 18, 1917, inapplicable to the defendants
because they were not engaged in carrying out its terms;
(4) The first count does not adequately inform defendants
concerning. nature of charge against them; (5) Both the
Acts of May 18 and June 15, 1917, are in conflict with the
Constitution and are invalid.
September 29 O'Connell was sentenced to the penitentiary for five years on the first count and for two years
on the second, the terms to run consecutively. The other
plaintiffs in. error were sentenced to varying concurrent
terms under both counts, none being in excess of three
years. On the same day a writ of error from this court
was allowed.
The record contains a bill of exceptions, with an elaborate explanatory certificate signed by the District Judge.
The trial took place during July term, 1917; the next
term as appointed by statute began November 15. On
September 29, thirty days were granted for preparation
and presentation of a bill of exceptions. - October 23 an
order undertook to extend the time to November 15; on
November 12 a like order specified November 27; on
November 26 an order specified December 15; on December 14 a further order undertook to extend it to December 24, when a still further extension was ordered to December 31. On the latter date a proposed bill was presented;
January 9, 1918, the United States attorney procured an
order granting time in which to prepare amendments
to the proposed bill which were thereafter presented.
Rule 9 of the District Court provided: "For the purpose of making and filing bills of exceptions and of making
any and all motions necessary to be made within the
term at which any judgment or decree is entered, each

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

term of this court shall be and hereby is extended so as
to comprise a period of three calendar months beginning
on the first Tuesday of the month in which verdict is
rendered or judgment or decree entered." Rule 61 provided: When an act to be done in any pending suit
relates to the preparation of bills of exceptions or amendments thereto," the time allowed by these rules may, unless
otherwise specially provided, be extended by the court or
judge by order made before the expiration of such time,
but no such extension or extensions shall exceed thirty
days in all, without the consent of the adverse party."
After expiration of the three months specified by Rule
9, plaintiffs in error having in open court requested further
extension, the United States attorney announced that
he would not consent but would ask the court to refuse
to settle any bill thereafter proposed. In April, 1918,
he moved that settlement of the proposed bill be refused
and that it be stricken from the files. The court expressed
the opinion that the bill was too late unless the United
States attorney had waived objection thereto, and on
that point said: "I am very strongly of the view that,
owing to the attitude of the United States attorney, distinctly stated theretofore, which was all that could be
done under the circumstances, this was not such a waiver.
But, in order that the matter might be brought here for
final determination, the facts were set out and the certificate signed.
Under the statute the trial term expired November
15; but, for the purpose of filing the bill of exceptions, a
general rule* extended it to December 4--three months
from the first Tuesday in September. The last order of
court within the extended term designated December
15 as the final day for action.
"By the uniform course of decision, no exceptions to
rulings at a trial can be considered by this court, unless
they were taken at the trial, and were also embodied in a

O'CONNELL v. UNITED STATES.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

formal bill of exceptions presented to the judge at the
same term, or within a further time allowed by order
entered at that term, or by standing rule of court, or by
consent of parties .
.
After the term has expired,
without the court's control over the case being reserved
by standing rule or special order, and especially after a
writ of error has been entered in this court, all authority
of the court below to allow a bill of exceptions then first
presented, or to alter or amend a bill of exceptions already
allowed and filed, is at an end." Michigan Insurance
Bank v. Eldred, 143 U. S. 293, 298.
We think the power of the trial court over the cause
expired not later than the 15th of December, 1917, and
any proceedings concerning settlement of a bill thereafter
were coram non judice. We may not, therefore, consider
the bill copied in the record. Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102
U. S.333; Davis v. Patrick, 122 U. S. 138; Waldron v.
Waldron, 156 U. S. 361; Jenniihgs v. Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 255, 257. And the
same is true of certain notes of proceedings taken during
trial which we directed to be brought here, without prejudice, by order of June 9, 1919.
The motion to amend original assignments of error
is granted. Having regard to the record properly before
us only four of the assignments require special notice:
(1) Unconstitutionality of the Selective Service and the
Espionage Acts; (2) That the first count is bad because
it only charges a conspiracy to obstruct the recruiting
and enlistment service by inducement and persuasion;
(3) The verdict was fatally defective and the judgment
invalid; (4) The second count is bad. It charges a conspiracy to make false certificates concerning liability for
military service and to aid in evading the act without
alleging that the conspirators were officers or persons
charged with the duty of carrying it into effect.
The constitutionality of the two acts is settled bv opin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

ions of this court announced since the writ of error was
sued out. Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S. 474; Schenck
v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Frohwerk v. United States,
249 U. S. 204. Also the criminality of a conspiracy to
obstruct recruiting and enlistment by persuasion has been
determined. Schenck v. United States, supra.
Apparently a printed form was used in preparing the
jury's verdict, defendants' names and the word "guilty"
being inserted. When presented no objection was made
to its form or wording, neither the motion for new trial
nor in arrest of judgment indicated any such objection,
and plaintiffs in error mentioned' none when called upon
to show cause why sentence should not be imposed., We
think the intention to find a general verdict of guilty
upon both counts is sufficiently plain. Evidently all
parties so understood at the time. See Statler v. United
States, 157 J. S. 277, 279; Ballew v. United States, 160
U. S. 187, 197.
The second count charges a conspiracy to violate ยง 6
of the Selective Service Act. Its provisions include:
"Any person who shall make or be a party to the making
of any false statement or certificate as to the fitness or
liability of himself or any other person for service under
the provisions of this Act, or regulations made by the
President thereunder, or otherwise evades or aids another
to evade the requirements of this Act or of said regulations." Other words of the section relate to officers and
persons charged with the duty of carrying the act into
effect, but the quoted ones are broad enough to include
non-official persons and, when considered in connection
with the general purpose in view, there can be no reasonable doubt that plaintiffs in error were within their meaning. See Frainav. United States, 255 Fed. Rep. 28, 33.
We find no adequate cause for interfering with the
judgment of the court below and it is
Affirmed.

