284

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

253 U. S.

The judgment will be rev'ersed as to the sum of $4,560
awarded for horses killed by the Sioux Indians, and in
other respects affirmed.
Reversed in part; affirmed in part.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HANCOCK.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 415.

Argued March 2, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

Cars of coal destined beyond the State, as shown by memoranda delivered to the conductor at the mine, were moving from the mine
to a yard, where they were to be gathered into a train and
thence moved some miles toa weighing station, there to be weighed
and billed to specific consignees in another State, the freight
charges to be assessed -and paid from mine to consignee. Held,
in applying the Federal Employers' Liability Act, that the first
movement was part of an interstate movement. P. 286.
264 Pa. St. 220, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Gowen .Yarry for plaintiff in error and

petitioner.
Mr. IHannig Taylor for defendant in error and respondent.

PHILA. & READ. RY. CO.- v. HANCOCK.
284.

285

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The judgment below affirmed an award for respondent
under the Workmen's Compensation Act of Pennsylvania,
granted because of the death of her husband from an
accident while in the petitioner's employ as a trainman.
After a writ of error had been sued out we allowed a
writ of certiorari. The former must be dismissed; the case
is properly here up6n the latter.
1f,
T when the accident occurred, the husband was employed in commerce between States the challenged judgment must be reversed. And he was so employed if any
of the cars in his train contained interstate freight. Employers' Liability Act, April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65;
St. Louis, San Francisco& Texas Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U.
S. 156, 161; New York Central & Hudson River R. R. Co.
v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260; New York Central R. R. Co. v.
Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; New York Central R. R. Co. v.
Porter, 249 U. S. 168; Southern Pacific Company v. Industrial Accident Commission, 251 U. S. 259.
The essential facts are not in controversy; the nature
of the employment, therefore, is a question of law.
The duties of the deceased never took him out of
Pennsylvania; they related solely to transporting coal
from the mines. When injured he belonged to a crew
operating a train of loaded cars from Locust Gap Colliery
to Locust Summit Yard, two miles away. The ultimate
destination of some of these cars was outside of Pennsylvania.
This appeared from instruction cards or
memoranda delivered to the conductor by the shipping
clerk at the mine. Each of these referred to a particular
car by number and contained certain code letters indicating that such car with its load would move beyond the
State.
Pursuing the ordinary course these cars were hauled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

253 U. S.

Locust Summit Yard and placed upon appropriate tracks;
there the duties of the first crew in respect of them terminated. Later, having gathered them into a train, another
crew moved them some ten miles to Shamokin Scales
where. they were inspected, weighed and billed to specifically designated consignees in another State. In due time
they passed to their final destinations over proper lines.
Freight charges at through rates were assessed and paid
for the entire distance beginning at the mine.
Respondent maintains that the coal in cars ticketed for
transportation as above described did not become part of
interstate commerce until such cars reached Shamokin
Scales and were there weighed and billed. But we think
-former opinions of this court require the contrary conclusioh. The coal was in the course of transportation to
another State when the cars left the mine. There was no
interruption of the movement; it always continued towards
points as originally inteided. The determining circum-'
stance is that the shipment was but a step in the transportation of the coal to real and ultimate destinations in
another State. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Railroad
Commission of Ohio v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108;
Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227
U. S. 111, 124, 126; Railroad Commission of Louisiana v.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336, 341; Baer Brothers
Mercantile Co. v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 233 U.
S. 479.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

