KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.

149

Syllabus.

KNICKERBOCKER ICE COMPANY v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT, APPELLATE DIVISION, THIRD
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 543.

Argued December 16, 1919.-Decided May 17, 1920.

The Constitution, Art. III, § 2, Art. I, § 8, itself adopted and established, as part of the laws of the United States, approved rules of
the general maritime law, and empowered Congress to legislate in
respect of them and other matters within tlhe admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. P. 160.
It took from the States all power, by legislation or judicial decision,
to contravene the essential purposes of, or work material injury to,
characteristic features of that law, or to interfere with its proper
harmony and uniformity in its international and interstate relations.
Id.

To preserve adequate harmony and appropriate uniform rules relating
to maritime matters and bring them within the control of the Federal
Government, was the fundamental purpose; and to such definite end
Congress was empowered to legislate within that sphere. Id.
There is a distinction between the situation created by the Constitution relative to maritime affairs and the one resulting from the mere
grant of power to regulate commerce without more. P. 161.
That clause of the provision granting otherwise exclusive admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction to the federal courts (Judiciary Act,
1789, § 9; Jud. Code, §§ 24, 256), which saves to suitors "in all
cases, the right of a common-law remedy, where the common law is
competent to give it," refers to remedies for enforcement of the
federal maritime law, and does not create substantive rights or
assent to their creation by the States. Pp. 159, 161.
The usual function of a saving clause is to preserve something from
immediate interference-not to create. P. 162.
The legislature does not alter the law by expressing an erroneous opinion
of it. Id.
Read with the explanatory report in the Senate and with the light of
attendant circumstances, the Act of October 6, 1917, c. 97, 40 Stat.
395, which purports to amend Jud. Code, §§ 24 and 256, by adding
to the saving clause "and to claimants the rights and remedies under
the workmen's compensation law of any State," is to be construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

253 U. S.

as intending to obviate the objections pointed out in Southern
Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and as seeking to authorize
and sanction action by the States in prescribing and enforcing, as
to all parties concerned, rights, liabilities and remedies designed to
provide compensation for injuries suffered by employees engaged in
maritime work. Pp. 161, et seq.
The attempted amendment is unconstitutional, as being a delegation of
the legislative power of Congress and as defeating the purpose of the
Constitution respecting the harmony and uniformity of the maritime
law. P. 164. The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, distinguished. P. 166.
226 N. Y. 302, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank R. Savidge, with whom Mr. Frederick M.
Thompson was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
Congress has power to amend or create the maritime
law which shall prevail throughout the country (Butler v.
Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527; In re Garnett,
141 U. S. 1, 14), but that is the limit of its power. It
cannot delegate this power to the States, nor authorize
the enactment of laws that will destroy the uniformity
of the maritime law. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558;
Sudden & Christenson v. Industrial Accident Comm., 188
Pac. Rep. 803.
From what was said in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205, it follows that if the new and revolutionary
principle of compensation, involving the creation of a
liability without fault, hitherto unknown in any system
of law, is to be extended to ma-ritime employments, this
must be done by a law enacted by Congress establishing
a uniform system throughout the country.
And, as stated in the opinion, "the absence of any law
of Congress on the subject is equivalent to its declaration
that commerce in that matter shall be free."
The New York workmen's compensation law, as applied
to maritime employments, is also unconstitutional in
that an essential part of the law bars rights of action in

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

151

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

admiralty, which cannot be barred by legislation of the
States. Employers, upon complying with the law, are
given complete immunity from suits to recover for disabilities sustained by their workmen in the course of the
employment. The exclusiveness of the law is a most
vital feature. Jensen v. Southern Pacific Co., 215 N. Y.
514.
The whole scheme of the law fails in maritime employments. Compensation is only given by the law if other
remedies are barred. If they cannot be barred in admiralty, an anomalous situation exists. The law would
be not only enforced but enlarged far beyond the point
that any state legislature has attempted to carry the compensation principle. It is not the intent, nor is it the effect
of the New York law to give compensation in cases where
other liability exists. To hold that the law is constitutional in maritime cases, amends the New York law. It
is impossible to enforce it in maritime matters as it
stands.
Another view is that expressed in The Howell, 257 Fed.
Rep. 578, that the remedy is not interfered with, but the
underlying cause of action is eliminated, and the remedy
becomes inoperative. In view of the great weight of
authority the other way, we.do not believe that this court
will adopt that view.
But one or the other position must eventually be taken.
Either the State of New York, and all other States, must
be allowed to make this inroad upon the maritime law,
or their compensation acts must be held not to apply to
maritime employments and to that extent to be invalid
and unconstitutional.
That a middle course should be adopted by a construction which would amend the New York law by allowing
compensation where the law itself does not give it, namely,
in cases where other remedies are not barred, is unthinkable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

253 U. S.

Mr. E. Clarence Aiken, Deputy Attorney General of
the State of New York, with whom Mr. Charles D. Newton,
Attorney General of the State of New York, was on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The Constitution is in effect a mere form or skeleton of
government, or a body not instinct with life until made so
by congressional legislation. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 407; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet.
657, 721. That this is true of the admiralty jurisdiction
appears from the manner in which it has expanded in this
country from what it was in England before and at the
time of the Revolution, and from the opinions of this court
touching the power of Congress over it. New Jersey Steam
Nay. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344; The Thomas
Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428; The Orleans v. Phwbus, 11 Pet.
175; The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205 (dissenting opinion); Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 47 U. S. 372; Martin V.
Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 326; United States v. Bevans,
3 Wheat. 336.
That Congress has authority to define and limit jurisdiction in admiralty cases would seem to follow from its
power with reference to other cases. Art. III, § 2, cl. 1,
says that judicial power shall extend to controversies
between citizens of different States, but Congress can
confine the actual exercise by prescribing a jurisdictional
amount. Holt v. Indiana Mfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68; United
States v. Sayward, 160 U. S. 493.
Even before the amendment to the section of the Judicial Code, this court in the Jensen Case pointed out the
difficulty, if not impossibility, of defining "with exactness
just how far the general maritime law may be changed,
modified or affected by state legislation. That this may
be done to some extent cannot be denied." It then refers
to enforcement of liens upon vessels for repairs and the
right given by state statutes to recover in death cases.

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

153

Argument for Defendant in Error.

To this may be added the cases cited in the Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, at p. 403 et seq., involving state
regulation of pilotage, harbor, bay and river improvements, bridges, wharfage charges and vessel quarantine.
It also appears in earlier cases that States have, with the
permission of Congress, exclusive jurisdiction over crimes
committed on navigable waters within their boundaries,
United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336; People v. Welch,
141 N. Y. 266; complete power to protect fisheries, Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240, oyster beds, McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391, and sponges, The Abby
Dodge, 223 U. S. 166, in public waters of the United States.
And since the decision in the Minnesota Rate Cases this
court has sustained the power of a State to compel a railroad doing business as an interstate carrier by land and
by water to pay its employees semi-monthly. Erie R. R.
Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685.
So as to harbor improvements, County of Mobile v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; improvements and obstruc.tions to navigation, Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548;
Lcovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621, 625; Cummings v.
Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, 427; inspection and quarantine
laws, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203; wharfage charges,
Packet Co. v. Keokuk, .95 U. S. 80; Packet Co. v. Catletsburg, 105 U. S. 559, 563; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691, 702; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken,
121 U. S. 444, 447; tolls for the use of an improved waterway, Sands v. Manistee River Imp. Co., 123 U. S. 288, 295.
So of provisions fixing the tolls for transportation upon an
interstate ferry, PortRichmond FerryCo. v. Hudson County,
234 U. S. 317, 331; or upon vessels plying between two
ports located within the same State, Wilmington Transportation Co. v. California Railroad Commission, 236
U. S. 151, 156. See Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311.
It has been held by this court that the exception

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

253 U. S.

"saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of common-law
remedy, where the common law is competent to give it,"
did not mean necessarily a common-law action but that
the remedy might be any means employed to enforce the
rights or redress the injury. Knapp, Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638, 644.
Rights of action as well as remedies have been created
by the different States involving maritime torts which
the admiralty law has adopted, and enforcement thereof
has been had either in admiralty or the state courts, e. g.,
a right of action for death. Dougan v. Champlain Transportation Co., 56 N. Y. 1; Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall.
522; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; The Hamilton, 207
U. S.398.
It appears to be settled, therefore, that the State may
create a right and remedy in addition to a common-law
or admiralty remedy, which may be pursued in the courts
of the State. The State of New York has created a right
and remedy by means of workmen's compensation, which
were not known to the common law or the law of admiralty
and cannot be enforced in either of those courts.
We suggest that if Congress had the power to save the
right to proceed at common law under the Federal Government, it had also the right to allow procedure under
some other form of remedy. That did not take away the
jurisdiction of the admiralty courts or impair their jurisdiction, but allowed another remedy to be used in'case one
was not efficacious. We can see no difference between
the power of Congress to save a common-law remedy and
one for compensation.
All that was necessary to decide in the Lottawanna Case
was whether there was an implied lien for necessaries
furnished to a vessel in the home port, where no such lien
was recognized by the municipal law of the State, and as
to whether on that issue the case of The General Smith, 4
Wheat. 438, should be overruled. While paragraphs may

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

155

Opinion of the Court.

be picked out to support the contention for a law operating
uniformly in the whole country, there are other expressions which recognize the undoubted power of Congress
to introduce such changes as are likely to be needed.
However, with reference to the uniformity of admiralty
.and maritime law, there is really no question here. Congress is not attempting to disturb it. Whenever a case
is brought in an admiralty court, the admiralty law will
be enforced, the same in one State as in another; but wherever there is another remedy by way of workmen's compensation or a common-law remedy, such remedies will
be asserted and enforced in their respective jurisdictions
according to the law there prevailing. So far as the common-law remedy is concerned, it cannot be claimed that
that is the same the country over.
We may. astume that there is more nearly a uniformity
under the compensation laws -whiich have now been passed
by forty-two States than there would be under the common-law procedure.
Mr. Mark Ash, by leave of court, filed a brief as amicus
curia.
Mr. Warren H. Pillsbury, by leave of court, filed a brief,
as amicus curia.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
While employed by Knickerbocker Ice Company as
bargeman and doing work of a maritime nature, William
M. Stewart fell into the Hudson River and drownedAugust 3, 1918. His widow, defendant in error, claimed
under the Workmen's Compensation Law of New York;
the Industrial Commission granted an award against the
Company for her and the minor children; and both Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

pellate Division and the Court of Appeals approved it.
226 N. Y. 302. The latter concluded that the reasons

which constrained us to hold the Compensation Law inapplicable to an employee engaged in maritime workSouthern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205--had been
extinguished by "An Act To amend sections twenty-four
and two hundred and fifty-six of the Judicial Code, relating to the jurisdiction of the district courts, so as to
save to claimants the rights and remedies under the
workmen's compensation law of any State," approved

October 6, 1917, c. 97, 40 Stat. 395.
The provision of § 9, Judiciary Act, 1789 (c. 20, 1 Stat.
76), granting to United States District Courts, "exclusive
original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and

maritime jurisdiction

.

.

.

, saving to suitors, in all

cases, the right of a common-law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it," was carried into the
Revised Statutes-§§ 563 and 711-and thence into the
Judicial Code-clause 3, §§ 24 and 256. The saving
clause remained unchanged until the statute of October 6,
1917, added "and to claimants the rights and remedies
under the workmen's compensation law of any State." 1
Judiciary Act, September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 76, 77:
See. 9. That the district courts shall have, exclusively of the courts
of the several States

.

.

. exclusive original cognizance of all

civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all
seizures under laws of impost, navigation or trade of the United States,
-where the seizures are made, on waters which are navigable from the
sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen, within: their respective
districts as well as upon the high seas; saving to suitors, in all cases,
the right of a common-law remedy, where the common law is competent
to give it;
Rev. Stats. Sec. 563. The district courts shall have jurisdiction as
follows:

. .

Eighth. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy, where
the common law is competent to give it; and of all seizures on land and

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

157

Opinion of the Court.

In Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen (May, 1917), 244 U. S.
205, we declared that under § 2, Article III, of the Constitution ("The judicial power shall extend to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction") and
§ 8, Article I (Congress may make necessary and proper
laws for carrying out granted powers), "in the absence
of some controlling statute the general maritime law as
accepted by the federal courts constitutes part of our
on waters not within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. And such
jurisdiction shall be exclusive, except 'in the particular cases where
jurisdiction of such causes and seizures is given to the circuit courts.
And shall have original and exclusive cognizance of all prizes brought
into the United States, except as provided in paragraph six of section
six hundred and twenty-nine.
Rev. Stats. Sec. 711. The jurisdiction vested in the courts of the
United States in the cases and proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall
be exclusive of the courts of the several States:
Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;
saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of-a common-law remedy, where
the common law is competent to give it.
The Judicial CodeSec. 24. The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows:
Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it;
Sec. 256. The jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States
in the cases and proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall be exclusive
of the courts of the several States: .
Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;
saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of a common-law remedy;
where the common law is competent to give it.
Act October 6, 1917, c. 97, 40 Stat. 395.
That clause three of section twenty-four of the Judicial Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it, and to claimants the rights and
remedies under the workmen's compensation law of any State; of all
seizures on land or waters not within admiralty and maritime jurisdic-

O(TBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U.S.

national law applicable to the matters within admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction"; also that "Congress has
paramount power to fix and determine the maritime law
which shall prevail throughout the country." And we
held that, when applied to maritime injuries, the New
York Workmen's Compensation Law conflicts with the
rules adopted by the Constitution and to that extent is
invalid. "The necessary consequence would be destruction of the very uniformity in respect of maritime matters
which the Constitution was designed to establish; and
freedom of navigation between the States and with foreign countries would be seriously hampered and impeded."
We also pointed out that the saving clause taken from
the original Judiciary Act had no application, since, at
most, it only specified common-law remedies, whereas
the remedy prescribed by the compensation law was unknown to the common law and incapable of enforcement
by the ordinary processes of any court. Moreover, if
applied to maritime affairs, the statute would obstruct
the policy of Congress to encou'rage investments in ships.
In Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co. (June, 1918), 247
U. S.372, an action at law seeking full indemnity for injuries received by a sailor while on shipboard, we said:
"Under the doctrine approved in Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, no State has power to abolish the well recognized
maritime rule concerning measure of recovery and substitute therefor the full indemnity rule of the common
law. Such substitution would distinctly and definitely
tion; of all prizes brought into the United States; and of all proceedings
for the condemnation of property taken as prize."
Sec. 2. That clause three of section two hundred and fifty-six of the
Judicial Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it, and to claimants the rights and
remedies under the workmen's compensation law of any State."

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

159

Opinion of the Court.

change or add to the settled maritime law; and it would
be destructive of the 'uniformity and consistency at
which the Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States
with each other or with foreign states."' And, concerning
the clause, "saving to suitors in all cases the right of a
common-law remedy where the common law is competent
to give it," this: "In Southern-Pacific Co. v. Jensen, we
definitely ruled that it gave no authority to the several
States to enact legislation which would work 'material
prejudice to the characteristic features of the general
maritime law or interfere with the proper harmony and
uniformity of that law in its international and interstate
relations."' "Under the saving clause a right sanctioned
by the maritime law may be enforced through any appropriate remedy recognized at common law; but we
find nothing therein which reveals an intention to give
the complaining party an election to determine whetherthe defendant's liability shall be measured by commonlaw standards rather than those of the maritime law."
Thus we distinctly approved the view that the original
saving clause conferred no substantive rights and did not
authorize the States so to do. It referred only to remedies
and to the extent specified permitted continued enforcement by the state courts of rights and obligations founded
on maritime law.
In Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308, an admiralty cause, a master sought to recover damages for
breach of an oral contract with the owner of a vessel for
services to be performed principally upon the sea. The
latter claimed invalidity of the contract under a statute of
California, where made, because not in writing and not
to be performed within a year. We ruled: "The Circuit
Court of Appeals correctly held that this contract was
maritime in its nature and an action in admiralty thereon
for its breach could not be defeated by the statute of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

California relied upon by the petitioner." "In entering
into this contract the parties contemplated no services in
California. They were making an engagement for the
services of the master of the vessel, the duties to be performed in the waters of Alaska, mainly upon the sea. The
maritime law controlled in this respect, and was not subject to limitation because the particular engagement
happened to be made in California. The parties must be
presumed to have had in contemplation the system of
maritime law under which it was made." See also The
Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361, 365.
As the plain result of these recent opinions and the
earlier cases upon which they are based, we accept the
following doctrine: The Constitution itself adopted and
established, as part of the laws of the United States,
approved rules of the general maritime law and empowered Congress to legislate in respect of them and other
matters within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Moreover, it took from the States all power, by legislation
or judicial decision, to contravene the essential purposes of, or to work material injury to, characteristic
features of such law or to interfere with its proper harmony and uniformity in its international and interstate
relations. To preserve adequate harmony and appropriate uniform rules relating to maritime matters and
bring them within control of the Federal Government was
the fundamental purpose; and to such definite end Congress was empowered to legislate within that sphere.
Since the beginning, federal courts have recognized and
applied the rules and principles of maritime law as something distinct from laws of the several States-not derived
from or dependent on their will. The foundation of the
right to do this, the purpose for which it was granted, and
the nature of the system so administered, were distinctly
pointed out long ago. "That we have a maritime law of
our own, operative throughout the United States, cannot

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.
be doubted.

161

Opinion of the Court.
.

.

.

One thing, however, is unquestion-

able; the Constitutionmust have referred to a system of
law coextensive with, and operating uniformly in, the
whole country. It certainly could not have been the
intention to place the rules and limits of maritime law
under the disposal and regulation of the several States, as
that would have defeated the uniformity and consistency
at which the Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States
with each other or with foreign states." The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558, 574, 575. The field was not left unoccupied;
the Constitution itself adopted the rules concerning
rights and liabilities applicable therein; and certainly
these are not less paramount than they would have been
if enacted by Congress. Unless this be true it is quite
impossible to account for a multitude of adjudications by
the admiralty courts. See Workman v. New York City,
179 U. S. 552, 557, et seq.
The dis.tinction between the indicated situation created
by the Constitution relative to maritime affairs and the
one resulting from the mere grant of power to regulate
commerce without more, should not be forgotten. Also,
it should be noted that federal laws are constantly applied
in state courts-unless inhibited their duty so requires.
Constitution, Article VI, clause 2; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 55. Consequently mere
reservation of partially concurrent cognizance to such
courts by an act of Congress conferring an otherwise
exclusive jurisdiction upon national courts, could not
create substantive rights or obligations or indicate assent
to their creation by the States.
When considered with former decisions of this court,
a satisfactory interpretation of the Act of October 6,
1917, is difficult, perhaps impossible. The Howell, 257
Fed. Rep. 578, and Rhode v. Grant Smith Porter Co., 259
Fed. Rep. 304, illustrate some of the uncertainties. In the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

first, the District Court in New York dismissed a libel,
holding that rights and remedies prescribed by the Compensation Law of that State are exclusive and pro tanto
supersede the maritime law. In the second, the District
Court of Oregon ruled that when an employee seeks redress for a maritime tort by an admiralty court, rights,
obligations and liabilities of the respective parties must be
measured by the maritime law and these cannot be
barred, enlarged or taken away by state legislation.
Other difficulties hang upon the unexplained words
"workmen's compenqAionjilw of any state."
Moreover, the act only undertook to add certain
specified rights and remedies to a saving clause within a
code section conferring jurisdiction. We have held that
before the amendment and irrespective of that section,
such rights and remedies did not apply to maritime torts
because they were inconsistent with paramount federal
law-within that field they had no existence. Were the
added words therefore wholly ineffective? The usual
function of a saving clause is to preserve something from
immediate interference-not to create; and the rule is that
expression by the legislature of an erroneous opinion concerning the law does not alter it. Endlich, Interpretation
of Statutes, § 372.
Neither branch of Congress devoted much debate to the
act under consideration-altogether, less than two pages
of the Record (65th Cong., pp. 7605, 7843). The Judiciary
Committee of the House made no report; but a brief one
by the Senate Judiciary Committee, copied below,'
165th Cong., 1st sess.
Senate Report No. 139. Amending the
Judicial Code. October 2, 1917.-Ordered to be printed. Mr. Ashurst,
from the Committee on the Judiciary, submitted the following Report.
[To accompany S. 2916.]
The Committee on the Judiciary, to which was referred the bill
(S.2916) to amend sections 24 and 256 of the Judicial Code, relating
to the jurisdiction of the district courts, so as to save to claimants

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

163

Opinion of the Court.

probably indicates the general legislative purpose. An.,
with this and accompanying circumstances, the words
must be read.
Having regard to all these things, we conclude that
Congress undertook to permit application of Workmeil's
Compensation Laws of the several States to injuries
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; and to
save such statutes from the objections pointed out by
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen. It sought to authorize and
sanction action by the States in prescribing and enforcing,

as to all parties concerned, rights, obligations, liabilities
the rights and remedies under the workmen's compensation law of any
State, having considered the same, recommend its passage without
amendment.
Tle Judicial Code, by sections 24 and 256, confers exclusive jurisdiction on the district courts of the United States of all civil case3 of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, "saving to suitors in all cases the
right of a common-law remedy where the common law is competent
to give it." It was declared by the Supreme Court of the United
States in the case of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen that "the remedy
which the compensation statute attempts to give is of a character
wholly unknown to the common law, incapable of enforcement by the
ordinary processes of any court and is not saved to suitors from the
grant of exclusive jurisdiction." The bill (S. 2916) proposes only to
.amend the Judicial Code by so enlarging the saving clause as to include
the rights and remedies under the compensation law of any State.
Inasmuch as not only the remedy but sometimes the right under the
compensation plan is unknown to the common law, both rights and
remedies are included in the bill. The bill if enacted will not disrupt
the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The most that can
be said of it will be that it is a recognition by Congress that a concurrent jurisdiction, State and Federal, should exist over certain matters.
Actions that were formerly triable in admiralty courts will still be
triable there. Where the cases were formerly triable only in such
courts it will now be possible for the State, through its compensation
plan, to determine the rights of the parties concerned. In other words,
there being concurrent jurisdiction, the injured party, or his dependents, may bning an action in admiralty or submit a claim under the
compensation plan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

and remedies designed to provide compensation for injuries suffered by employees engaged in maritime work.
And so construed, we think the enactment is beyond the
power of Congress. Its power to legislate concerning
rights and liabilities within the maritime jurisdiction and
remedies for their enforcement, arises from the Constitution, as above indicated. The definite object of the grant
was to commit direct control to the Federal Government;
to relieve maritime commerce from unnecessary burdens
and disadvantages incident to discordant legislation; and
to establish, so far as practicable, harmonious and uniform
rules aptlicable throughout every part of the Union.
Considering the fundamental purpose in view and the
definite end for which such rules were accepted we must
conclude that in their characteristic features and essential
international and interstate relations, the latter may not
be repealed, an-#ended or changed except by legislation
which embodies both the will and deliberate judgment of
Congress. The subject was intrusted to it to be dealt with
according to its discretion-not for delegation to others.
To say that because Congress could have en acted a compensation act applicable to maritime injuries, it could
authorize the States to do so as they might desire, is false
reasoning. Moreover, such an authorization would inevitably destroy the harmony and uniformity which the
Constitution not only contemplated but actually established-it would defeat the very purpose of the grant.
See Sudden & Christenson v. Industrial Accident Commission, 188 Pac. Rep. 803.
Congress cannot transfer its legislaive power to the
States-by nature this is non-delegable. I-n re Rahrer, 140
U. S. 545, 560; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.-649, 692; Buttfield v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470, 496; Butte City Water Co.
v. Baker, 196 U. S. 119, 126; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194, 214.
In Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Md. Ry. Co., 242 U.

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

Opinion of the Court.

S. 311, notwithstanding the contention that it violated
the Constitution-Article I, § 8, clause 3-this court sustained an act of Congress which prohibited the shipment
of intoxicating liquors from one State into another when
intended for use contrary to the latter's laws. Among
other things, it was there stated that "the argument as to
delegation to the States rests upon a mere misconception.
It is true the regulation which the Webb-Kenyon Act
contains permits state prohibitions to apply to movements
of liquor from one State into another, but the will which
causes the prohibitions to be applicable is that of Congress," i. e., Congress itself forbade shipments of a designated character. And further: "the exceptional nature
of the subject here regulated is the basis upon which the
exceptional power exerted must rest," i. e., different
considerations would apply to innocuous articles of commerce.
The reasoning of that opinion proceeded upon the
postulate that because of the peculiar nature of intoxicants

which gives enlarged power concerning them, Congress
might go so far as entirely to prohibit their, transportation

in interstate commerce.. The statute did less. "We can
see no reason for saying that although Congress in view
of the nature and character of intoxicants had a power
to forbid their movement in interstate commerce, it had
not the authority to s6 deal with the subject as to establish
a regulation (which is what was done by the WebbKenyon Law) making it impossible for one State to
violate the prohibitions of the laws of another through
the channels of interstate commerce. Indeed, we can see •
no escape from the conclusion that if we accepted the
proposition urged, we would be obliged to announce the
contradiction in terms that because Congress had exerted
a regulation lesser in power than it was authorized to
exert, therefore -its action was void for excess of power."
See Delamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93, 97.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
HoLmEs, Pi my,

BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 253 U. S.

Here, we are concerned with a wholly different constitutional provision- one which, for the purpose of securing harmony and uniformity, prescribes a set of rules,
empowers Congress to legislate to that end, and prohibits material interference by the States. Obviously, if
every State may fteely declare the rights and liabilities
incident to maritime employment, there will at once arise,
the confusion and uncertainty which framers of the Constitution both foresaw and undertook to prevent.
In The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, an admiralty proceeding, effect was given, as against a ship registered in Delaware, to a statute of that State which permitted recovery
by an ordinary action for fatal injuries, and the power
of a State to supplement the maritime law to that extent
was recognized. But here the state enactment prescribes exclusive rights and liabilities, undertakes to
secure their observance by heavy penalties and onerous
conditions, and provides novel remedies incapable of enforcement by an admiralty court. See New York Central
R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; New York Central R. R.
Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, supra. The doctrine of The Hamilton may not
be extended to such a situation.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded with directions to take further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES, dissenting.

In Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, the
question was whether there was anything in the Constitution or laws of the United States to prevent a State
from imposing upon an employer a limited but absolute
liability for the death of an employee upon a gang-plank
between a vessel and a wharf, which the Statd unques-

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149. Hom~s, Pmnwy,

BRANDEIS

167

and C.RKE, JJ., dissenting.

tionably could have imposed had the death occurred on
the wharf. A majority of the Court held the State's attempt invalid, and thereupon, by an Act of October .6,
1917, c. 97, 40 Stat. 395, Congress tried to meet the effect
of the decision by amending § 24, cl. 3, and § 256, cl. 3, of
the Judicial Code; Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat.
1087. Those sections in similar terms declared the jurisdiction of the District Court and the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Courts of the United States, "of all civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, saving to suitors
in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where the
common law is competent to give it." The amendment
added, "and to claimants the rights and remedies under
the workmen's compensation law of any State." I
thought that claimants had those rights before. I think
that
they do now both for the old reasons and for new ones.
I do
not suppose that anyone would say that the
words,
"The judicial power shall extend . . . to all cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," Const. Art. III,
§ 3, by implication enacted a whole code for master and
servant at sea, that could be modified only by a constitutional amendment. But somehow or other the ordinary common-law rules of liability as between master
and servant have come to be applied to a considerable
extent in the admiralty. If my explanation, that the
source is the common law of the several States, is not accepted, I can only say, I do not know how, unless by the
fiat of the judges. But surely the power that imposed
the liability can change it, and I suppose that Congress
can do as much as the judges who introduced the rules.
For we know that they were introduced and cannot have
been elicited by logic alone from the medieval sea laws.
But if Congress can legislate it has done so. It has
adopted statutes that were in force when the Act of
October 6, 1917, was passed, and to that extent has acted
as definitely as if it had repeated the words used by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
HOLMES, PrrEY, BRAzmEis and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting. 253 U. S.

several States--a not unfamiliar form of law.

Gibbons

v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 207; Hobart v. Drogan, 10 Pet. 108,
119; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 317, 318;
Interstate Consolidated Street Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts,

207 U. S. 79, 84, 85; Franklin v. United States, 216 U. S.
559; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 237 U. S. 300, 303. An act of Congress,

we always say, will be construed so as to sustain it, if
possible, and therefore if it were necessary, the words
"rights and remedies under the workmen's compensation
law of any State" should be taken to refer solely to laws
existing at the time, as it certainly does at least include
them. See United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141. Taking the
act as so limited it is to be read as if it set out at length
certain rules for New York, certain others more or less
different for California, and so on. So construed the
single, objection that I have heard to the law is that it
makes different rules for different places, and I see nothing
in the Constitution to prevent that. The only matters
with regard to which uniformity is provided for in the
instrument so far as I now remember, are duties, imposts
and excises, naturalization and bankruptcy, in Article I,
§ 8. As to the purpose of the clause concerning the judicial power in these cases nothing is said in the instrument itself. To read into it a requirement of uniformity
more mechanical than is educed from the express requirement of equality in the Fourteenth Amendment seems to
me extravagant. Indeed it is contrary to the construc-.
tion of the Constitution in the very clause of the Judiciary
Act that is before us. The saving of a common-law remedy adopted the common law of the several States-within.
their several jurisdictions, and, I may add by way of
anticipation, included at least some subsequent statutory
changes. Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522, 530-534.
Knapp, Stout & Co. Company v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S.
638, 645, 646. Rounds v. Cloverport Foundry & Machine

KNICKERBOCKER ICE CO. v. STEWART.
149.

HOLMES, PITNEY, BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

169

JJ., dissenting.

Co., 237 U. S. 303, 307. I cannot doubt that in matters
with which Congress is empowered to deal it may make
different arrangements for widely different localities with
perhaps widely different needs. See United States v.
Press Publishing Co., 219 U. S. 1, 9.
I thought that Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, went pretty far in justifying
the adoption of state legislation in advance, as I cannot
for a moment believe that apart from the Eighteenth
Amendment special constitutional principles exist against
strong drink. The fathers of the Constitution so far as I
know approved it. But I can see no constitutional objection to such an adoption in this case if the act of Congress be given that effect. I assume that Congress could
not delegate to state legislatures the simple power to decide what the law of the United States should be in that
district. But when institutions are established for ends
within the power of the States and not for any purpose of
affecting the law of the United States, I take it to be an
admitted power of Congress to provide that the law of
the United States shall conform as nearly as may be to
what for the time being exists. A familiar example is the
law directing the common-law practice, &c., in the District Courts to "conform, as near as may be, to the practice," &c., "existing at the time" in the State Courts.
Rev. Stats., § 914. This was held by the unanimous Court
to be binding in Amy v. Watertown, No. 1, 130 U. S. 301.
See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 207, 208; Cooley v.
Boardof Wardens, 12 How. 299, 317, 318. I have mentioned the scope given to the saving of a common-law
remedy and 'have referred to cases on the statutes adopting state pilotage laws. Other instances are to be found
in the acts of Congress, but these are enough. I think
that the same principle applies here. It should be observed that the objection now dealt with is the only one
peculiar to the adoption of local law in advance. That of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

want of uniformity applies equally to the adoption of tile
laws in force in 1917. Furthermore we are not called on.
now to consider the collateral effects of the act. The
only question before us is whether the words in the Constitution, "The judicial power shall extend to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction" prohibit Congress from passing a law in the form of the New
York Workmen's Compensation Act-if not in its present
form, at least in the form in which it stood on October 6,
1917. I am of opinion that the New York law at the time
of the trial should be applied and that the judgment
should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE concur in this opinion.

CALHOUN v. MASSIE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.
No. 294.. Argued March 11, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.
An agreement that the fee of an attorney for successfully prosecuting
a claim against the United States shall be a lien upon any warrant
that may be issued in payment of the claim is void under Rev. Stats.,
§ 3477. P. 175.
Section 4 of the Omnibus Claims Act of March 4, 1915, c. 140, 38 Stat.
962, in its limitation of the amount that may be paid to or received
by an attorney on account of services rendered or advances made
in connection with any claim for which the act made appropriation,
does not refer merely to the specific funds received from the Government, but makes payment or receipt in excess of the limitation unlawful whatever the source. Id.
This broader prohibition is within the power of Congress as applied

