UNITED STATES b. ALASKA S. S. CO.
101.

Syllabus.

minable by the purchasers at their will.

Stewart v.

Griffith, supra.

As the recovery of the amount paid, with interest, as
adjudged in the Circuit Court of Appeals, is founded
upon its conclusion that the contract was an option, and
the damages the amount paid and forfeited by the failure to stop the payment of the draft, and as we are not
able to accept that view of the contract, it follows that

the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. ALASKA STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR

No. 541.

THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF NEW

YORK.

Argued December 16, 17, 1919.-Decided May 17, 1920.

This court will determine only matters actually in controversy essential
to the decision of the particular case before it. P. 115.
In a suit .in which the Interstate Commerce Commission was temporarily enjoined from requiring interstate and water carriers to use
certain forms of bills of lading in domestic and export transportation,
upon the ground that the Commission lacked power to prescribe
them, held, that, since the Transportation Act of Feby. 28, 1920,
-passed pending the interlocutory appeal, contained provisions which
would necessitate changes in both forms of bills, the case had be-

come moot, and the court could not pass upon the Commission's
authority, but would reverse the order of injunction, no longer
needed to protect the complainants against the order of the Commission involved in the suit, without prejudice to the right to assail

any such order adopted after the new legislation, and without costs
to either party. Id.
259 Fed. Rep. 713, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Charles W. Needham, with
whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper and Mr. Theodore W. Reath,
with whom Mr. Edgar H. Boles, Mr. George F. Brownell,
Mr. Blewett Lee, Mr. Thaddeus H. Swank and Mr. F. H.
Wood were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

A petition was filed in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York by numerous
interstate carriers and carriers by water against the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission to set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
dated March 14, 1919, requiring the carriers to use two
certain modified bills of lading, one pertaining to domestic
and the othEr to export transportation. The cause came
on for hearing upon application for a temporary injunction
and upon a motion to dismiss the petition. The hearing
was had before three judges, a Circuit Judge and two
District Judges. A majority concurred in holding that
the Interstate Commerce Commission had no authority
to prescribe the terms of carriers' bills of lading, and
that in any event there was no power to prescribe an inland bill of lading depriving the carriers of the benefits of
certain statutes of the United States limiting the liability
of vessel-owners. (259 Fed. Rep. 713.) One of the District Judges dissented, holding that the Commission had
the power to prescribe bills of lading, and that the particular bills of lading in question were within the authority
of the Commission. An order was entered refusing to
dismiss the petition, and an injunction pendente lite was
granted. From this order an appeal was taken directly
to this court under the statute of 1913. (38 Stat. 220.)

UNITED STATES v. ALASKA S. S. CO.
113.

Opinion of the Court.

It appears that the matters in controversy as to the
authority of the Commission and the character of the
bills of lading were subjects of much inquiry before the
Commission, where hearings were had, and an elaborate
report upon the proposed changes in carriers' bills of
lading resulted in the adoption by the Commission of the
two bills of lading. 52 1. C. C. 671.
Pending this appeal Congress passed on February 28,
1920, the act known as the "Transportation Act of 1920,"
which terminated the federal control of railroads, and
amended in various particulars previous acts to regulate
interstate commerce. In view of this act of Congress this
court on March 22, 1920, entered an order requesting
counsel to file briefs concerning the effect of the act upon
this cause. Briefs have been filed, and we now come to
consider the altered situation arising from the new legislation, and what effect should be given to it in the disposition of this case.
The thing sought to be accomplished by the prosecution of this suit was an annulment of the order of the
Commission, and an injunction restraining the putting
into effect and operation of such order, which prescribed
the two forms of bills of lading. The temporary injunction
granted was against putting into effect the Commission's
order prescribing the forms of the bills of lading.
The Transportation Act of 1920, passed pending this
appeal, makes it evident (and it is in fact conceded in
the brief filed by appellants) that changes will be required
in both forms of bills of lading in order that they may conform to the requirements of the statute. We need not
now discuss the details of these changes. It is sufficient
to say that the act requires them as to both classes of
bills. We are of opinion that the necessary effect of the
enactment of this statute is to make the cause a moot one.
In the appellants' brief it is insisted that the power of
the Commission to prescribe bills of lading is still existent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

and has not been modified by the provisions of the new
law. But that is only one of the questions in the case.
It is true that the determination of it underlies the right
of the Commission to prescribe new forms of bills of lading,
but it is a settled principle in this court that it will determine only actual matters in controversy essential to the
decision of the particular case before it. Where by an
act of the parties, or a subsequent law, the existing controversy has come to an end, the case becomes moot and
should be treated accordingly. However convenient it
might be to have decided the question of the power of the
Commission to require the carriers to comply with an
order prescribing bills of lading, this court "is not empowered to decide moot questions or abstract propositions,
or to declare, for the government of future cases, principles or rules of law which cannot affect the result'as to
the thing in issue in the case before it. No stipulation of
parties or counsel, whether in the case before the court
or in any other case, can enlarge the power, or affect the
duty, of the court in this regard." Californiav. San Pablo& Tulare R. R. Co., 149 U. S. 308, 314; United States v.
Hamburg-American Line, 239 U. S. 466, 475, 476, and
previous cases of this court therein cited.
In the present case what we have said makes it apparent
that the complainants do not now need an injunction
to prevent the Commission from putting in force bills
of lading in the form prescribed. The subsequent legislation necessitates the adoption of different forms of bills
in the event that the power of the Commission be sustained. This legislation, having that effect, renders the
case moot. Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S. 468.
In our view the proper course is to reverse the order,
and remand the cause to the court below with directions
to dismiss the petition, without costs to either party, and
without prejudice to the right of the complainants to
assail in the future any order of the Commission prescrib-

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.

117

Syllabus.

113.

ing bills of lading after the enactment of the new legislation. United States v. Hamburg-American Line, supra;
Berry v. Davis, 8upra.
And it is so ordered.

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER

v. CHICAGO & EASTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY.

ILLINOIS

SPILLER v. CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
SPILLER v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 137-145.

Argued January 15, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

In cases of a class which may ultimately reach this court by writ of
error under Jud. Code, §§ 128 and 241, this court has jurisdiction
to review by certiorari judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals

