PORTO RICO RY. CO. v. MOR.
339.

Opinion of the Court.

it was to be resolved not by the committing magistrate
but, after the removal, by the court which found the indictment. Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73, 83; Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 10, 11, 12; Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S.
462, 481.
Affirmed.
PORTO RICO RAILWAY, LIGHT & POWER
COMPANY v. MOR.
CERTIFICATE FROM TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 728.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

In the provision of the Act of March 2, 1917, c. 145, 39 Stat. 965,
which gives the United States District Court for Porto Rico jurisdiction "where all the parties on either side of the controversy are
citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States, or citizens of a
State, Territory, or District of the United States not domiciled in
Porto Rico," etc., the clause "not domiciled in Porto Rico" relates
to both preceding clauses, so that jurisdiction is not conferred over
an action by an alien domiciled in Porto Rico against a local corporation. P. 346.
When several words are followed by a clause which is applicable as
much to the first and other words as to the last, the 'clause should be
read as applicable to all. P. 348.
THE case is

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carroll G.'Walter for Porto Rico Railway, Light &
Power Co.
No brief filed for Mor.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.

Mor, a subject of the King of Spain, domiciled in Porto
Rico, brought in the United States District Court for

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Porto Rico this action at law for an amount exceeding
$3,000, exclusive of interest and costs, against the Porto
Rico Railway, Light and Power Company. a Porto Rico
corporation having its principal place of business there.
Objection to the jurisdiction of the trial court was overruled and the plaintiff recovered judgment. The case
came before the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit on writ of error and that court has presented to us
by certificate the question whether the District Court had
jurisdiction. The answer depends upon the construction
to be given to the following provision contained in § 41 of
the so-called Jones Act of March 2, 1917, c. 145, 39 Stat.
951, 965, which provides a civil government for Porto
Rico:
"Said district court shall have jurisdiction of all controversies where all of the parties on either side of the
controversy are citizens or subjects of a foreign State or
States, or citizens of a State, Territory, or District of the
United States not domiciled in Porto Rico, wherein the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest or cost, the
sum or value of $3,000.

.

.

It is clear under this act that if Mor, instead of being a
Spanish subject, had been a citizen of one of the United
States, the court would not have had jurisdiction since he
was domiciled in Porto Rico. The precise question, therefore, is whether the restriction of jurisdiction to cases
where all the parties on either side of the controversy are
"not domiciled in Porto Rico " applies to aliens as well as
to American citizens.
The judicial system of Porto Rico prior to annexation to
the United States comprised a Supreme Court and district
trial courts of general jurisdiction and municipal courts.
The proceedings in all of these courts were conducted in
the Spanish language and according to the forms of the
civil law. By § 33 of the Foraker Act, April 12, 1900, c.
191, 31 Stat. 77, 84, which established what was intended

PORTO RICO RY. CO. v. MOR.
345.

Opinion of the Court.

as a temporary civil government for the island, these
insular courts were continued, with the proviso that the
judges of the Supreme Court should be appointed by the
President, and the judges of the inferior courts by the'
Governor. By § 40 of the Jones Act the jurisdiction of.
these courts and the forms of procedure in them were
further continued.
The "District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico" provided for by § 41 of the Jones Act was, in effect, a
continuation of the district court of the United States
provided for by § 34 of the Foraker Act, as amended by
the Act of March 2, 1901, c. 812, § 3, 31 Stat. 953.1 Both
acts conferred upon the court jurisdiction of all cases
cognizable in circuit or district courts of the United States;
the court is by both directed to proceed in the same
manner as those courts; and in both there is an express
provision that the pleadings and all proceedings shall be
conducted in the English language. But the Jones Act
greatly abridged the jurisdiction. The jurisdictional
amount, which by the amendatory Actof March 2, 1901,
had been lowered to $1,000, was raised to $3,000. And,
whereas by the amendment of 1901 the court had been
given jurisdiction in 'case either party was a citizen of
the United States, even if hewas domiciled in Porto Rico,
the Jbnes Act limited the jurisdiction dependent on
American citizenship to the cases where the Americans
were not domiciled in Porto Rico. Whether ,it likewise
limited jurisdiction dependent on alienage is .theqpuetion
submitted to us.
'Act of March 2, 1901, c. 812, § 3: "That the jurisdiction of the.
district court of the United States for Porto Rico in civil cases shall, in
addition to that conferred by the Act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies where the parties, or either
of them, are citizens of the United States, or citizens or subjects of a
foreign State or States, wherein the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive
of interest or costs, the sum or value of one thousand dollars."
1

.1

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

No reason appears why the clause "not domiciled in
Porto Rico" should not be. read as applying to the entire
phrase "citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States, or
,itizens of a State, Territory, or District of the United
States." When several words are followed by a clause
which is applicable as much to the first and other words as
to the last, the natural construction of the language
demands that the clause be read as applicable to all.
United States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S. 210, 218;
Johnson v. Southern-Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 18-19, and
cases cited. Furthermore, special reasons exist for so
construing the clause in question. The act manifests a
-general purpose to greatly curtail the jurisdiction of the
District Court. If the application of t4e clause were
,doubtful, we should so construe the provision as to effectuate the general purpose of Congress. American Security
& Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.491; InterIsland Steam Navigation Co. v..Ward, 242 U. S.1. But it
seems to us clear that it applies alike to aliens and to
American citizens.
Suit may be brought in the District Court if either party
has the jurisdictional qualifications; that is, the act
confers upon such party not merely the right to sue but
the liability to be sued. In the population of Porto Rico
there are many aliens and these are largely Slianiards.'
If the limitation "not domiciled in Porto Rico" were
1 Itis somewhat surprising to find that 886,442 of the actual popula-

tion are classed as Spaniards, and only 4,324 as foreigners." Report
on the Island of Porto Rico by Henry C. Carroll, Special Commissioner,
October 6, 1899, p. 11.
. "Spanish-born were 7,690, or 55% of the total foreign born. The
United States contributed 1,069." Commercial Porto Rico, Department of Commerce and Labor, April, 1907, p. 11.
"Of the total nurober of males 21 and over in 1910, 238,685 were of
Porto Rican citizenship, 4,112 were of Spanish citizenship, 1,836 were
citizens of the United States, and 2,385 were citizens of other foreign
countries." Statistics for Porto Rico, 13th Census, p. 24.

PORTO RICO RY. CO. v. MOR.
345.

Opinion of the Court.

inapplicable to aliens, the result would work peculiar
hardship and assuredly unintended discrimination against
these Spaniards. A Spanish subject domiciled in Porto
Rico might be sued by an American domiciled in Porto
Rico or a Porto Rican in the District Court, where the
proceedings are conducted in the English language and
according to the forms of Anglo-American law; whereas
an American domiciled in Porto Rico could be sued only in.
the insular courts where the proceedings are conducted in
the Spanish language and according to the procedure and
processes of the civil law. This might not only prove very
inconvenient to Spanish residents, but would be inconsistent with the spirit of Article XI of the Treaty of 1898
between Spain and the United States (30 Stat. 1754, 1760),
under which Spaniards residing in Porto Rico were
guaranteed "the right to appear before such courts,
and to pursue the same course as citizens of the country to
which the courts belong."
Congress could not have intended to give the District
Court jurisdiction of any controversy to which a domiciled
alien is a party while denying under similar circumstances
jurisdiction where a domiciled American is a party.
The question submitted is answered

