SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.

117

Syllabus.

113.

ing bills of lading after the enactment of the new legislation. United States v. Hamburg-American Line, supra;
Berry v. Davis, 8upra.
And it is so ordered.

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER

v. CHICAGO & EASTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY.

ILLINOIS

SPILLER v. CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
SPILLER v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SPILLER v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SPILLER v. MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 137-145.

Argued January 15, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

In cases of a class which may ultimately reach this court by writ of
error under Jud. Code, §§ 128 and 241, this court has jurisdiction
to review by certiorari judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

which are not final in the sense of concluding the litigation, such jurisdiction arising under § 262 when the jurisdictional amount prescribed by § 241 is in controversy and under § 240 when it is not.
P. 120.
This jurisdiction will be exercised in proper cases to avoid protraction
of the litigation. P. 121.
The courts cannot refuse to enforce a reparation order upon the ground
that the evidence before the Interstate Commerce Commission was
insufficient to sustain it when substantial documentary evidence
that was before the Commission is not produced at the trial.
P. 125.
The Act to Regulate Commerce allows the Commission wide latitude
in the investigation of claims for reparation, and its finding and order
may not be rejected as evidence because of errors in its procedure
not amounting to a denial of a fair hearing, so long as the essential
facts found are based on substantial evidence. P. 126.
In a proceeding in which the Commission awarded reparation for excessive freight charges on many shipments of cattle consigned to
commission companies by many shippers over many railroads, a
witness who had gathered the details of the shipments in some cases
from shippers but mainly from the commission companies, presented
them at the hearings and further testified that the shippers rarely
kept books, relying on the commission companies to do so,.and that
the practice of the latter was to pay the freight, sell the cattle and
remit the proceeds to their owners minus the freight paid and other
charges; the evidence was received without objection and summaries
showing the details of the shipments, rate paid, overcharge claimed,
etc., were submitted to the carriers and "O.K.'d" after comparison
with their books. Held, that this evidence, including the admissions
that might be implied from the carriers' approval of the summaries,
was sufficient to justify the Commission in finding that the shipments
were made as claimed and the overcharges paid ultimately by the
shippers. P. 127.
A decision by the Commission that a witness before it is qualified as an
expert must be accepted by the courts unless clearly unfounded.
P. 130.
An order of the Commission is not to be rejected because based in part
on hearsay evidence, if the evidence was recbived without objection
and was substantially corroborated by other evidence original and
admissible against the parties affected. Id.
In view of the character'of its functions and the fact that its reparation
orders are at most primafacie evidence, the Commission. should not

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

119

Counsel for Parties.

be narrowly constrained as to the evidence it may receive in the conduct of reparation hearings. P. 131.
If only part of the claims for which reparation was awarded were
sustained by evidence, objection should be directed to the others and
not to the order as a whole. Id.
In a hearing for reparation, payment of a published rate afterwards
decided to have been excessive is evidence that the party who paid
the freight sustained damage to the extent of the excess. P. 132.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S.
531.
In a reparation hearing, assignments of claims to the secretary of a
-cattle raisers' association were offered and their filing waived, and
there was evidence that they had been made for nominal considerations because the association was prosecuting the claims for their
owners. Held, that formal proof of the handwriting of the assignors
was unnecessary. P. 133.
An assignment of the legal title only will confer on the assignee the
right to claim an award of reparation and enable him to sue upon
it in his own name, but for the benefit of the equitable owner.
P. 134.
A claim for damages sustained through the exaction of unreasonable
freight charges is assignable at law, if no statute prevents; and there
is nothing in the letter or spirit of the Commerce Act inconsistent
with such assignability. P. 135.
The ruling of the Commission declaring that an assignment to a stranger
to the transportation records will not be recognized is erroneous as a
construction of the act, and, treated as an administrative regulation, did not limit the Commission's jurisdiction to recognize such
assignments. P. 136.
246 Fed. Rep. 1; 249 id. 677, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage, with whom Mr. Samuel H.
Cowan, Mr. I. H. Burney and Mr. Goodwin Creason were
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
Mr. T. J. Norton, with whom Mr. Gardiner Lathrop,
Mr. C. S. Burg and Mr. James L. Coleman -were on the
brief, for defendants in error and respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error commenced an action against defendants in error jointly in the District Court of the United

States for the Western District of Missouri under § 16 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended (Act of
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384; June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 590; June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat.
539, 554), to recover certain amounts awarded to him
against them respectively in a reparation order made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission January 12, 1914.
His petition contained als6 a count setting up a conspiracy
between defendants for the restraint of interstate commerce, and claiming treble damages under § 7 of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209,. 210; but this was abandoned at the trial. Defendants having filed separate answers, a jury was waived by
stipulation, and a test case tried before the court-all
defendants participating-with the result that a 4ecision
was rendered in favor of plaintiff, pursuant to which a
combined judgment was entered, amounting in effect to as
many judgments as there were defendants, each for the
amount of the Commission's award. against the particular
defendant with interest and attorneys' fees. Defendants
sued out separate writs of error from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, where, by stipulation, the cases were heard
together upon a single record. That court reversed the
judgments, ordered the cause remanded to the District
Court with directions to grant a new trial (246 Fed. Rep.
1), and refused an application for a rehearing (249 Fed.
Rep. 677). Writs of error were prayed for and allowed for
the review of the judgments of reversal in this court; and
afterwards but in due season a petition for the allowance of
a writ of certiorari was filed, the consideration of which
was postponed to the hearing under the writs of error.
The jurisdiction of the District Court having been in-

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

121

Opinion of the Court.

voked not because of diversity of citizenship but because
the suit was one arising under laws of the United States
other than those particularly mentioned in § 128, Judicial
Code, as amended (Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22, § 2, 38
Stat. 803), it follows that the judgments were not made
"final" by the section referred to, and, if final in the sense
of concluding the litigation, would be reviewable in this
court by writ of error pursuant to § 241, Judicial Code, in
each case where the matter in controversy exceeds one thousand dollars besides costs. In the cases of the Chicago &
Alton and the Missouri Pacific Companies, the respective
judgments with interest up to the issuance of the writs of
error from this court were materially less than one thousand
dollars; in each of the other cases substantially in excess of
that -amount; the aggregate of the: judgments being ifiore
than $150,000. For want of a sufficient amount in controversy the two smaller judgments would not be reviewable here by writ of error even were they final in effect; but
all the writs of error must be dismissed because the judgments call for further proceedings in the, trial court; it
being elementary that this writ will lie to review final
judgments only. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S.661, 665; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337, 341; Heike
v. United States, 217 U. S.423, 429.
However, upon consideration of the particular circumstances of the case, we have concluded that a writ of
certiorari ought to be allowed, without further protracting
the litigation to the extent that would be necessary in
order to reach final judgments; the transcript of the record
and proceedings returned in obedience to the writs of error
to stand as the return to the writ of certiorari. This writ
is allowable by virtue of '§ 240', 'Judicial Code, (derived
from § 6 of the Act of March 3, 1891, .c. 5i7, 26 Stat. 826,
828) in the case of the two smaller judgnents, because the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is made final by
the 6-6mbined effect of §§ :128 and 241; and in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911).
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the larger judgments it is allowable under § 262 of the
Code (§ 716,-Rev. Stats.), in aid of the ultimate jurisdiction of this-court to review thdse cases by writs of error.
Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 58; In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443, 462; Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132,
135; McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S. 268, 277, et seq.;
United States v. Beatty, 232 U. S. 463, 467; Meeker v.
Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 234 U. S.749; 236 U. S.412, 417.
Coming to the merits: The ground upon which the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgments, and the
ground principally relied upon to sustain its decision, was
the refusal by the trial court of a motion made by defendants to hold: (a) That upon all the evidence plaintiff was
not entitled to recover against any or all of the defendants;
and (b) that there was not sufficient evidence before the
Commission to sustain its order of reparation. The latter
is the substantial question actually presented.
The course of proceedings at the trial, as appears from
the bill of exceptions, was as follows: Plaintiff introduced
the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission (unreported opinion No. A-583 in case No. 732, Cattle Raisers'
Association of Texas v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co.,
dated January 12, 1914), and the order of reparation made
pursuant to it and upon which the action was based.
Defendants having admitted the service of the order, and
that the money awarded had not been paid, plaintiff
rested. The report makes an award in favor of Spiller,
plaintiff in error, as assignee of a large number of claims
for reparation by reason of excessive rates charged by the
respective carriers on interstate shipments of cattle from
points of origin in Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Colorado, and Kansas, to destinations at Kansas City, St.
Louis, Chicago, St. Joseph, and New Orleans, on various
dates between August 29, 1906, and November 17, 1908;
and a further award to named. shippers in the case of certain unassigned claims pertaining to similar shipments; the

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. 00.
117.

123

Opinion of the Court.

several claims, assigned and unassigned, with distinguishing marks, being set forth in Appendix A, showing the
delivering carriers against which the claims were allowed
and, in each case, the consignor, points of origin and destination, number of cars shipped, weight, rate paid, the
lower rate sanctioned by the Commission, amount of
refund required, and the interest thereon. The report
contains appropriate findings adequate to support the
award, among them the following: That the persons
named in Appendix A as consignors shipped from the
points Of origin to the points of destination specified, by
the line of road named as the "delivering road," the
number of cars and of the aggregate net weight stated;
that the shippers paid to the delivering carriers freight
upon the shipments at certain rates named; that in each
instance this rate was unreasonable and excessive, and a
reasonable rate to have been charged would have been the
lower rate specified as having been subsequently established by the Commission, and that therefore the delivering carriers collected from the shippers unreasonable
charges on account of the shipments in amounts named in.
the column headed "Amount of Refund"; that the shipments of live stock were in all cases consigned to some
person at the delivering market, usually a commission
firm; that the freight was paid in the first instance by the
"consignor" (evidently a misprint for "consignee") to the
delivering carrier, and subsequently the cattle were sold
upon the market and the amount of the freight deducted
from -the purchase price, remittance being made for the
balance, so that in all cases the owner and shipper of the
cattle finally paid the transportation charges; and that by
the unreasonable exactions of the carriers the shippers were
damaged in the amounts stated in the appropriate column
of Appendix A, since they received for the cattle less by
those amounts .than they would have received had the
rate found reasonable been charged; that in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

some of the claims the shippers made assignments to
H. E. Crowley,. then being secretary of the Cattle Raisers'
Association, in a form set forth in the report; that subsequently Crowley ceased to be such secretary, and was
succeeded by Spiller, the plaintiff, to whom Crowley
assigned all claims previously assigned to him; and that
other specified claims were assigned by the shippers to
Spiller after he became secretary, the form of assignment
being the same as that previously employed.
Defendants, endeavoring to show the insufficiency of the
evidence upon which the findings and order of. the Commission were based, introduced a transcript of the stenographer's notes of the testimony taken upon the hearing
of the reparation claims; following this by introducing a
sample page taken from one of the exhibits introduced
before the Commission as illustrative of the form of
exhibits there introduced. After other evidence not
necessary to be mentioned, and a request for judgment in
favor of defendants, and for certain rulings on points of
law that would have produced that result, all of which
were refused, the case was closed.
It appears that in February, 1904, the Cattle Raisers'
Association of Texas, in behalf of its members and of others
interested, petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission under § 13 of the Commerce Act, alleging the rates in
force in the territory in question to be unjust and unreasonable, they having been advanced some time before to
the extent (in most cases) of 3 cents per hundred pounds.
On August 16, 1905, the Commission held (Cattle Raisers'
Association of Texas v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co.,
11I.
C. C. 296, 352) that the then existing rates were
unjust and'unreasonable, by the amount of the advance.
At this time the Commission was not empowered to fix
rates for the future. This power having been conferred by
the Hepburn Act of June 29,1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 589,
which, by Joint Resolution of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 838,

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T.. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

125

Opinion of the Court.

took effect sixty days after its approval by the President,
or on August 28, 1906, the Cattle Raisers' Association
immediately thereafter applied for and obtained a reopening of the matter, to the end that reasonable rates
might be established; and on April 14, 1908, the Commission decided that the former rates should be restored, but
that reparation Would not be allowed upon claims accruing
prior to August 29, 1906 (date of the application). 13 I.
C. C. 418, 435. The reduced rates finally were put into
effect November 17, 1908.
The reparation claims in controversy appear to have
been filed in due season by the Cattle Raisers' Association
in behalf of its members and other shippers interested, and
in the names of the alleged owners of the cattle shipped.
The transcript of the testimony taken by the Commission, as introduced in evidence in the District Court, forms
the basis of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
the reparation order was unsupported by evidence. But
the transcript shows that important documentary evidence
was introduced, and furnished the principal foundation for
the findings made. This documentary evidence (except
the single sheet offered for purposes of illustration) was not
introduced in the District Court, in order, as stated by
counsel, to "avoid introducing a number of papers that
would almost fill a farm wagon." But obviously we hardly
could sustain a decision rejecting the reparation order upon
the ground that there was not sufficient evidence before
the Commission to support it when the whole of the evidence that was before the Commission was not produced.
That this is a matter of substance will appear from a
review of the course of the proceeding as disclosed by the
stenographer's transcript. The evidence was taken by Mr.
Commissioner Prouty at Chicago; there being three sessions, the first on September 19 and 20, 1912, the second on
January 24 and the third on October 17 in the following
year. They were held in the presence of counsel for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Cattle Raisers' Association, who appeared for the claimants, and counsel for the several carriers ihterested. If we
were called upon to review the proceeding as upon a writ
of error or appeal it might be difficult to say that no improper evidence was admitted, that production of the best
available was insisted upon, or that a different conclusion
might not have been reached upon that which was admitted. But the scope of the -judicial review is not so
extensive. Section 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
(Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 383,;
amended June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 550) requires
the Commission on receipt of a claim for reparation to
proceed on notice to the carrier to "investigate the matters
complained of in such manner and by such means as it
shall deem proper"; and by § 16 (34 Stat. 590; 36 Stat.
554), if, after such hearing, the Commission shall determine that -any party complainant is entitled to an award of
damages, the Commission is to make an order of reparation
accordingly, and in a suit based thereon "the findings and
order of the commission shall be prima facie evidence of
the facts therein stated." The same section contemplates
that numerous parties may unite in a claim for reparation,
and that numerous carriers may be joined as defendants;
and similarly that in a suit brought upon such'award there
may be a joinder of parties plaintiff and defendant. And,
by § 17 (24 Stat. 385; 25 Stat. 861), "the Commission may
conduct its proceedings in such manner as will best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and to the ends of
justice."
These provisions allow a large degree of latitude in the
investigation of claims for reparation, and the resulting
findings and order of the Commission may not be rejected
as evidence because of any errors in its procedure not
amounting to a denial of the right to a fair heazing, so . long
..as the essential facts found are based upon substantial
.evidence.

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

127

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the hearing was informal, but not to
the extent of sacrificing essential rights of parties; and it
cannot be characterized as arbitrary or unfair. Many
carriers were interested, and they were represented by
counsel. Thousands of carload shipments were in question, but the points in real controversy were few, and there
was a natural desire on all sides to expedite .the hearing.
In the main, counsel for the carriers co6perated in facilitating the investigation. It was not in dispute that all
shipments under inquiry were made during a period when
the tariff rates were under investigation, and that afterwards those rates were determined by .the Commission to
have been excessive. It appeared that itemized claims for
reparation had been made out in duplicate (one copy of
each being filed), in the names of the parties alleged to
have made shipments of cattle as owners during the period
in question, that these were based in most cases upon data
furnished by the commission houses at the several points
of destination, as taken from their books, in other cases by
the shippers themselves, and that they were computed by
applying the excess charges, as determined, to the actual
weights of the shipments where known, in other cases to
the minimum carload weights. -There was evidence that
few of the cattle shippers kept. books, they relying upon
the commission companies to do this, and that such
companies were the consignees of the cattle, and made it a
practice on receiving a shipment to pay the freight, sell
the cattle, and remit the proceeds to the owner after
deducting the freight paid and other charges. During the
hearing, there was drawn off from the claims as made up
and filed a summary for each carrier, purporting to show
the consignor, consignee, originating road, point of origin,
destination, date of delivery, number of cars moved,, rate
paid, rate established by the Commission, and the overcharge claimed. These were submitted to the several
carriers for investigation by their accounting officers, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

some months later were reported back to Commissioner
Prouty by their counsel with the results of such investigation, which in a majority of instances verified the statements said to have been deduced from the records of the
commission houses. In some cases, in addition to checkmarks, "0. K." and other marks indicating that the items
had been found correct, waybill references, car numbers,
initials, etc., had been inserted; and where it had been
found impossible to locate a shipment there were comments
tending to add support to the verification of those that
were located. No reparation was awarded by the Commission except with respect to such shipments as were acknowledged in the reports of the defendants to have
moved as stated. These reports were introduced in
evidence before Commissioner Prouty, but, as already
shown, were not in evidence before the District Court.
What we have said as to their contents is gathered from
the stenographer's transcript; what else may have appeared upon their face, in the nature of admissions, is left
to be inferred. Counsel for some of the carriers undertook
to qualify the effect of admissions contained in them, as by
saying that the checking meant no more than that a
particular car moved as stated, and that the carrier
collected the amount of freight specified; that it was not
intended to admit that remittance was made to the person
named as claimant; that the statements were subject to
confirmation by the books of the commission merchants,
or the like. But the Commission was justified in according
to the reports of the checking an evidential effect, not
limited by the qualifying statements, treating the latter
as merely argumentative. It might regard the fact that
the shipmewis. could be and were identified from the
records of the carriers, in the manner described, as evidence that the details respecting the shippers of the cattle
and the particulars .of the shipments were true; might
take the movement and delivery of the freight thus

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

129

Opinion of the Court.

acknowledged as evidence that the delivering carrier
collected the freight charges according to the published
tariffs, which of course included the overcharges; and
might take this, in connection with the evidence as to the
course of business, as showing that the shippers whose
names were mentioned in the statements sustained
damages to the extent of the excessive charge as determined by the Commission. The minutes show that until
near the conclusion of the hearing it was the intention to
appoint an examiner to investigate the books of the
commission merchants at the various points of destination
in order to verify the details of the several shipments, and
that this purpose was abandoned in view of the admissions
made by the carriers. Perhaps it ought to have been
carried out; but the court was not justified in treating the
report of the Commission as a. nullity for this reason, if
there was substantial evidence of the essential facts without such verification. We think that what we have
detailed of the course of the hearing, taken in connection
with what we know and what may be presumed as to the
contents of the unproduced documentary evidence, shows
there was substantial evidence that the owners specified
in the claims had been subjected to the excessive charges
with respect to the shipments acknowledged by the
carriers; and, as already remarked, the award of reparation
was confined to these shipments.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals severely
criticizes the evidence on which these conclusions were
based, characterizing it as hearsay. It is not to be disputed that much of the evidence--including essential
parts of it-is properly so characterized. The only witness sworn was Mr. Williams, assistant secretary of the
Cattle Raisers' Association, who had gathered the data
upon which the claims were based, mostly from commission merchants, in some instances from the cattle
shippers. He had prepared the claims, had spent much

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

time and pains in investigating them, and in the course of
his duties had visited several of the points of destination
and examined the books and records of the commission
merchants to ascertain the method in which their business
was conducted and records kept. It was he who testified
as to the customary course of business of cattle shippers
and commission merchants. He had been connected with
the Cattle Raisers' Association for about eight years, and
might be presumed to have some general familiarity with
the business in addition to that gained in the special study
he had made of it while investigating the claims. His
explanation of the method of business and the details of the
claims was accepted, and accepted without objection,
very much as the testimony of an expert witness might
have been accepted. Whether he had shown such special
knowledge as to qualify him to testify as an expert was for
the Interstate Commerce Commission to determine; and
its decision thereon is not to be set aside by the courts
unless clearly shown to have been unfounded, which
cannot be said in this, case. Stillwell Mfg. Co. v. Phelps,
130 U. S. 520, 527; Montana Ry. Co. v. Warren, 137 U. S.
348, 353.
The evidence was not objected to as hearsay when
introduced, nor, indeed, at any time during the hearing
before the Commission. Counsel did in some instances
assert that there was a failure of proof and suggest that the
proceeding ought to be dismissed. But the objections
came too late, and were too general in character, to be
equivalent to an objection to the reception of the evidence
because hearsay. Even in a court of law, if evidence of this
kind is admitted without objection, it is to be considered,
and accorded its natural probative effect, as if'it were in
law admissible. Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 450;
Rowland v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
106, 108; Damon v. Carrol, 163 Massachusetts, 404, 408.
And it is clear that the verification of the details of the

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

131

Opinion of the Court.

claims by the carriers after full investigation by their auditing departments constituted primary evidence against
them, and went far towards showing that the facts as disclosed by the hearsay evidence might be depended upon.
We are not here called upon to consider whether the
Commission may receive and act upon hearsay evidence
seasonably objected to as hearsay; but we do hold that in
this case, where such evidence was introduced without
objection and was substantially corroborated by original
evidence clearly admissible against the parties to be
affected, the Commission is not to be regarded as having
acted arbitrarily, nor may its findings and order be rejected as wanting in support, simply because the hearsay
evidence was considered with the rest.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S.
25, 44, it was said: "The inquiry of a board of the character of the Interstate Commerce Commission should not be
too narrowly constrained by technical rules as to the
admissibility of proof. Its function is largely one of
investigation and it should not be hampered in making
inquiry pertaining to interstate commerce by those narrow'
rules which prevail in trials at common law where a strict
correspondence is required between allegation and proof."
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 93, the court recognized
that "The Commission is an administrative body and,
even where it acts in a quasi-judicial capacity, is not
limited by the strict rules, as to the admissibility of evidence, which prevail in suits between private parties."
And the fact that a reparation order has at most only the
effect of prima facie evidence (Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 430; Meeker v. Lehigh
Valley R. R., 236 U. S. 434, 439; Mills v. Lehigh Valley
R. R. Co., 238 U. S. 473, 482), being open to contradiction
by the carrier when sued for recovery of the amount
awarded, is an added reason for not binding down the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Commission too closely in respect of the character of the
evidence it may receive or the manner in which its hearings
shall be conducted.
In this case the Commission did not act upon evidence
of which the carriers were not cognizant and to which they
had no opportunity to reply, as in the case supposed. in
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91, 93. All the carriers participated
in the hearing, and had full opportunity to object, to
cross examine, and to introduce evidence on their own
part.
It is objected that the evidence failed to show who
owned the cattle shipped or who paid the freight. This
cannot be sustained. True, it appeared that the cattle
were not in all instances billed in the name of the owner,
but sometimes in the name of a caretaker; his name being
inserted in the bill as evidence of his right to free transportation. But it is probable that in the latter cases there was
a want of correspondence between the claims as presented
and the carriers' books, and that for want of checking by
the carriers they were omitted from the award. The
evidence upon the whole was sufficient to sustain a finding,
so far as the claims were allowed, that the parties in whose
behalf they were allowed were consignors of the shipments
and presumably owners of the cattle shipped.
If there be doubt whether it was sufficient to sustain
each and every claim that was allowed, we are not now
concerned with this; the ruling in question being the refusal of the trial court to treat the award as void in toto.
This was not erroneous if to any substantial extent the
award was legally valid. If a part only of the claims was
unsupported by evidence, the .request for an adverse ruling
should have been directed to these.
The principal defense before the Commission was that
the payment of a published rate afterwards decided to have
been excessive was not evidence that the party who paid

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

133

Opinion of the Court.

the freight sustained damage to the extent of the excess.
The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained this contention at
the first hearing, 246 Fed. Rep. 1, 23. But it has since
been ruled otherwise by this court, Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 534; and, in
view of this, upon the rehearing the Circuit Court of
Appeals withdrew this part of its former opinion, 249 Fed.
Rep. 677.
That court held, further, that upon the undisputed
evidence the legal title to the claims for reparation never
vested in Spiller, and hence that the Commission was
wholly without authority to order reparation to be made
to him. The minutes show that of the claims in favor of
Spiller a number had been assigned to Crowley when he
was secretary of the Cattle Raisers' Association, and
afterwards assigned by him to Spiller when Crowley
retired and Spiller succeeded him; that other claims were
assigned by the consignors to Spiller direct; and that still
others had not been assigned. The assignments were
produced before Commissioner Prouty, and an offer made
to file them, but as we interpret the minutes this was
waived, a copy of one of the assignments (they were said
to be alike in form) being inserted in the stenographer's
notes instead. There was evidence that the assignments
were made for nominal considerations because the Cattle
Raisers' Association was prosecuting the claims for the
benefit of the owners thereof. In the schedule of the
claims as subnitted to the Comnission those assigned
were suitably identified, and the Commission awarded
reparation to Spiller upon these, and in other cases made
the order in favor of the parties named as owners. There
was substantial evidence to support the finding that the
claims had been assigned. Formal proof of the handwriting of the assignors by subscribing witnesses or otherwise was not necessary in so summary a hearing, in the
absence of objection or contradiction. What was shown as

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

to the relation of the shippers to the Association and the
possession of the instruments of assignment by the representative of the Association who was prosecuting the
claims gave a reasonable assurance of the genuineness of
the instruments.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held further, however,
that, supposing there was sufficient evidence to support
the finding that the claims had been legally assigned to
Spiller, it showed that the purpose of the assignment was
not such as to vest the legal title to the claims in him so as
authorize the Commission to make the award of damages
in his name. To this we cannot assent. The assignments
were absolute in form, and plainly their effect-supposing
the claims to be assignable-was to vest the legal title in
Spiller. What they did not pass to him was the beneficial
or equitable title. But this was not necessary to support
the right of the assignee to claim an award of reparation
and enable him to recover it by action at law brought in his
own name but for the benefit of the equitable owners of
the claims; especially since it appeared that such was the
real purpose of the assignments.
We have. said enough to show that the reversal of the
judgments of the District Court cannot be sustained on
the grounds upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals
based it. It is insisted, however, that, failing this, the
same 'result ought to have been reached upon the ground
that the provisions of the Commerce Act do not permit
an assignment of a claim for reparation to a third party
and :hence the Interstate Commerce Commission was
without' jurisdiction to award reparation to Spiller.
This is based upon the language of §§ 84'and 9, which
remaft in their original form, of § 13, as amended
June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36' Stat. 550, and of § 16 as amended
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584. Section- 8 (24 Stat. 382)
makes the common carrier, for anything done contrary
to the prohibition of the act, -"liable to the person cr

SPILLER v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO.
117.

135

Opinion of the Court.

persons injured thereby for the full amount of damages
-sustained in consequence of any such violation of the provisions of this act." Section 9 entitles any person claiming to be damaged either to make complaint to the Commission or to "bring suit in his or their own behalf for the
recovery of the damages for which such common carrier
may be liable." Section 13 contains nothing that need be
quoted. Section 16 as amended (34 Stat. 590) provides
that where an award of damages is made by the Commission and the carrier does not comply with the order, "the
complainant, or any person for whose benefit such order
was made" may bring suit. Stress is laid upon the absence of language expressly extending the remedy to the
representatives or assigns of the person aggrieved; but we
attribute no controlling significance to this. The provisions of the act giving redress, compensatory in its nature,
to persons sustaining pecuniary injury through the violation of public duty by tle carrier must receive a reasonably
liberal and not a narrow interpretation. A claim for
damages sustained through the exaction of unreasonable
charges for the carriage of freight is a claim not for a
penalty but for compensation, is a property right assignable in its nature (Comegys v., Vasse, 1 .Pet. 193, 213;
Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, 395-396), and must be
regarded as assignable at law, in the absence of any
expression of a legislative intent to the contrary. We find
nothing in the letter or spirit of the act inconsistent with
such assignability. We are referred to certain expressions
in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, 442, and Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnel-Taenzer
Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 533-534; but they do not bear
upon the present question, and are not inconsistent with
the view that reparation claims are assignable.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, by Conference
Ruling No. 362 (June 4, 1912), declared: "In awarding
reparation the Commission will recognize an assignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

by a consignor to a consignee or by a consignee to a consignor, but will not recognize an assignment to a stranger
to the transportation records."
See Robinson Co. v.
American Express Co., 38 I. C. C. 733, 735. So far as this
involves a construction of the act, we are unable to accept
it, for reasons that have been indicated. Treating it as
an administrative regulation, it of course constituted no
limitation upon the jurisdiction of the Commission, even
were it consistent with a correct construction of the act,
which we hold it was not. In any event, the Commission
had power to disregard the regulation, as in effect it did
by recognizing the assignments in this case.
Other points discussed in the argument require no
special comment.
It results that the judgments of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be reversed, and those of the District Court
affirmed.
Writs of error dismissed.
Writs of certiorariallowed.
Judgments of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
judgments of DistrictCourt affirmed.

MECCANO,

LIMITED, v. JOHN
NEW YORK.

WANAMAKER,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 187.

Argued January 26, 27, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit for infringement of
patent and copyright and for unfair competition, is reviewable by

this court on certiorari, as if on appeal. P. 140. Jud. Code, §§ 128,
240.

