OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

253 U. S.

FIDELITY TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATOR OF PANCOAST, v. DUBOIS ELECTRIC COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD

No. 300.

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 25, 26, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

In reversing a judgment on a verdict in an action at law for damages,
the Circuit Court of Appeals should order a new trial, but where it
fails to do so this court, on certiorari, may inquire whether that
court was wrong on the merits and, finding it so, may affirm the
judgment of the District Court. P. 213.
A man is not free to introduce a danger into public places, even if he be
under no contract with the persons subjected to the risk. P. 214.
One who creates and arranges for the continuation of dangerous conditions of which he alone knows, cannot escape responsibility for a
resulting injury by stepping out, of their control a few days before
the injury occurs. P. 215.
A, having been furnished with a banner by B, and haying, at B's request, undertaken to hang it across a public street and later take it
down, assuming full control, suspended it between opposite buildings
by a cable one end of which A negligently attached to a weakly constructed chimney; several days later, A retaining control, the banner
dragged the chimney over in a storm and C was injured by a falliig
brick in the street below. Held, that A was liable to C. P. 213.
An amendment to a declaration -which leaves the original cause of
action unchanged is not objectionable because made after the running
of the statute of limitations. P. 216.
253 Fed. Rep. 987, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles Alvin Jones, with whom Mr. Allen J. Hastings, Mr. James R. Ste'rrett and Mr. M. W. Acheson, Jr.,

were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. C. Miller, with whom Mr. H. B. Hartswick was

on the brief, for respondent.

FIDELITY TITLE CO. v. DUBOIS ELEC. CO.
212.

213

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action begun by Pancoast, to recover for
personal injuries, and continued after his death by the
petitioner as ancillary administrator. At a former trial
the plaintiff had a verdict but it was set aside and a new
trial ordered by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 238 Fed.
Rep. 129, 132. 151 C. C. A. 205. At the new trial the
plaintiff again got a verdict and judgment, but the Circuit Court of Appeals set them aside,. this time simply
reversing the judgment without ordering 4 new trial.
253 Fed. Rep. 987. An opportunity was allowed to that
Court to correct the error and as it was not corrected the
present writ of certiorari was granted. 249 U. S. 606, 597.
Of course if the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was right on the merits a new trial should have been
ordered. Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228
U. S. 364. Myers v. PittsburghCoal Co., 233 U. S. 184, 189.
But as it has been necessary to direct the record to be
certified up, it is necessary also to consider the merits of
the case and to determine whether the Circuit Court of
Appeals was right with regard to them.
Nothing turns upon the form of the pleadings. The
evidence for the plaintiff was in conflict with that for the
defendant upon important points, but we shall state the
case as the jury might have found it to be if they believed
the plaintiff's evidence, as the verdict shows they did.-A
member of a political party requested the defendant to
suspend a political banner, which he furnished, across
one of the principal streets in the borough of Dubois, between the Commercial Hotel and the Deposit National
Bank. He asked the defendant to put it up, take it down
after the election and attend to it for him, saying that he
did not want to have anything to do with it. The defendant put up the banner, at first suspending it by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

rope, but the rope breaking, substituted for it a wire cable
of the defendant's, and, the plaintiff .says, did so without
further orders. This cable was fastened on the hotel side
by taking two turns round a chimney and clamping the
end. The chimney stood thirty-one inches from the edge
of, the* cornice over the street, was twenty-one inches
square at the base, and hada tin flashing from the roof
inserted between the courses of brick two or three courses
above the roof. According to the plaintiff's evidence the
cable was attached above the flashing. The lower corners
of the banner were attached to the buildings on their
respective sides. Five days after the banner was suspended the man who employed the defendant caused it
to string electric lights along the wire, not otherwise interfering with the work. 'The same day in. the afternoon, the weather being stormy, the banner dragged the
chimney over and a brick struck Pancoast on the head,
making a comminuted 'fracture of the skull. The defendant put up the banner a third time after this fall,
again, the plaintiff says, without further direction, and
when the election was over took it down.
If thesewere-the facts, and, except with regard to the
extent or the defendant's control, they could not be disputed, manifestly the verdict was warranted. It did not
leave the defendant free from any duty to Pancoast and
the other travellers in the street that they had no contract with it. An act of this kind that reasonable care
would have shown to endanger life, might have made the
actor guilty of manslaughter, if not, in an extreme case,
of murder. Rigmaidon's Case, Lewin, 180. See Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377. Commonwealth v.
Pierce, 138 Massachusetts, 165, 178. The same considerations apply to civil liability for personal injuries from
similar causes that would have been avoided by reasonable care. See Gray v. Boston Gas Light Co., 114 Massachusetts, 149. A man is not free to introduce a danger

FIDELITY TITLE CO. v. DUBOIS ELEC. CO..
212.

215

Opinion of the Court.

into public places even if he be under no contract with
the persons subjected to the risk.
It hardly is denied that there was evidence of negligence, but it was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the defendant's relation to the work ceased when
the banner was hung, that it had no further control over
it and was not liable for what happened thereafter. Of
course it is true that when the presence or absence of
danger depends upon the subsequent conduct of the
person to whom control is surrendered, the previous possessor may be exonerated when the control is changed.
Curtin v. Somerset, 140 Pa. St. 70. Murphey v. Caralli,
3 Hurlst. & Colt. 462. Thornton v. Dow, 60 Washington,
622. Glynn v. Central R. R. Co., 175 Massachusetts, 510.
Clifford v. Atlantic Cotton Mills, 146 Massachusetts, 47, 48.
But how far this principle will be carried may be uncertain, Union Stock Yards Co. v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 217, 223, and when as here the
danger had been called fully into existence by the defendant it could not escape liability for the result of conditions that it alone knew, had created and had arranged
to have continue, by stepping out of the conrol a few
days before the event came to 'pass. Harris v. James, 45
L. J., Q. B. 545. Todd v. Flight, 9 C. B. N. S. 377. Swords
v. Edgar, 59 N. Y. 28. Godley v. Hagerty, 20 Pa. St. 387.
Joyce v. Martin, 15 R. I. 558. Jackman v. Arlington
Mills, 137 Massachusetts, 277, 283. Dalay v. Savage,
145 Massachusetts, 38, 41. Clifford v. Atlantic Cotton
Mills, 146 Massachusetts, 47, 49.
But it could not be said as matter of law that the defendant had stepped out of control. The facts in their
legal aspect probably were somewhat hazy. Presumably
the tenant of the hotel simply permitted what was done
and had no other relation to it than such as might be imposed upon him by the law. Evidently the defendant
handled the banner when it wanted to, and no one else

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

touched it. The defendant's employer if he told the
truth not only did not intermeddle but might be found
to have expressly required the defendant to take the
responsibility. All the probabilities are that such control
as there was remained with the defendant. The defendant got more thanit was entitled to when the jury were
instructed that even if the fall was due to negligence in
putting up the banner, the defendant would not be liable
unless by arrangement it had assumed a continuing duty
to maintain the banner in a safe condition. The testimony on the two sides was contrasted and it was left to
the jury to say which they would believe..
As we have implied, we regard it as too plain for discussion that the plaintiff's evidence if believed warranted
a finding that the defendant undertook the care of the
banner while it was up. An effort is made to establish an
error in allowing an amendment to the declaration after
the statute of limitations had run. The declaration originally alleged negligence in the use of the chimney and
that the fall was due to the use of the chimney as alleged.
The amendment alleged also that defendant maintained
the banner. If any objection is open it is enough to say
that the original declaration was sufficient and that the
amendment plainly left the cause of action unchanged.
Judgment reversed.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

