OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

WALLACE ET AL. v. HINES, DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF RAILROADS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 683.

Argued April 21, 1920.-Decided May 3, 1920.

In the absence of an adequate remedy at law plainly allowed against
the State, equity has Jurisdiction to restrain state officials from
enforcing an illegal tax, the effect of which if not paid would be to
cloud plaintiff's title and subject him to pecuniary penalties. P. 67.
Held, that the law of North Dakota permitting actions respecting
title to property or arising upon contract to be brought against the
State as against a private person does not clearly allow such an
adequate remedy, since an action to recover money wrongfully extorted is a case in contract only in an artificial sense. Id.
The method of taxing an interstate railroad company by assessing the
value of its property within the State at that proportion of the total
value of its stocks and bonds that the main track mileage within the
State bears to the main track mileage of the entire line, is indefensible when it is shown that the cost of construction per mile was
much less within than without the taxing State, and that the large
-and valuable terminals are elsewhere. P. 68.
No property of such an interstate railroad situate beyond the Statecan be taken into account in taxation unless it can be seen in some
plain, intelligible way that it adds to the value of the road and of
the rights exercised, within the taxing:State. P. 69.
Hence the possession of bonds secured by mortgage of lands in other
States, or of a land-grant or other property elsewhere, adding to the
riches of the corporation but not affecting the road in the taxing
State, can afford no ground for increasing the tax there, whatever
the tax may be,-on property or an excise on doing business. P. 70.
North Dakota law of March 7, 1919, c. 222, as administered, held an
unwarrantable interference with interstate commerce and a taking
of property without due process of law. Id.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

WALLACE v. HINES.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. F. E. Packard, Assistant Attorney General,6f the
State of North Dakota, with whom Mr. William Lange'r,
Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, was on tha
brief, for appellants.
,Mr. E. Marvin Underwood, with whom The Solicitor
General, Mr. D. F. Lyons, Mr. M. L. Countryman, Mr. L.
H. Field, Mr. H. B. Dike and Mr. Alexander Koplin weie
on the brief, for the Director General of Railroads, aipellee.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. Burton Hanson,
Mr. E. C. Lindley and Mr. A. H. Bright were on the bricf,
for the railway companies, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order of three judges restraining the defendants, the appellants, from taking steps
to enforce taxes imposed by an Act of North Dakota,
approved March 7, 1919, (c. 222,) until the further order
of the Court. The plaintiff railroads are corporations of
other States with lines extending into North Dakota. The
defendants are the State Tax Commissioner, the State
Treasurer, the State Auditor, the Attorney General and
the Secretary. of State for North. Dakota. As the tax is
made a first lien upon all the property of the plaintiff railroads in the State and thus puts a cloud upon their title,
and as delay in payment is visited with considerable
penalties, there is jurisdiction in equity unless there is an
adequate remedy at law against the State, to. which the
tax is to be paid. Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37. Gaar,Scott
& Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, 472. The only ground for'
supposing that there is such a remedy is a provision that
"an action respecting the title to property, or arising upon
contract may be brought in the district court against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

state the same as'against a private person." Compiled
Laws, N. Dak. 1913, § 8175. This case does not arise upon
contract except in the purely artificial sense that some
claims for money alleged to have been obtained wrongfully
might have been enforced at common law by an action of
assumpsit. Nothing could be more remote from an actual
contract than the Wrongful extortion of money by threats,
and we ought not to leave the plaintiffs to a speculation
upon what the State Court might say if an action at law
were brought. Union Pacific P .. Co. v. Weld County, 247
U. S. 282.
We quote the tax law in full.' It will be seen that it
1(2) Every corporation, joint-stock company or association, now
or hereafter organized under the law of any other State, the United
States or a foreign country, and engaged in business in the State during
the previous calendar year, shall pay annually a special excise tax with
respect to the carrying on or doing business in the State by such corporation, joint-stock company or association, equivalent to 50 cents for
each $1,000.00 of the capital actually invested in the transaction of
business in the State; provided, that in the case of a corporation engaged in business partly within and partly without the State, invest-,
meat within the State shall be held to mean that propbjtion of its
entire stock and bond issues which its business within the §tate bears
to its total business within and without the State, and where such
business within the State is not otherwise more easily and certainly
separable from such entire business within and without the State,
business within the State shall be held to mean such proportion of the
entire business wi ;hin and without the State, as the property of such
corporation within the State bears to its entire property employed in
such business both within and without the State; provided, that in the
case of a railroad, telephone, telegraph, car or freight-line, express
company or other common carrier, or a gas, light, power or heating
company, having lines that enter into, extend out of or across the
State, property within the State shall be held to mean that proportion
of the entire property of such corporation engaged in such business
which its mileage within the State bears to its entire mileage within and
without the State. The amount of such annual tax shall in all cases be
computed on the basis of the average amount of capital so invested
during the preceding calendar year; provided, that for the purpose of

WALLACE v. HINES.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

purports to be a special excise tax upon doing business in
the State. As the law is administered, the tax commissioner fixes the value of the total property of each railroad
by the total value of its stocks and bonds and assesses the
proportion of this value that the main track mileage in
North Dakota bears to the main track of the whole line.
But on the allegations of the bill, which is all that we have
before us, the circumstances are such as to make that mode
of assessment indefensible. North Dakota is a State of
plains, very different from the other States, and the cost
of the roads there was much less than it was in mountainous regions that the roads had to traverse. The State is
mainly agricultural. Its markets are outside its boundaries and most of the distributing centers from which it
purchases also are outside. It naturally follows that the
great and very valuable terminals of the roads are in other
States. So looking only to the physical track the injustice
of assuming the value to be evenly distributed according
to main track mileage is plain. But that is not all.
The only reason for allowing a State to look beyond its
borders when it taxes the property of foreign corporations
is that it may get the true value of the things within it,
when they are part of an organic system of wide extent,
that gives them a value above what they otherwise would
possess. The purpose is not to expose the heel of the system to a mortal dart-not, in other words, to open to
taxation what is not within the State. Therefore no
property of such an interstate road situated elsewhere can
be taken into account unless it can be seen in some plain
and fairly intelligible way that it adds to the value of the
road and the rights exercised in the State. Hence the
this tax an exemption of $10,000.00 frorm the amount of capital invested in the State shall be allowed; provided, further, that this exemption shall be allowed only if such corporation, joint-stock company or
association furnish to the Tax Commissioner all the information
necessary to its computation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

possession of bonds secured by mortgage of lands in other
States, or of a land-grant in another State or of other
property that adds to the riches of the corporation but
does not affect the North Dakota part of the road is no
sufficient ground for the increase of the tax-whatever it
may be-whether a tax on property, or, as here, an excise
upon doing business in the State. St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 364. In this case, it is
alleged, the tax commissioner's valuation included items
of the kind described to very large amounts. The foregoing considerations justify the preliminary injunction
that was granted against what would appear to be an
unwarranted interference with interstate commerce and a
taking of property without due process of law. Fargo v.
Hart, 193 U. S. 490. Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, 249
U. S. 275, 282.
The Attorney General of the State in his very candid
argument suggested that if the mode adopted by the tax
commissioner were open to objections the statute might be
construed to give him an election as to the method of distribution, and that he should take gross earnings, or, if
more easily ascertainable, the property or mileage basis of
distribution. As we are dealing only with a preliminary
injunction we confine our consideration to a general view
of the mode actually followed, and upon that we are of
opinion that the decree should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

