OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

253 U. S.

struggle on against the difficult conditions with its inefficient plant should not be charged against it. In other
words, it should not now be held to have been put to the
suggested election. It did not know at that time of the
manner in which the "test borings" had been made. Upon
learning that they had been made by the probe method, it
then elected to go no further with the work, that is, upon
discovering that the belief expressed was not justified and
was in fact a deception. And it was not the less so because
its impulse was not sinister or fraudulent.
The Government makes the point, however, that the
implication of the case is that bad methods were used, and
insists that the implication makes the action one for a
tort, and. not tenable against the United States. We
cannot assent. There is no intimation of bad faith against
the officers of the Government and the Court of Claims
regarded the representation of the character of the material as the nature of a warranty; besides, its judgment is in
no way punitive. It is simply compensatory of the cost
of the work, of which the Government got the benefit.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

MAGUIRE v. TREFRY, TAX COMMISSIONER OF
TAE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHITSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 280. Argued March 24, 1920.-Decided April 26, 1920.
The income received by the beneficiary from a trust estate consisting
of bonds and equipment certificates held and administered by the
trustee in another State, is taxable by the State of the beneficiary's
domicile. P. 14.
230 Massachusetts, 503, affirmed.

MAGUIRE v. TREFRY.
Opinion of the Court.

12.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. RichardW. Hale, with whom Mr. John M. Maguire
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error, contended that
the tax was direct on the property producing the income. Personal intangible property held in trust and personal tangible property held by a trustee who had leased
it on the equipment trust plan had its situs where it and
the trustee were. The domicile of the cestui in Massachusetts did not authorize the taxation over again of the
property itself.
Mr. William Harold Hitchcock, with whom Mr. J.
Weston Allen, Attorney General of the State of Massachusetts, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Massachusetts has a statute providing for a tax upon
incomes (Gen. Acts Mass. 1916, c. 269). In the act imposing the tax it is provided: "If an inhabitant of this
commonwealth receives income from one or more executors, administrators or trustees, none of whom is an
inhabitant of this commonwealth or has derived hisappointment from a court of this commonwealth, such
income shall be subject to the taxes assessed by this act,
according to the nature of the income received by the
executors, administrators or trustees."
The plaintiff in error is a resident of the State of Massachusetts, and was taxed upon income from a trust created
by the will of one Matilda P. MacArthur formerly of
Philadelphia. The plaintiff in error under the will of the
decedent was the beneficiary of a trust thereby created.
The securities were held in trust by the Girard Trust
Company of Philadelphia. Those which were directly
taxable to the trustee were held exempt from taxation in
Massachusetts under the terms of the statute of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

State. The securities-"the income from which was held
taxable in Massachusetts consisted of the bonds of three
corporations and certain certificates of the Southern
Railway Equipment Trust. These securities were held
in the possession of the trustee in Philadelphia. The
trust was being administered under the laws of Pennsylvania. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
held the tax to be valid. 230 Massachusetts, 503. "
Of the nature of the tax the Chief Justice of Massachusetts, speaking for the Supreme Judicial Court, said:
"The income tax is measured by reference to the riches of
the person taxed actually made available to him for
valuable use during a given period. It establishes a basis
of taxation directly proportioned to ability to bear the
burden. It is founded upon the protection afforded to the
recipient of the income by the government of the Commonwealth of his residence in his person, in his right to receive the income and in his enjoyment of the income when
in his possession. That government provides for him all
the advantages of living in safety and in freedom and of
being protected by law. It gives security to life, liberty
and the other privileges of dwelling in a civilized community' It exacts in return a contribution to the support
of that government measured by and based upon the
income, in the fruition of which it defends him from unjust interference.' It is true of the present tax, as was
said by Chief Justice Shaw in Bates v. Boston, 5 Cush.
93, at page 99, 'The assessment does not touch the
fund, or control it; nor does it interfere with the
trustee in the exercise of his proper duties; nor call him,
nor hold him, to any accountability. It affects only the
income, after it has been paid by the trustee' to the
beneficiary."
We see no reason to doubt the correctness of this view
of the nature and effect of the Massachusetts statute, and
shall accept it for the purpose of considering the federal

MAGUIRE v. TREFRY.
12.

Opinion of the Court.

question before us, which arises from the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the imposition of the tax was a
denial of due process of law within the protection of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution,
because, it is alleged, the effect of the statute is to subject
property to taxation which is beyond the limits and outside the jurisdiction of the State. To support this contention the plaintiff in error relies primarily upon the
decision of this court in Union Refrigerater Transit Co. v.
Kentwcky, 199 U. S. 194. In that case we held that
tangible, personal property, permanently located in
another State than that of the owner, where it had acquired a situs, and was taxed irrespective of the domicile
of the owner,-was beyond the taxing power of the State,
and that an attempt to tax such property at the owner's
domicile was a denial of due process of law under the
Fourteenth Amendment. This ruling was made with
reference to cars of the Transit Company permanently
employed outside the State of the owner's residence. In
that case this court in the opinion of Mr. Justice Brown,
speaking for it, expressly said that the taxation of intangible personal property was not involved. (199 U. S.
211.)
It is true that in some instances we have held that
bonds and bills and notes although evidences of debt have
come to be regarded as property which may acquire a
taxable situs at the place where they are kept, which
may be elsewhere than at the domicile of the owner.
These cases rest upon the principle that such instruments
are more than mere evidences of debt, and may be taxed
in the jurisdiction where located, and where they receive
the protection of local law and authority. Blackstone
v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 206. People ex rel. Jefferson v.
Smith, 88 N. Y. 576, 585. At the last term we held in
DeGanay V. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, that stocks and bonds
issued by domestic corporations, and mortgages secured

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

I Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

on domestic real estate, although owned by an alien nonresident, but in the hands of an agent in this country
with authority to deal with them, were subject to the
Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913, 38 Stat. 166.
In the present case we are not dealing with the right
to tax securities which have acquired a local situs, but are
concerned with the right of the State to tax the beneficiary of a trust at her residence, although the trust itself
may be created and administered under the laws of
another State.
In Fidelity & Columbia Trust Company v. Louisville,
245 U. S. 54, we held that a bank deposit of a resident of
Kentucky in the bank of another State, where it was
taxed, might be taxed as a credit belonging to the resident of Kentucky. In that case Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, was distinguished, and
the principle was affirmed that the State of the owner's
domicile might tax the credits of a resident although evidenced by debts due from residents of another State.
This is the general rule recognized in the maxim "mobilia
sequuntur personam," and justifying, except under exceptional circumstances, the taxation of credits and beneficial interests in property at the domicile of the owner.
We have pointed out in other decisions that the principle
of that maxim is not of universal application and may
yield to the exigencies of particular situations. But we
think it is applicable here.
It is true that the legal title of the property is held by
the trustee in Pennsylvania. But it is so held for the
benefit of the beneficiary of the trust, and such beneficiary
has an equitable right, title and interest distinct from its
legal ownership. "The legal owner holds the direct and
absolute dominion over the property in the view of the
law; but the income, profits, or benefits thereof in his
hands, belong wholly, or in part, to others." 2 Story's
Equity, 11th ed., ยง 964. It is this property right belong-

WARD v. LOVE COUNTY.
12.

Syllabus.

ing to the beneficiary, realized in the shape of income,
which is the subject-matter of the tax under the statute
of Massachusetts.
The beneficiary is domiciled in Massachusetts, has the
protection of her laws, and there receives and holds the
income from the trust property. We find nothing in the
Fourteenth Amendment which prevents the taxation in
Massachusetts -of an interest of this character, thus owned
and enjoyed by a resident of the State. The case presen4s
no difference in principle from the taxation of credits
evidenced by the obligations of persons who are outside
of the State which are held taxable at the domicile of the
owner. Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491.
We find no error in the judgment and the same is

Affirmed.
Dissenting, MR.JUSTICE McREYNOLws.

WARD ET AL. v. BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF LOVE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT- OF THE STATE OF

OKL
No. 224.

OMA.

Submitted March 11, 1920.-Decided April 25, 1920.

The jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of a state court
the effect of which is to deny a federal right, cannot be avoided by
placing such judgment on non-federal grounds which are plainly
untenable. P. 22.
Certain allotments belonging to Indians in Oklahoma, which by
federal right were exempt from taxation, were assessed by county
officials, while suits, of which they had full knowledge and in one of
which they were defendants, were being litigated in behalf of all
such allottees, to maintain the exemption (Choate v. Trapp, 224 U.

