CITY OF.NEW YORK v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO. 219
217.

-

Syllabus.

140 U. S. 529, reversing s. c. 146 Massachusetts, 545, judicial action is supposed to be necessary for the final detrmination of the right. But we cannot consider that question or the other arguments upon the merits of the case,
because, Mr. McAdoo having resigned the office of Secretary of the Treasury, his successor was not substituted
within twelve months; which is the limit for such substitution fixed by the Act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30
Stat. 822. It is said that the Code of the District of
Columbia, §.1278, allows the petitioner to recover damages in the same proceeding and that the petition should
be retained to charge Mr. McAdoo personally. But apart
from other questions the damages are only incident to the
allowance of the writ of mandamus, and as that cannot be
allowed the whole proceeding is at an end. See Pullman
Co. v. Knott, .243 U. S. 447, 451; Pullman Co. v. Croom,
231 U. S. 571, 577.
Writ of error dismissed.

CITY OF NEW YORK v. CONSOLIDATED GAS
COMPANY OF NEW YORK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 566.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 22, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A city applied to intervene in a suit brought by a gas company to enjoin state officials from enforcing a rate alleged to be confiscatory.
Held, that the application was addressed to the discretion of the
District Court, and that an order denying it was not final for purpose of appeal. P. 221.
When the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously assumes jurisdiction
of a case in which the District Court's jurisdiction is based wholly
on constitutional grounds, and makes a final order, this court has

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

jurisdiction to correct the error upon appeal under Jud. Code, § 241.
P. 221.
The proper course for this court in such cases is to reverse the order
of the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions to dismiss the appeal.

Id.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Vincent Victory, with whom Mr., William P. Burr
and Mr. John P. O'Brien were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. John A. Garver for appellees.
Mr. Wilbur W. Chambers, Mr. Charles D. Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, and Mr. Robert
S. Conklin, Deputy Attorney General of the State of New
York, filed a separate brief on behalf of Newton, . appellee.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.

The Consolidated Gas Company of New York brought
suit to enjoin the enforcement of the New York eightycent gas law. The jurisdiction was invoked solely upon
the ground that the rate was confiscatory and hence
violated constitutional rights of the company. The City
of Hew York applied for leave to intervene as a party
defendant in the action. The District Judge denied the
p etition for _'terventiop -tating that the Public Service
Commission, the Attorney General and the District
Attorney properly •re--esented private consumers; that
the City had no-interest in the litigation as a consumer;
was not the !-vernmental body which had fixed the rate,
and was not charged with the duty of enforcing it. From
the order denying the application to intervene the City
of New York prosecuted an appeal to the Circuit Court of

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
219.

Syllabus.

Appeals, and the latter court affirmed- the order of the
District Court.
The application was addressed to the discretion of the
District Court, and the order appealed from was not of
that final character which furnished the basis for appeal.
Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, 22; Credits Commutation
Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311, 315; Ex parte Leaf
Tobacco Board of Trade, 222 U. S. 578, 581. As the jurisdiction of the District Court was based upon constitutional
grounds only, the case was not appealable to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. But, an appeal having been taken and
a final order made in the Circuit Court of Appeals, we have
jurisdiction to review the question of jurisdiction of that
court. (Judicial Code, § 241.) Union & Planters' Bank
v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73.
The proper course is to reverse the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and remand the case to that
court with directions to dismiss the appeal. Four hundred
and forty-three Cans of Egg Product v. United States, 226
U. S. 172, 184; CarolinaGlass Company v. South Carolina,
240 U. S. 305, 318.
So ordered.

HAWKE v. SMITH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
OHIO. (No. 1.)
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 582.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF OHIO.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

Under the Constitution, Art. V, a proposed amendment can be ratified by two methods only,- by the legislatures of three-fourths of
the States or by conventions in three-fourths of the States. the choice
of method being left to Congress. P. 226.
The term "legislatures" as used here and elsewhere in the Constitu-

