HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 2.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

221.

view to representation in Congress was not unconstitu-

tional. Article I, ยง 4, plainly gives authority to the State
to legislate within the limitations therein named.,, Such
legislative action is entirely different from the iequirement of the Constitution as to the expression of assent or
dissent to a proposed amendment to the Constitution. In
such expression no legislative action is authorized or
required.
It follows that the court erred in holding that..the State
had authority to require the submission of the ratification
to a referendum under the state constitutiin, and its
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Rever8ed.

HAWKE v. SMITH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
OHIO.

(No. 2.)

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 601.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

The ratification of the proposed Nineteenth Amendment by the legislature of Ohio cannot be referred to the electors of the State; the
Ohio constitution in requiring such a referendum is inconsistent
with the Constitution of the United States. Hawke v. Smith,
No. 1, ante, 221.
100 Ohio St. 540, reversed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Frank Hanly, with whomMr. George S. Hawke,

N'r. Arthur Hellen, Mr. Charles B. Smith, Mr.

James

Fingham and Mr. Remster A. Bingham were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. John G. Price,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr. Judson Harmon and Mr. B. W. Gearheart were on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler and Mr. James A. White, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curie.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, Mr. Shippen Lewis and
Mr. William Draper Lewis, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amici curia.

MR. JUSMCE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents the same question as that already
decided in No. 582, ante, 221, the only difference being that
the amendment involved is the proposed Nineteenth
Amendment to the Constitution extending the right of
suffrage to women. The Supreme Court of Ohio upon the
authority of its decision in Hawke v. Smith (No. 582)
ante, 221, held that the constitution of the State requiring
such submission by a referendum to the people, did not
violate Article V of the Federal Constitution, and for that
reason rendered a like judgment as in No. 582.
For the reasons stated in our opinion in No. 582 the
judgment of the Supr'eme Court of Ohio must be
Reversed.

