HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
219.

Syllabus.

Appeals, and the latter court affirmed- the order of the
District Court.
The application was addressed to the discretion of the
District Court, and the order appealed from was not of
that final character which furnished the basis for appeal.
Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, 22; Credits Commutation
Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311, 315; Ex parte Leaf
Tobacco Board of Trade, 222 U. S. 578, 581. As the jurisdiction of the District Court was based upon constitutional
grounds only, the case was not appealable to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. But, an appeal having been taken and
a final order made in the Circuit Court of Appeals, we have
jurisdiction to review the question of jurisdiction of that
court. (Judicial Code, § 241.) Union & Planters' Bank
v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73.
The proper course is to reverse the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and remand the case to that
court with directions to dismiss the appeal. Four hundred
and forty-three Cans of Egg Product v. United States, 226
U. S. 172, 184; CarolinaGlass Company v. South Carolina,
240 U. S. 305, 318.
So ordered.

HAWKE v. SMITH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
OHIO. (No. 1.)
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 582.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF OHIO.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

Under the Constitution, Art. V, a proposed amendment can be ratified by two methods only,- by the legislatures of three-fourths of
the States or by conventions in three-fourths of the States. the choice
of method being left to Congress. P. 226.
The term "legislatures" as used here and elsewhere in the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

253 U. S.

tion, means the deliberative, representative bodies that make the
laws for the people of the respective States; the Constitution makes
no provision for action upon such proposals by the people directly.
P. 227.
The function of a state legislature in ratifying a proposed amendment
to the Federal Constitution, like the function of Congress in proposing such amendments, is a federal function, derived not from the
people of that State but from the Constitution. P. 230.
The ratification of a proposed amendment to the Federal Constitution by the legislature pf a State is not an aQt of legislation, in the
proper sense of the word; it is but the expression of the assent of the
State to the proposed amendment. P. 229. Davis v. Hildebrant,
241 U. S. 565, distinguished.
The action of the General Assembly of Ohio ratifying the proposed
Eighteenth Amendment cannot be referred to the electors of the
State, the provisions of the state constitution requiring such a referendum being inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States.
P. 231.
100 Ohio St. 385, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Frank Hanly, with whom Mr. George S. Hawke,
Mr. Arthur Hellen, Mr. Charles B. Smith, Mr. James

Bingham and Mr. Remster A. Bingham were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. John G. Price,

Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr. Judson Harmon and Mr. B. W. Gearheart were on the brief, for defendant in error:

The Constitution of the United States does not require
that the States shall have any particular form of legislature. The people of the States have the power to abolish
their general assemblies and to take into their own hands

all matters of legislation. They have the power to provide

that no legislation shall be enacted by the general assembly without being first submitted to the people for
approval.

And they have-the power to do, as they have

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
221.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

in fact done, in all referendum States, namely, to provide
that all, or any particular class, of legislative acts shall
stand suspended for a specified time after adjournment of
the general assembly, and if, during that time a referendum is duly ordered, that the legislation shall remain
suspended and inoperative untl the next general election
and take effect or not according to the result of the popu.. ar vote thereon. They may also provide, as has been done
"ih two of -the States, that no legislature or convention
shall act upon any proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States, except a legislature or convention elected after such amendment is submitted. Constitution, Tennessee, 1870, Art. II, § 32; Florida, 1885,
Art. XVI, § 19.
The Federal Constitution confers no power upon the
state legislature. It gets all of its power from the people
of the State. Such authority as the legislatures have to
ratify amendments to the Federal Constitution is not
mandatory but permissive. Congress merely proposes
amendments and it is provided that if they shall be ratified by the "legislatures" of a sufficient number of the
States, they become part of the Federal Constitution.
Such amendments axe submitted to the legislative or lawmaking power of each State whatever its form or constitution, as distinguished from its executive or judicial power.
If a State should abolish its general assembly and resort
to direct legislation in all instances, it would thereby,
according to the opposing argument, deprive itself of the
power to act upon proposed constitutional amendments.
If more than one-fourth of the States should adopt that
policy there would not then remain three-fourths of the
several States capable of ratifying a federal amendment.
But if we assume, for the sake of discussion, that the
general assembly of the State must have the final word in
ratifying amendments to the Federal Constitution in
cases where the State ratifies, it must be admitted that it

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

speaks, not for itself, but for the people of the State, and
it follows that the people, in their state constitutions, may
provide that the action of the general assembly shall be
conditional upon popular rejection or approval at the polls.
In such a case the action of the general assembly, if
approved by referendum, is a ratification by the "legislature." If rejected, there is no ratification by the legislature of that State. No expressed prohibition of sich a
form of state government is found in the Federal Constitution and none should be inferred. Citing: Davis v. Hildebrant, 94 Ohio St. 154; aff'd 241, U. S. 565; Hawke v.
-Smith, 100 Ohio St. 385; State v. Howell, 107 Washington,
167.
Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler and Mr. James A. White, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amict curie.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error (plaintiff below) filed a petition for
an injunction in the Court of Common Pleas of Franklin
County, Ohio, seeking to enjoin the Secretary of State
of Ohio from spending the public money in preparing
and printing forms of ballot for submission of a referendum
to the electors of that State on the question of the ratification which the General Assembly had made of the proposed Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
A demurrer to the petition was sustained in the Court of
Common Pleas. Its judgment was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of Franklin County, which judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and the case was
brought here.
A joint resolution proposing to the States this Amendment to the Constitution-of the United-States was adopted
on the third day of December, 1917. The Amendment
prohibits the manufacture, sale or transportation of

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
221.

-

.

225

Opinion of the Court.

intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into,
or the exporation thereof from the.United States and all
territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage
purposes. The several States were given concurrent
power to enforce the Amendment by appropriate legislation. The resolution provided that the Amendment
should be inoperative unless ratified as..,an Amendment
of the Constitution by the legislatures of the several
States, as provided in the Constitution, - withiq sevenyears from the date of the submission thereof to the
States.. The Senate and House of Representatives of the
State of Ohio adopted a resolution ratifying the proposed
Amendment by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
and ordered that certified copies of the joint resolution of
ratification be forwarded by the Governor to the Secretary
of',State at Washington and to the presiding officer of
each house of Congress. This resolution was adopted on
January 7, 1919; on January 27, 1919, the Governor of
Ohio complied with the resolution. On January 29, 1919,
the Secretary of State of the United States proclaimed
the ratification of the Amendment, naming thirty-six
States as having ratified the same, among them the State
of Ohio.
The question for our consideration is: Whether the
provision of the Ohio constitution, adopted at the general
election, November, 1918, extending the referendum to
the ratification by the General Assembly of proposed
amendments to the Federal Constitution is in conflict
with Article V of the Constitution of the United States.
The Amendment of 1918 provides: "The people also
reserve to themselves the legislative power of the referendum on the action of the general assembly ratifying
any proposed amendment to the constitution of the
United States." Article" V of the Federal Constitution
provides: "The Congress, whenever two-thirds of both
houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

to this Constitution; or, on the application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the several States, shall call a
convention for proposing amendments, which, in either
case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as part
of this Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures
of three-fourths of the several States, or by conventions
in three-fourths thereof, as the one or the other mode of
ratification may be proposed by the Congress; provided
that no amendment which may be made prior to the year
one thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any manner
affect the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of
the first article; and that no State, without its consent,
shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate."
The Constitution of the United States was ordained
by the people, and, when duly ratified, it became the
Constitution of the people of the United States. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 402. The States
surrendered to the general government the powers specif*ally conferred upon the Nation, and the Constitution
and the laws of the United States are the supreme law
of. th,: land.
The framers of the Constitution realized that it might
in the progress of time and the development of new conditions require changes, 'and they intended to provide
an orderly manner in which these could be accomplished;
to that erd they adopted the Fifth Article.
This article makes provision for the proposal of amendments either by two-thirds of both houses of Congress,
or on application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the
States; thus securing deliberation and consideration
before any change can be proposed. The proposed
change can only become effective by the ratification of
the legislatures of three-fourths of the States, or by conventions in & like number of States. The method of ratification is left to the choice of Congress. Both methods
of ratification, by legislatures or conventions, call for

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

action by deliberative assemblages representative of
the people, which it was assumed would voice the will
of the people.
The Fifth Article is a grant of authority by the people
to Congress. The determination of the method of ratification is the exercise of a national power specifically
granted by the Constitution; that power is conferred
upon Congress, and is limited to two methods, by action
of the legislatures of three-fourths of the States, or conventions in a like number of States. Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 331, 348. The framers of the Constitution might
have adopted a different method. Ratification might have
been left to a vote of the people, or to some authority of
government other than that selected. The language of
the article is plain, and admits of no doubt in its interpretation. It is not the function of courts or legislative
bodies, national or state, to alter the method which the
Constitution has fixed.
All of the amendments to the Constitution have been
submitted with a requirement for legislative ratification;
by this method all of them have been adopted.
The only question really for determination is: What
did the framers of the Constitution mean in requiring
ratification by "Legislatures"? That was not a term
of uncertain meaning when incorporated into the Constitution. What it meant when adopted it still means for
the purpose of interpretation. A Legislature was then
the representative body which made the laws of the people.
The term is often used in the Constitution with this
evident meaning. Article I § 2, prescribes the qualifications of electors of congressmen as those "requisite foi
electors of the most numerous branch of the state legislature." Article I, § 3, provided that senators shall
be chosen in each State by the legislature thereof,
and this was the method of choosing senators until the
adoptioni of the Seventeenth Amendment which made

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

provision for the election of senators by vote of the people,
the electors to have the qualifications requisite for electors
of the most. numerous branch of the state legislature.
That Congress and the States understood that this election by the people was entirely distinct from legislative
action is shown by the provision of the amendment giving the legislature of any State the power to authorize
the Executive to make temporary appointments until
the people shall fill the vacancies by election. It was
never suggested, so far as we are aware, that the purpose
of making the office of Senator elective by the people
could be accomplished by a referendum vote. The necessity of the amendment to accomplish the purpose of
popular election is shown in the adoption of the amendment. In Article IV the United States is required to
protect every State against domestic violence upon application of the legislature, or of the Executive when the
legislature cannot be convened. Article VI requires the
members of the several legislatures to be bound by oath,
or affirmation, to support the Constitution of the United
States. By Article I, §8, Congress is given exclusive
jurisdiction over all places purchased by the consent of
the legislature of the State in which the same .shall be.
Article IV, §3, provides that no new States shall be
carved out of old States without the consent of the legislatures of the States concerned.
There can be no question that the framers of the Constitution clearly understood and carefully used the terms
in which that instrument referred to the action of the
legislatures of the States. When they intended that
direct action by the people should be had they were no
less accurate in the use of apt phraseology to carry out
such purpose. The members of the House of Representatives were required to be chosen by the people of the
several States. Article I, § 2.
The constitution of Ohio in its present form, although

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 1.
221.

229

Opinion of the Court.

making provision for a referendum, vests the legislative
power primarily in a General Assembly consisting of a
Senate and House of Representatives. Article II, § 1,
provides:
"The legislative power of the state shall be vested in
a general assembly consisting of a senate and house of
representatives, but the people shall reserve to themselves the power to propose to the general assembly laws
and amendments to the constitution, and to adopt or
reject the same at the polls on a referendum vote as hereinafter provided."
The argument to support the power of the State to
require the approval by the people of the State of the
ratification of amendments to the Federal Constitution
through the medium of i referendum rests upon the proposition that the Federal Constitution requires ratification
by the legislative aotion of the States through the medium
provided at the time of the proposed approval of anamendment. This argument is fallcious in this-ratification by a State of a constitutional amendment is not an act
of legislation within the proper sense of the word. It is
but the'expression of the assent of the State to a proposed
amendment.
At an early day this court-settled that the submission
of a constitutional amendment did not..require the action
of the President. The question arose over the adopti9n of
the Eleventh Amendment. Hollingsworth v. Virginia,
3 Dall. 378. In that case it was contended that the
amendment had not been, proposed. in-the manner provided in the Constitution as an inspection of the original
roll showed -that it had "never been submitted to the
President for his approval-in accordance with Artidle I,
§ 7, of the Constitution. The Attorney General answered
that the case of amendments is a substantive act, unconnected with the ordinary business of legislation, and not
within the policy or terms of the. Constitution investing

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the President with a qualified negative on the acts and.
resolutions of Congress. In a foot-note to this argument
of the Attorney General, Justice Chase said: "There can,
surely, be no necessity to answer that argument. The
negative of the president applies only to the ordinary
cases of legislation: He has nothing to do with the proposition or adoption of amendments to the constitution."
The court by a unanimous judgment held that the amendment was constitutionally adopted.
It is true that the power to legislate in the enactment of
the laws of a State is derived from the people of the State.
But the power to ratify a proposed amendment to the
Federal Constitution has its source in the Federal Constitution. The act of ratification by the State derives its
authority from the Federal Constitution to which the
have alike assented.
State
Thisand
viewitsof people
the provision for amendment is confirmed
in
the history of its adoption found in 2 Watson on the Constitution, 1301 et seq. Any other view might lead to endless
confusion in the manner of ratification of federal amendments. The choice of means of ratification was wisely
withheld from conflicting action in the several States.
But it is said this view runs counter to the decision of
this court in Davis v. Hildebrant,241 U. S. 565. But that
case is inapposite. It dealt with Article I, § 4, of the Constitution, which provides that the times, places and manners
of holding elections for Senators and Representatives in
each State shall be determined by the respective legislatures thereof, but that Congress may at any time make or
alter such regulations, except as to the place for choosing
Senators. As shown in the opinion in that case, Congress
had itself recogniied the referendum as part of the legislative authority of the State for the purpose stated. It
was held, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio, that the referendum provision of the state constitution when applied to a law redistricting the State with a

HAWKE v. SMITH, No. 2.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

221.

view to representation in Congress was not unconstitu-

tional. Article I, § 4, plainly gives authority to the State
to legislate within the limitations therein named.,, Such
legislative action is entirely different from the iequirement of the Constitution as to the expression of assent or
dissent to a proposed amendment to the Constitution. In
such expression no legislative action is authorized or
required.
It follows that the court erred in holding that..the State
had authority to require the submission of the ratification
to a referendum under the state constitutiin, and its
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Rever8ed.

HAWKE v. SMITH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
OHIO.

(No. 2.)

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 601.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

The ratification of the proposed Nineteenth Amendment by the legislature of Ohio cannot be referred to the electors of the State; the
Ohio constitution in requiring such a referendum is inconsistent
with the Constitution of the United States. Hawke v. Smith,
No. 1, ante, 221.
100 Ohio St. 540, reversed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Frank Hanly, with whomMr. George S. Hawke,

N'r. Arthur Hellen, Mr. Charles B. Smith, Mr.

James

Fingham and Mr. Remster A. Bingham were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.

