FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.

421

Counsel for Parties.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. GRATZ ET
AL., COPARTNERS DOING BUSINESS UNDER
THE FIRM NAME AND STYLE OF WARREN,
JONES & GRATZ, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 492.

Argued April 20, 21, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.

Under the Federal Trade Commission Act (Sept. 26, 1914, c. 311, 38
Stat. 717), an order of the commission requiring parties to desist
from a course of business as unfair competition must correspond with
the complaint which the commission is required to issue and serve
as the basis for the proceedings; and where the complaint, liberally
construed, 'is plainly insufficient to show ui'ifair competition, the
order is without foundation and, when challenged, will be annulled
by the court. P. 427.
The commission's complaint alleged that some of the respondents
were engaged in selling, in interstate commerce, directly to the trade
or through their co-respondents, steel ties, manufactured by a certain company, made and used for binding bales of cotton, and jute
bagging, manufactured by another company, used to wrap bales of
cotton; that the other respondents, as their agents, sold and distributed such ties and bagging; in interstate commerce, principally,
to jobbers and dealers who resold the same to retailers, oottonginners and farmers; and that, with the purpose, intent and effect of
discouraging and stifling competition, all of the respondents refused,
and for more than a year had refused, to sell any such ties unless the
prospective purchaser would also buy from them the bagging to
be used with the number of ties proposed to be bought. Held,
plainly insufficient to show an unfair method of competition. Id.
258 Fed. Rep. 314, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Huston Thompson, with whom The Solicitor General
and Mr. Claude R. Porterwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas F. Magner for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
By an Act approved September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat.
717, Congress made provision for the Federal Trade
Commission and declared its powers.
Section 4 defines commerce as "commerce among the
several States or with foreign nations, or in any Territory
of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or
between any such Territory and another, or between any
such Territory and any State or foreign nation, or between
the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or
foreign nation."
Section 5.-"That unfair methods of competition in
commerce are hereby declared unlawful. The commission
is hereby empowered and directed to prevent persons,
partnerships, or corporations, except banks, and common
carriers subject to the Acts to regulate commerce, from
using unfair methods of competition in commerce. Whenever the commission shall have reason to believe that any
such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is
using any unfair method of competition in commerce, and
if it shall appear to the commission that a proceeding by
it in respect thereof would be to the interest of the public,
it shall issue and serve upon such person, partnership, or
corporation a complaint stating its charges in that respect,
and containing a notice of a hearing upon a day and at a
place therein fixed at least thirty days after the service of
said complaint. The person, partnership, or corporation
so complained of shall have the right to appear at the place
and time so fixed and show cause why an order should not
be entered by the commission requiring such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist from the vioIf
lation of the law so charged in said complaint ....
upon' such hearing the commission shall be of the opinion
that the method of competition in question is-prohibited

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

by this Act, it shall make a report in writing in which it
shall state its findings as to the facts, and shall issue and
cause to be served on such person, partnership, or corporation an order requiring such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist from using such method of
competition."
Section 5 further provides that the commission may
apply to the designated Circuit Court of Appeals to
enforce an order, "And shall certify and file with its
application a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, including all the testimony taken and the report
and order of the commission. Upon such filing of the
application land transcript the court shall cause notice
thereof to be served upon such person, partnership, or
corporation and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the
proceeding and of the question determined therein, and
shall have power to make and enter upon the pleadings,
testimony, and proceedings set forth in such transcript a decree affirming, modifying, or setting aside the order of the
commission. The findings of the commission as to the facts,
if supported by testimony, shall be conclusive. . . . The
judgment and decree of the court shall be final, except that
the same shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court
upon certiorari as provided in section two hundred and
forty of the Judicial Code. Any party required by such
order of the commission to ceasd and desist from using
such method of competition may obtain a review of such
order in said circuit court of appeals by filing in the court
a written petition praying that the order of the commission
be set aside. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith
served upon the commission, and thereupon the commission forthwith shall certify and file in the court a transcript
of the record as hereinbefore provided. Upon the filing of
the transcript the court shall have the same jurisdiction
to affirm, set aside, or modify.the order of the commission
as in the case of an application by.the commission for the

424'

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

enforcement of its order, and the findings of the commission as to the facts,. if supported by testimony, shall in like
manner ,be conclusive."
Sections 6 and 7 empower the commission to require ,
reports-and compile information concerning corporations,:.
to inquire concerning execution of decrees restraining
violations of the anti-trust acts; to investigate aillheged
violations- of such acts; to recommend readjustments of
corporate business; to publish information and make
reports to Congress; to classify corporations and make
rules and regulations; to investigate trade conditions; to
act, under orders of the court, as a master in chancery in
certain designated circumstances, etc.
Undertaking to proceed under § 5, June 4, 1917, the
commission issued a complaint containing two counts
against respondents. The first related to unfair methods
of competition, and the second charged violation of § 3 of
the Clayton. Act, approved October 15, 1914,, c., 323, 38
Stat. 730. Respondents denied both charges. After
taking much testimony the commission held there was no
evidence to support the second count; but it ruled that
respondents had practiced unfair competition and ordered
that they," their. officers and agents, cease and desist from
requiring purchasers of cotton ties to also buy or agree to
buy, a proportionate amount of American Manufacturing
Company's bagging-and further that the respondents cease
and desist from refusing to sell cotton ties unless the purchasers buy or agree to buy from them corresponding
amounts of American Manufacturing Company's bagging,
or any amount of cotton bagging of any kind."
Upon respondents' petition the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Second Circuit, annulled the commission's order.
258 Fed. Rep. 314. It said, "We think there is no evidence to support any general practice of the respondents to
refuse to sell ties unless the purchaser bought at the same
time the necessary amount of the American Manufac-

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

turing Company's bagging, and that the commission has
n o jurisdiction to determine the merits of specific individual grievances."
The challenged order is based solely upon the first
count of the complaint which follows:
"Federal Trade Commission
"Anderson Gratz and Benjamin Gratz, co-partners, doing
business under the firm name and style of Warren,
Jones & Gratz; P. P. Williams, W. H. Fitzhugh and
Alex. Fitzhugh, co-partners, doing business under the
firm name and style of P. P. Williams & Co., and
Charles 0. Elmer.
"The Federal Trade Commission having reason to
believe, from a preliminary investigation made by it that
Anderson Gratz and Benjamin Gratz, co-partners,'doing
business under the firm name and style of Warren, Jones
& Gratz; P. P. Williams, W. H. Fitzhugh and Alex. Fitzhugh, co-partners, doing business under the firm name and
style of P. P. Williams & Co., and Charles 0. Elmer, all of
whom are hereinafter referred to as respondents, have
been, and are, using unfair methods of competition in
interstate commerce in violation of the provisions of
section 5 of the act of Congress approved September 26,
1914, entitled 'An act to create a Federal Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other purposes,' and it appearing that a proceeding by it in respect
thereof would be to the interest of the public, issues this
complaint, stating its charges in that respect, on information and belief, as follows:
"I.

"Paragraph one: That the respondents, Anderson
Gratz and Benjamin Gratz, are co-partners, doing business under the firm name and style of Warren, Jones &
Gratz, having their principal office and place of business

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

in the city of St. Louis and StatV of Missouri, and are
engaged in the business of selling, in interstate commerce,
either directly to the trade, or through the respondents
hereinafter named, steel ties made and used for binding
bales of cotton, and which steel ties are manufactured by
the Carnegie Steel Company of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania,
and also-selling, in the same manner, jute bagging, used to
wrap bales of cotton, and which jute bagging is manufactured by the American Manufacturing Company, of St.
Louis, Missouri.
"Paragraph two: That the respondents, P. P. Williams,
W. H. Fitzhugh and Alex. Fitzhugh, are co-partners, doing
business under the firm name and style of P. P. Williams
& Co., having their principal office and'place of business
in the city of Vicksburg and State of Mississippi, and the
said last,-named respondents. and the said respondentCharles 0. Elmer, who is located and doing business at the
city of New Orleans and State of Louisiana, are the
selling and distributing agents of the said firm of Warren,
Jones & Gratz, and sell and distribute the ties and bagging, manufactured as aforesaid, in interstate commerce,
principally to jobbers and dealers, who resell the same to
retailers, cotton ginners, and farmers.
"Paragraph three: That with the purpose, intent, and
effect. of discouraging and stifling competition in interstate
.commerce in the sale of such bagging, all of the respondents.do now refuse, and for more than a year last past have
refused to sell any of such ties unless the prospective
purchaser thereof would also buy from them bagging to be
used with the number of ties proposed to be bought; that
is to -say, for each six of such ties proposed to be bought
from the respondents the prospective purchaser is required to buy six yards of such bagging."
It is unnecessary now to discuss conflicting views concerning validity and meaning of the act creating the
commission amd effept of the evidence presented. The

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment below must be affirmed since, in our (pinion,
the first count of the complaint is wholly insufficient to
charge respondents with practicing "unfair methods of
competition in commerce"'within the fair intendment of
those words. We go no further and confine this opinion to
the point specified.
.When proceeding under § 5, it is essential, first,
that,
having reason to believe a person, partnership or corporation has used an unfair method of competition in commerce, the commission shall conclude a proceeding "in
respect thereof would be to the interest of the public;"
next, that it formulate and serve a complaint stating the
chaxges "in that respect" and give opportunity to the
accused to show why an order should not issue directing
him to "cease and desist from the violation of the law so
charged in said complaint." If after a hearing the commission shall deem "the method of competition in question is prohibited. by this Act," it shall issue an order
requiring the accused "to cease and desist from using such
method of competition."
If, when liberally construed, the complaint is plainly
insufficient to Show unfair competition within the proper
meaning of these words there is no foundation for an order
to desist-the thing which may be prohibited is the method
of competition specified in the complaint. Such an order
should follow the complaint; otherwise it is improvident
and, when challenged, will be annulled by the court.
The words "unfair method of competition" are not
defined by the statute and their exact meaning is ii dispute. It is for the courts, not the commission, ulthaately
to determine as matter of law what they include. They
are clearly inapplicable to- practices never heretofore
regarded as opposed to good morals because characterized
by deception, bad faith, fraud or oppression, or as against
public policy because of their dangerous tendency unduly
to hinder competition or create monopoly. The act was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

certainly not intended to fetter free and fair competition
as commonly understood and practiced by honorable
opponents in trade.
Count one alleges, in effect, that Warren, Jones &
Gratz are engaged in selling, either directly to the trade or
through their co-respondents, cotton ties produced by the
Carnegie Steel Company and also jute bagging manufactured by the American Manufacturing Company. That
P. P. Williams & Company of Vicksburg, and Charles 0.
Elmer of New Orleans, are the selling and distributing
agents of Warren, Jones & Gratz, and as such sell and
distribute their ties and bagging to jobbers and dealers
who resell them to retailers, ginners and farmers. That
with the purpose and effect of discouraging and stifling
competition in the sale of such bagging all the respondents
for more than a year have refused to sell any of such ties
unless the purchaser would buy from them a corresponding
amount of bagging-six yards with as many ties.
The complaint contains no intimation that Warren,
Jones & Gratz did not properly obtain their ties and bagging as merchants usually do; the amount controlled by
them is not stated; nor is it alleged that they held a monopoly of either ties or bagging or had ability, purpose or intent
to acquire one. So far as appears, acting independently,
they undertook to sell their lawfully acquired property in
the ordinary course, without deception, misrepresentation,
or oppression, and at fair prices, to purchasers willing to
take it upon terms openly announced.
Nothing is alleged which would justify the conclusion
that the public suffered injury or that competitors had
reasonable ground for complaint. All question of inonopoly or combination being out of the way, a private merchant, acting with entire good faith, may properly refuse
to sell except in conjunction, such closely associated articles as ties and bagging. If real competition is to continue,
the right of the individual to exercise reasonable discretion

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDzis and CL&IuiE, JJ., dissenting.

in respect of his own business methods must be preserved.
United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300; United States
v. A. Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85.
. The first count of the complaint fails to show any
unfair
method of competition practiced by respondents and the
order based thereon was improvident.
The judgment of the court below is

Avirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissenting, with whom MR.
JUSTICE CLARKE concurs.

First. The court disposes of the case on a question' of
pleading. This, under the circumstances, is contrary to
established practice. The circumstances are these:
The pleading held defective is not one in this suit. It is
the pleading by which was originated the proceeding before the Federal Trade Commission, an administrative
tiibunal, whose order this suit was brought to set aside.
No suggestion was made in the proceeding before the
Commission that the complaint was defective. No such
objection was raised in this suit in the court below. It was
not made here by counsel. The objection is taken now for
the first time and by the court.
This suit, begun in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, was brought to set aside an order of the
Federal Trade Commission. Before the latter the matter
involved was thoroughly tried on the merits. There was
a complaint and answers. Thirty-five witnesses were
examined and cross-examined. A report of proposed
findings as to facts was submitted by the Examiner and
exceptions were filed thereto. Then, the case was heard
before the Commission, which made a finding of facts,
stated its conclusions as to the law, and ultimately issued
the order in question. The proceedings occupied more

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEis

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

than sixteen months. The report of them fills four
hundred pages of the printed record. In my opinion it is
our duty to determine whether the facts found by the
Commission are sufficient in law to support the order; and,
also, if it is questioned, whether the evidence was sufficient
to support the findings of fact.
Second. If the sufficiency of the complaint is held to be
open for consideration here, we should, in my opinion,
hold it to be sufficient. The complaint was filed under
§ 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act which declares
unlawful "unfair methods of competition in commerce ";
empowers the Commission to prevent their use; and
directs it to issue and serve "a complaint stating its
charges in that respect" whenever it has reason to believe
that a concern "'has been or is using" such methods. The
function of the complaint is solely to advise the respondent
of the charges made so that he may have due notice and
full opportunity for a hearing thereon. It does not purport to set out the elements of a crime like an indictment
or information, nor the elements of a cause of action like a
declaration at law or a bill in equity. All that is requisite
in a complaint before the Commission is that, there be a
plain statement of the thing claimed to be wrong so that
the respondent may be put upon his defence. The practice
of the Federal Trade Commission in this respect, as in
many others, is modelled on that which has been pursued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission for a generation
and has been sanctioned by this as well as the lower federal
courts. United States Leather Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 21
I. C. C. 323, 324; Clinton Sugar Refining Co. v. C. & N.
W, Ry. Co., 28 I. C. C. 364, 367; Stuarts Draft Milling Co.
v. Southern Ry. Co., 31 I. C. C. 623, 624; New York
Central, etc., R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
168 Fed. Rep. 131, 138-139; Dickerson v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 187 Fed. Rep. 874, 878; Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANEIs and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

U. S. 197, 215; Cincinnati,Hamilton & Dayton Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 142, 149.
The complaint here under consideration stated clearly
that an unfair method of competition had been used by
respondents, and specified what it was, namely, refusing
to sell cotton ties unless the customer would purchase with
each six ties also six yards of bagging. The complaint did
not set out the circumstances which rendered this tying
of bagging to ties an unfair practice. But this was not
necessary. The complaint was similar in form to those
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission on complaints to enforce the prohibition of "unjust and unreasonable charges" or of 'undue or unreasonable preference or advantage" which the Act to Regulate Commerce
imposes. It is unnecessary to set forth why the rate
specified was unjust or why the preference specified is
undue or unreasonable, because these are matters not of
law but of fact to be established by the evidence. *Pennsylvania Company v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, 361. So far
as appears neither this nor any other court has ever held
that an order entered by the Interstate Commerce Commission may be set aside as void, because the complaint
by which the proceeding was initiated, failed to set forth
the reasons why the rate or the practice complained of was
unjust or unreasonable; and I cannot see why a different
rule should be applied to orders of the Federal Trade
Commission issued under § 5.1
1See Report Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, June 13,

1914, 63d Cong., 2d sess., No. 597, p. 13: "It is believed that the term
'unfair competition' has a legal significance which can be enforced by
the commission and the courts, and that it is no more difficult to
determine what is unfair competition than it is to determine what is a-

reasonable rate or what is an unjust discrimination. The committee
was of the opinion that it would be better to put in a general provision

condemning unfair competition than to attempt to define the numerous
unfair practices, such as local price cutting, interlocking directorates,
and holding companies intended to restrain substantial competition."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U.S.

In considering whether the complaint is sufficient, it is

necessary to bear in mind the nature of the proceeding
under review. The proceeding is not punitive. The complaint is not made with a view to subjecting the respondents to any form of punishment. It is not remedial. The
complaint is not filed with a view to affording compensation for any injury alleged to have resulted from the
matter charged, nor with a view to protecting individuals
from any such injury in the future. The proceeding is
strictly a preventive measure taken in the interest of the
general public. And what it is brought to prevent is not
the commission of acts of unfair competition, but the
pursuit of unfair methods. Furthermore, the order is not
self-executory. Standing alone it is only informative and
advisory. The Commission cannot enforce it. If not
acquiesced in by the respondents the Commission may
apply to the Circuit Court of Appeals to enforce it. But
the Commission need not take such action; and it did not
do so in respect to the order here in question. Respondents may, if they see fit, become the actors and ask to have
the order set aside. That is what was done in the case
at bar.
The proceeding is thus a novelty. It is a new device
in administrative machinery, introduced by Congress in
the year 1914, in the hope thereby of remedying conditions
in business which a great majority of the American people
regarded as menacing the general welfare, and which for
more than a generation they had vainly attempted to
remedy by the ordinary processes of law. It was believed that widespread and growing concentration in
industry and commerce restrained trade and that monopolies were acquiring increasing control of business. Legislation designed to arrest the movement and to secure
disintegration of existing combinations had been enacted
by some of the States as early as 1889. In 1890 Congress
passed the Sherman Law. It was followed by. much

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDEIS and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

legislation in the States I and many official investigations.
Between 1906 and 1913 reports were made by the Federal
Bureau of Corporations of its investigations into the
petroleum industry, the tobacco industry, the steel
industry and the farm implement industry. A special
committee of Congress investigated the affairs of the
United States Steel Corporation. And in 1911 this court
rendered its decision in Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1, and in United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S.106. The conviction became general in America,
that the legislation of the past had been largely ineffective.
There was general agreement that further legislation was
desirable. But there was a clear division of opinion as to
what its character should be. Many believed that concentration (called by its opponents monopoly) was inevitable and desirable; and these desired. that concentration should be recognized by law and be regulated. Others
believed that concentration was a source of evil; that
existing combinations could be disintegrated, if only the
judicial machinery were perfected; and that further
concentration could be averted by providing additional
remedies, and particularly through regulating competition.
The latter view prevailed in '-the Sixty-third Congress.
'See Laws on Trusts and Monopolies. Compiled under direction
of the Clerk of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 63d Cong., by
Nathan B. Williams. Revised January 10, 1914; also Trust Laws and
Unfair Competition (Federal) Bureau of Corporations, March 15, 1915.
2 See Report of Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, June 13,
1914, 63d Cong., 2d sess., No. 597, p. 10, reporting the bill:
"Some would found such- a Commission upon the theory that
monopolistic industry is the ultimate result of economic evolution and
that it should be so recognized and declared to be vested with a public
interest and as such. regulated by a commission. This contemplates
even the regulation of prices. Others hold that private monopoly is
intolerable, unscientific, and abnormal, but recognize that a commission is a necessary adjunct to the preservation of competition and to
the practical enforcement of the law.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIa

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

The Clayton Act (October 15, 1914, c. 323,'38 Stat. 730)
was framed largely with a view to making more effective
the remedies given by the Sherman Law. The Federal
Trade- Commission Act (September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38
Stat. 717) created an administrative tribunal, largely with
a view to regulating competition.
Many of the duties imposed upon the Trade Commission
had been theretofore performed by the Bureau of Corporations. That which was in essence new legislation was the
power conferred by § 5. The belief was widespread that
the great trusts had acquired their power, in the main,
through destroying or overreaching their weaker rivals by
resort to unfair practices. 1 As Standard Oil rebates led
2
to the creation of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
other unfair methods of competition, which the investigations of the trusts had laid bare, led to the creation of the
Federal Trade Commission. It was hoped that as the
former had substantially eliminated rebates-the latter
might put an end to all other unfair trade practices;and that it might prove possible thereby to preserve the
competitive system. It was a new experiment on old lines;
and the machinery employed was substantially similar.
In undertaking to regulate competition through the
Trade Commission Congress (besides resorting to administrative as distinguished from judicial machinery) departed in two important respects from the methods and
measures theretofore applied in dealing with trusts and
restraints of trade:
(1) Instead of attempting to inflict punishment for
having done prohibited acts, instead of enjoining the
"The commission which is proposed by your committee in the bill
submitted is founded upon the latter purpose and idea."
I See "Unfair Competition," by William S. Stevens, Pblitical Science
Quarterly (1914), p. 283; "TheMorals of Monopoly and Competition"
(1916), by H. B. Reed.
2 See Railway Problems, by William Z. Ripley (1907),,p. X.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

continuance of prohibited combinations and compelling
disintegration of those formed in violation of law, the
act undertook to preserve competition through supervisory action of the Commission. The potency of accomplished facts had already been demonstrated. The
task of the Commission was to protect competitive business from further inroads by monopoly. It was to be
ever vigilant. If it discovered that any business concern
had used any practice which would be likely to result in
public injury-because in its nature it would tend to aid
or develop into a restraint of trade--the Commission was
directed to intervene, before any act should be done or
condition arise violative of the Anti-Trust Act. And it
should do this by filing a complaint with a view to, a
thorough investigation; and, if need be, the issue of an
order. Its action was to be prophylactic. Its purpose
in respect to restraints of trade was prevention of diseased
business conditions, not cure.'
,Senator Cummins, chairman of the committee which reported the
bill, said (Cong. Rec., vol. 51,. p 11455):
"Unfair competition must usually proceed to great lengths and be
destructive of competition before it can be seized and denounced by the
anti-trust law. In other cases it must be associated with, coupled with,
other vicious and unlawful practices in order to bring the person or the
corporation guilty of the practice within the scope of the anti-trust
law. The purpose of this bill in this section and in other sections which
I hope will be added to it, is to seize the offender before his ravages have
gone to the length necessary in order to bring him within the law that
we already have.
"We knew little of these things in 1890. The commerce of the
United States has largely developed a the last twenty-five years. The
modern methods of carrying on business have been discovered and put
into operation in the last quarter of a century; and as we have gone on
under the anti-trust law and under the decisions of the court in their
effort to enforce that law, we have observed certain forms of industrial
activity which ought to be prohibited whether in and of themselves
they restrain trade or commerce or not. We have discovered that their
tendency is evil; we have discovered that the end Nyhich is inevitably

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

(2) Instead of undertaking to define what practices
should be deemed unfair, as had been done in earlier legislation, the act left the determination to the Commission.'

Experience with existing laws had taught that definition,
being necessarily rigid, would prove embarrassing and,

if rigorously applied, might involve great hardship, Methods of competition which would be unfair in one industry,
under certain circumstances, might, when adopted in
another industry, or even in the same :industry under
2
different circumstances, be entirely unobjectionable.
reached through these methods is an end which is destructive of fair
commerce between the states. It is these considerations which, in my
judgment, have made it wise, if not necessary to supplement the antitrust law by additional legislation, not- in antagonism to the antitrust law, but in harmony with the anti-trust law, to more effectively
put into the industrial life of America the principle of the anti-trust
law, which is fair, reasonable competition, independence to the individual, and disassociation among the corporations. . ."
See Report Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, June 13,
1914, 63d Cong., 2d sess., No. 5971 p. 13: "The committee gave careful
consideration to the question as to whether it would attempt to define
the many and variable unfair practices which preyail in commerce-and
to forbid their continuance or whether it would, by a general declaration condemning unfair practices, leave it to the commission to determine-what practices were unfair. It concluded that the latter course
would be the better... .. ".Seealso "Unfair Competition," by
W. H. S. Stevens (University of Chicago Press, 1916), pp. 1, 2. For
laws prohibiting specific acts of unfair competition, see "Trust Laws
and Unfair Competition," (Federal) Bureau of Corporations (March 15,
1915), pp. 184,_199.
2 Report of (Federal) Bureau of Corporations'on the International
Harvester Co., March 3, 1913, p. 30: "In discussing the competitive
methods of the company it should be recognized that some practices
which might be regarded with indifference if there were a number of
competitors of substantially equal size and power may become objectionable when one competitor far outranks not only its nearest rival,
but practically all rivals combined, as is true of the International Harvester Co., so far as several of its most important lines are concerned."
The Australian Industries Preservation Act, 1908-1910, expressly

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDEIS

and

CLRKE,

JJ., dissenting.

Furthermore, an enumeration, however comprehensive,
of existing methods of unfait competition must necessarily
soon prove incomplete, as with new conditions constantly
arisifig novel unfair methods would be devised and deyeloped. In leaving to the Commission the determination
of the question whether the method of competition pursued'in a particular case was unfair, Congress followed the
precedent which it had set a quarter of a century earlier,
when by the Act to Regulate Commerce it conferred upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission power to determine
whether a preference or advantage given to a shipper or
locality fell within the prohibition of an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage. 1 See Pennsylvania
Co. v. United States, supra, p. 361; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. InterstateCommerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 219, 220.
Recognizing that the question whether a method of competitive practice was unfair would ordinarily depend upon
special .facts, Congress imposeci upon. the Commission
the duty of flndin:g the facts;.and it declared that findings
of fact so made (if duly, supported by evidence) were to
be taken as final. The question whether the method of
competition pursued could, on those facts, reasonably be
held by the C mmission to constitute an unfair method
of competitioL,\being a question of law, was necessarily
left open to/re iew by the court. Compare Interstate
Commerce Com i sion v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42;
Interstate Comme ce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
R. Co., 145 U. S. 263.
Third. Such a question of law is presented to us for
decision; and it is this: Can the refusal by a manufacturer
to sell his product to a jobber or retailer except upon
condition that the purchaser will buy from him also his
declares that "unfair competition means competition which is unfair
in the circumstances." "Trust Laws and Unfair Competition,"
(Federal) Bureau of Corporations (March 15, 1915), pp. 552, 747.
1See note 1, ante, 431.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

trade requirements in another article or articles, reasonably be found by the Commission to be an unfair method
of competition under the circumstances set forth in the
findings of fact? If we were called upon to consider the
sufficiency of the complaint, and that merely, the question
for our decision would be, whether the particular practice
could, under any circumstances, reasonably be deemed
an unfair method of competition. But as this suit to set
aside the order of the Commission brings before us its
findings of fact, we must determine whether these are
sufficient to support their conclusion of law that the
practice constituted "under the circumstances therein set
forth, unfair methods of competition in interstate commerce, against other manufacturers, dealers and distributors . .
in the material known as sugar bag cloth, and
against manufacturers, dealers and distributors of the bagging known as rewoven bagging and second hand bagging,
in violation of " the statute.
It is obvious that the imposition of such a condition
is not necessarily and universally an unfair method; but
thaft it may be such under some circumstances seems
equally clear. Under the usual conditions of competitive
trade the practice might be wholly unobjectionable.
But the history of combinations has shown that what
one may do with impunity, may have intolerable results
when done by several in co6peration. Similarly, what
approximately equal individual traders may do in honorable rivalry, may result in grave injustice and public injury, if done by a great corporation in a particular field
of business which it is able to dominate. In other words,
a method of competition fair among equals may be very
unfair if applied where there is inequality of resources.1
Without providing for those cases wbere ti., method of
competition here involved would be unobjectionable,
i See "The Morals of Monopoly and Competition," by H. B. Reed
(1916), pp. 120-122.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDEIs and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

Massachusetts legislated against the practice, as early as
1901, by a statute (c. 478) of general application. Its
highest court, in applying the law which it held to be
constitutional, described the prohibited method as "unfair competition." Commonwealth y. Strauss, 188 Massachusetts, 229; 191 Massachusetts, 545. Compare People
v. Duke, 44 N. Y. S. 336. The (Federal) Bureau of Corporations held the practice, which it described as" full-line
forcing", to be highly reprehensible.' Congress, by § 3
of the Clayton Act, specifically prohibited the practice
in a limited field under certain circumstances. An injunction against the practice has been included in several
decrees in favor of the Government entered in cases
under the Sherman Law. 2 In the decree by which the
American Tobacco Company was disintegrated pursuant
to the mandate of this court, each of the fourteen companies was enjoined from "refusing to sell to any jobber
any brand of any tobacco product manufactured by it,
except upon condition that such jobber shall purchase
from the vendor some other brand or product also manufactured and sold by it.
. . " United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 191 Fed. Rep. 371, 429. The practice here.
in question is merely one form of the so-called "tying
clauses" or "conditional requirements" which have been
declared in a discerning study of the whole subject to be
"perhaps the most interesting of any of the methods of
-unfair competition." a
The following facts found by the Commission, and
which the Circuit Court of Appeals held were supported
by sufficient evidence, show that the conditions in the
I Report of the (Federal) Bureau of Corporations on the International Harvester Company (March 3, 1913), p. 308.
2 See "Unfair Methods of Competition and their Prevention," by
W. H. S. Stevens, Annals, American Academy of Political and Social
Science (1916), pp. 42, 43. "Trust Laws and Unfair Competition"
(Federal) Bureau of Corporations (March 15, 1915), pp. 484-486, 493.

a "Unfair Competition," by W. H1.S. Stevens (1916), p. 54.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and CLAR.x,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

cotton tie and bagging trade were in 1918 such that the
Federal Trade Commission could reasonably find that
the tying clause here in question was an unfair method
of competition: Cotton, America's chief staple,. is marketedin bales. To bale cotton steel ties and jute bagging
are essential. The Carnegie Steel Company, a subsidiary
of the United States Steel Corporation, manufactures so
-'large a proportion of all such steel ties that it dominates
the cotton tie situation in the United States and is able
to fix and control the price of such ties throughout the
country. The American Manufacturing Company manufactures about 45 per cent.'of all bagging used, for cotton
baling; one other company about 20 per cent.; and the
remaining 35 per cent. is made up of second-hand bagging
and a material called sugar-bag cloth.- Warren, Jones
& Gratz, of St. Louis, are the Carnegie Company's sole
agents for selling and distributing steel ties. They are
also the American Manufacturing Company's sole agents
for selling and distributing jute bagging in the cottongrowing section west of the Mississippi. By virtue of
their selling agency for the Carnegie Company, Warren,
Jones & Gratz held a dominating and controlling position
in the sale and, distribution of cotton ties in the entire
cotton-growing section of the country, and thereby. were
in a position to force would-be purchasers of ties to also
buy from thenk bagging manufactured by the American
Manufacturing Company. A great many merchants,
jobbers and dealers in bagging and ties throughout the
cotton-growing States were many times unable to procure ties from any other firm than Warren, Jones & Gratz.
In many instances Warren, Jones & Gratz refused to sell
ties unless the purchaser would also buy from them a

corresponding amount of bagging, and such purchasers
were oftentimes compelled to buy from them bagging
manufactured by the.American Manufacturing Company
in order to procure a sufficient supply of steel ties.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. 'v. GRATZ.
421.

BRANDEIS

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

These are conditions closely resembliRg those under
which "full-line forcing," "exclusive-dealing requirements" or "shutting off materials, supplies or machines
from competitors "-well known methods of competition,
have been held to be unfair, when practiced by concerns
holding a preponderant position in the trade.1
Foizrth. The Circuit. Court of Appeals.set aside the
order of the Commission solely on the ground that it was
without authority to determine the merits of specific
individual grievances, and that the evidence did' not
support its finding that Warren, Jones & Gratz had
"Adopted and practiced the policy of refusing to sell steel
ties to those merchants and dealers who wished to buy
them from them unless such merchants and dealers would
.also buy from them a corresponding amount of jute bagging." ,
The reason assigned by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
so holding was that the evidence failed to show that the
practice complained of (although acted on in individual
cases by respondents) had become their "general practice." But the power of the Trade Commission to
prohibit an unfair method of competition found to have
been used is not limited to cases where the practice had
become general. What § 5 declares unlawful is not unfair
competition. That had been unlawful before. What that
section made unlawful were "unfair methods of competition" ; that. is, the method or means by which an unfair
end might be accomplished. The Commission was directed to act, if it had reason to believe that an "unfair,
method of competition in commerce" has been or is being
used. The purpose of Congress was to prevent any unfair
method which may have been used by any concern in
competition from becoming its general practice. It was
only by stopping its use before it became a general prac1 See "Trust Laws and Unfair Competition,"

Corporations (March 15, 1915), pp. 319/-323, 328.

(Federal) Bureau of.

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

253 U. S.

tice, that the apprehended effect of an unfair method in
suppressing competition by destroying rivals could be
averted. As the Circuit Court of Appeals found that the
evidence was sufficient to support the facts set forth above,
and since on those facts the Commission could reasonably
hold that the method of competition in question was unfair
under the circumstances, it had power under the act to
issue the order complained of.
In my opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed.

NADEAU ET AL. v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 119. Argued January 9, 12, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.
The fact that tracts of land forming parts of the reservation set apart
for the Pottawatomie Indians by the Treaty of 1846, 9 Stat. 853,
became subject to be allotted to individual members of the tribe,
under the Treaty of 1861, 12 Stat. 245, in virtue of occupation and
improvements by such members, did not divest the United States
of the fee to such tracts or prevent the granting of a railroad right
of way across them by act of Congress. P. 446.
Such lands remained "public lands" within the meaning of the Act
of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, granting to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company a right of way 200 feet in width on each side
of said railroad where it may pass over the public lands. P. 444.
Kindred v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 582.
Upon the identification of the railroad route, the right of way grant
took effect as of the date of the granting act, and was unaffected by
intervening allotments under the last named treaty Qr by the patents
issued subsequently thereunder for the lands so allotted. P. 445-446.

