454

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

United States of photo-copying machines of a type known

as "Photostat," manufactured and sold under warrant of
Letters Patent issued to J. S. Green, No. 1,001,019,
would not have constituted an infringement of appellant's
patent had it proved to be valid. However, for its bearing
on future possible controversy, we add that the constructi6ii and relation of the two appliances, designed to produce the same result or product, have been fully considered
and that we agree with the conclusion of the Court of
Claims.
Affirmed.

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE, AS COMMISSIONER
OF IMMIGRATION AT THE PORT OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH cIRcuT.
No. 313.

Argued April 30, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.

Upon- a demurrer to a petition for habeas corpus alleging unlawful
detention under the Chinese Exclusion Laws, the testimony and
other papers pertaining to the proceedings of the immigration
authorities, when added, by reference, to the petition and filed with
it and with the respondent's return, are to be considered in interpreting the allegatiorts of the petition; -P. 457.
An adverse decision of the Secretary of Labor upon the identity of a
Chinese person, claiming to be an American citizen by birth and as
such entitled to reenter the United States,.is not conclusive upon the
courts if the proceedings were manifestly unfair and if it clearly
appear that a fair investigation of his rights was thereby prevented.
P. 457 et seq.
In such cases, the essentials ofithe evidence produced before the examinig inspector by the person seeking to rednter must be preserved in
the record of the proceedings, no less for the information of the Commissioner of Immigration and the Secretary of Labor in exercising

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE.
454..

Opinion of the Court.

their authority than for the information of the courts in determining
whether that authority has been abused. P. 464.

255 Fed. Rep. 323, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Dion R. Holm was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart and Mr. H. S.
Ridgely, f9r respondent, submitted.
MR.JusTIcE CLARKE delivered the-opinion of the court.
In January, 1915, Kwock Jan Fat, the petitioner, intending to leave the United States on a temporary visit
to China, filed with the Commissioner of Immigration
for the Port of San Francisco an application, as provided
for by law, for a "preinvestigation of his claimed status
as an American citizen by birth."
He claimed that he was eighteen years of age, was
born at Monterey, California, was the son of Ah Tuck
Lee, then deceased, who was born in America of Chinese
parents and had resided at Monterey for many years;
that his mother at the time was living at Monterey; and
that there were five children in the family-three girls
and two boys.
The Department of Immigration made an elaborate
investigation of the case presented by this application,
taking the testimony of the petitioner, of his mother, of
his brother and one sister and of three white men, of whom
the inspector said in his report: "The three white witnesses are representative men of this town and would
have no motive in mis-stating the facts." As a result of
this inquiry, the original of his application, approved,
signed and sealed by the Commissioner of Immigration
at San Francisco,, was delivered to the petitioner, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

with this evidence in his possession, which he was amply
justified in believing would secure his readmission into
the United States when he returned, he went to China.
The record shows that during his absence anonymous
information reached the San Francisco Immigration
Office (in which there had been a change of officials) to
the effect that petitioner's name was not Kwock Jan Fat,
as claimed, but was Lew Suey Chong, and that he had
entered the United States in 1909 as the minor son of
a merchant, Lew Wing Tong, of Oakland, California.
Thereupon an investigation was conducted, chiefly by
the comparison of photographs, for the purpose of determining the truthfulness of this anonymous suggestion,
with the result that when the petitioner returned to San
Francisco he, was not allowed to land, and a few days
thereafter was definitely denied entry to the country'by
the Commissioner of Immigration. Thereafter, this decision of the Commissioner was re-considered, the case
re-opened and testimony for and kgainst the petitioner
was taken, but the Commissioner adhered to his denial
of admission. The only reason given for the decision was
"the claimed American citizenship is not established to
my satisfaction."
Thereupon an appeal was taken to the Secretary of
Labor, who approved the order appealed from.
Promptly thereafter the petition for a writ of habeas
corpus in this case was filed, which is based chiefly upon
two claims, viz:
(1) That the examining inspector reported to the Commissioner of Immigration as evidence, statements purporting to have been obtained from witnesses under
promise that their names would not be disclosed, aid
that when demand was made for the names of such witnesses for purpose of reply, it was refused, with th result
that petitioner did not have a fair hearing.
(2) That the examining inspector did not record an

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE.
454.

Opinion of the Court.

important part of the testimony of three white witnesses
called by petitioner, with the result that it was not before
the Commissioner of Immigration or the Secretary of
Labor when they decided adversely to him, and thereby
he was arbitrarily denied a fair hearing.
A general demurrer to this petition was sustained by
the District Court and on appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals that judgment was affirmed. The case is here,
on writ of certiorari.
With the petition were filed all of the testimony and
papers pertaining to the proceedings prior to the appeal
to the Secretary of Labor, and since it is prayed that when
the copy of the proceedings thereafter had shall become
available they may. be made a part of the petition, it was
proper for the courts: below and is proper for this court
to interpret the allegations of the petition, giving due
effect to the immigration records filed with the petition
and with respondent's return. Low Wah Suey v. Backus.
225 U. S. 460, 469, 472.
It is not disputed that if petitioner is the son of Kwock
Tuck Lee and his wife, Tom Ying Shee, he was born to
them when they were permanently domiciled in the United
States, is a citizen thereof, and is entitled to admission
to the country. United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S.
649. But while it is conceded that he is certainly the
same person who, upon full investigation was found, in
March, 1915, by the then Commissioner of Immigration,
to be a natural born American citizen, the claim is that
that Commissioner was deceived and that petitioner is
really Lew Suey Chong, who was admitted to this country
in 1909, as a son of a Chinese merchant, Lew Wing Tong,
of Oakland, California.
It is fully settled that the decision by the Secretary of
Labor, of such a question as we have here, is final, and conclusive upon the courts, unless it be shown that the proceedings were "manifestly unfair," were "sucl as to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

vent a fair investigation," or show "manifest abuse" of
the discretion committed to the executive officers by the
statute, Low Wah Suey v. Backus, supra, or that "their
authority was not fairly exercised, that is, consistently.
with the fundamental principles of justice embraced
within the conception of due process of law. " Tang
Tun v. Edsell, 223 U. S. 673, 681, 682. The decision
mugt be after a hearing in good faith, however summary,
Chin :Yw v. United States,, 208 U. S. 8, 12, and it must
find adequate support in the evidence. Zakonaite v.
Wolf, 226 U. S. 272, 274.
As to the first ground of complaint in the petition for
habeas corpus:
After the final decision by the Commissioner of Immigration -adverse to petitioner, his counsel requested an
opportunity to examine the record on which it was rendered. This request was granted, and promptly, thereafter, demand was made for permission to see the testimony referred. to, but not reported, in a designated
report of Inspector Wilkinson. Assistant Commissioner
Boyce answered this request saying:
"That portion of Inspector Wilkinson's report which
was withheld from you, contained no evidence whatsoever and nothing which was material to the issue in this
case. As a matter of fact this inspector's report in no
way influenced my decision, and was useful only in locating other material witnesses, whose testimony appears
of record."
This report appears in the record before us and is of a
remarkable character. It is dated August 8th and after
saying that "only upon the assurance that the identity
of the witness would be kept secret" could the information contained in it be obtained, the writer proceeds, with
muph detail to narrate.what, if believed, would be evidence
of first importance making against the claim of petitioner.
The report continues, that after his first visit the inspector

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE.
454.

Opinion of the Court.

returned to Monterey and learned from his confidential
witness that in the interval he had inquired of "an old
Chinese resident" who said that "Tuck Lee had no son"
and adds "I was unable to ascertain the name of this
'Chinese person."
On the margin of this letter is written August 8, 1917,
"approved, Edward White" (the Immigration Commissioner).
In this manner, with much detail, statements of a
person who must remain unknown, and in part derived
from another person who must remain unknown, were
communicated by the investigating inspector to his superior, who was to dispose of the case on the evidence
which was furnished him, and he, in form at least, approved of this report. This approval is explained by the
Acting Commissioner as referring to the recommendation
contained in it that further investigation should be made,
and there is confirmation of this explanation in the fact
that the record shows that immediately thereafter evi'dence of the character suggested in the report was taken
in affidavits which were open to the inspection of the
petitioner. While we would not give the weight to these
affidavits which the Commissioner of Immigration and
the Secretary of Labor seem to have given to them, nevertheless, when taken with the statement of the Acting Commissifner that the inspector's report objected to was not
allowed to influence his decision, we might not say that
the taking and reporting of the testimony objected to of
witnesses whose names are not disclosed, rendered the
hearing so manifestly unfair as to require reveral,if there were nothing else objectionable in the record.
There remains the question whether the hearing accorded to the petitioner was unfair and inconsistent with
the fundamental principles of justice embraced within
the conception of due process of law because an inspector
failed to record ini its proper place an important part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the testimony of three white witnesses called by the
petitioner.
A discussion of*what the record shows and of the character of the witnesses involved will be necessary to an
appreciation of the importance, in determining the issue
presented, of having a full report of what was said and
done by these three witnesses.
When the petitioner, before going to China, applied for
a preinvestigation of his claimed status as an American
citizen, three white witnesses from Monterey were called
in his behalf,-two of whom were notable.
Ernest Michaelis, for twenty-six years a Justice of the
Peace and for many years the official collector of fish
licenses, testified, making reference, for purpose of identification, to a photograph of the petitioner. He said he had
known the parents of the boy since shortly after he himself went to live at Monterey in 1879; that there were two
boys and three girls in the family; that he had seen the
petitioner frequently as a little fellow when he went to
collect fish licenses (the boy's father was a fisherman); and
had known him ever since; and, referring to the photograph, he declared positively that he was sure of his identity and that he was born in Monterey. He added that
the father of the boy was native born and was a voter
in that community.
W. E. Parker testified that he had been agent for the
Wells Fargo Company at Monterey for twenty-five years,
and was also chief of the fire department and city clerk for
many years. He said, referring to a photograph of petitioner, that he had known the parents of the boy for many
years and the boy himself since he was five or six years
old; that he remembered two boys and at least one girl,
but later he stated that he recalled that there were three
girls in the family, and his identification of the petitioner
by photograph was very definite. He stated that the
father of the boy was a fisherman and shipped fish fre-

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE.
454.

461

Opinion of the Court.

quently by express so that he came to know him well and
his wife also because she often transacted business for her
husband. He recalled that after the fire and earthquake
the petitioner was, sent to school at San Francisco, but
returned to Monterey every few months when he saw him.
A third witness, Manuel Ortins, a retired business man,
gave similar testimony, but it is not so definite and circumstantial as that of the others and need not be detailed.
The Government Inspector, to whom the case in this
preliminary stage was referred, wrote the Commissioner
of Immigration at San Francisco that the testimony of
petitioner, of his alleged brother, his mother and three
credible white witnesses had been taken; that the petitionergave his testimony mostly in English, presented a
good appearance, and "tells his story in. a straightforward manner in a way to convince one that he is telling
the truth," and that "the three white witnesses are
representative men of this,town and would have no motive
in mis-stating the facts." He concluded with the statement that in his mind there was no doubt that the Chinaman named Kwock Tuck Lee (claimed by applicant to be
his father) had lived in Pacific Grove (the Chinatown of
Monterey), and was a registered voter there; that he was
married and had several children and that the testimony
seemed to prove that the petitioner was a member of his
family. He added that a sister of the boy lived at a given
number in Chicago and suggested that her testimony
should be taken. This sister's testimony was taken, as
recommended, and then the inspector reported to the
Commissioner of Immigration that her testimony did not
vary in the main from that of the mother or brother of the
petitioner; that "the white witnesses, Judge Michaelis,
and chief of the fire department and Wells Fargo agent,
and retired grocer, Mr. Ortins, are men of standing in this
town" and that he had no reason to doubt their testimony.
He added, that, taking the testimony as a whole "he

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

believed the applicant made a good showing and recommended favorable action." On this record the application
was approved and' the young man went to China.
When the petitioner returned from China',and the
investigation was renewed Michaelis, Ortins and another
important white witness, Pugh, were exam.ined at San
Francisco by an inspector. Michaelis and Ortins testified
substantially as they had done a year before, and Pugh,
also a business man of Monterey, gave similar testimony
and definitely identified the petitioner as the son of Kwock
Tuck Lee. The examination of these witnesses, by
question and answer, was taken down and is in the record,
but no reference whatever was made to the fact that the
petitioner was brought into their presence to test their
recognition of him and his recognition of them, or of any
examination in his presence. The testimony was in this
form when it was sent to the Commissioner of Immigration for his consideration and decision, and, acting upon
it, on September 6, 1917, he denied the -petitioner admission tolthe country. After this decision, on September
12th, counsel for petitioner wrote the Commissioner that
Michaelis, Pugh and Ortins had told him that when they
were examined at San Francisco they were confronted
with the petitioner and that they recognized him,. that he
recognized them, and that the examining inspector was
present and asked a number of questions, which were
answered; and calls this to the attention of the Commissioner "as *t may have been an oversight on the part of the
official stenographer in not recording everything said and
done at the hearing of the case." On the same date affidavits by Michaelis, Pugh and Ortins were filed, in each
of which, after referring to his examination at San Francisco, the affiant says in substance, as Michaelis does in
form, that "after being questioned by the inspector the
affiant was confronted with Kwock Jan Fat who met him
while the inspector was present and that said inspector

KWOCK JAN FAT v. WHITE.
454.

Opinion of the Court.

heard everything said between affiant and Kwock Jan
Fat;" and that affiant then told the inspector that the
petitioner was the son of Tuck Lee, that he had known
him from infancy, and that he was a native of Monterey.
To this letter of counsel for petitioner an Acting Commissioner replied, saying:
"With regard to the identification of the applicant by
Messrs. Michablis, Pugh and Ortins, you are advised that
these witnesses were confronted with the applicant with
,the result that said witnesses mutually recognized and
identified the applicant as the person whom they had
known as Kwock Jan Fat, and the applicant was equally
prompt in recognizing. said witnesses. While I was
advised of this incident and gave it full consideration in
arriving at my decision, it was not made of record in
connection with the statements taken from the witnesses.
A copy of this letter will be placed with the record as
evidence to the fact that there was mutual recognition
between said witnesses and the applicant which will thus
be available for the. consideration of the Secretary on
appeal,."
This excerpt from the letter of an Acting Commissioner
(the decision was rendered by the Commissioner personally) is the only form in which the facts and circumstances
of the recognition of the petitioner by these important
witnesses and their examination in his presence by the
inspector was placed before the Secretary, of Labor, and
apparently there was no record whatever of either before
the Commissioner of Immigration when he decided the'
case.
Comment cannot add to the impression which this plain
statement of facts should make upon every candid mind.
Here was testinony being taken which was to become the
basis for decision by men who must depend wholly upon
the report of what was said and done by the witnesses.
The men examined were important, .intelligent and very

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

certainly as dependable as any who were called. All they
had said with respect to the identity and nativity of the
petitioner when his photograph was exhibited to them was
carefully reported, but when their knowledge of him and
their acquaintance with him was put to the final test of
having him brought before them (he had then been in
China for a year), nothing whatever was recorded of what
they said and did. Very certainly this mfist be regarded
as such an important part of the testimony of these most
important witnesses that it may well have been of such
character as to prove sufficient to determine the result in
a case even much stronger against a claim of United
States citizenship than was made in this record against
the claim of petitioner, and a report which suppressed or
omitted it was not a fair report and a hearing based upon
it was not a fair hearing within the definition of the cases
cited.
The acts of Congress give great power to the Secretary
of Labor over Chinese immigrants and persons of Chinese
descent. It is a power to be administered, not arbitrarily
and secretly, but fairly and openly, under the restraints of
the tradition and principles of free government applicable
where the fundamental rights of men are involved, regardless of their origin or race. It is the province of the courts,
in proceedings for review, within the limits amply defined
in the cases cited, to prevent abuse of this extraordinary
power, and this is possible only when a full record is
preserved of the essentials on which the executive officers
proceed to judgment. For failure to preserve such a
record for the information, not less of the Commisioner
of Immigration and of the Secretary of Labor than of
the courts, the judgment in this case must be reversed. It
is better that many Chinese immigrants should be improperly admitted than that one natural born citizen of the
United States should be permanently excluded from his
country.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
454.

Orders.

The practice indicated in Chin Yow v. United States,
208 U. S. 8, is approved and adopted, the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to the District Court for trial of the merits.
Judgment reversed.
Writ of habeas corpus to issue.

STATEOF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS,
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.
No. 27, Original.-Orders entered June 7, 1920.

Order Instructing Receiver.
consideration of the First Report of Frederick A.
Delano, Receiver, in the above-entitled cause and of the
supplemental report of June 3, 1920, and the various
suggestions; of the United States, intervener, and of the
State of Texas, and of the several motions, applications,
exceptions, and suggestions heretofore filed by parties
claiming an interest in the subject-matter of this suit, it is
this seventh day of June, A. D. 1920, adjudged and ordered
that the action of said Receiver in taking possession of and
operating under his own management and control the
property described in the order of this court of April 1,
1920 [252 U. S.3721, until the further order of this court,
including the oil and gas wells 'and plants, toll bridges,
water plants, tank wagons, pipe lines, storage tanks, and
other property located thereon and therein; the arrangements made by said Receiver for guarding and policing
said property; the office and field organization created by
UPON

