OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus

253 U. S.

EX PARTE PETERSON, AS RECEIVER OF THE
INTERSTATE COAL COMPANY, INC., PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS

AND/OR WRIT

OF PROHIBITION.

No. 28, Original.

Argued March 15, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

The question whether an order of the District Court appointing an
auditor in a law case will operate to deprive a party of the right of
trial by jury, may be determined by this court on application for a
mandamus and prohibition. P. 305.
In an action at law for goods sold and delivered, involving a counterclaim and many items of cross account between the parties, it is
within the power of the District Court, when necessary to a proper
consideration of the case by court and jury, to appoint, without
consent of parties, an auditor to examine books and papers, make
computations, and hear testimony, and whose report shall separate
the disputed from the undisputed items, express an opinion on
those in dispute and, while leaving the parties as free to call, examine and cross examine witnesses as if it had not been made, shall
function as prima face evidence of the facts found and conclusions reached, unless rejected by the court. P. 306.
While, prior to the adoption of the Constitution, auditors, so empowered, were not appointed either in England or in any of the
Colonies in connection with trial by jury, their employment does not
violate the Seventh Amendment, since it works no obstruction of
the right of trial by jury, and the Amendment does not require that
old form-s of practice and procedure be retained. P. 307.
An order of court, like a statute, is not unconstitutional because it
endows an official act or finding with a presumption of regularity or
of verity. P. 311.
The auditor is an officer of the court which appoints him; the
proceedings, before him are subject to its supervision, and the
report may be used only if, and so far as, acceptable to the court.
P. 312.
In the absence of any controlling act of Congress, the power to make

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Argument for Petitioner.

a compulsory reference to simplify and clarify the issues and make
tentative, findings is possessed by the District Court inherently,
at law as, in equity. P. 312.
In the absence of any state or federal statute, or rule of court, excluding
them, the fees of an auditor in a case at law and the expense of his
stenographer, are taxable as costs. P. 314.
But such costs cannot be taxed in whole or in part against the prevailing party, the rule of the federal courts at law being that that party
is entitled to the entire costs in the trial- court and that the court is
without power to apportion them. P. 317.
Error in apportioning costs held not to require remedy by mandamus
or prohibition, a suitable remedy being available by application to
the District Court or, after inal judgment, by writ of error from the
Court of Appeals. P. 319.
Rule discharged; petition denied.
THE case

is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Abram J. Rose, with whom Mr. Anthony L. Williams
was on the brief, for petitioner:
The order appointing the auditor is in direct conflict
with the Seventh Amendment and the acts of Congress
regulating trials of actions at law in the federal courts and
altogether without power and void. In accordance with
that Amendment, Congress has prescribed how. trials in
actions at law in the federal courts shall be had. Rev.
Stats., §§ 648, 649, 700, 861, 863, 866. These sections
constitute within tlemselves a perfect and complete
system governing the federal courts- in the trial of civil
causes. Hodges v. Easton, 106 U. S. 408; Baylis v.
Trave'ers' Insurance Co., 113 U. S. 316; Capital Traction
Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1.
The hearing ordered is neither a trial by the court, nor
by a referee, nor by an arbitrator, nor any other proceeding contemplated by the Constitution and the acts of
Congress for the disposition of common-law cases. It
obviously is not a trial by jury. Capital Traction Co. v.
Hof, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

253 U. S.

Nor is it a determination by the court without the
intervention of a jury. Neither the parties nor their
attorneys of record have filed with the clerk a stipulation
in writing waiving a jury. On the contrary, the order was
granted against the objection and protest of the plaintiff.
Nor is it a hearing before the "auditor" as an arbitrator
or referee, as such a proceeding must derive its whole
efficacy from the consent of the parties.
Nor does it conform to the requirements of Rev. Stats.,
§ 861, that the mode of proof in trial of actions at common
law shall be by oral -testimony and examination of witnesses in open, court.
Nor is it a deposition de bene esse under Rev. Stats.,
§ 863, or a dedimus potestatem according to common usage
under § 866.
The proceeding, therefore, clearly is not one provided
for by the Constitution or by the acts of Congress for the
disposition of an action at law.
It is true the auditor is "not to finally determine any
of the issues in this action" ; but in order to accomplish
any purpose whatsoever the report of the auditor must
at least be regarded as evidence, 254 Fed. Rep. 625. But
as evidence it would be wholly incompetent, not being procured or based upon oral testimony and examination of Witnesses in open court and being neither a deposition de bene
esse nor a commission under a didimus potestatem. At
best it would be a record of the statements of. persons
before an officer unknown to the federal law, to whom no
statute gives the right to administer an oath, and for false
swearing before whom no punishment could be imposed,
to whose rulings on the evidence no exception could be
taken that could legally be reviewed, arid whose report
would be without force or effect as evidence or for any
other 'purpose.
It is claimed that in the federal courts where a jury
trial is a constitutional right in an action at law, an

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

auditor's report can be used as an aid to the court and
jury as a method of sinplifying the issues. In the present
case, there are no issues which need to be simplified for a
proper hearing and determination before the court and
jury, or at least none which could not be simplified by a'
bill of particulars as well, if not better, than by a hearing
before the auditor. If, however, the fact were otherwise,
the order is wholly without power and altogether void.
Howe Machine Co. v. Edwards, 15 Blatchf. 402; Sulzer v.
Watson, 39 Fed. Rep. 414;, Swift & Co. v. Jones, 145 Fed.
Rep. 489; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713.
The cases cited in support of the order by the court
below are either distinguishable on their facts or in direct
conflict with the Constitution and acts of Congress
referred to. Distinguishing: Davis v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry.
Co., 25 Fed. Rep. 786; Fenno v. Primrose, 119 Fed. Rep.
801; Corporation of St. Anthony v. Houlihan, 184 Fed.
Rep. 252; Craven v. Clark, 186 Fed. Rep. 959; Vermeule v.
Reilly, 196 Fed. Rep. 226; United States v. Wells, 203 Fed.
Rep. 146.
A writ of mandamus or of prohibition is the proper
remedy. Ex parte Simons, 247 U. S. 231; McClellan v.
Carland, 217 U. S. 268; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313;
Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107; Ex partk Metropolitan
Water Co., 220 U. S. 539.
Mr. George Zabriskie 'for respondent.
MR. JusTici

BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus and /or prohi-.
bition brought by Walter Peterson, receiver of the Interstate Coal Company, against the Honorable Augustus N.
Hand, Judge of'athe District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York. The facts and the
specific relief sought are these:

304

) OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Peterson had brought an action at law in that court
against Arthur Sidney Davison to recover a balance of
$21,014.43, alleged to be due for coal sold and delivered as
shown by a long schedule annexed. The answer substantially admitted the items set forth in the schedule filed by
plaintiff, but denied that it presented a full account of the
transactions between the parties and alleged that there
were other deliveries of coal and other payments which the
defendant had made, and also that he was entitled to
additional allowances. It further alleged, by way of
counter claim, that the plaintiff was indebted to him for
failure to perform its contracts for coal in the sum of
$9,999.10. In response to a demand for a bill of particulars, defendant filed schedules containing more than two
hundred items which he proposed to establish by way of
defense.
Upon motion of defendant and against the objection of
plaintiff, Judge Hand appointed an auditor (254 Fed.
Rep. 625):
"With instructions to make a preliminary investigation
as to the facts; hear the witnesses; examine the accounts of
the parties, and make and file a report in the Office of the
Clerk of this Court with a view to simplifying the issues for
the jury; but not to finally determine any of the issues in
this action; the final determination of all issues of fact to
be made by the Jury on the trial; and the Auditor to have
power to compel the attendance of, and administer the
oaths to, witnesses; the expense of the Auditor, including
the expense of a stenographer, to be paid by either or both
parties to this action, in accordance with the determination of the Trial Judge."
The auditor was further ordered to report on certain
facts under ten classifications. The design of this was
largely to separate items in dispute from those as to which
there was no real dispute and, also, to set forth the detailed facts on which the specific claims made were rested;

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court..

but the auditor was also thereby required to express his
opinion on disputed issues, thus:
"6. The various penalties, commissions, cash discounts,
and other deductions which defendant claims to be entitled to deduct from the invoice price of the various shipments, the items thereof which are admitted by plaintiff
as proper deductions, and the items in dispute, with his
opinion as to each of such disputed items.
"7. His opinion as to the net amount due on each
invoice of coal sold and delivered to defendant."
Thereupon, application was made here for leave to file
this petition. It prays that Judge Hand and the auditor
named be prohibited from proceeding under the order
appointing him; and it prays also, that Judge Hand, or
such other judge who may at the time hold the trial term
of that court, be commanded to restore the case to the
trial calendar and that the same be tried in the regular
and usual way. Leave to file the petition was granted
January 12, 1920, and an order to show cause issued.
The petitioner insists that the District Court is without
power to make the order appointing the auditor and that
proceedings thereunder would violate the Seventh Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
First: Objection is made by respondent to the jurisdiction of this court. It is insisted that the District Court
had jurisdiction of the parties and of the cause of action;
that if the auditor should proceed to perform the duties
assigned to him and his report should be used at the trial
before the jury, the plaintiff could protect his rights by
exceptions which would be subject to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals; and that the writs prayed for may
not be used merely to correct errors. But if proceedings
pursuant to the appointment of an auditor would deprive
petitioner of his right to a trial by jury, the order should,
as was said in Ex parte Simons, 247 U. S. 231, 239, "be
dealt with now, before the plaintiff is put to the difficulties

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253-U. S.

and the Courts to the inconvenience that would be raised
by" a proceeding "that ultimately must be held to have
been required under a mistake." The objection to our
jurisdiction is 'unfounded. We proceed, therefore, to the
consideration of the merits of the petition.
Second: The question presented is one of power in
the District Court. If, under any circumstances, it could
appoint an auditor with the duties here prescribed without the consent of the parties, the facts clearly warranted
such action in this instance. The plaintiff sued for a
balance alleged to be due on an account annexed containing 298 items. The defendant set up another account
containing 402 items. Included in the latter, besides
certain charges against defendant for additional deliveries,
were over 30 cash items of credit not allowed for in the
plaintiff's account. These 402 items were alleged to arise
out of 123 different deliveries of cargoes (or partial cargoes)
of coal made on 91 different days during a period of eleven
months. The coal delivered was of various kinds and
the invoice prices for the same kind differed from time
to time. In respect to most of these deliveries, there were
claims for allowances by way of penalties, connissions
and cash discounts; and, as to -some, there were claims
for allowances on account of freight.
The District Court found that in order to render possible an intelligent consideration of the case by court and
jury it was necessary to appoint an auditor and confer
upon him two functions. The first was to segregate those
items upon which the parties agreed and to classify those
actually in controversy; and thus, having defined the
issues, to aid court and jury by directing their attention
to the matters in dispute. The second function of the
auditor was to form a judgment and express an opinion
upon such of the items as he found to be in dispute. In
order to perform these functions the auditor would be
required not merely to examine books, vouchers and

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

other papers and to make computations, but to hear and
pass upon conflicting testimony of the parties and of other
witnesses. This full hearing, while obviously necessary
to enable the auditor to form a trustworthy judgment
on the disputed items, would serve also to narrow the
field of controversy. For such a tentative trial acts as a
sifting process by which misunderstandings and misconceptions as to facts are frequently removed. In the
course of it many contentions or assumptions made by
one party or the other are abandoned. Agreement is thus
reached as to some of the facts out of which liability is
alleged to arise, even when the items to which they relate
remain in dispute. See Fairv. Manhattan Insurance Co.,
112 Massachusetts, 329.
The order expressly declared that the auditor should,
not "finally determine any of the issues in this action;
the final determination of all issues of fact to be made by
the jury on the trial;" but it did not provide affirmatively
what use should be made of the report at the trial. It may
be assumed that, if accepted by the court, the report
would be admitted at the trial before the jury as prima
facie evidence both of the evidentiary facts and of the
conclusions of fact therein set forth. The report being
evidence sufficient to satisfy the burden of proof (Wyman
v. Whicher, 179 Massachusetts, 276) would tend to dispense with the introduction at the trial before the jury
of evidence on any matter not actually in dispute. The
appointment of the auditor would thus serve to shorten
the jury trial, by reducing both the number of facts to
be established by evidence and the number of questions
in controversy. A more intelligent consideration of the
issues submitted to the jury for final determination would
result.
Third: Prior to the adoption of the Federal Constitution there did not exist in England, or so far as appears
in any of the colonies, any officer, permanent or temporary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

who, in connection with trials by jury, exercised the
powers of an auditor above described. An official called
"auditor" had long been known as part of the judicial
machinery in certain cases brought in the common-law
courts both of England and of the colonies; but the functions of the auditor in those cases were different. In the
common-law action of account auditors were appointed
in England, from the earliest times, to take the account,
after the interlocutory judgment quod computet had been
entered. But the parties were entitled to a jury trial
before the interlocutory judgment was rendered; and
further issues of fact arising before the auditor were not
passed upon by him, but were certified to the court for
trial by a jury.' The use of this form of action was limited
to cases where the defendant was under obligation to
account to the plaintiff as guardian, bailiff; or receiver
of his property.I In Maryland, by Act of 1785, c. 80,
§ 12, the power of the court to appoint auditors was extended to all cases in which it might be necessary to examine and determine accounts; but the jury trial was not
affected thereby, for the proceedings thereon were to be
"as in cases of account." 2 In Connecticut auditors were
appointed by the court in actions of "bOok debt"-and
the same practice was early introduced in Vermont and
other States; but in this action the report of the auditor,
if accepted by the court, is a substitute for the jury and
operates to determine the issues of fact.3 In New York
See Prof. Langdell, 2 Harvard Law Review, 241, 251-255; Holmes
v. Hunt, 122 Massachusetts, 505, 512.
2 See United States v. Rose, 2 Cranch C. C. 567; Barry v. Barry, 3
Cranch C. C. 120; Bank of United States v. Johnson, 3 Cranch C. C.
228. The report was not admitted before the jury as prima facie
evidence of the truth of the statements or conclusions of the auditor.
McCullough. v. Groff, 2 Mackey .(D. C.), 361, 366.
-1Sulzer v. Watson, 39 Fed. Rep. 414; Connecticut General Statutes,
§ 5752 (ed. of 1918); Act of Vermont, October 21, 1782, Slade's Ver-

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

309

Opinion of the Court.

actions on long accounts are determined now, as in colonial days, by referees instead of by a jury.1
The office of auditor with functions and powers like
those here in question was apparently invented in Massachusetts. It was introduced there by c. 142 of the Acts
of the Legislature of the year 1818; and as a part of the
judicial machinery it has received the fullest development in that State. No act of Congress has specifically
authorized the adoption of the practice in the federal
courts. We have therefore to decide, not only whether
such appointment of auditors is consistent with the constitutional right of trial by jury, but also whether it is a
power inherent in the District Court as a trial court.
Fourth: The command of the Seventh Amendment
that "the right of trial by jury shall be preserved" does
not require that old forms of practice and procedure be
retained. Walker v. New Mexico & Southern Pacific R. R.
Co., 165 U. S. 593, 596. Compare Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 101. It does not prohibit the introduction
of new methods for determining what facts are actually
in issue, nor does it prohibit the introduction of new rules
of evidence. Changes in these may be made. New demont State Papers, 456; Hall v. Armstrong, 65 Vermont, 421; Missouri, Wagner's Stat. 1041, § 18; Edwardson v. Garnhart, 56
Missouri 81
1Steck v. Colorado Fuel & Iron Co., 142 N. Y. 236. This fact has no
bearing on the constitutional question involved here. The right to a
jury trial guaranteed in the federal courts is that known to the law of
England, not the jury trial as modified by local usage or statute.
United States v. Wonson, 1 Gall. 5, 20; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174
U. S. 1, 8; see also United States v. Rathbone, 2 Paine, 578; Howe Machine Co. v. Edwards, 15 Blatchf. 402; Sulzer v. Watson, 39 Fed. Rep.
414; United States v. Wells, 203 Fed. Rep. 146, 149.
In Davis v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., 25 Fed. Rep. 786, a case involving a long account, a referee was appointed to report; apparently
to determine the facts in accordance with the practice prevailing in
Kansas where the court was sitting.

OC OBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

vices may be used to adapt the ancient institution to
present needs and to make of it an efficient instrument
in the administration of justice.1 Indeed, such changes
are essential to the preservation of the right. The limitation imposed by the Amendment is merely that enjoyment of the right of trial by jury be not obstructed, and
that the ultimate determination of issues of fact by the
jury be not interfered with.
In so far as the task of the auditor is to define and,
simplify the issues, his function is, in essence, the same
as that of pleading. The object of each is to concentrate
the controversy upon the questions which should control
the result. United States v. Gilmore, 7 Wall. 491, 494;
Tucker v. United States, 151 U. S. 164, 168. No one is
entitled in a civil case to trial by jury unless and except
so far as there are issues of fact to be determined. It does
not infringe the constitutional right to a trial by'jury, to
require, with a view to formulating the issues, an oath
by each party to the facts relied upon. Fidelity & Deposit
Co. v. United States, 187 U. S. 315. Nor does the requirement of a preliminary hearing infringe the constitutional
right, either because it involves delay in reaching the jury
trial or because it affords opportunity for exploring in
advance the evidence which the adversary purposes to
introduce before the jury. Capital Traction Co. V. Hof,
174 U.S. 1. In view of these decisions it cannot be deemed
an undue obstruction of the right to a jury trial to require
a preliminary hearing before an auditor.
Nor can the order be held unconstitutional as unduly
interfering with the jury's determination of issues of fact,
because it directs the auditor to form and express an opinion upon facts and items in dispute. The report will, unless rejected by the court, be admitted at the jury trial as
'See "Trial by Jury and The Reform of Civil Procedure," by Prof.
A. W. Scott, 31 Harvard Law Review, 669.

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence of facts and findings embodied therein; but it
will be treated, at most, as prima facie evidence thereof.
The parties will remain as free to call, examine, and crossexamine witnesses as if the report had not been made.
No incident of the jury trial is modified or taken away
either by the preliminary, tentative hearing before the
auditor or by the use to which his report may be put. An
order of a court, like a statute, is not unconstitutional
because it endows an official act or finding with a presumption of regularity or of verity. Marx v. Hanhorn,
148 U. S. 172, 182; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 59;
Reitler v. Harris, 223 U. S. 437. In Meeker v. Lehig!
Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 430, it was held that the
provision in § 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act making
the findings and order of the Commission prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated in suits brought to
enforce reparation awards, does not infringe upon the
right of trial by jury. See also Mills v. Lehigh Valley R.
R. Co., 238 U. S. 473; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co. v. Jones, 149 Illinois, 361, 382. In the Meeker Case
this court relied especially upon Holmes v. HUnt, 122
Massachusetts, 505, and called attention to the fact that
there the statute making the report of an auditor prima
facie evidence at the trial before a jury was held to be
a legitimate exercise of legislative power over rules of
evidence and in no wise inconsistent with the constitutional right of trial by jury.' The reasons for holding an
auditor's report admissible as evidence are, in one respect,
stronger than for giving such effect to the report of an
independent tribunal like the Interstate Commerce
'Acts making findings in the tentative hearing before an auditor
primafacie evidence were held not to infringe the right of trial by jury
in Maine; Howard v. Kimball, 65 Maine, 308, 327; and in New Hampshire; Doyle v. Doyle, 56 N. H. 567; Perkins v. Scott, 57 N. H. 55. A
different conclusion was reached in Francisv. Baker, 11 R. I. 103, and
Plimpton v. Town of Somerset, 33 Vermont, 283.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Commission. The auditor is an officer of the court which
appoints him. The proceedings before him are subject
to its supervision, and the report may be'used only if,
and so far as, acceptable to the court.
That neit er the hearing before the auditor, nor the
introduction of his report in evidence abridges in any way
the right of trial by jury was the conclusion reached in
1902 in the District of Massachusetts in Primrosev. Fenno,
113 Fed. Rep. 375; 119 Fed. Rep. 801, the first reported
case in which an auditor was appointed with the powers
here conferred. The practice there established has been
followed in the Southern District of New York, Vermeule
v. Reilly, 196 Fed. Rep. 226; and in the Eastern District
of Tennessee, United Siates v. Wells, 203 Fed. Rep. 146.
Fifth: There being no constitutional obstacle to the
appointment of an auditor in *id of jury trials, it remains
to consider whether Congress has conferred upon District
Courts power to make the order. There is here, unlike
Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, no legislation of Congress
which directly or by implication forbids the court to
provide for such preliminary hearing and report. But, on
the other hand, there is no statute which expressly authorizes it. The question presented is, therefore, whether the
court possesses the inherent power to supply itself with
this instrument for the administration of justice when
deemed by it essential.
Courts have (at least in the absence of legislation to the
contrary) inherent power to provide themselves with
r ppropriate instruments required for the performance of
their duties. Compare Stockbridge Iron Co. v. Cone Iron
Works, 102 Massachusetts, 80, 87-90. - This power includes authority to-appoint persons unconnected with the
court to aid judges in the performance of specific judicial
duties, as they may arise in the progress of a cause. From
the commencement of our Government, it has been exercised by the federal courts, when sitting in equity, by

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

313

Opinion of the Court.

appointing, either with or without the consent of the
parties, special masters, auditors, examiners and commissioners. To take and report testimony; to audit and
state accounts; to make computations; to determine
where the facts axe complicated and the evidence voluminous, what questions are actually in issue; to near conflicting evidence and make finding thereon; these are
among the purposes for which such aids to the judges
have been appointed. Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512,
523. Whether such aid shall be sought is ordinarily within
the discretion of -the trial judge; but this court has indicated that where accounts are complex and intricate,_ or
the documents and other evidence voluminous, or where
extensive computations are to be made, it is the better
practice to refer the matter to a special master or commissioner than for the judge to undertake to perform "the
task himself. Heirs of P. F. Dubourg de St. Colombe v.
United States, 7 Pet. 625; Chicago, Miluaulcee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 180. Of the appointment made in Field v. Holland, 6 Cranch, 8, 21, Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall said: "It is a reference to 'auditors,' a
term which designates agents or officers of the court, who
examine and digest accounts for the decision of the court.
They do not decree, but prepare materials on which a
decree may be made." And in Railroad Company v.
Swasey, 23 Wall. 405, 410, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said
of the master's report: "Its office is to present the case
to the court in such a manner that intelligent action may
be there had, and it is this action by the court, not the
report, that finally determines the rights of the parties."
What the District Judge was seeking when he appointed
the auditor in the case at bar was just such aid. He
required it himself; because without the aid to be rendered
through the preliminary hearing and report, the trial
judge would be unable to perform his duty of defining to
the jury the issues submitted for their determination and

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

of directing their attention to the matters actually in
issue. United States v. Philadelphia & Reading R. R. Co.,
123 U. S. 113, 114. The hearing and report were also
essential as shown above to enable the jury to perform
their specific duty. Owing to the difference in the character of the proceedings and of the questions ordinarily involved, the occasion for seeking such aid as is afforded to
a judge by special masters, auditors or examiners arises
les§ frequently at law than in equity. A compulsory
reference with power to determine issues is impossible in
the federal courts because of the Seventh Amendment,
United States v. Rathbone, 2 Paine, 578, but no reason
exists why a compulsory reference to an auditor to simplify
and clarify the issues and to make tentative findings may
not be made at law, when occasion arises, as freely as
compulsory references to special masters are made in
equity. Reference of complicated questions of fact to a
person specially appointed to hear the evidence and make
findings thereon has long been recognized as an appropriate proceeding in an action at law. Heckers v. Fowler,
2 .Wall. 123. The inherent power of a federal court to
invoke such aid is the same whether the court sits in
equity or at law. We conclude, therefore, that the order,
in so far as it appointed the auditor and prescribed his
duties, was within the power of the court.
Sixth: The clause in the order which provides that "the
expense of the Auditor, including the expense of a stenographer, (to) be paid by either or both parties to this action,
in accordance with the determination of the Trial Judge"
requires special consideration. As Congress has made
In Massachusetts the expense of the auditor was prior to 1878
taxed in all cases as costs to be paid by the defeated party. See Acts of
1818, c. 142; Rev. Stats. (1836), c. 96, § 31; Gen. Stats. (1860), c. 121,.
§ 50; Act of March 16, 1867, c. 67; Act of June 6, 1873, c. 342. By Act
of April 23, 1878, c. 173, the expense of the auditor in cases tried in the
Superior or in the Supreme Judicial Court was made payable by the
I

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

no provision for paying from public funds either the fees
of auditors or the expense of the stenographer, the power
to-make the appointment without consent of the parties is
practically dependent upon the power to tax the expense
as costs. May the compensation of auditor and stenographer be taxed as costs; and, if so, may the expense be
imposed in the discretion of the trial court upon either
party?
Federal trial courts have, sometimes by general rule,
sometimes by decision upon the facts of a particular case,
included in the taxable costs expenditures incident to the
litigation which were ordered by the court because deemed
essential to a proper consideration of the case by the
court or the jury. Equity Rule 68 provides for taxing the
fees of masters and Rule 50 for the expense of a stenographer. Both rules embody substantially the practice
which had theretofore prevailed generally in equity proceedings, and which in the Southern District of New
York had been followed not only in equity, American
Diamond Drill Co. v. Sullivan Machine Co., 32 Fed. Rep.
552; 131 U. S. 428; Brickill v. Mayor, etc., of City of New
York, 55 Fed. Rep. 565; Hohoret v. Hamburg-American
Packet Co., 76 Fed. Rep. 472; but also in admiralty, The
E. Luckenback, 19 Fed. Rep. 847; Rogers v. Brown, 136
Fed. Rep. 813. The expense of printing the records and
briefs in the trial court has been made by rule of court in
county. See also Rev. Laws (1902), c. 165, § 60; Act of June 5, 1911,
c. 237; Act of 1914, c. 576.
In Maine the fees of the auditor were prior to 1897 taxed as costs in
favor of the prevailing party. Laws (1821), c. 59, § 25; Acts of 1826,
c. 347, § 1; Rev. Stats. (1883), c. 82, § 70. Since the Act of March 12,
1897, c. 224, the fees and necessary expenses of the auditors are paid
by the county.
In New Hampshire the fees of the auditor-are also taxable as costs in
favor of the prevailing party; but the court may now, in its discretion,
order them paid by the county. Act of June 23, 1823, c. 19, § 1; Act of
July 20, 1876, c. 35, § 4; Pub. Stats. (1901), c. 227, § 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

several of the circuits taxable as costs against the defeated
party, Hake v. Brown, 44 Fed. Rep. 734. Compare Kellyv. SpringieaRy. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 183; Tesla Electric Co.
v. Scott, 101 Fed. Rep. 524. As early as 1843 -Mr. Justice
Story, sitting at circuit in Whipple v. Cumberland Cotton
Manufacturing Co., 3 Story, 84, approved, in an action
at law for damages, although not specially authorized by
any rule, the order of a survey, as "necessary for the true
understanding of the cause on both sides; " and ordered
the expense paid by them. In cases in which courts have
refused to tax as costs copies of stenographer's minutes and
other expenditures incident to the litigation, attention has
been called to the fact that they were made for the benefit
of the party as distinguished from expenditures incurred
under order of the court to make possible or to facilitate
its consideration of the case. Stallo v. Wagner, 245
Fed. Rep. 636; New Hampshire Land Co. v. Tilton, 29
Fed. Rep. 764. But see Bridges v. Sheldon, 7 Fed. Rep.
17, 42.
The allowance of. costs in the federal courts rests not
upon express statutory enactment by Congress, but upon
usage long continued and confirmed by implication from
provisions in many statutes. Mr. Justice Woodbury in
Hathaway v. Roach, 2 Woodb. and M. 63; Mr. Justice
Nelson in Costs in Civil Cases, 1 Blatchf. 652; The Baltimore, 8 Wall. 377. In Hathaway v. Roach, p. 67, it is said
to have been the usage of the federal courts "to conform
to the state laws as to costs, when no express provision has
been made and is in force by any act of Congress in relation
to any particular item, or when no general rule of court
exists on this subject." And in The Baltimore, pp. 390-391,
this court stated that "the costs taxed in the Circuit and
District Courts were the same as were allowed at that time
in the courts of the State, including such matters as travel
and attendance of the parties, fees for copies of the case,
ahd abstracts for. the hearing, compensation, for the

EX PARTE PETERSON.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

services of referees, auditors, masters, and assessors, and
many other matters not embraced in the fee bills,
since passed by Congress." I Neither the Act of February
26, 1853, c. 80, 10 Stat. 161, Rev. Stats., § 983, nor any
later act of Congress or rule of court deals expressly or by
implication with' the subject of taxing as costs the expense
of an auditor. The practice, if any, governing in this
respect the courts of New York would, ' therefore, be
followed in the federal courts. See Huntress v. Town of
Epsom, 15 Fed. Rep. 732. But, so far as appears, the
preliminary hearing before an auditor in aid of jury trials
is not a part of the judicial machinery of that State. The
nearest analogy to it is the reference had in actions at law
on long accounts as a substitute for a jury trial. The expense of the compulsory reference in such actions is so
taxable. Code Civ. Proc., § 3256. As there is no statute,
federal or state, and no rule of court excluding auditors'
fees and the expense of his stenographer from the items
taxable as costs, no reason appears why they may not be
included, like other expenditures ordered by the court
with a view to securing an intelligent consideration of a
case.
Seventh: The further question is whether the District
Court had power to make the expense of the auditor
taxable in whole or in part against the prevailing party, if
the trial judge should so determine. The advantages of
such a flexible rule are obvious. But general principles
.governing the taxation of costs in actions at law followed
by the federal courts since their organization, preclude its
adoption.
While in equity proceedings the allowance and imposition of costs is, unless controlled by statute or rule of
court, a matter of discretion, it has'been uniformly held
Shreve v. Cheesman, 69 Fed. Rep. 785, 789; see also Scatdherd v.
Love, 166 Fed. Rep. 53; MichiganAluminum Foundry Co. v. Aluminum
Co. of America, 190 Fed. Rep. 903, 904.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

that in actions at law the prevailing party is entitled to
costs as of right: (compare United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378, 407), except in those few cases where by express
statutory provision or by established principles costs are
denied.1 It has also been generally held that this right
to costs of the prevailing party in actiloni at law extends
to the entire costs in the trial court, and that the court is
without power tomake an apportionment based upon the
fact that the prevailing party has failed in a part of his
claims or that for other reasons only a part or none of the
costs should in fairness be allowed. 2 This rule of practice
established by long usage is confirmed by the language of
§ 983 of the Revised Statutes. It would, therefore, bo
held to prevail over a rule, if any, to the contrary established in the courts of the State. But the practice in the
courts of New York appears to be in this respect in entire
harmony with that of the federal courts.' In Whipple v.
Cumberland Cotton Manufacturing Co., supra, the expense
of the survey ordered by the court was imposed by it
equally on th two parties; and the same disposition was
made in Primrose v. Fenno, supra, where the auditor had
been appointed at the instance of the court without objection by either party. But in Houlihan v. Corporation oJ
. IFor instance, Rev. Stats., § 968, denying costs to a plaintiff oi
petitioner who recovers less than °$500.
'Crabtree v. Neff, 1 Bond, 554; Hooe v. Alexandria, 1 Cranch C. C.
98; Bartels v. Redfield, 47 Fed. Rep. 708; Trinidad Asphalt Paving Co.
v. Robinson,.52 Fed. Rep. 347; United States v. Minneapolis, etc., Ry.
Co.,•235 Fed. Rep. 951, 953; West End St. Ry. Co. v. Malley, 246 Fed.
Rep. 625, 627; Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Pearce,253 Fed. Rep. 960, 962;
Wheeler v. Taft, 261 Fed. Rep. 978.
3 The general rule that in actions at law the prevailing party is entitled as of right to the taxable costs prevails in New York; and there
is a further provision that when plaintiff demands a judgment for a
sum of money only, the plaintiff, if prevailing, is entitled to the costs
whether the suit be one at law or in equity. Murtha v. Curley, 92 N. Y.
359; Norton v. Fancher,.92 Hun, 463.

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. KITTANNING CO.
300.

Syllabus.

St. Anthony, 173 Fed. Rep. 496; 184 Fed. Rep. 252; where
the auditor was appointed by consent of the parties, the
same court taxed both the auditor's and the stenographer's
fees against the losing party, holding that it had discretion,
if it was not obliged to do so; and a petition for writ of
certiorari was denied by this court; 220 U. S. 613.
Although the order was erroneous in declaring that the
expense of the auditor shall, instead of abiding the result of
the action, be paid, by one or both of the parties in accordance with the determination of the trial judge, the error
does not require that either of the extraordinary remedies
applied for here be granted. If the petitioner deems himself prejudiced by the error he may get redress through
application to the District Court for a modification of the
order; or after final judgment, on writ of error, from the
Circuit Court of Appeals. In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14,
26. The petition for writs of mandamus and/ or prohibition is
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY
JUSTIcE MCREYNOLDS dissent.

and MR.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KITTANNING IRON-& STEEL MANUFACTURING
COMPANY.
CERTIORARITO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 301.

Argued March 26, 1920.-Decided June 1, 192.0.

The policy of the "Uniform Demurrage Code" is to treat the car as
the unit and fix a standard of diligence in releasing cars independent
of thdcircumstances of the particular consignee. f. 324.

The "Uniform Demurrage Code" files 48 hours as the "Free Time"

