OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GREELEY v. BOARD
OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY
OF WELD.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 180.

Argued January 18, 21, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

An action by a national bank to recover the amount of taxes levied
by a State and paid under protest, upon the ground that they
were excessive, discriminatory and violative of Rev. Stats., § 5219,
held not maintainable in the District Court, where the plaintiff
failed to avail itself of an administrative remedy afforded by the
state law as conclusively stablished by a decision of the State
Supreme Court. P. 453.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining a
demurrer and dismissing the complaint in an action by
the bank to recover money paid under protest as taxes.

Mr. HarryN. Haynes, with whom Mr. Ralph L. Dougherty was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William R. Kelly and Mr. Charles Roach, Deputy
Attorney General of the State of Colorado, with whom
Mr. Russell W. Fleming, Attorney General, and Mr. Riley
R. Cloud, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action to recover the amount of certain taxes
levied for the fiscal years 1913 and 1914 and paid under
protest. The court below sustained a demurrer to the
amended complaint, and, plaintiff electing to stand
thereon, entered judgment of dismissal.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WELD COUNTY.
450

451

Opinion of the Court.

Reversal of the judgment is sought here on the ground
that the taxes were assessed and collected in contravention
of the due process and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment and of § 5219, U. S. Rev. Stats.
Under the Colorado statute, R. S. Colo. 1908, c. 122, a
bank is required to make a list of its snares, stating their
market value, and of its shareholders for the information
of the county assessor, who is thereupon directed to assess
such shares for taxation in all respects the same as similar
property belonging to other corporations and individuals.
§§ 5754, 5756. If any taxpayer is of the opinion that his
property has been assessed too high, or otherwise illegally
assessed, he may appear before the assessor and have the
same corrected. § 5639. The County Cormnissioners of
each county are constituted a Board of Equalization, with
power to adjust and equalize the assessment among the
several taxpayers; with reference to which any dissatisfied
taxpayer may be heard. § 5761.
The State Tax Commission, created in 1911, is authorized to supervise the administration of and enforce
the tax laws, and exercise supervision over county assessors
and boards of equalization, to the end that all assessments
be made relatively just and uniform and at their true and
full cash value. Comp. L. Colo. 1921, c. 155, § 7334, par.
1. The Commission may raise or lower the assessed value
of any property, first giving notice to the owner thereof
and fixing a time and place for hearing. Id. par. 7.
Authority is conferred upon the Commission to receive
complaints and examine into all cases where it is alleged
that property has been fraudulently, or improperly or unfairly assessed. § 7336. It shall, on or before the first
day of October of each year, increase or decrease the
valuation of the property in any county by such rate per
cent. or such amount as will place the same on the assessment roll at its full and true cash value, § 7352;
and must thereupon transmit to the State Board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Equalization a statement of the amount to be added or
deducted. § 7353. It then becomes the duty of the State
Board of Equalization to examine the abstracts of assessment submitted by the Commission, and certify to the
county assessor of each county a record of its action
thereon. § 7354. The Commission is required to be in
session every day except Sundays, and may hold sessions
anywhere in the State. § 7330.
The essential averments of the complaint may be
shortly stated: Plaintiff made and delivered to the
County Assessor of Weld County the statement required
by law. The Assessor thereupon fixed the value of its
shares, as well as that of the shares of other banks within
the county, at their full cash and market value; but fixed
the assessed value of the property of the remaining taxpayers in the county at 61/;, for 1913, and 80%, for 1914,
of such cash and market value. The County Board of
Equalization accepted this assessment without change.
The Assessor thereupon transmitted to the Tax Commission the abstracts required by law. The Tax Commission determined that the property of the county as a
whole had been underassessed, and recommended a horizontal increase of 63% in 1913 and 25% in 1914, as necessary to bring it to the full cash value. This determination
was approved by the State Board of Equalization and the
County Assessor was directed to make the increase, with
the result, as alleged, that plaintiff's assets, and those of
all other banks in the county, were in fact assessed at an
amount 63% in excess of their value for the year 1913
and 25% in excess thereof for the year 1914. In other
counties of the State, either no increase of valuation was
made or the increase was comparatively small. The result was that the banks of Weld county were assessed and
compelled to pay upon a valuation grossly in excess of
that put upon other property in the same county and likewise in excess of that put upon other banks in other

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WELD COUNTY.
450

453

Opinion of the Court.

counties of the State. It does not appear from the complaint that plaintiff applied to any of the taxing authorities to reduce the assessment of its property or correct the
alleged inequalities, prior to the final levy of the tax; but
sometime after such levy had been completed, it made
application for abatement and rebate, which application
was approved by the County Board but disallowed by
the State Tax Commission.
We are met at the threshold of our consideration of the
case with the contention that the plaintiff did not exhaust
its remedies before the administrative boards and consequently cannot be heard by a judicial tribunal to assert
the invalidity of the tax. We are of opinion that this contention must be upheld.
The Supreme Court of Colorado, in a suit brought by
this plaintiff against the County Assessor, involving the
same tax for 1913, and presenting the same questions here
involved, sustained the refusal of a lower court to enjoin
the collection of the tax, and held: (a) That the flat increase made by the Tax Commission was in strict conformity with the state statutes; (b) That this action being
approved by the State Board of Equalization constituted
a final assessment; (c) That under the statute the plaintiff was bound to know the authority of these taxing
agencies in the premises and that they were required to
meet at certain places, on certain days, and complete their
labors within designated dates; and (d) "With full knowledge of the respective powers of these several boards to
make corrections in assessments and adjustments in
equalization, essential to bring about a complete and
equitable assessment of all property within the state, it remained inactive until long after the tax was laid, when it
applied for an abatement or rebate of the tax. The aforesaid tribunals were open to plaintiff in error prior to the
laying of the tax, but it refrained from seeking relief
therein, and may not now complain." First National
Bank v. Patterson, 65 Colo. 166, 172-173.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The effect of this is to hold that an administrative
remedy was in fact open to plaintiff under the statutes
of the State, and by this construction, upon well settled
principles, we are bound. McGregor v. Hogan, 263 U. S.
234; Farncomb v. Denver, 252 U. S. 7, 10; Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 374; Pricev. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446,
451; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 412,
425.
Plaintiff seeks to excuse its failure to apply to the
County Board for an equalization by saying that this was
a public duty of the Board and not a private remedy;
and Greene v. Louisville & I. R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499,
521, is relied upon as authority. The most cursory examination of that case, however, will disclose its inapplicability. There the divergent assessments were made
by two assessing boards, neither having control or supervision of the other; and it was held that complainants,
whose property had been assessed by one of these boards,
were not entitled, under the Kentucky statutes, to complain to the other board that its assessments were too
low. A very different question is presented here, where
the same board has affirmed both assessments, is expressly
vested by statute with the power of equalization and may
exert its power at the instance of anyone aggrieved.
Hallett v. County Commissioners,27 Colo. 86, 93; Barnett
v. Jaynes, 26 Colo. 279, 282.
It is urged further that it would have been futile to
seek a hearing before the State Tax Commission because,
first, no appeal to a judicial tribunal was provided in the
event of a rejection of a taxpayer's complaint; and, second,
because the time at the disposal of the Commission for
hearing individual complaints was inadequate. But,
aside from the fact that such an appeal is not a matter of
right, but wholly dependent upon statute, 2 Cooley on
Taxation, 3d ed., p. 1393, we cannot assume that if application had been made to the Commission proper relief

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WELD COUNTY.
450

455

Opinion of the Court.

would not have been accorded by that body, in view of its
statutory authority to receive complaints and examine
into all cases where it is alleged that property has been
fraudulently, improperly or unfairly assessed. Collins v.
City of Keokuk, 118 Iowa, 30, 35. Nor will plaintiff be
heard to say that there was not adequate time for a hearing, in the absence of any effort on its part to obtain one.
In any event the decision of the State Supreme Court in
the Patterson Case, that such remedies were, in fact,
available, is controlling here.
It is contended, however, that the decision in that case
turns upon the point that plaintiff had an adequate
remedy at law, and not that it had lost its right by
neglecting to seek an administrative remedy. It is true
the court, after the statement quoted above, proceeds to
say that plaintiff cannot have relief in equity, but this
seems to be put forth as an independent ground for affirming the judgment below. It follows the unqualified statement that plaintiff, having refrained from seeking the administrative relief open to it, "may not now complain;"
and is introduced by the words (p. 174): "But apart from
this, if the tax was not legally laid, plaintiff in error could,
upon payment therdof, recover the same from the county
under the provisions of § 5750 R. S.1908." It is not suggested that in so doing the requirement, already broadly
recognized, that administrative remedies must be exhausted as a necessary prerequisite to a judicial challenge
of the tax, could be dispensed with. And, accepting the
decision of the state court that such remedies were, in
fact, open and available under the Colorado statutes, it
could not be dispensed with. McGregor v. Hogam, supra;
Farncomb v. Denver, supra, p. 11; Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S. 535; Petoskey Gas Co. v.
Petoskey, 162 Mich. 447, 452; Township of Caledonia
v. Rose, 94 Mich. 216, 218; Hinds v. Township of Belvidere, 107 Mich. 664, 667; Ward v. Alsup, 100 Tenn.
619, 746,

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

Plaintiff not having availed itself of the administrative
remedies afforded by the statutes, as construed by the
state court, it results that the question whether the tax
is vulnerable to the challenge in respect of its validity
upon any or all of the grounds set forth, is one which we
are not called upon to consider. The judgment of the
District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.

E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS & COMPANY v.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
AGENT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 517. Argued March 14, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. In a complaint showing by apt allegation that the plaintiff sues
as the Director General of Railroads continued in that office by
the President under §§ 202 and 211 of the Transportation Act,
a description of him "as agent ", appointed under § 206 of the act,
may be rejected as surplusage. P. 459.
2. Paragraph (3), added by the Transportation Act to § 16 of the
Interstate Commerce Act and providing: "All actions at law by
carriers subject to this Act for recovery of their charges...
shall be begun within three years from the time the cause of
action accrues, and not after ", does not apply to an action by the
Director General of Railroads to recover demurrage charges accrued to the United States during the period of federal control of
railroads. Id.
287 Fed. 522, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
sustaining a demurrer to the complaint in an action by the
Director General of Railroads to recover demurrage
charges.

