OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

whose business had been distributed without favor among
the several eastern lines terminating at that city. It is
manifest that the effect of such an acquisition would be,
as it is here, to enable the New York Central to absorb
more of the traffic of the railroad so acquired than theretofore and, consequently, to lessen that received by other
parallel lines running east from Chicago. In that situation, could any of such lines maintain a suit to annul the
authorization of the Commission? It seems to me not;
and I can see no difference in principle between the case
supposed and that with which we are dealing.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD concur in this dissent.

SMITH v. APPLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 124. Argued January 2, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.
1. Where a District Court dismisses a suit upon the specific ground
of want of jurisdiction, this Court, upon a sufficient certificate,
acquires jurisdiction of a direct appeal, and whatever the reason
assigned by the District Court for the supposed want of jurisdiction, must determine whether that court had and should have exercised the jurisdiction thus denied. P. 277.
2. But where a decree of the District Court does not purport to be
based upon a question of its jurisdiction, a subsequent certificate
characterizing the ground of decision as one involving a question of
jurisdiction, does not authorize this Court to entertain the appeal
unless the question certified presents an issue as to "the jurisdiction of the court" within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 238. Id.
3. The question whether, in a suit in equity, the plaintiff is prevented
by Jud. Code, § 265, from obtaining an injunction staying proceedings in a state court, does not present an issue as to the jurisdiction
of the District Court, within the meaning of § 238, but one of the
equity or merits of the case. Id.

SMITH v. APPLE.
274

Opinion of the Court.

4. Section 265 of the Code is not a jurisdictional statute, but a mere
limitation upon the general equity powers of the federal courts,
preventing relief by injunction in the cases covered by it. P. 278.
5. An appeal from the District Court, involving only the merits but
mistakenly brought here as involving only that court's jurisdiction,
-will be transferred to the Circuit Court of Appeals, under th,.
Transfer Act of September 14, 1922, Jud. Code, § 2,38a. P. 280,
Case transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

DIRECT appeal from a decree of the District Court dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, a suit to enjoin enforcement of judgments recovered by the defendant in a state
court.
Mr. John S. Dean, with whom Mr. A. Scott Thompson
and Mr. Harry W. Colmery were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edward E. Sapp, with whom Mr. P. P. Campbell
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The record presents a preliminary question as to our
jurisdiction of this appeal. This we must consider, although not raised by counsel. Stevirmac Oi Co. v. Dittman, 245 U. S. 210, 214.
This is a suit in equity brought in the District Court by
a citizen of Oklahoma against a citizen of Kansas to enjoin the latter from enforcing certain judgments that he
had recovered against the plaintiff in a state court-which
were alleged to be unconscionable and void-and, incidentally, from further prosecuting a suit in the District Court
that had been brought by him against a surety on a supersedeas bond given by the plaintiff in the course of the
proceedings in the state court. The amount involved,
exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds $3,000.
The defendant moved to dismiss the suit on two
grounds: 1st, for want of jurisdiction, because the diver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

sity of citizenship had not existed at the time the judgments were rendered; and, 2nd, for want of "a valid cause
of action in equity." The District Judge, on consideration of this motion, handed down a memorandum in
which-without passing upon the jurisdictional question
raised by the motion-he said: "In examining the matter I am constrained to believe in so far as restraint of
further proceedings in the courts of the state are concerned, the injunction prayed for in this suit is within the
letter and spirit of the prohibition of Section 265 of the
Judicial Code, .
.
and that the motion to dismiss
interposed in this suit should be sustained." A decree
was thereupon entered dismissing the suit, at the costs of
the plaintiff, "for the reasons stated" in the memorandum. Thereafter the appeal to this Court was allowed by
another District Judge, sitting by assignment; his order
allowing the appeal reciting that the decree dismissing the
suit "was made upon consideration solely of the question
of the court's jurisdiction of the said action under the provisions of Section 265 of the Judicial Code."
Section 238 of the Judicial Code-reenacting a like provision in the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826,provides that appeals and writs of error may be taken from
district courts direct to this Court in cases "in which the
jurisdiction of the court is in issue ", in which case that
question alone shall be certified from the court below for
decision.1
We assume for present purposes that in matter of form
the recital in the order allowing the appeal that the suit
was dismissed "upon consideration solely of the court's
jurisdiction " of the action under § 265 of the Code, is a
sufficient certification of a jurisdictional question. See
I The Act of 1891 related to direct appeals and writs of error from
the then existing circuit courts as well as district courts. Decisions
under that act as well as the Code, are cited in this opinion without
distinction in this respect.

SMITH v. APPLE.
274

Opinion of the Court.

Excelsior Pipe Co. v. Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282. 285.
Coming, however, to the matter of substance, it is clear
that the suit was dismissed solely upon the ground that
in the opinion of the District Judge the court was prohibited by § 265 from granting the injunction sought by
the bill. True it is that where a district court dismisses
a suit upon the specific ground of want of jurisdiction, this
Court, upon a sufficient certificate, acquires jurisdiction of
a direct appeal, and, whatever the ground assigned by the
district court for the supposed want of jurisdiction, must
determine whether or not that court had and should have
exercised the jurisdiction thus denied. Excelsior Pipe Co.
v. Bridge Co., supra,p. 285; The Ira 3fL Hedges, 218 U. S.
264, 270; Louisville Railroad v. Telegraph Co., 234 U. S.
369, 377; PublicService Co. v. Corboy, 250 U. S. 153, 159.
But where, as in the present case, a decree of the district
court does not purport to be based upon a question of
its jurisdiction, a subsequent certificate characterizing the
ground of the decision as one involving its jurisdiction,
does not authorize this Court to entertain the appeal unless the question certified presents an issue as to "the
jurisdiction of the court" within the meaning of § 238 of
the Code. Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355, 357; O'Nral v.
United States, 190 U. S. 36, 38; Bien v. Robinson, 208
U. S. 423, 427; Darnell v. Illinois Railroad, 225 U. S.
243, 245; Stevirmac Oil Co. v. Dittman, supra, p. 214;
DeRees v. Costaguta, 254 U. S. 166, 172.
Does the dismissal of a suit in equity upon the ground
that the court is prohibited by § 265 of the Code from
granting the relief sought by the bill, involve an issue as
to "the jurisdiction of the court" within the meaning of
§ 238 of the Code?
Under the latter section, as interpreted by repeated decisions of this Court, the jurisdiction of the district court
is in issue only when its power to hear and determine the
cause, as defined and limited by the Constitution or

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

statutes of the United States, is in controversy, Smith v.
McKay, supra, p. 358; Mexican Railway v. Eckman, 187
U. S. 429, 432; O'Neal v. United States, supra, p. 37;
United States v. Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199, 201;
The Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216, 218; that is, shortly stated,
when "its power to entertain the suit under the laws of
the United States" is in issue. Louisville Railroad v.
Telegraph Co., supra, p. 371. Where a district court is
vested with jurisdiction of a cause-as where diversity of
citizenship exists and the matter in controversy is of the
requisite value-the question whether as a court of
equity it has power to entertain the suit and afford the
plaintiff equitable relief, does not present a jurisdictional
issue. Bien v. Robinson, supra, p. 427. Such an issue is
not presented by the question whether there is want of
equity in the bill, Smith v. McKay, supra, p. 358; Building Association v. Price, 169 U. S. 45, 46; World's Columbian Exposition v. United States, (C. C. A.) 56 Fed. 654,
666; as whether its allegations are sufficient to entitle the
plaintiff to the equitable relief sought, Louisville Railroad
v. Telegraph Co., supra, p. 372; DeRees v. Costaguta,
supra, p. 173, or whether it is not cognizable in equity
because of a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law,
Smith v. McKay, supra, p. 356; Shepard v. Adams, 168
U. S. 618, 622; Illinois Railroadv. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 34.
So the question whether, in a suit in equity, the plaintiff is prevented by § 265 of the Code from obtaining an
injunction staying proceedings in a state court, does not
present an issue as to "the jurisdiction" of the district
court. This section-reenacting § 720 of the Revised
Statutes--provides that, except in bankruptcy cases, the
"writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court of
the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a
State ". It is not a jurisdictional statute. It neither confers jurisdiction upon the district courts nor takes away
the jurisdiction otherwise specifically conferred upon them

SMITH v. APPLE.
274

279

Opinion of the Court.

by the federal statutes.2 It merely limits their general
equity powers in respect to the granting of a partictflar
form of equitable relief; that is, it prevents them from
granting relief by way of injunction in the cases included
within its inhibitions. In short, it goes merely to the
question of equity in the particular bill. See Simon v.
Southern Railway, 236 U. S. 115, 116, 122-124; Wells
Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254 U. S. 175, 185; Public Service
Co. v. Corboy,3 supra, p. 160; National Surety Co. v.
State Bank, (C. C. A.) 120 Fed. 593, 604. This section,
as settled by repeated decisions of this Court, does not
prohibit in all cases injunctions staying proceedings in a
state court. Such injunctions may be granted, consistently
with its provisions, in several classes of cases. See Wells
Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, supra, at p. 183, in which many
decisions on this question are collated and classified.
Necessarily, therefore, in a suit in equity of which a district court has jurisdiction under the federal statutes,
where the relief sought is an injunction against proceedings in a state court, it is the duty of the court to determine, under the allegations and proof, whether a case is
made which entitles the plaintiff to the injunction sought,
that is, whether the case presented is one in which such
relief is prohibited by the statute or one in which it may
'Its language is similar to that in § 267 of the Judicial Code, providing that suits in equity "shall not be sustained in any court of the
United States in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete

remedy may be had at law ", which does not go to the jurisdiction of
the court; and in marked contrast to the provision in § 24 of the
Code that no "district court shall have cognizance of any suit" to
recover upon any chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless it
might have been prosecuted in such court if no assignment had been
made.
'In this case, as the decree had dismissed the bill " for want of
jurisdiction ", this Court was required, under the direct appeal, to

determine whether the district court had the jurisdiction which it
had denied; and its decree denying jurisdiction was reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

nevertheless be granted. Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S.
589, 601. Where the plaintiff has the undoubted right to
invoke its federal jurisdiction the court is bound to take
the case and proceed to judgment. Kline v. Construction
Co., 260 U. S. 226, 234. And when the court takes jurisdiction and determines that in the light of § 265 of the
Code it is either authorized or prevented from granting
the injunction prayed, its decision, whether the relief
sought be granted or denied, is plainly not a decision upon
a jurisdictional issue but upon the question whether there
is or is not equity in the particular bill; that is, a decision
going to the merits of the controversy.
In the present case the district court, as shown by the
memorandum and decree, did not decline to exercise jurisdiction. On the contrary, it took jurisdiction of the cause,
and, determining, upon consideration of the bill, that it
was prohibited by § 265 from granting the relief sought,
dismissed the bill; thereby, in effect, sustaining the ground
of the motion relating to want of equity in the bill. This
decision, not being upon a jurisdictional issue, but on the
merits, was only reviewable by appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. De Rees v. Costaguta, supra, p. 173. The
direct appeal to this Court was therefore improvidently
allowed.
Prior to the Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837, this would have resulted in the dismissal of the appeal
for want of jurisdiction here. Smith v. McKay, supra,
p. 359; O'Neal v. United States, supra, p. 38; Excelsior
Pipe Co. v. Bridge Co., supra, p. 285; DeRees v. Costaguta,
supra, p. 174. That act, however, amends the Judicial
Code by adding § 238(a), providing, inter alia, that an
appeal taken to this Court in a case wherein it should
have been taken to a circuit court of appeals, shall not
for slich reason be dismissed, but shall be transferred to
that court for determination as if the appeal had been
duly taken to it. As this appeal involves a question upon

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. CZIZEK.
274

Syllabus.

the merits of the controversy which should have been
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit instead of to this Court, it must, pursuant to the
statute, be transferred to that court.
It is so ordered.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
CZIZEK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 300. Argued February 26, 27, 1924.-Decided March 10, 1924.
1. A contract between a telegraph company and the sender of an
unrepeated interstate message, on a form filed with and approved
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, valued the message at
50.00 in default of any higher valuation specified by the sender
and paid for at a higher rate, and relieved the company of liability
beyond that sum for mistakes or delays in the transmision or
delivery, or for the non-delivery of the message, caused by the
negligence of its servants or otherwise. Held valid and applicable
although the message was never transmitted, due to the inadvertence of a receiving clerk in filing it in the wrong place, and to
subsequent mistaken assurances that it had been sent. P. 284.
2. Quaere: Whether this agreed limitation of liability would not have
applied even if the failure to transmit had been attributable to
gross negligence? P. 285.
3. The reasonableness of such a limitation is determined as of the
date of the contract and not by later, prospective rules of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Id.
4. Semble, that another printed stipulation on the telegram limiting
the company's liability for nondelivery, etc., of any iinrepeated
message to the amount received for sending it, was invalid in this
case. Id.
5. A stipulation on a telegram exempting the company from liability
if claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after filing
of the message for transmission, held inapplicable where the filing
of the message, by the plaintiff's agent, was unknown to the plaintiff
during the sixty days, and where the plaintiff thereafter iwas
diligent in presenting his claim. P. 286.
286 Fed. 478, reversed,

