WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
213

Syllabus.

well-established principles of equity jurisprudence requires the reformation of the contract, and certainly no
such special circumstances . . . of fraud, duress, or oppression, as would necessarily require relief against a mistake of law." Cramp v. United States, 239 U. S. 221, 233.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly
Affirmed.
STATE OF WASHINGTON v. W. C. DAWSON &
COMPANY.
ERROR TO SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.

INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL. v. JAMES ROLPH
'COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 366 and 684.

Argued January 8, 9, 1924.-Decided February
25, 1924.

1. The Act of Congress of June 10, 1922, c. 216, 42 Stat. 634, which,
by amendment of Judicial Code, §§ 24, 256, undertakes to permit
application of the workmen's compensation laws of the several
States to injuries within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
excepting the masters and crews of vessels, is unconstitutional, for
the reasons explained in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 IT. S.
205. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, and other
cases reviewed. P. 222.
2. So held, (a) in a case in which it was sought to compel an employer
of stevedores to contribute to an accident fund, as provided by the
Workmen's Compensation Act of Washington; (b) in a case involving the power of a commission of California to award compensation for the death of a workman killed while engaged at
maritime work, under maritine contract, upon a vessel moored at
dock and discharging her cargo. Id.
3. The proviso in the above act of Congress "that the jurisdiction of
the district courts shall not extend to cause arising out of injuries

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

264 U.S.

to or death of persons other than the master or members of the
crew, for which compensation is provided by the workmen's compensation law of any State ", etc., was intended to supplement the
provision allowing rights and remedies under state compensation
Iaws; and, that being ineffectual, the proviso is also. P. 223.
122 Wash. 572, and 220 Pac. 669, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington, affirming a judgment of a Superior Court of the
State which dismissed, on demurrer, a complaint brought
by the State to recover the sum of $211.45, from W. C.
Dawson & Company, as a contribution to the accident
fund created by Laws of Washington, 1911, c. 74, the
amount claimed being computed on the wages paid by
defendant to stevedores working on board ship.
Error, also, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
California, rendered on review of an award made by the
Industrial Accident Commission of the State to the dependents of an employee of the James Rolph Company
who died as a result of injuries sustained while working
as a stevedore upon a vessel afloat on the navigable waters
of San Francisco Bay. The judgment annulled the award
as in excess of the Commission's jurisdiction.

Mr. John H. Dunbar,Attorney General of the State of
Washington, with whom Mr. Raymond W. Clifford, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error in No. 366.
Mr. Warren H. Pillsbury for plaintiffs in error in No.
684.
Mr. Robert S. Terhune and Mr. Howard G. Cosgrove,
for defendant in error in No. 366, submitted.
Mr. G. Bowdoin Craighill, M1r. L. A. Redman and Mr.
Chas. B. Tebbs, for defendants in error in No. 684, subinitted. Mr. Jewel Alexander and Mr. W. C. Bacon were
also on the brief.

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

219

Mr. Alfred .T. Schweppe, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
Mr. Henry C. Hunter and Mr.-loseph P. Chanmbrrlap,.
by leave of Court. filed a brief as amic cnriac.
IR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These causes turn upon the same point, were heard
together and it will be convenient to decide them by ieopinion.
The imnediate question presented by nuiber three
hundred sixty-six is whether one engaged in the business
of stevedoring, whose employees work only on board -hips
in the navigable waters of Puget Sound, can be cotmpelled
to contribute to the accident fund provided f,,r by fliv
Workmen's Compensation Act of Washington. Th,
State maintains that the objections to such requireci,,en
pointed out in Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stecwarf, 253 U. S.
149, were removed by the Act of June 10, 1922, c. 216.
42 Stat. 634.' Its Supreme Court ruled otherwise. 122
Wash. 572, 582.
'That clause 3 of section 24 of the Jtidici'd Culc

i, ht.i

)'Y ;,it tI .

14

to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of adnilalty and ma0t1011,

1-41n
4 oll,,,
uill

saving to suitors in all cases the right of a coin,unt-law remuly v hi
the common law is competent to give it, and to claimni-i br ,mlpensation for injuries to or death of persons other thun thu m uter
or members of the crew of a vesel their rights aud remedh- tinder
the workmen's compensation law of any State, Di.trict, Territory, or
possession of the United States, which rights and remedies when conferred by such law shall be exclusive; of all seizures on land or waternot within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; of all prize, brought
into the United States; and of all proceedings for the condemnation
of property taken as prize: Provided, That the jurisdiction of the
or
district courts shall not extend to causes arising out cf injurie- ti,
death of persons other than the master or members of the crew, for

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

In number six hundred eighty-four the Supreme Court
of California approved the conclusion of the Supreme
Court of Washington and declared the Act of June 10,
1922, went beyond the power of Congress. It accordingly held the Industrial Accident Commission had no
jurisdiction to award compensation for the death of a
workman killed while actually engaged at maritime work,
under maritime contract, upon a vessel moored at her
dock in San Francisco Bay and discharging her cargo.
220 Pac. 669.
The judgments below must be affirmed; the doctrine
of Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, to which we adhere,
permits no other conclusion. There we construed the Act
of October 6, 1917, c. 97, 40 Stat. 395,- which undertook
which compensation is provided by the workmen's compensation law
of any State, District, Territory, or possession of the United States."
Sec. 2. That clause 3 of section 256 of the Judicial Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it and to claimants for compensation for injuries to or death of persons other than the master
or members of the crew of a vessel, their rights and remedies under
the workmen's compensation law of any State, District, Territory, or
possession of the United States."
' That clause three of section twenty-four of the Judicial Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it, and to claimants the rights
and remedies under the workmen's compensation law of any State;
of all seizures on land or waters not within admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction; of all prizes brought into the United States; and of all
proceedings for the condemnation of property taken as prize."
Sec. 2. That clause three of section two hundred and fifty-six of
the Judicial Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it, and to claimants the rights
and remedies under the workmen's compensation law of any State."

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

to amend the provision of §§ 24 and 256, Judicial Code,
which saves to suitors in all civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction "the right of a common-law remedy
where the common law is competent to give it," by adding
the words "and to claimants the rights and remedies
under the workmen's cQmpensation law of any State."
After declaring the true meaning and purpose of the act,
we held it beyond the power of Congress.
Except as to the master and members of the crew, the Act
of 1922 must be read as undertaking to permit application
of the workmen's compensation laws of the several States
to injuries within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
substantially as provided by the Act of 1917. The exception of master and crew is wholly insufficient to meet
the objections to such enactments heretofore often pointed
out. Manifestly, the proviso which denies jurisdiction to
district courts of the United States over causes arising out
of the injuries specified was intended to supplement the
provision covering rights and remedies under state compensation laws. As that provision is ineffective, so is the
proviso. To hold otherwise would bring about an unfortunate condition wholly outside the legislative intent.
Counsel insist that later conclusions of this Court have
modified the doctrine of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205, and Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart.
They rely especially upon Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,
257 U. S. 233, Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde,
257 U. S.469, and Industrial Commission v. ANordenholt
Co., 259 U. S. 263.
Southern Pacific v. Jensen involved a claim under the
New York Compensation Act for death resulting from injuries sustained while the deceased was on board and engaged in unloading the vessel. We held (pp. 216, 217)"It would be difficult, if not impossible, to define with exactness just how far the general maritime law may be
changed, modified, or affected by state legislation. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

this may be done to some extent cannot be denied.
Equally well established is the rule that state statutes
may not contravene an applicable act of Congress or affect
the general maritime law beyond certain limits.
And plainly, we think, no such legislation is valid if it
contravenes the essential purpose expressed by an act of
Congress or works material prejudice to the characteristic
features of the general maritime law or interferes with the
proper harmony and uniformity of that law in its international and interstate relations. This limitation, at the
least, is essential to the effective operation of the fundamental purposes for which such law was incorporated into
our national laws by the Constitution itself. . . . The
work of a stevedore in which the deceased was engaging is
maritime in nature; his employment was a maritime contract; the injuries which he received were likewise maritime; and the rights and liabilities of the parties in connection therewith were matters clearly within the admiralty
jurisdiction. Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234
U. S.52, 59, 60. If New York can subject foreign ships
coming into her ports to such obligations as those imposed by her Compensation Statute, other States may do
likewise. The necessary consequence would be destruction
of the very uniformity in respect to maritime matters
which the Constitution was designed to establish; and
freedom of navigation between the States and with foreign
countries would be seriously hampered and impeded. A
far more serious injury would result to commerce than
could have been inflicted by the Washington statute authorizing a materialman's lien condemned in The Roanoke.
[189 U. S.185.] The legislature exceeded its authority in
attempting to extend the statute under consideration to
conditions like those here disclosed."
In Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart (pp. 163, 164, 166),
where claim was made under the New York Act on account of the death of a bargeman who fell into the Hudson
River and drowned, this was said-

WASHINGTON r. DAWSON & MO.
Opinion of the Court.

219

"We conclude that [by the Act of October 6, 19171
Congress undertook to permit application of Workmen's
Compensation Laws of the several States to injuries within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; and to save
such statutes from the objections pointed out by Southern
PacificCo. v. Jensen. It sought to authorize and sanction
action by the States in prescribing and enforcin. as to all
parties concerned, rights, obligations, liabilities and remedies designed to provide compensation for injuries suffered by employees engaged in maritime work.
"And so construed, we think the enactment is beyond
the power of Congress. Its power to legislate concerning
rights and liabilities within the maritime jurisdiction and
remedies for their enforcement, arises from the Constitution, as above indicated. The definite object of the grant
was to conmit direct control to the Federal Government;
to relieve maritime commerce from unnecessary burdens
and disadvantages incident to discordant legislation; and
to establish, so far as practicable, harmonious and uniform rules applicable throughout every part of the Union.
"Considering the fundamental purpose in view and the
definite end for which such rules were accepted, we must
conclude that in their characteristic features and essential
international and interstate relations, the latter may not
be repealed, amended or changed except by legislation
which embodies both the will and deliberate judgment of
Congress. The subject was intrusted to it to be dealt with
according to its discretion-not for delegation to others.
To say that because Congress could have enacted a compensation act applicable to maritime injuries, it could
authorize the States to do so as they might desire, is false
reasoning. Moreover, such an authorization would inevitably destroy the harmony and uniformity which the
Constitution not only contemplated but actually established-it would defeat the very purpose of the grant.
See Sudden & Christenson v. Industrial Accident Coinmission, 188 Pac. Rep. 803.
'i7S51 --- 4 -- 15

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U5. S.

"Congress cannot transfer its legislative power to the
States--by nature this is non-delegable.
"Here, we are concerned with a wholly different constitutional provision-one which, for the purpose of securing harmony and uniformity, prescribes a set of rules,
empowers Congress to legislate to that end, and prohibits
material interference by the States. Obviously, if every
State may freely declare the rights and liabilities incident
to maritime employment, there will at once arise the confusion and uncertainty which framers of the Constitution
both foresaw and undertook to prevent."
In Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, a proceeding begun in
admiralty to recover damages for death of a stevedore
fatally injured while working in the hold of a vessel then
anchored and discharging her cargo, we held (p. 242)"As the logical result of prior decisions we think it follows
that, where death upon such waters results from a maritime tort committed on navigable waters within a State
whose statutes give a right of action on account of death
by wrongful act, the admiralty courts will entertain a
libel in personam for the damages sustained by those to
whom such right is given. The subject is maritime and
local in character and the specified modification of or
supplement to the rule applied in admiralty courts, when
following the common law, will not work material prejudice to the characteristic features of the general maritime
law, nor interfere with the proper harmony and uniformity of that law in its international and interstate
relations."
Grant Smith-PorterShip Co. v. Rohde was a proceeding
in admiralty to recover damages from the ship-builder for
injuries which the carpenter received while working on
an unfinished vessel moored in the Willamette River at
Portland, Oregon. "The contract for constructing 'The
Ahala' was nonmaritime, and although the incompleted
structure upon which the accident occurred was lying in

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

navigable waters, neither Rohde's general employment,
nor his activities at the time had any direct relation to
navigation or commerce." We held the matter was only
of local concern and that to permit the rights and liabilities of the parties to be determined by the local law
would not interfere with characteristic features of the
general maritime rules. We also pointed out the conclusion was in entire accord with prior cases.
Industrial Comnmission v. Nordenholt Co. related to a
claim based upon death which resulted from injuries received by the longshoreman while on the dock-a matter
never within the admiralty jurisdiction. "Insana was
injured upon the dock, an extension of the land, Cleelaiid
Ternminal & Valley R. R. Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 20S
U. S. 316, and certainly prior to the Workmen's Compensation Act the employer's liability for damages woul
have depended upon the common law and the state
statutes. Consequently, when the Compensation Act
superseded other state laws touching the liability in question, it did not come into conflict with any superior maritime law. And this is true whether awards under the act
are made as upon implied agreements or otherwise. The
stevedore's contract of employment did not contemplate
any dominant federal rule concerning the master's liability
for personal injuries received on land."
None of the later causes departs from the doctrine of
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen and Knickerbocker Ice Co.
v. Stewart, and, we think, the provisions of the Act of 1922
cannot be reconciled therewith.
Without doubt Congress has power to alter, amend or
revise the maritime law by statutes of general application
embodying its will and judgment. This power, we think,
would permit enactment of a general employers' liability
law or general provisions for compensating injured employees; but it may not be delegated to the several States.
The grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction looks to

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

uniformity; otherwise wide discretion is left to Congress.
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart. Exercising another
power-to regulate commerce-Congress has prescribed
the liability of interstate carriers by railroad for damages
to employees (Act April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65) and
thereby abrogated conflicting local rules. New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147.
This cause presents a situation where there was no attempt to prescribe general rules. On the contrary, the
manifest purpose was to permit any State to alter the
maritime law and thereby introduce conflicting requireients. To prevent this result the Constitution adopted
the law of the sea as the measure of maritime rights and
obligations. The confusion and difficulty, if vessels were
compelled to comply with the local statutes at every port,
are not difficult to see. Of course, some within the States
may prefer local rules; but the Union was formed with the
very definite design of freeing maritime commerce from
intolerable restrictions incident to such control. The subject is national. Local interests must yield to the common welfare. The Constitution is supreme.
Affirmned.
MmIR. JUSTICE HOLMES.

The reasoning of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
1'. S. 205, and cases following it never has satisfied me
and therefore I should have been glad to see a limit set
to the principle. But I must leave it to those who think
the principle right to say how far it extends.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting.
A concern, doing a general upholstering business in New
York, directs one of its regular employees, resident there,
to make repairs on a vessel lying alongside a New York
dock. The ship, then temporarily out of commission, is
owned and enrolled in New York, and when used is em-

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

ployed only within the State. While on the vessel engaged in making the repairs, the employee is injured without the fault of anyone and is disabled for life. A statute
of New York provides that, in such a case, he and his dependents shall receive compensation out of funds which
employers are obliged to provide. To such state legislation Congress has, in express terms, given its sanction.
Under the rule announced by the Court, the Federal Constitution prohibits recovery.' If, perchance, the accident
had occurred while the employee so engaged was on the
dock, the Constitution would permit recovery.2 Or, if
happily he had been killed and the accident had been due
to the employer's negligence, recovery (which is provided
for by another state statute) would likewise be permitted
under the Constitution, even though the accident had
occurred on board the vessel.'
The Constitution contains, of course, no provisioln
which, in terms, deals, in any way, with the subject of
workmen's compensation. The prohibition found by the
Court rests solely upon a. clause in § 2 of Article III:
I Compare Peters v. Veasey, 251 U. S. 121, a stevedore; al~o,
Morse Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Dan ielsen, 235 N. Y. 439; certiorari
denied, 262 U. S. 756; Mor.e Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Warren, '25
N. Y. 445; certiorari denied, 262 U. S. 756;Morse Dry Doc & Rpair Co. v. Connelly, 235 N. Y. 602; certiorari denied, 262 U. S. 75G,
all drydock employees. In Industrial Accident Comm. v. Zarich Gel,eral Accident, etc., Co., 218 Pac. 563; certiorari denied, 263 U. S.
722, the injury occurred in connection with the operations of a harbor
dredger, not engaged in commerce or navigation. In IndustrialAccident Comm. v. Alaska Packers Association, 218 Pac. 561; certioraii
denied, 263 U. S. 722; the accident occurred on an Alaska fishing vescl
while laid up for the winter at San Francisco, alongside the dock.
; State Industr;al Commissiop v. Nordenholt Corporat;on,259 U. S.
263, a stevedore.
3 Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewsk;, 261 U. S. 479, a
member of the crew; Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 2.13, a
stevedore. See also Steamboat Co. %,.Ch ase. 10 Wall. 522; Sherlork
v. Alling. 93 U. S. 99; The Ham itoa, 207 U. S. 2-98.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

"The judicial power [of the United States] shall
extend . . . to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."' The conclusion that the state law violates
the Constitution and that the consent of Congress cannot
save it, is reached solely by a process of deduction. The
chain of reasoning involved is a long one. The argument
is that the grant of judicial power to the United States
confers upon Congress, by implication, legislative power
over the substantive maritime law; that this legislative
power in Congress (while not necessarily exclusive) precludes state legislation which "works material prejudice
to the characteristic features of the general maritime law
or interferes with the proper harmony and uniformity of
that law in its international or interstate relations; " that
there is a rule of the general maritime law by which an
employer is not liable, except in case of negligence, for an
occupational injury occurring on board a vessel; that the
rule applies whenever the vessel on which the injury
occurs is afloat on navigable water, even if the vessel,
made fast to a dock, is out of commission; that the rule
applies to occupations which, like upholstering, are not
in their nature inherently maritime; that the rule governs
the relations not only of the ship and its owners to their
employees, but also the relations of independent contractors to their employees who customarily work on land;
that this rule is a characteristic feature of the general
maritime law; that for a State to change the rule, even
as applied to independent contractors doing work on craft
moored to a dock, temporarily disabled, and normally
employed wholly within the State, interferes with the
'Article I, § 8, confers upon Congress power "To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution
in the government of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof." The conclusion reached by the Court emphasises
not the breadth of the congressional power, but the limitations

upon it.

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

proper harmony and uniformity of the general maritime
law in its international and interstate relations; and that,
hence, a statute of a State which provides that employers
within it shall be liable to employees within it for occupational accidents occurring within it violates the Federal
Constitution, notwithstanding the state statute is expressly sanctioned by Congress.
Such is the chain of reasoning. Every link of the chain
is essential to the conclusion stated. If any link fails, the
argument falls. Several of the links are, in my opinion,
unfounded assumption which crumbles at the touch of
reason. How can a law of New York, making a New
York employer liable to a New York employee for every
occupational injury occurring within the State, mar the
proper harmony and uniformity of the assumed general
maritime law in its interstate and international relations,
when neither a ship, nor a ship owner, is the employer
affected, even though the accident occurs on board a
vessel on navigable waters? The relation of the independent contractor to his employee is a matter wholly of
state concern. The employer's obligation to pay and the
employee's right to receive compensation are not dependent upon any act or omission of the ship or of its owners.
To impose upon such employer the obligation to make
compensation in case of an occupational injury in no way
affects the operation of the ship. Nor can it affect the
ship owners in any respect, except as every other tax,
direct or indirect, laid by a State or municipality may
affect, by increasing the cost of living and of doing business, every one who has occasion to enter it and many
who have not.' This is true of the application of the
workmen's compensation law, whether the service rendered by the independent contractor is in its nature non'That the obligation to contribute to the compensafion find mny
be deemed a tax, see Mountain. Timber Co. v. Wa.shi;qtn, 243 V, S.
219, 237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BINDEIS, J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

maritime, like upholstering, or is inherently maritime,
like stevedoring. The requirement by the State is a
regulation of the business of upholstering or stevedoring.
It is not a regulation of shipping. It in no respect attempts to modify, or deal with, admiralty jurisdiction or
procedure, or the substantive maritime law. It is but an
exercise of the local police power.6 To impose upon the
independent employer the obligation to provide compensation for accidents occurring on a vessel in port, while
the vessel is made fast to the dock, in fact, cannot conceivably interfere with the proper harmony and uniformity of the general maritime law in its international
or interstate relations.
Moreover, it is not a characteristic feature of the general
maritime law that the employer, in case of accident, is
liable to an employee only for negligence. The characteristic feature is the very contrary. To one of the crew, the
vessel and her owners are liable, even in the absence of
negligence, for maintenance, care and wages, at least so
long as the voyage is continued. To him, they are liable,
also, even in the absence of negligence, for indemnity or
damages, if the injury results from unseaworthiness of the
ship, or from failure to supply and keep in order the
proper appliances.' The legal rights, in case of accident
to persons other than members of the crew, were not determined by the maritime law until recently. The admiralty court, instead of extending to these persons this characteristic feature, borrowed the rule of negligence from the
common law courts, making modifications conformable to
its views of justice.8
'Compare New York v. Mihn, 11 Pet. 102; Hooper v. California,
155 U. S. 648.
7 The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158; Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger,
259 U. S. 255.
8 See Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 221-2,

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

BRANDES,

J., dissenting.

The mere fact that the accident is an incident of a maritime contract, and the service performed thereunder is
inherently maritime, does not preclude the application of
the workmen's compensation law. The stevedore can recover under the workmen's compensation law, if the injury
happens to occur on land, although the contract of the
stevedoring concern is confessedly a maritime one; and
the stevedore is employed in a maritime service quite as
much while he is on the dock as after he crosses the gangplank and enters the ship.' Underlying the whole chain
of reasoning, by which the conclusion is reached that the
state and federal statutes are unconstitutional, will be
found the legally indefensible assumption that the liability under the workmen's compensation law is governed
by the law of the locality in which the accident happened;
that is, by the rule that in tort the test of admiralty jurisdiction is presence on navigable waters. There is no more
reason why the mere fact that the injury occurs on navigable waters should make applicable the maritime law to
liabilities arising under the workmen's compensation law,
than that it should make the maritime law applicable, in
such cases, to the liability under a general accident insurance policy. Tort is, in fact, not an element in the
liability created by the workmen's compensation law.1 '
On the contrary, the basis of this legislation is liability
without fault. Nor does the -workmen's compensation
law create a status between employer and employee. It
provides an incident to the employment which is often
1In my opinion, the state law, being sanctioned by Congress, is
valid, also, as applied to accidents suffered in port by persons, other
than the master or member of the crew, even if the persons injured
are employees of the vessel or of the owners, and notwithstanding
their occupations are inherently maritime, like stevedoring.
10 See Ernest Angell, "Recovery Under Workmen's Compensation
Acts for Injury Abroad," 31 Harv. L. Rev. G19, 620. See, also, :7
Harv. L. Rev. 375. Compare Pound, Spirii of the Common Law
(1921), 30.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

likened to a contractual obligation, even where the workmen's compensation law is not of the class called optional.
It will hardly be contended that an act occurring beyond
the geographical limits of a State cannot be made the
basis for the creation of rights to be enjoyed or enforced
within it. Workmen's compensation laws which provide
for compensation for injuries occurring in States other
than that of the residence of the employer and the employee are held constitutional." Why should they not be
deemed valid where they provide for accidents occurring
within the State but upon navigable waters?
A further assumption is that Congress, which has power
to make and to unmake the general maritime law, can
have no voice in determining which of its provisions require adaptation to peculiar local needs and as to which
absolute uniformity is an essential of the proper harmony
of international and interstate maritime relations. This
assumption has no support in reason; and it is inconsistent (at least in principle) with the powers conferred upon
Congress in other connections. The grant "of the . . .
judicial power . . . to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction "is, surely, no broader in terms than the grant
of power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States." Yet as to commerce, Congress
may, at least in large measure, determine whether uniformity of regulation is required or diversity is permissible.'2 Likewise, Congress is given exclusive power of
legislation over its forts, arsenals, dockyards, and other
needful places and buildings. But it may permit the
Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 184
Cal. 26, 35-37, 39, 44, 45; 255 U. S. 445. Compare Matter of Post v.
Burger & Gohlke, 216 N. Y. 544; Anderson v. Miller Scrap Iron Co.,
169 Wis. 106. See Ernest Angell, supra, 31 Harv. L. Rev. 619,
628, G36.
12See Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 244-251;
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311;
In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. .545, 564.
11

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

BRANDMS, J.,

dissenting.

diverse laws of the several States to govern the relations
of men within them. 3 Congress has exclusive power to
legislate concerning the Army and Navy of the United
States, to declare war, to determine to what extent citizens
shall aid in its prosecution, and how effective aid can best
be secured. But state legislation directly affecting these
subjects has been sustained. 4 In respect to bankruptcy,
duties, imposts, excises and naturalization the Constitution prescribes uniformity. Still, the provision in the
bankruptcy law giving effect to the divergent exemption
laws of the several States was held valid.1' Absolute uniformity in things maritime is confessedly not essential to
the proper harmony of the maritime law in its interstate
and international relations. This is illustrated both by
the cases which hold constitutional state regulation otf
pilotage and liens created by state laws in aid of maritite
contracts, and by those which hold that there are broad
fields of maritime activity to which admiralty jurisdiction
does not extend. A notable instance of the latter is the
liability in tort for injuries inflicted by a ship to a dock,
or to maritime workers on the dock engaged in the inherently maritime operation of stevedoring."
The recent legislation of Congress seeks, in a statesmanlike manner, to limit the practical scope and effect of our
decisions in Southern Pacific Co.v. Jeniseni, 244 U. S. 205:
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.149, and later
cases, by making them hereafter applicable only to the
'3 Compare Fort Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525:
Chicago & Pacific Ry. Co. v. McGlinn, 114 U. S. 542; Wesern Union
Tel. Co. v. Chiles, 214 U. S. 274; Omaechevarria v. Idabo, 246 U. S.
343.
'4 Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325.
Compare Moore v. Ihlno,'s,
14 How. 13; Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34.
15 Hanover National Bank v. Moyses, 186 U. S. 1S1. See Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 168.
"See Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 219-220.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

relations of the ship to her master and crew. To hold that
Congress can effect this result by sanctioning the application of state workmen's compensation laws to accidents
to any other class of employees occurring on the navigable
waters of the State would not. in my judgment, require us
to overrule any of these cases. It would require merely
that we should limit the application of the rule therein
announced, and that we should declare our disapproval of
certain expressions used in the opinions. Such limitation
of principles previously announced, and such express disapproval of dicta, are often necessary. It is an unavoidable incident of the search by courts of last resort for the
true rule." The process of inclusion and exclusion, so
often applied in developing a rule, cannot end with its
first enunciation. The rule as announced must be deemed
tentative. For the many and varying facts to which it
will be applied cannot be foreseen. Modification implies
growth. It is the life of the law.
If the Court is of opinion that this act of Congress
is in necessary conflict with its recent decisions, those
cases should be frankly overruled. The reasons for
doing so are persuasi've. Our experience in attempting
to apply the rule, and helpful discussions by friends
of the Court, have made it clear that the rule declared is legally unsound;" that it disturbs legal prin"Compare, e. g., Sonneborn Bros. v. C,eton, 262 U. S. 506, qualifying Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466; Bowman v. Continental Oil
Co., 256 U. S. 642; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S. 444;
StandardOil Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S. 389, and Baltimore & Ohio S. W.
R. R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S. 166, 173, overruling dicta in Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403.
"See Edgar Tremlett Fell, Recent Problems in Admiralty Jurisdiction (1922), 1-53; John Gorham Palfrey, "The Common Law Courts
and the Law of the Sea," 36 Harv. L. Rev. 777; also, Vol. 31, p. 488;
Vol. 34, p. 82; Vol. 35, p. 743; Vol. 37, p. 478: E. Merrick Dodd, Jr.,
"The New Doctrine of the Supremacy of Admiralty over the Common
Law," 21 Col. L. Rev. 647; also, Vol. 17, p. 703; Vol. 20, p. 685;
Frederic Cunningham, " Is Every County Court in the United States

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
219

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

ciples long established; and that if adhered to, it will
make a serious addition to the classes of cases which this
Court is required to review." Experience and discussion
have also made apparent how unfortunate are the results.
economically and socially. It has, in part, frustrated a
promising attempt to alleviate some of the misery, and
remove some of the injustice, incident to the conduct of
industry and commerce. These far-reaching and unfortunate results of the rule declared in Southern Pacific
Co. v. Jensen cannot have been foreseen when the decision
was rendered. If it is adhered to, appropriate legislative
provision, urgently needed, cannot be made until another
amendment of the Constitution shall have been adopted.
For no federal workmen's compensation law could satisfy
the varying and peculiar economic and social needs incident to the diversity of conditions in the several States."
53 Amer. L. Rev. 749; "The Talble,
Turned-Lord Coke Demolished," 55 Amer. L. Rev. 65; J. Whitla
Stinson, "Admiralty and Maritime Jurisdiction," 54 Amer. L. Rev,
908; Yale L. Journal, Vol. 27, pp. 255, 924; Vol. 28, pp. 2S1, :35;
Vol. 29, p. 925; Mich. L. Rev., Vol. 15, p. 657; Vol. 16, p. 562; Vol. 18,
p. 793; Calif. L. Rev., Vol. 6, p. 69; Vol. 8, -p. 33S; Vol. 10, p. 2.34;
Minn. L. Rev., Vol. 2, p. 145; Vol. 4, p. 444; Vol. 6, p. 230; Southern
L. Q., Vol. 2, p. 304; Vol. 3, p. 76; Francis .J. Maclntyre, "Admiralty
and the Workmen's Compensation Law," 5 Cornell L. Q. 275; 91
Central L. J. 4:3; 6 Ill. L. Q. 157; 8 Vo. L. Reg. (n. s.) 290-296; 61
Amer. L. Reg. (n. s.) 42-45.
"By making the substantive maritime law the rule of decision in
the common law courts exercising concurrent jurisdiction, the rule of
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen introduces into every Prase in a state
court involving maritime law, even if it is not affected by any state
statute, a federal question which may be brought to this Court for
review either by writ of error or by petition for a writ of certiorari.
Compare Dab nke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bonduratit, 257 U. S. 282,
293-03; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Ierchant, Ele ,tor Co., 25!
U. S. 285, 290.
"Compare New York Central R. R. Co. v. Win field, 241 U. S.
147, 169. See Andrew Furuzeth, " Harbor Workers Are Not Seamen:
An Essential Distinciion in Compensation Le1ioation," 11 Am. Labor
a Court of Admiralty?"

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

The doctrine of stare decisis should not deter us from
overruling that case and those which follow it. The decisions are recent ones. They have not been acquiesced
in. They have not created a rule of property around which
vested interests have clustered. They affect solely matters of a transitory nature. On the other hand, they
affect seriously the lives of men, women and children, and
the general welfare. Stare decisis is ordinarily a wise rule
of action. But it is not a universal; inexorable command.
The instances in which the Court has disregarded its admonition are many.21 The existing admiralty jurisdiction
rests, in large part, upon like action of the Court in The
Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 456. In that case the Court
overruled The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, and
Leg. Rev. 139; T. V. O'Connor, "The Plight of the Longshoremen,"
ibid, p. 144; J. P. Coughlin, "Accident Protection for Ship Repairmen," ibid, p. 146; J. P. Chamberlain, "The Conflict of Jurisdiction
in Compensation for Maritime Workers," ibid, p. 133; L. W. Hatch,
" The 'Maritime' Twilight Zone from the Standpoint of Compensation Administration," ibid, 148; J. B. Andrews, "Legislative Program
of Accident Compensation for 'Maritime' Workers," ibid, p. 152.
See also, ibid, Vol. 10, pp. 117, 241; Vol. 12, pp. 53, 69, 103, 104.
"See Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S.653, 659, overruling Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S.449; Terral v. Burke Construction
Co., 257 U. S.529, 533, overruling Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co.,
94 U. S.535, and Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Prewitt, 202
U. S.246; Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S.8,
25, and Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502,
518, overruling Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1; United States v.
Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 601, overruling Matter of Hefi, 197 U. S.488;
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 158 U. S. 601, overruling

Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171; Roberts v. Lewis, 153 U. S.367,
379, overruling Giles v. Little, 104 U. S.291; Brenham v. German
American Bank, 144 U. S. 173, 187, overruling Rogers v. Burlington,
3 Wall. 654, and Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, 118, overruling Pierce v. New Hampshire,5 How. 504;
Morgan v. United States, 113 U. S. 476, 496, overruling Texas v.
White. 7 Wall. 700; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 553, overruling
Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603.

ADDY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
219

Counsel for Parties.

The Steamboat Orleans v. Phoebus, 11 Pet. 175; and a
doctrine declared by Mr. Justice Story with the concurrence of Chief Justice Marshall, and approved by Chancellor Kent, was abandoned when found to be erroneous,
although it had been acted on for twenty-six years.
MATTHEW ADDY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
FORD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 84 and 85. Argued October 17, 18, 1923.-Decided Februry
25, 1924.

1. In a prosecution for violation of an order of the President fixing
prices of coal, under the Lever Act (August 10, 1917, c. 53, § 25,
40 Stat. 276), the order must be construed, as criminal statutes
are, strictly, and without retroactive effect unless clearly indicated.
P. 244.
2. A construction which raises a grave constitutional question should
be avoided. P. 245.
3. Qztaere: Whether Congress, when enacting the Lever Act, couldl
constitutionally have fixed prices at which persons then owning
coal might sell it, without providing compensation for lo-.ce? Id
4. The President's Order of August 23, 1917, limiting jobbers to a
gross margin of 150 per ton in reselling bituminous coal, did not
apply to sales f. o. b. the mines, contracted and made by jobbers
after the date of the order, of coal purchased by them f. o. b. the
mines before the dates of the order and the Lever Act. P. 245.
281 Fed. 298, reversed.
CERTIOAI to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming fines imposed on the petitioners, in criminal prosecutions based on the Lever Act.

Mr. Julius R. Samuels, with whom Mr. Nelson B.
Cramerwas on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Geo. Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.

