RALEY & BROS. v. RICHARDSON.
150

Syllabus.

Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292. 297;
or where an occupation tax is laid upon one who, like a
drummer or delivery agent, is engaged exclusively in inaugurating or completing his own or his employer's transaction in interstate commerce. Robbins v. Shdbiy
County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Davis v. Virginia,
236 U. S. 697.
The New Orleans tax is obviously not laid upon property moving in interstate commerce. Nor does it, like a
gross-receipts tax, lay a burden upon every transaction.
It is simply a tax upon one of the instrumentalities of
interstate commerce. It is no more a direct burden, thani
is the tax on the other indispensable instrumentalities;
upon the ship; upon the pilot boat, which she must employ; upon the wharf at which she must load and unload; upon the office which the owner would have to hire
for his employees, if, instead of engaging the services of
an independent contractor, he had preferred to perform
those duties himself. The fact that, in this case, th
services are performed by an independent contractor having his own established business, and the fact that the
services rendered are not limited to soliciting, differentiate this case from McCall v. California, 136 U. S.
104. If these differences are deemed insufficient to distinguish that case from the one at bar, it should be
frankly overruled as inconsistent with the general trend
of later decisions.
J. E. RALEY & BROTHERS, ET AL. v. RICHARDSON, TAX COLLECTOR OF FULTON COUNTY,
ET AL.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA,

No. 152. Submitted January 11, 1924.-Decided Februar, 18, 1)24.
1. The validity of a flat tax imposed by a state tlw uipon rrok~r or
commission merchants who solicit orders for good. in intrastate

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

commerce, is not affected by the fact that the persons taxed are
engaged ajso, and to a greater extent, in soliciting orders in interstate commerce. P. 159.
2. Because a state tax on merchants engaged in domestic business is
not and cannot be imposed on others engaged in interstate business,
is manifestly no reason for thinking it repugnant to the Equal Protection Clause. P. 160.
154 Ga. 140, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
affirming a judgment dismissing a bill to enjoin collection
of a tax.

Mr. E. B. Weatherly and Mr. John P. Ross for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Geo. M. Napier,Attorney General, Mr. T. R. Gress,
Assistant Attorney General, of the State of Georgia, and
Mr. Frank Carter for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Georgia (Acts 1921, p. 46, par. 30) unposes a flat tax of $100 upon any broker or commission
merchant buying or selling merchandise on commission
for another, or engaged in the business of receiving or distributing articles of merchandise shipped to such broker
or merchant for distribution on account of the shipper.
The bill filed below sought to enjoin the collection of the
tax on the ground that the statute violates the Commerce
Clause of the Federal Constitution and also, contingently,
upon the further ground that the statute is void under
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The complainants were divided into two classes, A and
B. The business of those in Class B was to solicit orders
for goods from dealers in Georgia, which orders were sent
to be filled, sometimes to non-resident and sometimes to
resident principals, the greater part of the business being
with non-resident principals. The business of those in

RALEY & BROS. v. RICHARDSON.
157

Opinion of the Court.

Class A was wholly confined to representation of nonresident principals. Upon acceptance of an order the
goods are shipped by the principal to the purchaser, but
remain the property of the former until the time of sale.
The trial court sustained the tax as to Class B and enjoined its collection as to Class A, and its judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court. 154 Ga. 140. We are
concerned here with the judgment only in so far as it
affects Class B.
The contention is that the tax is laid, expressly, upon
all brokers and commission merchants in the State and
upon the business done by them, whether interstate or
intrastate, without separating one from the other. The
state courts, by whose construction we are bound, held
that the statute did not apply to interstate business; and
we consider it, as though it so provided in terms. It was
held, however, that inasmuch as Class B complainants
were engaged in intrastate business they were subject to
the tax, and none the less because they were also engaged
in interstate business. With this conclusion we fully
agree.
The complainants were definitely engaged in the domestic business described in the statute and were liable to
the tax, irrespective of the extent of it and whether they
engaged in interstate business in addition or not. That
the former was small in comparison with the latter makes
no difference; nor does the fact that both were carried on
at the same time and in the same establishment. If the
two were not distinct, but the former a mere incident of
the latter, the burden was upon complainants to furnish
the proof; in which case a different question would arise.
Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60, 69. Certainly, one cannot avoid a tax upon a taxable business by also engaging
in a non-taxable business.
There is nothing in the contention that, because, under
the construction placed upon the statute by the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U.S.

courts, the tax falls upon those engaged in domestic business and does not fall upon those engaged in interstate
business, it is void for inequality. It would be a strange
application of the equality provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment to say that because a State is forbidden by
paramount law to impose a tax upon some merchants,
it is therefore powerless to impose it upon other merchants
to whom the restriction does not apply. It is enough
if the State observe the rule of equality among the persons subject to its taxing power.
Affirmed.
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND v.
MALLOY ET AL., TRADING AS MALLOY
BROTHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 553. Argued January 9, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.
I. Generally, as held in Exchange Natl. Bank v. Third Natl. Bank.
112 U. S. 276, where a check, deposited by the owner in a bank, is
forwarded by it in due course to another bank for collection, the
second bank does not become responsible, as an agent, to the
owner. P. 164.
2. But it is otherwise where, by a state statute with reference to
which the first bank and the check-owner presumably contract,
the forwarding of such instruments for collection, in the regular
course of banking, is to be deemed due diligence acquitting the
forwarding bank of liability until it has received actual payment,
for, in such case, the initial bank has implied authority to employ
another bank as subagent, and this in turn another, and the risk
of their default or neglect is with the depositor of the instrument. Id.
3. If a bank, responsible to the payee for the collection of a check,
surrender the check to the drawee bank and accept in payment an
exchange draft of that bank which proves worthless, the collecting bank is liable to the payee of the check for the resulting loss.
P. 165.

