OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

PACKARD v. BANTON, AS DISTRICT ATTORNEY
IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 126.

Argued January 2, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

1. The amount in controversy in a suit to enjoin enforcement of a
statute alleged to be unconstitutional in relation to the plaintiff's

business, is the value of his right to carry on the business free from
the restraint of the statute. P. 142.
2. When prevention of criminal prosecutions under an unconstitu-

tional statute is essential to protect property rights, equitable
jurisdiction exists to restrain them. P. 143.
3. A New York statute requires persons engaged in the business of
carrying passengers for hire in motor vehicles, upon public streets,
to file security or insurance for payment of judgments for death,
or injury to person or property, caused in the operation or by
defective construction of such motor vehicles. Held:
(a) Not in violation of equal protection of the laws, either because
it applies only in cities of the first class, or because it does not
apply to persons operating motor vehicles for their own private
ends, or because it does not apply to street cars and omnibuses,
which are regulated under another law. P. 143.
(b) Not so burdensome in this case as to amount to confiscation, in
violation of due process of law,-in view of the opportunity
allowed to file a corporate or personal bond, if the cost of insurance
be excessive compared with the returns from plaintiff's business.
P. 145.
(c) Inability of a party to comply with the statute without assuming
an excessive burden does not render the requirement unconstitutional if due to his peculiar circumstances. Id.
4. The regulatory power over an activity carried on by government
sufferance or permission is greater than over one engaged in by
private right. Id.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, which dismissed a bill to enjoin enforcement of a New York statute
regulating carriers of passengers for hire by motor vehicle.

PACKARD v. BANTON
140

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Avel B. Silverman, with whom Mr. Louis .1.
Vorhaus, Mr. Elijah IV. Zoline and Mr. Frederick HemleY
were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General of the State of
New York, with whom Mr. Edward G. Griffin and Mr.
Claude T. Dawes, Deputy Attorneys General, were on the
brief, for the Attorney General of New York, appellee.
1ir. Felix C. Benvenga, with whom Mr. John. Caldwell
Mlyers was on the brief, for Banton, District Attorney.
appellee.
Mr. Louis Tyroler, by leave of Court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Allied Taxi Owners Association, as amicus
curiae.
MRi.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a statute
of New York (Laws, 1922, c. 612, p. 1566) alleged to be
in contravention of the equal protection of the laws and
due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
statute requires every person, etc., engaged in the business of carrying passengers for hire in any motor vehicle,
except street cars and motor vehicles subject to the
Public Service Commission law, upon any public street
in a city of the first class, to file with the State Tax Commission, either a personal bond with sureties, a corporate
surety bond or a policy of insurance in a solvent and responsible company, in the sum of $2,500, conditioned for
the payment of any judgment recovered against such
person, etc., for death or injury caused in the operation
or [by] the defective construction of such motor vehicle.
The bill alleges that the rate of premium for the required
policy is fixed by the insurance companies at $960; that
the net income from the operation of a motor vehicle is

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

about $35 a week, which would be reduced by the operation of the law to $16.50 per week, resulting in confiscation of the earnings of appellant for the benefit of
the insurance companies. The statute makes it a misdemeanor to operate such motor vehicle without having
furnished the required bond or policy; and appellant
avers that appellees, as prosecuting officers of the State,
have threatened, and, if not enjoined, will proceed to
prosecute him, unless he complies with the law. The
court below was constituted of three judges, under ยง 266
of the Judicial Code. Upon the return of the order to
show cause a hearing was had, and the court denied a
motion for an injunction pendente lite, and dismissed the
bill for want of equity, without handing down an opinion.
1. Appellees insist that the District Court was without jurisdiction because the matter in controversy does
not exceed the value of $3,000. Judicial Code, ยง 24, subd.
1. The bill discloses that the enforcement of the statute
sought to be enjoined will have the effect of materially
increasing appellant's expenditures, as well as causing injury to him in other respects. The allegations, in general
terms, are that the sum or value in controversy exceeds
$3,000, which the affidavits filed in the lower court tend
to support; that appellant is the owner of four motor
vehicles, the income from which would be reduced, if
the law be enforced, to the extent of $18.50 each per
week; and that his business would otherwise suffer. The
object of the suit is to enjoin the enforcement of the
statute, and it is the value of this object thus sought
to be gained that determines the amount in dispute.
Mississippi & Missouri R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2 Black, 485;
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kuteman, 54 Fed. 547, 552;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. McConnell, 82 Fed.
65, 73; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 114; City of
Hutchinson v. Beckharn, 118 Fed. 399, 402; Evenson v.
Spaulding, 150 Fed. 517, 520; Hunt v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 205 U. S. 322. 336.

PACKARD v. BANTON.
140

Opinion of the Court.

Counter affidavits were fied, tending to show that
the expenses incident to compliance with the statute
would be less than alleged; but it sufficiently appears that
the value of the right of appellant to carry on his business, freed from the restraint of the statute, exceeds the
jurisdictional amount.
2. Another preliminary contention is that the bill cannot be sustained because there is a plain, adequate and
complete remedy at law; that is, that the question may
be tried and determined as fully in a criminal prosecution
under the statute as in a suit in equity. The general rule
undoubtedly is that a court of equity is without jurisdiction to restrairi criminal proceedings unless they are
instituted by a party to a suit already pending before it
to try the same right that is in issue there. In re Sauyer,
124 U. S. 200, 209-211; Davis & Farnum Manufacturing
Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217.
But it is settled that "a distinction obtains, and equitable jurisdiction exists to restrain criminal prosecutions
under unconstitutional enactments, when the prevention
of such prosecutions is essential to the safeguarding of
rights of property." Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 37-38.
The question has so recently been considered that we
need do no more than cite Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197, where the cases are collected; and state our conclusion that the present suit falls within the exception
and not the general rule. Huston v. Des Moines, 176 Ia.
455, 464; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223.
3. We come, then, to the question whether the statute
assailed contravenes the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment. That the selection of cities of the first class
for the application of the regulations and the exclusion
of all others, is not an unreasonable and arbitrary classification does not admit of controversy. Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68. We cannot say that there are not
reasons applicable to the streets of large cities--such as

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

their use by a great number of persons or the density and
continuity of traffic-justifying measures to safeguard
the public from dangers incident to the operation of
motor vehicles which do not obtain in the case of the
smaller communities.
The contention most pressed is that the act unreasonably and arbitrarily discriminates against those engaged
in operating motor vehicles for hire in favor of persons
operating such vehicles for their private ends, and in
favor of street cars and motor omnibuses. If the State
determines that the use of streets for private purposes
in the usual and ordinary manner shall be preferred over
their use by common carriers for hire, there is nothing
in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent. The streets
belong to the public and are primarily for the use of the
public in the ordinary way. Their use for the purposes
of gain is special and extraordinary and, generally at
least, may be prohibited or conditioned as the legislature
deems proper. Neither is there substance in the complaint that street cars and omnibuses are not included in
the requirements of the statute. The reason, appearing
in the statute itself, for excluding them is that they are
regulated by the Public Service Commission laws, and
this circumstance, if there were nothing more, would preclude us from saying that their non-inclusion renders
the classification so arbitrary as to cause it to be obnoxious to the equal protection clause. Decisions sustaining the validity of legislation like that here involved
are numerous and substantially uniform. Among them,
we cite the following: Nolen v. Riechman, 225 Fed. 812,
818; Schoenfeld v. Seattle, 265 Fed. 726, 730; Lane v.
Whitaker, 275 Fed. 476, 480; Huston v. Des Moines, 176
Ia. 455, 468; Memphis v. State, 133 Tenn. 83, 89; Ex
parte Dickey, 76 W. Va. 576, 578; Melconian v. Grand
Rapids, 218 Mich. 397, 403; State v. Seattle Taxicab &
Transfer Co., 90 Wash. 416, 423; Donella v. Enright,

PACKARD v. BANTON.
140

Opinion of the Court.

195 N. Y. S. 217; People v. Martin, 203 App. Div. 423,
where the statute now under review was sustained against
the attacks here made as to its constitutionality. And see
Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. New York City, 221 U. S.
467; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 353.
It is asserted that the requirements of the statute are
so burdensome as to amount to confiscation and, therefore, to result in depriving appellant of his property without due process of law. The allegation is that the rate
of premium fixed by insurance companies operating in
New York amounts to about $18.50 per week for each
taxicab while the net income from each is about $35 per
week. The operator, under the statute, however, is not
confined to this method of security, but instead may file
either a personal bond with two approved sureties or a
corporate surety bond. Appellant says that he cannot
procure a personal bond, but it does not appear that he
might not procure the corporate surety bond at a less
cost. Affidavits filed below on behalf of appellees tend
to show that insurance policies in mutual casualty companies may be secured for $540 a year; and that operators of upwards of a thousand oars have furnished
personal bonds. The fact that, because of cireumstance.
peculiar to him, appellant may be unable to comply with
the requirement as to security without assuming a burden
greater than that generally borne, or excessive in itself,
does not militate against the constitutionality of the
statute. Moreover, a distinction must be observed between the regulation of an activity which may be engaged in as a matter of right and one carried on by government sufferance or permission. In the latter case the
power to exclude altogether generally includes the lesser
power to condition and may justify a degree of regulation
not admissible in the former. See Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43.
Afflanicd.
97851 o-24-1

