298

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

specially experienced in a particular branch of business'
it is not necessary that the prohibition ' should be couched
in all-embracing terms.' Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance
Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. If the law presumably hits the
evil where it is most felt, it is not to be overthrown because there are other instances to which it might have
been applied. Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224,
227. Upon this principle which has had abundant illustration in the decisions cited below, it cannot be concluded that the failure to extend the act to other and distinct lines of business, having their own circumstances and
conditions, or to domestic service, created an arbitrary
discrimination as against the proprietors of hotels."
The judgment below is
Affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. AMERICAN
TOBACCO COMPANY.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. P. LORILLARD
COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 206 and 207.

Argued March 7, 1924.-Decided March 17, 1924.

1. The clause of the Federal Trade Commission Act, § 6(d), empowering the commission to investigate and report facts as to alleged
violation of the Anti-Trust Acts when directed by either house of
Congress, will not support its demand for disclosure of the records
of a corporation in an investigation directed by the Senate not
based on such an alleged violation. P. 305.
2. The mere facts of carrying on commerce not confined within state
lines and of being organized as a corporation do not make men's
affairs public. Id.
3. A governmental fishing expedition into the papers of a private
corporation, on the possibility that they may disclose evidence of
crime, is so contrary to first principles of justice, if not defiant of

FED. TRADE COMM. v. AMER. TOBACCO CO.
298

299

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Fourth Amendment, that an intention to grant the power to a
subordinate agency will not be attributed to Congress unles" ex-

pressed in most explicit language. P. 306.
4. The above act, (§ 9), provides that the commission shall at all
reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of examination,
and the right to copy, any documentary evidence of any corporation being investigated or proceeded against, and that, to enforce
compliance, writs of mandamus may issue upon application of
the Attorney General. Held, that access is confined to such
documents as are relevant as evidence to the inquiry or complaint
before the commission, and that their disclosure cannot be compelled

without some evidence of their relevancy and upon a reasonable
demand. Id.
283 Fed. 999, affirmed.

ERRO R to judgments of the District Court denying petitions for writs of mandamus brought by the Attorney
General to compel disclosure of their records, by the defendants, to the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. W.
H. Fuller and Mr. Adrien F. Busick were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
The Federal Trade Commission Act confers authority
on the Commission to inspect the documents and correspondence specified in the prayer of the petitions. The
access here prayed was in connection with both an "investigation" under § 6(a), and with a "proceeding"
under § 5. The documents and correspondence demanded
were of a character, and limited to a period, pertinent to
the inquiry and the charge of a violation of law. The
objection that correspondence connected with intrastate
transactions can not be had is not sound. No privilege
attaches to correspondence between a corporation engaged
in interstate commerce and its customers written in the
ordinary course of business. Interstate Commerce Comm.
v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

Congress is vested with visitorial power over corporations within the field committed to its jurisdiction and may
constitutionally confer authority on executive officers and
administrative bodies to exercise such power to enforce
laws which they are required to administer. Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148;
Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361.
Statutes empowering executive officers or administrative bodies to inspect books, documents, and papers of
corporations to ascertain whether laws administered by
them are being violated are upheld. United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 318; United
States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 98 U. S. 569. Laws
empowering state public utility commissions to inspect
the books, papers, and documents of corporations subject
to their jurisdiction obtain in a number of States. The
provisions of these statutes appear to be generally acquiesced in, and have been specifically upheld. Federal
Mining Co. v. Public Utilities Comm., 26 Idaho, 391;
Federal Trade Comm. v. Baltimore Grain Co., 284 Fed.
886. Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211
U. S. 407, distinguished.
Visitorial power applies with equal force to private
corporations and corporations in quasi-public business.
Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541;
Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; People
v. American Ice Co., 54 Misc. (N. Y.) 67; United States
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 98 U. S. 569.
Visitorial power of the Government over corporations
is not the same as subpoena power or the power to grant
a bill of discovery. It comprehends something more than
the right to have competent and relevant evidence produced in the trial of a case. Hammond Packing Co. v.
Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; Consolidated Rendering Co. v.
Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Federal Mining Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm., 26 Idaho, 391.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. AMER. TOBACCO CO.
298

301

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The power committed to the Commission to inspect
documents in connection with investigations authorized
by § 6 (a) as a basis of reports to Congress, is constitutional. It was recently argued in another case that, as
an indispensable incident to its power to legislate, Congress had power to ascertain the facts respecting any subject committed to its legislative jurisdiction. McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Legal Tender Cases, 110 U. S.
421; 12 Wall. 457, 536; In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661;
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447,
476; Smith v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 245 U. S. 33;
McDonald v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; People v. Sharp, 107
N. Y. 427; Bender v. Milliken, 185 N. Y. 35; Sheppard
v. Bryant, 191 Mass. 591; 9 A. L. R. 1341; that Congress
could constitutionally authorize an administrative body
to compel the production of facts concerning any subject
over which Congress had jurisdiction, for the reasons (a)
that the power to collect information is not legislative
power and may be delegated; Watson, Const., p. 114;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 367; Waynan v.
Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 42, 43; Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194; Bender
v. Mlilliken, 185 N. Y. 35; (b) that the act lays down a
sufficiently definite rule for the guidance of the Comnmission; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192
U. S. 470; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; (c)
that it is a proper and constitutional means for carrying into execution the legislative power of Congress;
AlcCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421; Legal Tender
Cases, 110 U. S. 421, 440; United States v. Fisher, 2
Cranch, 358, 396; First National Bank v. Union Trust
Co., 244 U. S. 416, 424. If natural persons may be summoned to appear and produce documents for inspection
of either house of Congress, or of its committees when
duly authorized by either house, it would appear compe-

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

tent for a committee, so authorized, to visit the offices of
persons and demand an inspection of relevant books and
papers. It would appear that this power may be exercised, at least with respect to corporations, because of the
superior power of the State over corporations as distinguished from natural persons. The superiority of this
method over that of requiring the production of books
and papers at distant points is clear.
To permit the inspection prayed in the Commission's
petitions would not violate the Fourth Amendment. Corporations are not entitled to as full a measure of protection under the Fourth Amendment as natural persons.
Essgee Co. v. United States, 262 U. S. 151; Wilson v.
United States, 221 U. S. 361.
Unlike a natural person, a corporation may be compelled to produce its books and papers to convict it of
violations of penal statutes or to inflict forfeiture. This
Court holds, however, that a corporation is entitled to
some protection under this Amendment. It is entitled,
presumably, not to have its offices denuded of records to
an extent which will render it difficult, if not impossible,
to conduct its business. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 77.
Corporations are also entitled under the Amendment not
to have their offices broken open and their papers seized
and carried away without warrant of law. Silverthorne
Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385.
"Probable cause," "specific charge," or "materiality"
need not be proven as a condition precedent to the exercise
of the visitorial power. Hale v. Henkel, supra; Wilson v.
United States, supra. But if a specific charge must be
formulated and probable cause made to appear before an
examination can be had under the Federal Trade Commission Act, both conditions have been fully met in the
cases at bar. A specific charge of a violation of law was
set forth in the notice and demand, and especially in the
formal complaint which the Commission filed. Probable

FED. TRADE COMM. v. AMER. TOBACCO CO.
298

303

Opinion of the Court.

cause to believe that evidence would be found material to
this charge was amply shown in the Commission's preliminary report in response to Senate Resolution 129.
The notice and demand was sufficiently specific even
under the tests applied to subpoenas duces tecum. Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541.
The companies can not assert any constitutional privilege on behalf of their customers.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. William B.
Bell, Mr. William R. Perkins and Mr. BernardHershkopf
were on the brief, for defendant in error in No. 207.
Mr. Junius Parker, with whom Mr. John Walsh and
Mr. JonathanH. Holmes were on the brief, for defendant
in error in No. 206.
MR. JtsTIcE HOLTMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are two petitions for writs of mandamus to the
respective corporations respondent, manufacturers and
sellers of tobacco, brought by the Federal Trade Commission under the Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311, § 9,
38 Stat. 717, 722, and in alleged pursuance of a resolution
of the Senate passed on August 9, 1921. The purpose of
the petitions is to require production of records, contracts,
memoranda and correspondence for inspection and making
copies. They were denied by the District Court. 283 Fed.
999. The resolution directs the Commission to investigate the tobacco situation as to domestic and export trade
with particular reference to market price to producers,
&c. The act directs the Commission to prevent the use of
unfair methods of competition in commerce and provides
for a complaint by the Commission, a hearing and a report, with an order to desist if it deems the use of a
prohibited method proved. The Commission and the
party concerned are both given a resort to the Circuit

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Court of Appeals. § 5. By § 6 the Commission shall have
power (a) to gather information concerning, and to investigate the business, conduct, practices and management
of any corporation engaged in commerce, except banks and
common carriers, and its relation to other corporations and
individuals; (b) to require reports and answers under oath
to specific questions, furnishing the Commission such information as it may require on the above subjects; (d)
upon the direction of the President or either House of
Congress to investigate and report the facts as to alleged
violation of the Anti-trust Acts. By § 9 for the purposes
of this act the Commission shall at all reasonable times
have access to, for the purposes of examination, and the
right to copy qny documentary evidence of any corporation being investigated or proceeded against and shall
have power to require by subpoena the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of all such
documentary evidence relating to any matter under investigation. In case of disobedience an order may be
obtained from a District Court. Upon application of the
Attorney General the District Courts are given jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus to require compliance
with the act or any order of the Commission made in
pursuance thereof. The petitions are filed under this
clause and the question is whether orders of the Commission to allow inspection and copies of the documents
and correspondence referred to were authorized by the act.
The petitions allege that complaints have been filed
with the Commission charging the respondents severally
with unfair competition by regulating the prices at which
their commodities should be resold, set forth the Senate
resolution, and the resolutions of the Commission to conduct an investigation under the authority of §§ 5 and 6 (a),
and in pursuance of the Senate resolution, and for the
further purpose of gathering and compiling information
concerning the business, conduct and practices, &c., of

FED. TRADE COMM. v. AMER. TOBACCO CO.
298

305

Opinion of the Court.

each of the respondent companies. There are the necessary formal allegations and a prayer that unless the accounts, books, records, documents, memoranda, contracts,
papers and correspondence of the respondents are immediately submitted for inspection and examination and
for the purpose of making copies thereof, a mandamus
issue requiring, in the case of the American Tobacco Company, the exhibition during business hours when the
Conmmission's agent requests it, of all letters and telegrams
received by the Company from, or sent by it to all of its
jobber customers, between January 1, 1921, to December
31, 1921, inclusive. In the case of the P. Lorillard Company the same requirement is made and also all letters,
telegrams or reports from or to its salesmen, or from or
to all tobacco jobbers' or wholesale grocers' associations.
all contracts or arrangements with such associations, and
correspondence and agreements with a list of corporations
named.
The Senate resolution may be laid on one side as it is
not based on any alleged violation of the Anti-trust Acts.
within the requirement of § 6(d) of the act. United
States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 318,
329. The complaints, as to which the Commission refused
definite information to the respondents, and one at least
of which, we understand, has been dismissed, also may be
disregarded for the moment, since the Conmmission claims
an unlimited right of access to the respondents' papers
with reference to the possible existence of practices in
violation of § 5.
The mere facts of carrying on a commerce not confined
within state lines and of being organized as a corporation
do not make men's affairs public, as those of a railroad
company now may be. Smith v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 245 U. S. 33, 43. Anyone who respects the
spirit as well as the letter of the Fourth Amendment would
be loath to- believe
that Congress intended to authorize
4
20
M751'

_' -

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

one of its subordinate agencies to sweep all our traditions
into the fire (Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479), and to direct fishing expeditions
into private papers on the possibility that they may disclose evidence of crime. We do not discuss the question
whether it could do so if it tried, as nothing short of the
most explicit language would induce us to attribute to
Congress that intent. The interruption of business, the
possible revelation of trade secrets, and the expense that
compliance with the Commission's wholesale demand
would cause are the least considerations. It is contrary to
the first principles of justice to allow a search through all
the respondents' records, relevant or irrevelant, in the
hope that something will turn up. The unwillingness of
this Court to sustain such a claim is shown in Harrimanv.
InterstateCommerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407-and as to
correspondence, even in the case of a common carrier, in
United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 236 U. S.
318, 335. The question is a different one where the State
granting the charter gives its Commission power to
inspect.
The right of access given by the statute is to documentary evidence-not to all documents, but to such documents as are evidence. The analogies of the law do not
allow the party wanting evidence to call for all documents
in order to see if they do not contain it. Some ground
must be shown for supposing that the documents called
for do contain it. Formerly in equity the ground must be
found in admissions in the answer. Wigram, Discovery,
2d ed., § 293. We assume that the rule to be applied here
is more liberal but still a ground must be laid and the
ground and the demand must be reasonable. Essgee Co.
v. United States, 262 U. S. 151, 156, 157. A general subpcena in the form of these petitions would be bad. Some
evidence of the materiality of the papers demanded must
be produced. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 77. In the

FED. TRADE COMM. v. AMER. TOBACCO CO.
298

307

Opinion of the Court.

state case relied on by the Government, the requirement
was only to produce books and papers that were relevant
to the inquiry. Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont,
207 U. S. 541. The form of the subpcena was not the question in Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478, 488.
The demand was not only general but extended to the
records and correspondence concerning business done
wholly within the State. This is made a distinct ground of
objection. We assume for present purposes that even
some part of the presumably large mass of papers relating
only to intrastate business may be so connected with
charges of unfair competition in interstate matters as to be
relevant, Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 520, 521, but
that possibility does not warrant a demand for the whole.
.For all that appears the corporations would have been
willing to produce such papers as they conceived to be
relevant to the matter in hand. See Terminal Taxicab Co.
v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252, 256. If their judgment upon that matter was not final, at least some evidence must be offered to show that it was wrong. No
such evidence is shown.
We have considered this case on the general claim of
authority put forward by the Commission. The argument for the Government attaches some force to the
investigations and proceedings upon which the Commission had entered. The investigations and complaints seem
to have been only on hearsay or suspicion-but, even if
they were induced by substantial evidence under oath, the
rudimentary principles of justice that we have laid
down would apply. We cannot attribute to Congress an
intent to defy the Fourth Amendment or even to come so
near to doing so as to raise a serious question of constitutional law. United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
213 U. S. 366, 408. United States v. .in Fuey Moy, 241
U. S. 394, 401.
Judgments affirmed.

