488

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

SPERRY OIL & GAS COMPANY ET AL. v.
CHISHOLM ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 164. Argued January 16, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. A final decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit removed
to the District Court upon the ground that it arose under the laws
of the United States, held reviewable here by appeal and not by
certiorari. P. 490.
2. Under the constitution and statutes of Oklahoma, the family
homestead of an Indian may include his tribal "homestead"
allotment as well as his tribal "surplus" allotment; and a lease,
invalid because executed by the husband alone, may be set aside
in a suit brought by the husband and wife, unless she is estopped
by her acts and conduct from asserting its invalidity. P. 492.
3. The power of Congress to deal with the Indians in Oklahoma as
a dependent people and legislate concerning their property with
a view to their protection, was reserved by the Oklahoma Enabling Act, the terms of which were accepted by an ordinance of the
constitutional convention of Oklahoma later ratified with the
constitution of the State. P. 493.
4. The authority given by the Act of Congress of May 27, 1908, to
a Cherokee Indian of the half-blood to make an oil and gas lease
upon his restricted "homestead" allotment, with the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, cannot be limited or contravened by
the provision of the Oklahoma law attaching to the execution of a
lease upon the family homestead the condition that it must be also
executed by his wife. P. 494.
5. The provision of the Oklahoma Enabling Act that all laws in force
in Oklahoma Territory at the time of the admission of the State
should be in force throughout the State, "except as modified or
changed by this Act or by the constitution of the State ", related
only to laws affecting the citizens of the State generally, and did
not authorize the application of such laws in contravention of acts
passed by Congress in reference to the property of Indians under
the power expressly reserved in the Enabling Act itself. P. 496.
6. The provision in the Oklahoma constitution that nothing in the
laws of the United States shall deprive any Indian or other allottee

SPERRY OIL CO. v. CHISHOLM.
488

489

Counsel for Parties.

of the benefit of the homestead laws of the State cannot give
validity to laws of the State repugnant to the reserved powers of
the United States in legislating in respect of the lands of Indians.
P. 497.
7. The "surplus" allotment of a half-blood Cherokee, upon being
freed from all federal restrictions by the Act of May 27, 190S,
supra, became subject to the laws of Oklahoma like property of
other citizens, including the law (spra, par. 2) restricting the
disposition of family homesteads. P. 497.
8. Regulations of the Secretary of the Interior providing that if
restrictions were removed from part of the land included in an
oil and gas lease, the entire lease should continue subject to
approval and supervision and all royalties thereunder be paid to
the Indian agent until lessor and lessee arranged for separate
accountings upon the restricted and unrestricted land, held not to
relieve a lease, as to the unrestricted land included, from invalidity
under the Oklahoma family homestead law. P. 498.
9. Where an oil and gas lease of land is found invalid under the
family homestead law, the court cannot permit the lessees to
continue extracting oil and gas upon the condition that they do
not interfere with the owners' use of the surface as a homestead.
P. 498.
282 Fed. 93, affirmed in part and reversed in part; certiorari
dismissed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court, which canceled a
lease made by an Indian of his homestead and surplus
allotments,-together constituting his family homestead,-upon the ground that, not being executed by his
wife, the instrument was invalid under the Oklahoma
family homestead law. Certiorari also was .granted.
Mr. Preston C. West, with whom Mr. Alvin Richards
and Mr. A. A. Davidson were on the brief, for appellants
and petitioners.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States, by special leave of Court,
as am ici curiae.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Mr. J. Howard Langley, with whom Mr. Harve N.
Langley, Mr. S. R. Lewis and Mr. 0. S. Booth were on the
brief, for appellees and respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellees, Webster Chisholm, a half-blood Cherokee Indian, and his wife, brought this suit in a state court
of Oklahoma to cancel a supplemental instrument modifying and extending an oil and gas lease previously executed
by him upon his "homestead" and "surplus" allotments
of tribal lands. It was removed to the Federal District
Court. That court, upon final hearing, entered a decree
adjudging this instrument to be entirely null and void,
and enjoining interference with the plaintiffs' possession
of the premises.' This decree was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 282 Fed. 93. An appeal to this Court
was allowed by a Circuit Judge; and thereafter the appellants were also granted a writ of-certiorari. 261 U. S. 611.
As the suit was removed to the federal court upon the
ground that it arose under the laws of the United States,'
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was not made
final by the provisions of § 128 of the Judicial Code and
§ 3 of the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Stewart, 245 U. S. 562. Therefore
the appeal was properly allowed under § 241 of the Judicial Code; and the writ of certiorari must be dismissed.
Chisholm is an enrolled citizen of the Cherokee Nation,
of the half-blood. Pursuant to the Cherokee Agreement-embodied in the Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32
'See Chisholm v. Creek & Indiana Development Co. (D. C.) 273
Fed. 589, the opinion on interlocutory hearing. The Development
Co., although named as a defendant in the original petition, was not
served with. process and did not enter its appearance, and the case
was heard only as to the other two defendants, the appellants here,
'See MeC(ine v. Essiq, 199 U. S. 382.

SPERRY OIL CO. v. CHISHOLM.
488

Opinion of the Court,.

Stat. 716-he was allotted two tracts of tribal lands: one
of thirty acres designated as a "homestead "; and another
adjoining tract of fifty acres designated as "surplus".
The alienation of both of these tracts was then restricted.
In 1904, while unmarried, he executed an oil and gas lease
for a term of fifteen years to the Creek & Indiana Development Co., covering, as an entirety, the eighty acres of
his two allotments. It contained no provision for an
extension or renewal. This lease was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. Chisholm married in 1911. In
1912, he and his wife moved upon the leased land, and
have since that time occupied and claimed the entire
eighty acres as a family homestead. Their residence is
upon the "homestead" thirty acres, the cultivated land
and pasture extending upon the "surplus" fifty acres.
Neither owns any other land. In 1914-more than five
years before the expiration of the lease-the lessee having
found oil in paying quantities and completed the drilling
of five wells, Chisholm executed a written instrument modifying the terms of the lease, in accordance with regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, so as to provide for an increased royalty and extend the lease as long
as oil or gas should be found in paying quantities. This
instrument-hereinafter called the extension lease-was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior as to the
"homestead" thirty acres, which was still restricted land;
but was neither approved nor disapproved by him as to
the "surplus" fifty acres, from which the restrictions had
previously been removed. It was not, however, executed
or joined in by his wife. Later in the same year the
Development Company assigned the lease to the Sperry
Oil & Gas Co.; and that Company in 1918 assigned it to
the Oklahoma Producing & Refining Corporation. The
suit was commenced in 1919, about three months after
the expiration of the term of the original lease. The
lessees had then driven eleven wells on the leased premises

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

and removed a large amount of oil. All royalty due under
the leases at the original and increased rates had been paid
by the lessees to Chisholm, or to the Indian agent for his
benefit, and had been received by Chisholm; and such
payments were continued to the time of the trial. His
wife, however, received no part of this royalty, and did
not learn that he had extended the original lease until
shortly before the commencement of the suit.
1. The ground of decision in both the lower courts was
that the extension lease executed by Chisholm was void
under the provisions of the constitution and laws of
Oklahoma relating to family homesteads because it was
not joined in or consented to by his wife. The constitution of Oklahoma provides that the rural homestead of
any family in the State "shall consist of not more than
one hundred and sixty acres of land, . . . in one or
more parcels, to be selected by the owner;" and that
"nothing in the laws of the United States . . . shall
deprive any Indian or other allottee of the benefit of the
homestead and exemption laws of the State." Art. 12,
§ 1. These provisions are also contained in the state
statutes. 1 Rev. Laws, 1910, § 3343, p. 834. The family
homestead of an Indian under the state law may include
his tribal "homestead" allotment as well as his tribal
"surplus" allotment. Hyde v. Ishmael, 42 Okla. 279;
Norton v. Kelley, 57 Okla. 222; Belt v. Bush (Okla.),
176 Pac. 935. It is further provided by a statute originating in the territorial session laws of 1901, c. 10, p. 78,
that "no deed, mortgage or contract relating to the homestead ", except a lease for not exceeding one year, "shall
be valid unless in writing and subscribed by both husband
and wife." 1 Rev. Laws, 1910, § 1143, p. 292. This
applies to oil and gas leases covering the homestead.
Carter Oil Co. v. Popp (Okla.), 174 Pac. 747; Rich v.
Doneghey (Okla.), 177 Pac. 86; Treese v. Shoemaker, 80
Okla. 235. And, the interest of the husband and wife in

SPERRY OIL CO. v. CHISHOLM.
488

493

Opinion of the Court.

the homestead not being severable, a lease or other contract relating to the homestead executed by the husband
alone, may be set aside in an action brought by the husband and wife, unless she is estopped by her acts and
conduct from asserting its invalidity. Hall v. Powell, 8
Okla. 276; Kelly v. Mosby, 34 Okla. 218; Brusha,v. Board
of Education, 41 Okla. 595; Hyde v. Ishmael, supra;
Carter Oil Co. v. Popp, supra.
2. In our opinion, however, these provisions of the
constitution and laws of Oklahoma have no application
to so much of the extension lease as covers the tribal
"homestead" of thirty acres.
By the Oklahoma Enabling Act of June 16, 1906.
c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, it was provided that nothing in the
constitution of the State should be construed to limit or
affect the authority of the Government of the United
States to make any law or regulations respecting the
Indians of the Territory, their lands, property or other
rights, which it would otherwise have been competent to
make. (§ 1.) The terms and conditions of the Enabling
Act were accepted by the Constitutional Convention of
Oklahoma by an "irrevocable" ordinance, which was ratified with the constitution itself. Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221
U. S. 559, 564; Jefferson v. Winkler, 26 Okla. 653, 662;
Molone v. Wamsley, 80 Okla. 181, 182. Congress was
thus careful to preserve to the United States the authority
over the Indians, their lands and property, which it possessed prior to the passage of the Enabling Act: retaining
full power, which it had exercised from the earliest period,
to deal with them as a dependent people and legislate
concerning their property with a view to their protection;
with the right to determine when, in their interest, the
Government guardianship should cease, and plenary
authority, notwithstanding the bestowal of federal citizenship upon them, to place restrictions upon their right of
alienating the lands allotted to them. Tiger v. Western

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, 309; Heckman v. United
States, 224 U. S. 413, 416. And in all matters relating
to the restrictions upon their allotted lands resort must
be had to the acts of Congress and to those acts alone.
Walker v. Brown, 43 Okla. 144; Collins Inv. Co. v. Beard,
46 Okla. 310; Wilson v. Greer, 50 Okla. 387; Smith v.
Williams, 78 Okla. 297; Molone v. Wamsley, supra.
By the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312-which
was in force when the extension lease was executed-it
was provided that the "homesteads" allotted to members
of the Five Civilized Tribes of the half-blood should not
be subject to alienation or incumbrance prior to April 26,
1931, unless such restrictions were removed by the Secretary of the Interior; but all restrictions upon the alienation or incumbrance of their other allotted lands were
removed. § 1. And it was further provided that "leases
of restricted lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes .
.
may be made, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, under rules and regulations
provided by the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise ". § 2. No other conditions were attached to the
making of such leases.
The authority thus given by the act of Congress to an
Indian of the half-blood to make an oil and gas lease upon
his restricted "homestead" allotment, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior, cannot be limited or
contravened by the provision of the Oklahoma law attaching to the execution of a lease upon the family homestead
the condition that it must also be executed by his wife.
This added requirement is inconsistent with the authority
given the allottee by the act of Congress to make such
lease when approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
and, if the wife does not consent to the lease, would
entirely defeat the purpose of Congress. As applied to
an oil and gas lease made by such an allottee upon his
restricted "homestead ", the provision of the Oklahoma

SPERRY OIL CO. v. CHISHOLM.
488

Opinion of the Court.

law is hence invalid because of its repugnancy to the
paramount act of Congress. "The power of Congress to
impose restrictions on the right of Indian wards of the
United States to alien or lease lands allotted to them in
the division of the lands of their tribe is beyond question;
and of course it is not competent for a State to enact or
give effect to a local statute which disregards those restrictions or thwarts their purpose." Bunch v. Cole, 263 U. S.
250, 252.
On the precise question of the effect of a state law
which, if applicable, adds a condition to the exercise by
an Indian allottee of rights granted him by an act of
Congress, the decision in Blanset v. Carden, 256 U. S.
319, 324, 326, is controlling. There an act of Congress
gave Indians the right to dispose of their restricted allotments by will, in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior and subject to
his approval. And it was held that a will made by an
Indian woman, which was approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, devising her restricted lands to others than
her husband, was not invalidated by a provision of the
Oklahoma code that no married woman should bequeath
more than two-thirds of her property away from her husband. The Court said: "The Secretary of the Interior
made regulations which were proper to the exercise of the
power conferred upon him . . . and it would seem
that no comment is necessary to show that [the provision of the Oklahoma Code] is excluded from pertinence
or operation. . . . In a word, the act of Congress is
complete in its control and administration of the allotment and of all that is connected with or made necessary
by it, and is antagonistic to any right or interest in the
husband of an Indian woman in her allotment under the
Oklahoma Code.

.

.

.

Our conclusion is

.

.

.

that

it was the intention of Congress that this class of Indians
should have the right to dispose of property by will under

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

this act of Congress, free from restrictions on the part of
the State as to the portions to be conveyed or as to the
objects of the testator's bounty, provided such wills are
in accordance with the regulations and meet the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior."
So it was the intention of Congress that Indian allottees
of the half-blood should have the right to make oil and
gas leases upon their restricted "homestead" allotments,
provided they are in accordance with the regulations of
the Secretary of the Interior and are approved by him.
To the same effect are the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma. In Walker v. Brown, supra, at
p. 146, the court, in holding that a restrictive provision
of an Oklahoma statute was not intended to apply to the
will of an Indian woman devising her "homestead" allotment under the authority given by the acts of Congress,
said: "This court has repeatedly held that acts of Congress supplant the laws of Oklahoma in relation to Indians; that certain state laws which are applicable to every
other citizen are not in force as against or pertaining to
the Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes, and that we have
here, respecting some matters, two classes of citizens and
two legislative sovereignties. . . . It is obvious that,
if the state law were given the construction contended for,
it would have the effect of interfering with the policy of
the Congress toward the Indians in the matter of the
alienation of their allotted lands." This case was approved and followed in Brock v. Keifer, 59 Okla. 5, 8.
And in Molone v. Wamsley, supra, at p. 183, it was said
that it is "beyond the power of the Legislature to enact
any law invalidating or affecting" conveyances by Indian
heirs "made and approved in conformity with the acts of
Congress." And see Haddock v. Johnson, 80 Okla. 250.
The Oklahoma statute derives no additional force as a
restriction upon leases made by Indian allottees because
it was in force as a territorial law at the time the Enabling

SPERRY OIL CO. v. CHISHOLM.
4S8

Opinion of the Court.

Act was passed, and that act provided that all laws in
force in the Territory at the time of the admission of the
State into the Union should be in force throughout the
State "except as modified or changed by this act or by
the constitution of the State." (§ 21.) Manifestly this
provision related only to statutes affecting the citizens of
the State generally and was not intended to authorize the
application of such laws in contravention of the acts
passed by Congress in reference to the property of Indians
under the power expressly reserved in the Enabling Act
itself. Nor can it have that effect. See Truskett v.
Closser, 236 U. S. 223.
Nor is the validity of the extension lease affected by the
provision in the Oklahoma constitution that nothing in
the laws of the United States shall deprive any Indian or
other allottee of the benefit of the homestead laws of the
State. Whether or not this provision was intended to do
more than to protect the allottees from the enforced
seizure of their homesteads, it is sufficient to say that,
whatever its purpose, it can have no more effect than the
Oklahoma statute in giving validity to laws of the State
repugnant to the reserved power of the United States in
legislating in respect to the lands of Indians. Neither the
constitution of a State nor any act of its legislature, whatever rights it may confer on Indians or withhold from
them, can withdraw them from the operation of an act
which Congress passes concerning them in the exercise of
its paramount authority. United States v. Holliday, 3
Wall. 407, 419.
It results that the extension lease executed by Chisholm in 1914, which was made under the regulations of
the Secretary of the Interior and was approved by him
as to the "homestead" allotment of thirty acres, must be
held to be valid as to such allotment.
3. As to the fifty acres of the "surplus" allotment,
also included in the extension lease, an entirely different
97851--24--32

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

question is presented. All restrictions upon this land had
been removed by the Act of 1908. When the extension
lease was executed there was no limitation under the acts
of Congress upon Chisholm's right to alienate, encumber
or lease this tract. It had become in all respects subject
to his control, under the laws of the State, just as the
property of other citizens. Jefferson v. Winkler, 26 Okla.
653, 664. All questions pertaining to its disposal fell
under the scope and operation of those laws. Dickson v.
Luck Land Co., 242 U. S. 371, 375. And since his wife
did not join in the execution of the extension lease, and
there is nothing in her acts and conduct which estops her
from asserting its invalidity, under the provisions of the
Oklahoma statute, as interpreted and applied by the
courts of the State, it must be held to be invalid as to the
"surplus" allotment; and it was to that extent properly
set aside.
The fact that the regulations of the Secretary of the
Interior provided that if the restrictions were removed
from a part of the land included in an oil and gas lease,
the entire lease should continue subject to the approval
and supervision of the Secretary of the Interior and all
royalties thereunder should be paid to the Indian agent
until the lessor and lessee made adequate arrangements
to account for the oil and gas upon the restricted land
separately from that upon the unrestricted, obviously adds
nothing to the force of the extension lease in so far as it
includes the fifty acres of "surplus" lands, and can have
no effect in relieving it as to such lands from the invalidity
attaching by reason of the noncompliance with the laws
of the State.
And the extension lease being entirely invalid as to the
"surplus" fifty acres, the court is without authority to
permit the lessees to continue to extract oil and gas therefrom although done in such manner as not to interfere
with the plaintiff's use of the surface as a homestead.

MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY CO.
4SS

Syllabus.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed
as to so much of the extension lease as covers the fifty
acres of the "surplus" allotment, and reversed as to so
much of said lease as covers the thirty acres of the "homestead" allotment.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.
MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY
ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
DALE v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY
ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
BREEZE v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 590-592. Motions to dismiss submitted March 10, 1924; argued
March 13, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
Where a partner filed a petition to have himself, the partnership, and
the other partners declared bankrupt, and died pending review by
this Court of orders overruling motions to dismiss the petition in
the last two aspects, Held:
(1) That § 8 of the Bankruptcy Act, providing that the death of a
bankrupt shall not abate the proceedings, was inapplicable to so
much of the petition as sought the bankruptcy of the firm and the
other partners, they not consenting to such adjudications. P. 502.
(2) That the question whether the petitioner's right, if any he had,
to maintain the petition as against his partners and the partnership,
abated with his death or survived to his proper representatives in
the property involved, so that the bankruptcy proceeding might
be continued in their names, should not be decided ex parte; but
opportunity to appear in this Court and be heard upon it would
be afforded such representatives, before remanding the cauze for
dismissal as to the partnership and non-consenting partners.
P. 503.
Motions to dismiss denied. The opinion below is reported in 292
Fed. 116.

