320

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

264 U. S.

The result is that an order must be entered dismissing
the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted at the
costs of the petitioner. Layne & Bowler Corporation v.
Western Well Works, Inc., 261 U. S. 387; Furness, Withy
& Co. v. Yang-Tsze InsuranceAssociation, 242 IT. S. 430;
United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S. 547.
Writ dismissed.
JOHN E. THROPP'S SONS COMPANY v.
SEIBERLING.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 185. Argued January 21, 22, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. Patent No. 941,962, granted to one State, November 30, 1909,
claims 4-7, inclusive, 12, 13, and 2-26, inclusive, for the making of
the outer shoes or casings of pneumatic automobile tires composed
of woven fabric treated with rubber, is void for lack of invention,
viewed either as a mechanical or as a method patent. P. 327.
2. The fact that wide and successful use of a device has been made
under license from the patentee may be evidence of patentable
novelty, but is by no means conclusive and must be weighed in
the light of all the circumstances. P. 329.
284 Fed. 746, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
holding the respondent's patent valid and infringed by
the petitioner and reversing a decree of the District Court
which dismissed the respondent's bill to enjoin infringement.
Mr. Livingston Gifford, with whom Mr. E. Clarkson
Seward and Mr. Thomas G. Haight were on the briefs,
for petitioner.
Mr. Melville Church, with whom Mr. Luther E. Morrison was on the brief, for respondent.

THROPP'S SONS CO. v. SEIBERLING.
320

321

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Harry Frease, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to enjoin the infringement of a patent fur
the making of the outer shoes or casings of pneumatic
automobile tires, composed of woven fabric treated with
rubber. We have brought it here because of a conflict of
opinion between the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the
Sixth and the Third Circuits.
The suit in each Circuit was begun by Frank A. Seiberling, as assignee. That in the Sixth Circuit was filed in
1914 against the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company,
and was based on alleged infringement of three claims of
a patent to Seiberling and Stevens, No. 762,561, of June
14, 1904, and sixteen claims of a patent to one State, No.
941,962, dated November 30, 1909. The District Judge
found both patents valid and infringed, 234 Fed. 370. The
Firestone Company appealed and the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the District Court,
holding that all the claims of the State patent were invalid, and that of the three claims of the Seiberling and
Stevens patent, two were invalid and one was not infringed. 257 Fed. 74. The bill in the case before us
was brought in 1914 in the District of New Jersey on the
same two patents. After the decision in the Sixth Circuit
in December, 1918, the plaintiff Seiberling filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer absolute as to eight claims of the
State patent and qualified as to the other eleven. No
proofs were made in this case to sustain suit upon the
Seiberling and Stevens patent, State, the patentee of the
other patent, having testified that it had failed. The District Judge dismissed the bill on the ground that the effect
of the disclaimers on tho State patent was to change it
from a machine patent and to make it a method or process
97RN5

1

--- 21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

patent, and that the method was old. On appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, a majority
of that court held that the record herein in respect to the
State patent was substantially different from that in the
Sixth Circuit, and that the State patent as qualified by
the disclaimers was valid and infringed. The third Judge
dissented on the ground that the disclaimers were of such
a character as not to be permitted by the statute.
The making of rubber tires for automobiles began by
hand and the proof seems to show that, while power and
complicated mechanism have been applied to secure much
greater speed in production and possibly greater uniformity in the product, there is even now no successful device
for their completely automatic manufacture.
A hand tire was framed on an annular metallic core of
the proper size, with spokes and a hub mounted and revolving on a shaft. It was made up of layers of fabric
stuck together by a proper adhesive material and formed
into a tube with a narrow opening on the inside, called the
bead. The ends of the tube were united together to make
it circular and endless. The layers were arranged to give
a solid rubber tread along the outer periphery to make
contact with the road. The workman began by coating
the core with a suitable cement, and affixed a strip of the
rubber impregnated fabric, stretching it and cutting it so as
to cover the circumference of the core. In width it was
somewhat less than enough to cover the sides of the core.
He then revolved the core slowly, patting and stretching
the woven strip on it, pressing and shaping it with his
fingers and hand tools so that it adhered smoothly to the
core without wrinkles. He followed this with another
strip of fabric attaching it to the one before by the rubber
cement. This operation he repeated with as many layers
as were needed.
The strips of the fabric were cut on the bias, and the
warp threads of one strip when set in place were intended

THROPP'S SONS CO. v. SEIBERLING.
320

:323

Opinion of the Court.

to run from one inner open edge or bead, in a diagonal
course, along, across and around the tube to its other open
edge or bead. The next strip or layer was reversed so that
its warp threads crossed those of the first strip at a selected
angle.
There was no difficulty in making the part of the layer
on the tread easy and smooth because the curvature there
was small, but as the fabric was pressed against the sides
and inside of the core, it tended to bagginess and did not
lie so smoothly. It would gather and wrinkle. This if
carried into the permanent condition of the fabric woulri
greatly weaken the tire. The tendency of woven material, however, is to contract in one direction as it
stretches in another. The fabric lengthens circumferentially as it is stretched on the outer periphery. Thv
square meshes thus become diamond shaped along the
tread. There is a corresponding longitudinal contraction
in the fabric as it is stretched laterally down the sides,
so that its shrinking will be greatest as the edges are approached. Thus the wrinkling and bagginess of the fabrie
may by proper treatment with hand and tool be made to
disappear and the strip be shaped smoothly to the sides
and beads of the core surface.
. At first, the skirts of the fabric were stretched radially
along the sides of the core and treated by a saw-tooth tool
to avoid wrinkles and then a spinning roll or wheel was
spun along the fabric down the core side in a spiral course.
There was thus given to the fabric what was called the
double stretch and this was supposed to give greater
strength and smoothness to the fabric as set upon the
core. The workmen, however, found that they could
work more rapidly and with less pains if they gave up the
saw tooth stretch and depended only on the use of the
spinning wheel with which, by increasing the hand speed
of the core, they could smooth the fabric against the core
without wrinkles. The spinning or stitching of the sides

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

by the rapid revolution of the core had been previously
shown in the kindred art of shaping thin metal sheets
over a power driven core. The evidence was that rotation
of the core by hand to a speed of fifty or sixty revolutions
a minute would give a centrifugal tendency to the skirt
of the fabric, keeping it away from the core. By thus
doing what the foremen of the shops at first deprecated,
the workmen developed a successful improvement in the
hand making of tires. The spinning was usually done
one side at a time; but powerful workmen weie known
to work the spinning wheels together on both sides of
the core. The spinning of the fabric by rotating the core
rapidly was more usual in tires of smaller sizes because
the fabric was so stiff that such a method by hand in
larger tires was impracticable.
One of the early power machines to make tire casings
was patented to Mbore in 1894. It disclosed an expansible core upon which an endless rubber fabric was placed
and stretched. The core was rotated rapidly by power
and the fabric was rolled down by a set of rollers of which
one was a spinning roller. This was pivoted to swing
radially toward the core but the handle of the spinning
wheel was so fixed that it could not travel as far down as
the bead.
The Seiberling and Stevens patent of 1904 for making
tires sought to do the work of fitting the fabric to the
core wholly by machinery, i. e., automatically without the
intervention of the hand of the operator. It comprised:
1st. A main power driven shaft to drive the core capable of low or quick revolutions, or entire release,
2nd. A reel carrying the rubber impregnated strip,
3rd. A tension roller retarding the reel and stretching
the fabric on the periphery after the free end is attached
to the core,
4th. A pressure roller concave in form to match the
tread of the strip and press it to the core as it revolves

THROPP'S SONS CO. v. SEIBERLING.
320

325

Opinion of the Court.

5th. An arm carrying a laterally spring pressed finger
called a jigger finger intended to be reciprocated rapidly,
radially of the core, travelling in and out between the
tread and in its outer edge, functioning like a human
finger in pressing the fabric down against the core and
stretching it into shape; and,
6th. A further pressure wheel or spinning roller applied
along the edge of the fabric to press it into a crease. The
spinning roller was set in a plane at a receding angle to
the plane of the core.
The evidence in this record shows that Seiberling and
Stevens' device was not successful in its operation and
that the automatic operation of the finger was not
effective.
The Vincent patent of 1905 had a power driven core,
to draw and stretch the fabric with guide rolls through
which the fabric was led on its way to the core and which
were geared so as to resist the pull of the fabric. As soon
as the fabric was spread circumferentially on the core, its
skirts or edges were formed down the sides by two sets
of spring actuated hammers, arranged progressively in a
radial direction so that as the core rotated the fabric was
tapped on the sides from their outer portion inwardly
toward the bead. This device seems to have had considerable commercial use.
The Mathern Belgian patent of 1906 had a core arranged to be power driven at high and low speeds effected
by changing gears, the ratio between the two being 20
to 1. It had a stock roll from which the fabric passed
at a tension around guide rolls and between conical gears
to secure uniform puckers in the outer edges of the fabric
and to hold it out from the core as its middle is delivered
circumferentially to become the tread. A screw fed slide
was arranged to be moved radially to the core, having
suspended on pins a pair of spinning rolls, the handles of
which enable the operator to press them laterally against

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

the skirts of the fabric on the core during their inward
radial movement.
The Belgian Mathern patent is attacked as a paper
patent because it was allowed to expire through failure
to pay the annual Belgian tax. The evidence shows,
however, that in 1911 it was offered commercially to the
Hood Company which preferred a German patent of the
same inventor, and the Belgian machine was actually
used for the making of tires which proved to be commercially satisfactory. We do not doubt from the record
that it was a practical tire-making machine.
The State patent was applied for March 26, 1909. It
was of the same general type as that of Seiberling and
Stevens. State's most substantial change was that he
discarded the reciprocal, spring-pressed, in and out forming-finger of Seiberling and Stevens and substituted
spring-pressed spinning rolls which he supplemented
with stitching rolls if needed. He provided, in the same
general way as Seiberling and Stevens, a core, a fabric
reel, a retarding or tension device, whereby he attached
his strip of fabric to the core for the width of the tread
portion, leaving the skirts or wings projecting outwardly.
Fixed to the base of the frame carrying the core was a
standard travelling in a horizontal track with a turret,
having four tools mounted at four equidistant points and
independent of each other except for their common base.
One carried a tread roller, the second the spinning rollers,
the third the stitching rolls and the fourth the bead attaching rolls. The operator revolved the turret so as
to make the tread roller bear against the tread on the
core, then the spinning roll device, then the stitching
roll and then the bead forming roll, the latter two of
which were not always used. There was no real combination of the operation of the four tools. It was an
aggregation not different from a successive use by an operator of hand tools, and so the Circuit Court of Appeals

THROPP'S SONS CO. v. SEIBERLING.
320

327

Opinion of the Court.

of the Sixth Circuit held. This was what led to the disclaimer of eight of the claims. It possibly gave the
change in the character of the record and proof in this
case from that in the Sixth Circuit as remarked upon by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit.
Eleven claims are left. While qualified by disclaimers,
consideration of the original claims will serve our purpose. Claims 4, 5, 6 and 7 are for combinations of a
sheet fabric supply, a power driven ring core, a radially
moving support laterally spring-pressed toward the core,
with a spinning roll mounted on the support to shape
the sheeted fabric to the core. The variety in the claims
is in adding to the spinning roll the element of a receding angle to the plane of the core in the 5th, in giving the spinning roll a round disk shaped edge in the
6th. in giving both the receding angle and the disk shaped
edge to the spinning roll in the 7th.
Claims 12 and 13 comprise in their combinations all
the above and the slow speed mechanism for actuating
the core when the fabric is received from the stock roll,
and the high speed mechanism for the spinning rolls to
pass over the fabric on the core and shape it.
Claims 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 cover the same combinations save that they emphasize the feature of the radially moving support of the spinning roll which is powerpressed toward the core.
There was no novelty in the combination of a poweroperated core with fabric rolls for delivering the rubber
impregnated strips through tension rolls to the core, or
in the use of pressure rolls to stretch and press the tread
at the slow speed of the core followed by the spinning
of the stretching or spinning rolls with high speed down
the sides from the outer line of the tread to the bead
edge of the fabric, or in the use of the tangential force
upon the skirts of the fabric to keep them away from
the core. The use of power to revolve the core was seen

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

in earlier patents in Seiberling and Stevens, in Vincent,
and in the Belgian Mathern. The change of speed from
slow to rapid revolution by shifting of the gears was
shown in the first and third of these. The receding angle
of the spinning roller to the plane of the core was not
new with State. It was seen in Seiberling and Stevens.
The operation of the spinning wheel in the State patent
is said to be automatic. We do not find it to be so. It
is partly automatic in that the spinning rolls, when
properly placed, are brought closer to the fabric by the
springs. The Belgian Mathern device is partly automatic in an analogous way. But when the process of
spinning is carried to its completion, the adjustment and
pressure of the wheels to the fabric as it approaches the
bead edge, need the hand of the operator just as in the
hand-making of tires. It is true that the spinning rolls
in all these patents are steadied against the fabric in one
way or another, as by the power-pressed radially moving support in the State patent; but in the end the hand
is needed to complete the spinning process as it nears
the bead edge. We do not think that the use of the
springs by State in such a combination involves patentable invention when we weigh its inconsiderable importance and note the suggestion of the use of such
springs for analogous purposes in Vincent, and in
Seiberling and Stevens.
The change from hand to the use of machinery often
involves invention. In the making of tires, it has in fact
resulted, because of the use of power, in speed of manufacture and possibly in some greater uniformity of the
product. But the record does not show that there has
been substantial change in the mechanics or method of
making. The steps are the same and the succession from
one to the other are as in the manual art, and the transfer
from hand to power was by the usual appliances and had
all been indicated before the State patent.

THROPP'S SONS CO. v. SEIBERLING.
320

329

Opinion of the Court.

These conclusions as to the lack of novelty in the elements and combinations of the State patent were reached
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and
we agree with them.
The majority opinion of the Third Circuit Court of
Appeals in this case attributed much importance and
novelty to the effect of the centrifugal force of the revolving core upon the fabric. Its view was that State had
discovered that the fabric was thus substantially stretched
radially as the spinning wheels hinged against the flowing
fabric, and the square meshes on the sides were elongated
substantially by the centrifugal force so that at the bead
they were lozenge shaped and easily smoothed. We do
not find such a new result, or anything different from
what was shown in the making of tires by hand. If there
were such a newly-developed, substantial addition to the
stretching of the material by tangential force, it must have
occurred in the Mathern Belgian patent before State.
But we find it in neither. The discovery of such a new
source of radial stretching power is not testified to by the
experts in either hearing.
We are pressed with the argument that many tires,
reaching into the millions, have been made under a license
granted by Seiberling, and that the success of the device
shows the utility and novelty of what he licensed. He gave
to his licensees not only the use of the State patent but
also that of the Seiberling and Stevens patent. Both patents made large and sweeping claims which were well calculated to induce acquiescence by those without sufficient
knowledge of the prior art, or adequate capital to resist.
Yet the more comprehensive claims of the State patent
have now been disclaimed and the Seiberling and Stevens
patent included in his licenses has been abandoned.
There has been a complete change about in the Third
Circuit law suit. Mr. Seiberling, when these licenses were

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

granted, was at the head of the great Goodyear Company.
He could give great vogue to a device owned and used by
him. The license was not a heavy tax, equal to less than
one per cent. of the cost of a machine, and purchase of
peace was a wise course for the smaller manufacturer.
Evidence of this kind is often very persuasive, especially
when patentable novelty is in doubt. Potts v. Creager,
155 U. S. 597, 609; Magowan v. New York Belting Co.,
141 U. S. 332, 343. But it is by no means conclusive, and
must be weighed in the light of all the circumstances, to
accord to it its proper significance. Eibel Process Co. v.
Minnesota Paper Co., 261 U. S. 45, 56; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 428. In the case before us, we
do not think it can overcome the lack of novelty and
invention
Seiberling disclaimed combination claims of 4, 5, 6 and
7, except when constructed and cordinated in a certain
way. He disclaimed claims 12 and 13 except for the
combined operations of a certain kind and unless the
recited elements were constructed and co6rdinated as he
described. He disclaimed claims 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26,
except when constructed and co6rdinated for a particular
purpose and unless the power drive functioned as he
pointed out. As we have found that there is nothing
really new in the method or mechanism of State, it will
serve no purpose to go through the qualifying disclaimers
in detail and consider their effect.
The disclaimers are attacked on the ground that they
exceed the legal function of a disclaimer and are an
attempt to change a mechanical patent to a process or
method patent, something which could only be properly
accomplished by a reissue. The Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit examined the possibility of sustaining the alleged invention of State as a process or method
patent but concluded that it was fully anticipated by the
method of making tires by hand. We do not find it

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.

331

Syllabus.

320

necessary to pass upon the validity of the method of
making disclaimers here pursued, because we agree with

the Sixth Circuit Court in failing to find invention in the
State device either as a mechanical or as a method patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.

RAILROAD

COMMISSION

CALIFORNIA v.
PANTY ET AL.

OF THE

SOUTHERN

STATE

PACIFIC

OF

COM-

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA
FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
RAILROAD

COMMISSION

CALIFORNIA

OF THE STATE

OF

v. LOS ANGELES & SALT LAKE

RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 283-285.

Argued November 22, 1923.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. In view of the policy and provisions of the Transportation Act,
establishment of a new union station for several interstate carriers, involving the abandonment of their separate stations, extensive changes and relocations of their main tracks and very
great expense, cannot be brought about by voluntary action of thc
carriers or order of a state commission in the absence of a
certificate of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under pars.
18-21 of ยง 402 of the act. P. 342.
2. The provisions of the Transportation Act, ยง 402, pars. 18-21,
that no interstate carrier shall extend its line of railroad unless
and until the Interstate Commerce Commission shall certify that
public convenience requires it, and forbidding the Commission to
authorize such extension unless it finds it reasonably required
in the interest of public convenience or necessity or that the ex-

