552

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

264 U. S.

HOFFMAN ET AL. v. McCLELLAND, JR., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS,

TRANSFERRED

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPIALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 190. Argued January 23, 1924.-Decrled April 21, 1924.
1. A decree of the District Court refusing leav to Me a bill of
intervention upon the theory that there is no btsis on which the
court, as a federal tribunal, could adjudicate the ;iatter presented
by it, rests on a jurisdictional ground and is appe able directly to
this Court under Jud. Code, § 238. P. 557.
2. Where, in the progress of a suit in a federal cour property has
been drawn into the court's custody and control -third persons
claiming interests in or liens on the property ma )e permitted
to come into that court for the purpose of setting , protecting
and enforcing their claims, although the court could .ot copsisiacr
their claims if it had not impounded the property. 1. 558.
3. But this rule does not apply, where the court haunot impounded
the property in question but has merely adjudicated a controversy
concerning it and retained jurisdiction of the suit to insure obedience to its decree. P. 559.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court refusing
leave to file a petition of intervention, for want of jurisdiction. The appeal was first taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals and was transferred to this Court under Jud.
Code, § 238a. See the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, reported in 284 Fed. 837.
APPEAL

Mr. Tom Connally, with whom Mr. D. A. Kelley, Mr.
Robert H. Rogers and Mr. M. C. H. Park were on the
brief, for appellants.

Admitting that our bill of intervention is not ancillary,
that no federal question is involved, and that there is no
diversity of citizenship, we still contend that the court
below had, and has, jurisdiction.

HOFFMAN v. McCLELLAND.
552

Argument for Appellants.

When this case was first instituted by Peter McClelland,
Jr., against John K. Rose, trustee, the federal court found
the property in question in the possession of the trustee,
Rose, who had been appointed and bonded by a state
court of competent jurisdiction, and in the execution of
a trust which the federal court found to be valid; and,
having determined that the plaintiff is the sole owner of
the property, but not entitled to the possession thereof
during the continuance of the trust, the court was without
power or authority to dispossess the trustee. But inasmuch as the state courts held, and were holding, that the
legal title was vested in the trustee, that the plaintiff was
excluded by his father's will "from ever taking," which
holdings by the state courts are repeated and emphasized
in the opinion of the case of Lindsey v. Rose, 175 S. W.
832, it became necessary for the federal court to assume
such authority and control over the trustee and his disposition of the property after the termination of the
trust as will enable the federal court to see that those
who, according to its holding, will take at plaintiff's death.
receive the same without having to litigate the ownership
with those whom the state courts hold entitled. This
the federal court has done, and so effectually done that
Rose, the trustee, will have to deliver the property, at
the termination of the trust, to the heirs, devisees, legatees, or vendees of plaintiff, according to the holding and
orders of the federal court, before he can go into the
state court which appointed him and ask for a discharge
of himself and his bondsmen. This is as complete and as
comprehensive an impounding as the federal court could
make. And to hold that after such impounding the federal court cannot protect a creditor of plaintiff, who has
a lien on a part of the impounded property and who is
without remedy in any other court, is to take issue with
the federal decisions. Compton v. Jesup, 68 Fed. 279;
Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

264 U. S.

The court below dismissed our bill, because (as the
record shows) the court did not think our bill showed
jurisdiction. But it was our allegation of impounding
that the court was passing upon, not the fact of impounding, which may be shown by other evidence than that
contained in the small part of the record before this Court.
We, however, contend that even the record before this
Court abundantly shows an impounding.
While the court has no authority to destroy the trust
in Rose, it has the authority to recognize, and has recognized, the right of plaintiff, to sell subject to that trust,
and it should and must recognize the right of his creditors
to sell in like manner, subject to the trust and without
disturbing the possession of the trustee during the continuance of the trust. And holding, as it does, that
plaintiff is the sole and only beneficiary of the trust, it
has assumed the jurisdiction and power to protect his
devisees and heirs, as well as his vendees, against the
collateral heirs of his father by controlling the disposition
of the property to be made by the trustee after the
termination of the trust. It has even gone further and
ordered and decreed that "no portion of the corpus of
the said estate shall be delivered to, or be surrendered
over during the lifetime of the plaintiff to the said plaintiff, or his vendees, except upon the further order of
this court."
These orders and decrees, if they mean anything, mean
that the court has assumed control of the trustee and of
the estate he holds in trust, both during and after the
termination of the trust.
Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr.
Marshall Surratt and Mr. FrancisMarion Etheridge were
on the brief, for appellees.

HOFFMAN v. McCLELLAND.
552

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court
for the Western District of Texas refusing leave to file a
bill proffered as a petition of intervention in a designated
suit in that court. The appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and was by that court transferred here
according to § 238a of the Judicial Code, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837, on the ground that it should have been taken directly
to this Court under § 238. 284 Fed. 837.
The suit in which intervention was sought already had
been prosecuted to a final decree; but the decree contained a provision whereby jurisdiction was retained for
limited purposes, one of which will be hereinafter shown.
The suit arose out of conflicting claims asserted under the
will of Peter McClelland, Sr., a resident of McLennan
County, in the Western District of Texas, who died in
1886 seized of valuable real property in that county. The
will put the property in a so-called spendthrift trust of
which Peter McClelland, Jr., the testator's son and only
child, was the beneficiary. Through an order of the state
court in McLennan County, John K. Rose, a citizen of
Texas, became the substituted trustee under the will, and
as such was holding the property and administering the
trust when the suit was begun. The son, who was a
citizen of California, was the plaintiff, and the substituted
trustee and the testator's collateral kin were the defendants. Diverse citizenship was the sole basis of the
District Court's jurisdiction. The object of the suit was to
obtain a construction of the will, to have that construction
made binding on the trustee, and to establish the son's
ownership, subject to the trust, of all the property as
against the collateral kin. The proceedings and the decree
are shown in McClelland v. Rose, 208 Fed. 503; 222 Fed.
67; and 247 Fed. 721; and Rose v. McClelland, 241 U. S.
668. The decree determined that the trust was to con-

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tinue for the natural life of the son; that the trustee was
to hold the property, collect the rents and make discretionary advances to the son during that period, and that
the son was the true and sole owner, subject to the trust,
of all the property. One paragraph of the decree read as
follows:
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed by the
court, that the said John K. Rose, as substitute trustee
aforesaid, may, without further order of this court, make
from time to time such advances to said plaintiff, Peter
McClelland, Jr., not to exceed the net rent revenues and
income from the said estate, as he may think right and
proper; but no portion of the corpus of the said estate
shall be delivered to, or be surrendered over during the
lifetime of the plaintiff to the said plaintiff, or his vendees,
except upon the further order of this court; and this court
hereby retains jurisdiction of this cause to the end that it
may, from time to time as occasion may require, exercise
its power of direction and control over said trustee in this
respect."
The persons who sought to intervene were creditors of
the son, and were citizens of Texas. They had brought
an action on their claim in the state court for McLennan
County, had caused a writ of attachment to be issued in
that action and levied on part of the real property in the
possession of the trustee, and had prosecuted the action to
a judgment directing that the son's interest in the attached property be sold to satisfy their claim. The son
had not been served with process in that action, nor had
he appeared therein; so the judgment had no force save
such as may have arisen from the attachment. After-

wards, in a suit by the trustee against the attaching
creditors and the sheriff, the same state court granted a
permanent injunction against a sale under the judgment,-the grounds assigned for granting the injunction
being that the son's interest in the property could not be

HOFFMIAN v. McCLELLAND.
552

Opinion of the Court.

sold to pay his debts while he was living, and that the
trustee was entitled to prevent such a sale in the son's
lifetime, even though there was no purpose to disturb the
trustee's possession or the administration of the trust.
On an appeal to the Court of Civil Appeals that decision
was affirmed, Hoffman v. Rose, 217 S. W. 424, and an application for a further review was denied by the Supreme
Court of the State.
It was after these proceedings that the creditors sought
to intervene in the suit in the District Court. They set
forth in their proffered bill all that was done in the state
court, including the attachment and judgment and the
subsequent injunction, and also alleged that by the attachment and judgment they had acquired a lien on the
attached property which was in no way avoided or affected
by the injunction; that by the prior proceedings in the
District Court the property had been drawn into that
court's custody and control and thereby effectually inpounded; that they had no means of enforcing their lien
during the life of the son, save through the interposition
and aid of the District Court; that the lien probably
would be lost unless that court recognized and protected
it, and that to postpone its enforcement until after the
death of the son would not be equitable. The relief
prayed was that the lien be recognized and protected and
the remainder interest of the son in the attached property
be ordered sold under the lien to satisfy their claim.
In refusing leave to file the bill the District Court put
its decision on the ground that it was without jurisdiction
to entertain the bill in that (a) the bill was not ancillary
or dependent in the sense that it could be entertained in
virtue of the jurisdiction acquired in the earlier suit, and
(b) the citizenship of the parties and the nature of the
matter presented were not such that the bill could be dealt
with as an original and independent bill.
As leave to file the bill was not refused as a matter of
discretion but on the theory that there was no basis on

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

which the court, as a federal tribunal, could proceed to an
adjudication of the matter presented, it is apparent that
the petitioning creditors were shut out on a jurisdictional
ground in the sense of §238 of the Judicial Code, and so
were entitled to bring that ruling here for review by a
direct appeal.
The record makes it plain and counsel agree that there
was an absence of jurisdictional requisites for dealing with
the bill as an original and independent bill; so we come at
once to the question whether it could be entertained as
an ancillary or dependent bill.
It is settled that where in the progress of a suit in a
federal court property has been drawn into the court's
custody and control, third persons claiming interests in or
liens upon the property may be permitted to come into
that court for the purpose of setting up, protecting and
enforcing their claims,-although the court could not consider or adjudicate their claims if it had not impounded
the property. Power to deal with such claims is incident
to the jurisdiction acquired in the suit wherein the impounding occurs, and may be invoked by a petition to intervene pro interesse suo or by a dependent bill. But in
either case the proceeding is purely ancillary. Oklahoma
v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574, 581; Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul
Co., 2 Wall. 609, 632; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S.
276, 281; Compton v. Jesup, 68 Fed. 263, 279; Sioux City
Co. v. Trust Co., 82 Fed. 124, 128; Minot v. Mastin, 95
Fed. 734, 739; Street Fed. Eq. Pr. §§ 1229, 1245-1247,
1364.
The proffered bill shows that it was drafted to obtain
the benefit of that rule, and, if its allegations were all that
could be considered, there might be good ground for
thinking it could be entertained in virtue of the jurisdiction acquired in the earlier suit. But the bill did not
rightly state the nature and effect of the proceedings in
that suit; and of course the District Court could not accept a mistaken description or characterization of them,

HOFFMAN v. McCLELLAND.
552

Opinion of the Court.

but was required to give effect to what its own records disclosed. The pleadings, orders and decree in that suit,
which were before the court at the time, are set forth in
the present record, and they show that the property was
not impounded in that suit. The trustee, who was holding the property and administering the trust, was not an
appointee of the District Court but of the state court of
McLennan County. The District Court had not taken
over the administration of the trust, nor had it otherwise
drawn unto itself the custody and control of the property.
It had determined a controversy between the son on the
one hand and the trustee and the collateral kin on the
other respecting the nature and duration of the trust; hal
adjudged that, subject to the trust, the son was the true
and sole owner of the property and that the collateral kin
had no interest therein; had prohibited the trustee from
delivering or surrendering any part of the corpus of the
estate to the son, or his vendees, during his lifetime,
except on its order; and had retained jurisdiction of the
suit to the end that it might compel full adherence to that
prohibition. But i did not acquire or assume any other
power of direction or control over the property, nor did it
withdraw the son's remainder interest in the property
from the reach of process issuing from other courts. The
petitioning creditors e-idently proceeded on this view
throughout the proceedings in the state court, for they not
only caused a part of the property to be attached under
process issued from that court but sought to have the son's
remainder interest in it sold under such process without
asking the leave of the District Court. True, the sale
was prevented by an injunction, but that was because the
state court which granted the injunction was of opinion
that under the provisions of the will such a sale during
the son's life would be inadmissible and ineffectual, and
not because it regarded the property as impounded by the
proceedings in the District Court. Only after they had

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

met with that decision in the state court did the creditors
conclude to resort to the District Court. Even if that
decision was wrong, as they seem to think, it did not
change or affect the situation in the District Court.
In our opinion the bill could not be entertained as an
ancillary or dependent bill.
Judgment affirmed.
DAVIS, AS AGENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES UNDER THE TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920, v. CORNWELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MONTANA.

No. 297. Argued February 26, 1924.-Decided April 21, 1924.
A contract by a railroad to furnish cars on a certain day for interstate transportation as common carrier, is void if not provided
for in the published tariffs. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Kirby,
225 U. S. 155. P. 561.
66 Mont. 100, reversed.
CERTmORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Montana affirming a judgment against the agent appointed by the President under the Transportation Act
on a special contract to furnish cars, made by a, station
agent with the plaintiff during" the period of federal
control of railroads.
Mr. I. Parker Veazey, Jr., with whom Mr. F. G. Dorety
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George E. Hurd, with whom Mr. Edwin L. Norris
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
While the railroads were under federal control, Cornwell ordered of a station agent empty cars to be ready

