RODMAN v. POTHIER.
393

Syllabus.

thority in the City of New Orleans other than that of
controlling the ordinary governmental functions of municipal government."
Unless and until otherwise advised by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, we must conclude that the general
control of its own streets is an ordinary governmental
function of the City of New Orleans.
It would require more definite language than we find
in the Constitution of 1921 or in Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. Louisiana Public Service Commission to convince us
that the Commission has power to assume control over
all those streets within New Orleans which approach or
cross railroad tracks, and to disregard the solemn contracts of the municipality with respect thereto. That the
liability which the Commission has undertaken to impose
upon appellee conflicts with the contract under which the
latter granted permission to construct the viaduct over
its property, is not denied. Only very clear and definite
words would suffice to show that the State had undertaken
to authorize a thing so manifestly unjust and oppressive.
Affirmed.
RODMAN, UNITED STATES MARSHAL, v.
POTHIER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 546.

Argued March 14, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

Where a person was held for removal under an indictment charging
murder on a military reservation under exclusive jurisdiction of
the 'United States, and the existence of such exclusive jurisdiction
involved consideration of many facts and seriously controverted
questions of law, held, that determination of that issue was for the
court where the indictment was found and was not open for decision in another district in habeas corpus. P. 402.
291 Fed. 311, reversed.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI

264 U. S.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
dismissing a writ of habeas corpus, and ordered the prisoner discharged.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred A.
Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Davis G. Arnold
was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins and Mr. Frank F. Nesbit, by leave
of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Louis Marshall, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent Pothier and another were duly indictedOctober 13, 1922-for the murder of Alexander P. Cronkhite, on October 25, 1918, "within and on lands theretofore acquired for the exclusive use of the United States,
and under the exclusive jurisdiction thereof, and within
the Southern Division of the Western District of Washington, to wit, within and on the Camp Lewis Military
Reservation." Pothier was arrested in the State of Rhode
Island and, after hearings before the Commissioner and
the District Court, a warrant for his removal was directed
as provided by ยง 1014, Rev. Stats. By this habeas
corpus proceeding the validity of the warrant is questioned and respondent's release sought. His contention is
that the United States had not acquired exclusive jurisdiction over the place of the crime as alleged by the
indictment because they had not then received a deed to
the land.

RODMAN v. POTHIER.
399

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court said and held, 285 Fed. 632"The argument of the defense is that by the terms of
the statute the passing of the deed is a prerequisite to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and that as
the deed postdates the time of the alleged murder the
United States did not then have exclusive jurisdiction
over the lands conveyed by said deed. But the evidence
shows also that before the passage of the deeds, and before the date of the alleged murder, Pierce County, acting
as the arm and agent of the State, had acquired by condemnation, and had turned over to the United States
military authorities, many tracts of land comprised
within the Camp Lewis Military Reservation, which had
been selected by a representative of the Secretary of
War, and which, when donated to the United States,
the Secretary of War had been authorized to accept.
Buildings had been erected and the camp permanently
occupied before January 29, 1918, and before July, 1918,
there were 50,000 men in camp. There is much evidence
tending to show that as to a number of the tracts of land
comprised in the camp there was, before the date of the
alleged crime, a practical consummation of the donation,
and that the agents of the county and of the United
States had done all that it was necessary to do in order
to vest title and exclusive jurisdiction in the United
States, save the execution and recording of the deeds
whereby the title of the United States should be evidenced. The contention of the United States that the
evidence of de facto exercise of exclusive jurisdiction is
sufficient in itself to show probable cause cannot be disregarded, in view of the quaere in Holt v. United States,
218 U. S. 245, 252: 'The documents referred to are not
before us, but they properly were introduced, and so
far as we can see justified the finding of the jury, even
if the evidence of the de facto exercise of exclusive jurisdiction was not enough, or if the United States was called

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U.S.

on to try title in a murder case.'... I am of the
opinion that the defendant has failed to overcome the
prima facie case made by the indictment, and that the
evidence fails to show the want of probable cause."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, 291 Fed. 311, was "of
the opinion that no other conclusion can be drawn from
the evidence than that, at the time the crime charged
in the indictment was committed, the United States had
acquired no title in the land embraced within Camp
Lewis Military Reservation; that the sovereignty of the
State over the tract had not then been yielded up and was
not until the deed, map, etc., were filed in the office of the
County Auditor of Pierce County for record, which was
not until November 15, 1919, more than a year after the
alleged murder. This being so, there is an absolute want
of probable cause for the removal of the appellant to
answer to the crime charged. Greene v. Henkel, 183
U. S. 249, 261." It accordingly reversed the judgment
of the District Court and directed Pothier's discharge.
We think there was enough to show probable cause
and that the judgment of the District Court is correct.
Whether the locus of the alleged crime was within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States demands consideration of many facts and seriously controverted questions of law. As heretofore often pointed out, these matters must be determined by the court where the indictment was found. The regular course may not be anticipated by alleging want of jurisdiction and demanding a
ruling thereon in a habeas corpus proceeding. Barring
certain exceptional cases (unlike the present one), this
Court "has uniformly held that the hearing on habeas
corpus is not in the nature of a writ of error nor is it
intended as a substitute for the functions of the trial
court. Manifestly, this is true as to disputed questions
of fact, and it is equally so as to disputed matters of law,
whether they relate to the sufficiency of the indictment or

DAVIS v. PORTLAND SEED CO.
399

Syllabus.

the validity of the statute on which the charge is based.
These and all other controverted matters of law and fact
are for the determination of the trial court." Henry v.
Henkel, 235 U. S. 219, 229; Louie v. United States, 254

U. S. 548.
Reversed.

DAVIS, AS AGENT, ETC. v. PORTLAND SEED
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. PARRINGTON.
DAVIS, AGENT UNITED STATES RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, v. PARRINGTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. McCAULL-DINSMORE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MI NNESOTA.

Nos. 114, 122, 123, 209.

Argued February 20, 1924.--Decided April
7, 1924.

1. The long and short haul provision of the Interstate Commerce
Act (ยง 4) is violated, and the carrier incurs, prina facie at least,
the penalties prescribed by ยง 10, by publishing, without authority
from the Commission, a rate for a longer haul lower than that
scheduled for a shorter haul of the same kind of property over
the same line or route in the same direction. P. 424.
2. In such case a shipper who is charged the higher rate for the
shorter haul is entitled, under ยง 8, to the full amount of his resulting
damages, with reasonable counsel fees, but not to collect from the

