MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY CO.
4SS

Syllabus.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed
as to so much of the extension lease as covers the fifty
acres of the "surplus" allotment, and reversed as to so
much of said lease as covers the thirty acres of the "homestead" allotment.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.
MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY
ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
DALE v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY
ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
BREEZE v. CENTRE COUNTY BANKING COMPANY ET AL., BANKRUPTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 590-592. Motions to dismiss submitted March 10, 1924; argued
March 13, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
Where a partner filed a petition to have himself, the partnership, and
the other partners declared bankrupt, and died pending review by
this Court of orders overruling motions to dismiss the petition in
the last two aspects, Held:
(1) That ยง 8 of the Bankruptcy Act, providing that the death of a
bankrupt shall not abate the proceedings, was inapplicable to so
much of the petition as sought the bankruptcy of the firm and the
other partners, they not consenting to such adjudications. P. 502.
(2) That the question whether the petitioner's right, if any he had,
to maintain the petition as against his partners and the partnership,
abated with his death or survived to his proper representatives in
the property involved, so that the bankruptcy proceeding might
be continued in their names, should not be decided ex parte; but
opportunity to appear in this Court and be heard upon it would
be afforded such representatives, before remanding the cauze for
dismissal as to the partnership and non-consenting partners.
P. 503.
Motions to dismiss denied. The opinion below is reported in 292
Fed. 116.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

CERTIORARI to orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which sustained, on petitions to revise, orders of the
District Court declining to dismiss a petition in bankruptcy in so far as it sought an adjudication against the
above-named petitioners individually or against a partnership of which they and Shugert, (respondent here and
petitioner in the District Court,) were the members.
Mr. Mortimer C. Rhone and Mr. Ellis L. Orvis, with
whom Mr. Harry Keller was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Samuel D. Gettig and Mr. Newton B. Spangler
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These three cases---which were heard together in the
Circuit Court of Appeals and are included here in one
record-arose out of a petition in bankruptcy filed by the
respondent Shugert in a Federal District Court in Pennsylvania. In this petition he alleged that he and the
present petitioners, Meek, Dale and Breeze-hereafter
called the defendants--were members of a partnership
styled the Centre County Banking- Company; that the
partnership and each of the defendants were insolvent;
and that he and the partnership desired to obtain the
benefits of the bankruptcy law. He prayed that the partnership and he and the defendants individually be adjudged bankrupt.' Subpoenas were issued for the defendants. All appeared and resisted the petition in so
far as it sought to have the partnership and themselves
'The petition combined a "debtors petition"

(Form No. 1), a

"partnership petition" (Form No. 2), and a petition against the
defendants individually. There was no allegation that either the
partnership or the defendants had committed an act of bankruptcy.

MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY CO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

adjudged bankrupt; 2 and each made a motion to dismiss
the petition to that extent upon the grounds, among
others, that it was not authorized by the Bankruptcy Act
and the court had no jurisdiction under it to adjudge
either the partnership or a non-consenting member bankrupt. These motions were denied by the District Court.
On petitions by the defendants to revise the orders of
the District Court denying their motion, the Circuit Court
of Appeals, being of opinion that the petition in bankruptcy was maintainable under ยง 5 of the Bankruptcy Act
2 affirmed the
and General Order in Bankruptcy No. 8,
orders of the District Court. 292 Fed. 116. These writs
of certiorari were then granted the defendants. 263
U. S. 696.
Shugert thereafter died. And the defendants have
moved that the proceeding in bankruptcy be disinissed
as to them, both individually and as members of the
partnership, on the ground that to that extent it should
abate. These motions have been answered by the attorney who formerly represented Shugert, as now representing his "interests," and by an attorney represnting a
"Creditors' Committee," who insist that under ยง 8 of the
Bankruptcy Act the proceeding in bankruptcy was not
abated by Shugert's death and may be continued without
making Shugert's personal representative a party. While
neither of these attorneys represents any party now before
" Two of them denied that they were members of the partnership.

'Section 5 of the act provides that "a partnership
be adjudged a bankrupt."

.

.

.

may

General Order No. 8 provides that: "Any member of a partnership,
who refuses to join in a petition to have the partnership declared
bankrupt, shall be entitled to resist the prayer of the petition in the
same manner as if the petition had been filed by a creditor of the
partnership, and notice of the filing of the petition shall be given to
him in the same manner as . . . in the case of a debtor petitioned
against; and he shall have the right to appear

.

.

.

and to make

all defenses which any debtor proceeded against ii entitled to take
by the provisions of the act." 210 U. S., App., 570.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

the Court,4 we treat their answer as the suggestion of
amici curiae.
Section 8 of the Bankruptcy Act provides that: "The
death . .
of a bankrupt shall not abate the proceedings, but the same shall be conducted and concluded
in the same manner, so far as possible, as though he had
not died." It is clear, however, that, whatever may be
the effect of this provision, when construed in the light of
ยง la(4) of the act defining the term "bankrupt", it can
have no application except to that part of the petition in
bankruptcy in which Shugert sought to have himself
adjudged a voluntary bankrupt-a matter not in issue
under the motions to dismiss and not now before us.
Even if one partner may maintain a petition such as this
to have the partnership adjudicated a bankrupt-a question not now determined-yet to the extent that it seeks
to have the partnership adjudged bankrupt as against
non-consenting partners resisting such an adjudication,
it is, manifestly, an involuntary proceeding. Re Mlurray
(D. C.), 96 Fed. 600, 602. And see Re Carleton (D. C.),
115 Fed. 246, 249. In Medsker v. Bonebrake, 108 U. S.
66, 71, involving a bankruptcy proceeding brought by one
partner against another under the Act of 1867, this Court
said: "It is not a voluntary bankruptcy if the man is
forced into it against his will by his partner, any more
than by any one else; and it is compulsory and involuntary if he refuses to join in such case and is forced into it,
as much as in any other enforced bankruptcy." And,
a fortiori, such a petition as this is an involuntary proceeding to the extent that it also seeks to have the nonconsenting partners adjudged bankrupt as individuals.
In other words, in so far as Shugert's petition sought
not merely to have the partnership adjudged bankrupt as
'The record does not show that any creditor appeared in the

proceeding in the District Court.

MEEK v. CENTRE COUNTY CO.
499

503

Opinion of the Court.

against the defendants, but also to have them adjudged
as individuals, it was clearly an antagonistic proceeding.
To that extent Shugert was not the "bankrupt ", but
stood in a position analogous to that of a creditor seeking
the involuntary adjudication of his debtor. Even in so
far as the petition sought to have the partnership adjudged bankrupt, the defendants, as non-consenting partners, were entitled, under the specific provision of General
Order No. 8, to make defense "in the same manner as if
the petition had been filed by a creditor of the partnership." Note 3, p. 501, supra. Such a proceeding, as any
other litigated matter, requires adversary parties; and
manifestly, in the very nature of things, can only be continued as long as there are adversary parties. In the proceeding in the District Court and in the Circuit Court of
Appeals Shugert was the petitioner in the bankruptcy
proceeding, affirmatively seeking relief against his partners by subjecting their property to the payment of the
partnership debts, and actively engaged in the prosecution of his petition against them. As the cases now stand,
however, by reason of his death there is no longer any
petitioner seeking the bankruptcy of the firm or of the
defendants; no adversary party in so far as the defendants
are concerned.
The question whether Shugert's right to maintain the
petition in bankruptcy for the purpose of having the
partnership and the defendants adjudged bankrupt-if
any he had-is one which abated with his death, or one
which survives to his proper representatives in the personalty or realty involved so that the bankruptcy proceeding may be continued in their names, is not, however,
free from difficulty. It is, so far as we are advised, one
of first impression. And it is one which we think should
not be determined ex parte, if there are any persons claiming to be proper representatives of his interest in the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

ceeding who desire to be admitted as parties for the
purpose of continuing it in his stead.
Under the circumstances we conclude that we should
now deny the motions to dismiss the proceeding; with
leave to any persons claiming to be the proper representatives of Shugert's interest to appear in this Court within
thirty days from this date, setting forth the capacity in
which they so claim, and applying for leave to be admitted
as parties for the purpose of continuing the proceeding.
If this is done the question whether the proceeding should
be dismissed as to the partnership and the defendants or
continued as to them by such representatives, will then
be determined. But if no one thus appears, these cases
will be remanded with instructions to dismiss the proceeding in so far as the petition seeks to have the partnership
and the defendants adjudged bankrupt; following, by
analogy, the practice established in cases that have become
moot. Heitmuller v. Stokes, 256 U. S. 359, 363; Harlan
v. Harlan,263 U. S. 681.
The attorneys who filed the answer to the defendants'
motion will forthwith give notice of this ruling to the
representatives of Shugert's interest in the property involved, and also to not less than three creditors of the
partnership; and will, within such thirty days, file with
the clerk of this Court a verified return showing to whom
such notices were given.
It is so ordered.
JAY BURNS BAKING COMPANY ET AL. v. BRYAN,
AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA,
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 94.

Argued October 19, 1923.--Decided April 14, 1924.

1. The power of a State to protect the public from imposition by
sale of short-weight loaves of bread cannot be exerted in such a
way as arbitrarily to prohibit or interfere with, or impose unrea-

