OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

Code, with a certificate that "in this decree the question
of jurisdiction alone is in issue."
The decree leaves the cause of action in personam for
damage undisposed of. For this reason the appeal must
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this Court,
although the objection was not taken by the appellee.
This Court has jurisdiction under § 238, as under others,
only of writs of error or appeals from final judgments.
And the judgment must be not only in its nature final,
but a complete disposition of the cause. Collins v. Miller,
252 U. S. 364, 370. This rule is applicable to appeals in
admiralty. Bowker v. United States, 186 U. S. 135;
OneidaNavigation Corporationv. W. & S. Job & Co., Inc.,
252 U. S. 521. There is nothing to the contrary in Withenbury v. United States, 5 Wall. 819, or in The Pesaro,
255 U. S. 216, 217. Counsel suggested that the dismissal
of this premature appeal might somehow release the drydock, to libelant's prejudice. It obviously cannot have
that effect.
Dismissed.
OLIVER AMERICAN TRADING COMPANY, INC.
v. GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF MEXICO AND NATIONAL RAILWAYS OF
MEXICO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 662.

Argued March 13, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

I. On a jurisdictional review under Jud. Code, § 238, the District
Judge's certificate of a jurisdictional question does not relieve this
Court of the duty of determining for itself whether the question

certified is one of the jurisdiction of the lower court as a federal
court.

P. 442.

2. Where an attachment suit in New York against the Government
of Mexico was removed to the District Court and dismissed for lack

OLIVER CO. v. MEXICO.
440

Opinion of the Court.

of jurisdiction upon the ground of sovereign immunity, elwd, that
a writ of error from this Court would not lie under § 2'', since
the question was one of general law, applicable to state and federal
courts alike; and that the case should be transferred to the Circuit Court of Appeals under Jud. Code, § 238(a). P. 442.
Case transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, an action by attachment against
the Government of Mexico, removed from a court of New
York.
Air. Alfred Hayes, with whom Mr. Robert F. Greacrn
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Jerome S. Hess, with whom Mr. Harold B. Elgar,
Mr. Ernest Angell and Mr. George F. Snyder were on the
brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Oliver American Trading Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, brought this suit, in the Supreme Court
of New York, against the United States of Mexico and
the National Railways of Mexico. Service was made by
attaching tangible personal property and credits within
the State alleged to belong to the defendants and summons. In the state court, the Government of Mexico,
appearing specially, moved seasonably that the attachment be quashed and that the suit be dismissed. Before
the motion was heard, the case was removed on its petition
to the federal court for southern New York. There,
Mexico, again appearing specially, procured a rule that
the plaintiff show cause why the attachment should not be
vacated and the suit dismissed, upon the ground that it is
"an independent sovereign nation, . . . immune
from process of the courts, except upon its consent."

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The plaintiff asserted that at the time when the suit
was begun and when the rule was returnable Mexico had
not been recognized by our Government; and contended
that, being a non-recognized foreign government, it was
suable as a foreign corporation under subdivision 7 of § 7
of the Civil Practice Act of New York. It was conceded
that National Railways of Mexico is merely a name for
the system of railroads controlled and operated by the
Mexican Government. After the hearing on the motion,
but before entry of the judgment below, Mexico was duly
recognized by the United States and diplomatic relations
between the two governments were resumed. Thereupon,
and solely upon this ground, the District Court held that
Mexico was entitled to immunity from suit in the courts
of the United States of America, unless upon its own consent; granted the motion to vacate the attachment and
dismiss the suit; and issued the certificate of a jurisdictional question provided for in § 238 of the Judicial Code.
Here, the defendants in error move to dismiss this writ of
error for want of jurisdiction in this Court, on the ground
that the case below did not present the question of jurisdiction of the district court as a federal court.
The fact that the District Judge issued the certificate
does not relieve this Court from the duty of determining
for itself whether the question which was certified is in
truth one of the jurisdiction of the lower court as a federal
court. Bogart v. Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137, 144;
Smith v. Apple, ante 274. Such a question is presented
whenever there is in controversy the power of the court,
as defined or limited by the Constitution or statutes of the
United States, to hear and determine the cause. The
Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216, 218. It is not presented where the
question of jurisdiction to be decided turns upon matters
of general law applicable alike to actions brought in other
tribunals. De Rees v. Costaguta,254 U. S. 166, 173. The
question of sovereign immunity is such a question of gen-

CHUNG FOOK v. WHITE.
Statement of the Case.

440

eral law applicable as fully to suits in the state courts as
to those prosecuted in the courts of the United States.'
As the writ of error from this Court was improvidently
allowed, the case must be transferred to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Section 238(a) of the
Judicial Code, Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837.
Case Transferred.

CHUNG FOOK v. WHITE, AS COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION FOR THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 299.

Argued February 26, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

The proviso of § 22 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
under which the wife of a "naturalized" citizen, married to him
after his naturalization and sent for by him, may be admitted
without detention for treatment in hospital though found to be
affected with a contagious disorder, cannot be extended by judicial
construction to include the wife of a native born citizen. P. 445.
287 Fed. 533, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
denying a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. G. W. Hott
was on the brief, for petitioner.
1Cases like McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543, and Wefern Union Telegraph Co. v. Andrezws, 216 U. S. 165, in which questions
of the immunity of state officers from suit are considered by thi
Court on direct appeal under § 238, come here by that method because of the constitutional question involved. Compare Illnois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 37, 38.

