246

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

the Lever Act, ยง 26, or to retard movement of fuel to the
ultimate consumers by making sales unprofitable. No
imperative reason appears for treating jobbers who had
bought but had not contracted to sell with less consideration than was accorded those with agreements for sales,
irrespective of the stipulated price.
Considering the ordinary rules of interpretation and
the circumstances disclosed, we conclude that the order
of August 23rd did not apply to the sales in question. It
was not retroactive, and the sales were but part of a
transaction begun before its date. We are not unmindful
of the forceful argument to the contrary; and we consciously refrain from indicating any opinion respecting
the validity of the order as interpreted.
The judgments of the court below are reversed and the
causes will be remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
ERICKSON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES AND
UNITED STATES SPRUCE PRODUCTION CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 125.

Argued February 20, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.

1. A suit brought by the United States in the assertion of a substantial claim is within the jurisdiction of the District Court under
ยง 24 of the Judicial Code, whatever the decision on the merits.

P. 249.
2. Where the United States joined with the United States Spruce
Production Corporation (a federal war instrumentality, cf.
ClaUam County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341,) in an action on
contracts made by the latter with the defendants, held that the
case had the jurisdictional status of an action by the United
States, irrespective of the merits of its claim, and that objection
to the jurisdiction on the ground that the Corporation and one of

ERICKSON v. UNITED STATES.
246

Opinion of the Court.

the defendants were citizens of the same State and the United
States not a necessary or proper party, was rightly overruled. Id.

Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court, to review
only the question of jurisdiction, in an action on contracts.
Mr. Corwin S. Shank, with whom Mr. Henry F.
McClure was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. W.
Marvin Smith, Mr. Charles H. Carey and Mr. Jame.s B.
Kerr were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JursTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Action by the United States and United States Spruce
Production Corporation, praying judgment against C. J.
Erickson in the sum of $56,679.35, and against the United
States Fidelity and Guaranty Company in the sum of
$56,679.35, the ground of recovery being alleged breaches
of certain contracts entered into between the Spruce Corporation and Erickson for the sale of certain logs belonging to the Spruce Corporation.
There was a motion to strike out certain allegations of
the complaint, and being overruled, the complaint was
demurred to. The demurrer and the motion to strike out
were upon the ground that it appeared upon the face of
the complaint that the court had no jurisdiction of the
subject matter of the action.. The demurrer was overruled. An answer was then filed, and a reply thereto. In
the answer there was also a denial of jurisdiction.
Upon the issues thus made a jury was impaneled to try,
which rendered a verdict, fixing the recovery against Erickson at $45,710.70, and against the Fidelity and Guaranty
Company in the sum of $20,000. For these sums judgment was entered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Accompanying the writ of error is the certificate of the
district judge that a question of jurisdiction arose in the
case. The certificate recited that on the motion to strike
out and upon the demurrer the defendants raised the question of the jurisdiction of the court as a federal court to
hear and determine the cause "and asserted that the
United States of America was neither a necessary nor
proper party to the said action," it being one " founded
on contract between a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Washington on the one part and a
citizen and resident of the State of Washington on the
other part, the said court was without jurisdiction to hear
and determine the same, but this court in consideration
of the allegations and facts" of the complaint "was of
the opinion that it had jurisdiction to hear and determine
the case."
Even a summary of the facts of the certificate would be
somewhat long. Fortunately, we may dispense with it
as the elemental facts are sufficiently set forth in Clallam
County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341.
Reference to that case is satisfactory to plaintiffs in
error, they conceding that the connection of the United
States with the litigation can be completely and accurately stated in the language of the Clallam Case by adding the following quotation from the case: "In short the
Spruce Production Corporation was organized by the
United States as an instrumentality for carrying on the
war, all its property was conveyed to it by or bought with
money coming from the United States and was used by it
solely as means to that end, and when the war was over
it stopped its work except so far as it found it necessary
to go on in order to wind up its affairs. When the winding
up is accomplished there will be a loss, but whatever assets
may be realized will go to the United States."
In addition, it is only necessary to say that the Spruce
Production Corporation is-a corporation of the State of
Washington. Erickson is a citizen of the State of Wash-

ERICKSON r. UNITED STATES.
246

Opinion of, the Court.

ington, and a resident of the Western District (,f the State,
Northern Division. The Fidelity and Guaranty Cornpany is a corporation of the State of Maryland.
The matter in dispute exceeds $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs. The United States joined as plaintiff to
protect its asserted interests.
In connection with the petition for a writ of error, the
errors assigned are based on the action of the District
Court and noted in its certificate, and that the "court
was without any jurisdiction whatsoever to enter any such
judgment."
There is no question of the merits of the case or of the
judgment. In other words, the question of jurisdiction is
alone before us for decision and, the letter of the complaint
being regarded, there is no doubt of the jurisdiction of
the Court, for the first subdivision of 24 of the Judicial
Code expressly gives the District Court jurisdiction of
suits brought by the United States. This is such a suit.
The United States is one of the plaintiffs and joined in the
suit by way of asserting and seeking to enforce a right in
which it claims to have a direct and legal interest.
Judged by the complaint, the claim made by the United
States is not frivolous or wholly without support but is
real and substantial. In other words, it calls for consideration and determination. This involves an exercise of
jurisdiction, whether the ultimate decision sustains or rejects the claim. Jurisdiction is power to decide the case
either way, as the merits may require. The Fair v.
Kohier Die Co., 22S U. S. 22. 25; Geneva Furniture Co.
v. Karpen & Bros., 238 U. S. 254. 258; Loa;sville & NasFhville R. R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201, 203; Hart v. Keith
Exchange, 262 U. S. 271, 273.
That another party joins in the suit does not take from
it its status as a suit brought by the United States.
-It follows that the ruling of the District Court sustaining the jurisdiction must be, and it is
A.ffrn, d.

