SOUTHEASTERN EXP. CO. v. ROBERTSON.

535

Counsel for Parties.

SOUTHEASTERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. ROBERTSON, STATE REVENUE AGENT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 201. Argued March 5, 1924.-Decided April 21, 1924.
1. An objection that a state taxing statute violated due process of
law because of its vagueness, held to have been obviated by
elucidation of the statute by the state court in this case. P. 539.
2. A state constitutionally may condition the right of an express
company to enter upon and transact intrastate business, by requiring antecedent payment of a tax based on the number of miles of
railroad tracks in the State over which the business is to be operated, and varied according to a classification of the tracks made
for the purposes of railroad taxation and as to which neither
notice nor opportunity to be heard is vouchsafed the express company. P. 539.
3. Because of the differences between express and railroad companies, the former are not denied the equal protection of the laws
by refusing to them, while allowing to the latter, the right to be
heard concerning a classification of railroad tracks upon which the
calculation of the privilege taxes of each in part depends. P. 540.
4. Nor is the Equal Protection Clause violated by a penalty provision applicable to a newcomer who does not pay his license tax
before beginning the express business, but inapplicable to those
already in the business, who pay and renew within thirty days
after their taxes accrue each year. P. 540.
130 Miss. 305, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi holding the Express Company liable for a license
tax, and for a like amount as damages for not having paid
the license tax before beginning business in the State, as
required by §§ 21, 73, c. 104, Miss. Laws 1920. See also
the next following case. Mr. Miller, successor in office to
Mr. Robertson, was substituted in this Court.

Mr. Sanders McDaniel, with whom Mr. A. S. Bozeman
and Mr. H. L. Greene were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Mr. R. A. Collins, for defendant in error, submitted.
Mr. C. C. Dunn and Mr. A. B. Amis were also on the
brief.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Error to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi holding the Express Company liable for a
privilege tax for doing business without first having paid
the tax imposed by the laws of the State, and for damages.
§ 21, c. 104, Laws of 1920, Hemingway's Code Supplement
1921, § 6512, and § 73, c. 104, Laws of 1920, Hemingway's
Code Supplement 1921, § 6630.
There is an agreed statement of facts. The Express
Company is a common carrier of freight of various kinds
over certain lines of railroads in the State in both interstate and intrastate commerce. It commenced business
May 1, 1921.
Section 21, c. 104, provides as follows: "Express companies--On each express company transporting freight or
passengers from one point to another in this State $500.00.
And six dollars per mile on all first class railroad tracks in
this State over which the business is operated, and three
dollars per mile on all second or third class railroad tracks
in this State over which the business is operated."
By § 73, c. 104, it is provided that all persons or corporations liable for privilege taxes "who shall fail to procure the license therefor before beginning the business
taxed, or who shall fail to renew, during the month in
which it is due, the license on a business on which he has
theretofore paid a privilege tax, shall in each or either
such instance be liable for double the amount of the tax,
and it is hereby made the duty of the tax collector of the
county in which such business is conducted to collect the
amount, issue a separate license therefor, and to endorse
across its face, the words: 'Collected as damages.'"

SOUTHEASTERN EXP. CO. v. ROBERTSON.
535

537

Opinion of the Court.

The Express Company did not pay any privilege tax
before commencing business May 1, 1921, nor obtain the
license which issues on such payment.

Robertson, predecessor of the present defendant in error,
acting in his capacity of State Revenue Agent, made an
assessment against the company for the sum of $4,325.33
as the tax under § 21, c. 104, and a like sum as damages
under § 73.
The Company tendered the amount assessed as the tax
but declined to pay the amount assessed as damages.
The tender was refused and this action was brought, resulting in the judgment we have indicated.
There is agreement as to the railroads over which the
Express Company carries express and the number of
miles the express is carried. And it is agreed that it carries express over all of the railroad tracks, but intrastate
express only from station to station in the State.
It is also agreed that under the laws of Mississippi, the
Railroad Commission of the State on the first Monday
of August, 1920, classified the railroads of the State according to their charters and the gross earnings of each
for the purpose of levying a privilege tax on the railroads,
the classification being set out, for the year beginning the
first Monday of August, 1920. The number of miles of
track of each is given. No other or further classification
of the railroads was made until August 1, 1921, when they
were again classified.
It is also agreed that no classification of the railroad
tracks under the laws of the State of 1920, under § 21,
c. 104, or otherwise, has ever been made by the Railroad
Commission, with reference to the operation of the Express Company or of any other express company over
the tracks. And it is agreed that the sum of $4,325.33
imposed, and for which the action was brought, was
for the year beginning May 1, 1921, and ending May 1,
1922.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The business done by the Company for the six months
beginning July 1, 1921, and ending December 1, 1921, is
given.
The court directed a verdict in the sum of $4,383.50,
refusing to direct for the penalty. For that amount only
was judgment entered.
Robertson and the Express Company each prosecuted
an appeal-Robertson to reverse so much of the judgment as denied his right to recover damages or penalty,
that is, which limited his recovery to the taxes only; the
Express Company to reverse so much of the judgment
as was against it. Robertson succeeded in his appeal:
the Express Company failed.
The contention of the Company is that the statute
denies to the Express Company due process, in that: (a)
it is so vague, uncertain and indefinite as to be void;
(b) it provides no measure or standard by which to distinguish the railroads in connection with an express business, "and no provision of law is elsewhere found by
which it can be ascertained as to what are first class
railroad tracks and second and third class railroad tracks
in connection with an express business;" (c) although
the Supreme Court of Mississippi has held that first,
second and third class railroads referred to in § 21 are
those required by § 45 to be classified by the Railroad
Commission, and although the effect of said holding may
be to engraft upon § 21, § 45, even assuming that the
connection between the section and their purposes be thus
conclusively established by the, decision of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, "there still is found neither measure
nor standard for classifying railroad trackage for the purpose of taxing the express business operated over such
trackage, inasmuch as the classification of railroads under

§ 45, c. 104, etc., is for the sole purpose 'of levying a
privilege tax on railroads;' (d) if the classification of
railroads despite its purpose can be so extended, there is

SOUTHEASTERN EXP. CO. v. ROBERTSON.
535

539

Opinion of the Court.

no provision for notice and hearing to express companies
when the classification of railroads is made.
There is the further contention that plaintiff in error
is denied the equal protection of the laws in that: (a)
damages in an amount equal to the privilege tax are
allowed against it because it failed to pay the privilege
tax before entering business on May 1, 1921, while other
express companies as well as all other persons and corporations subject to privilege taxes already in business
are allowed thirty days after the privilege tax accrues
annually within which to pay the same, and "that the
discrimination under the law in this respect is arbitrary
and unwarranted by any sound reason or principle of
distinction;" (b) railroads are accorded the right to be
heard upon the correctness of the classification made by
the commission which governs the classification under the
law for the purpose of levying privilege taxes upon them.
while express companies are not accorded a hearing when
the classification is made upon them, and are not allowed
to present facts either as to the value of particular trackage relative to an express business, or that which under
the law governs the classification for the purpose of levying privilege taxes upon railroads.
The Supreme Court of the State held adversely to all
of these contentions and we think in correct estimate of
them.
If it can be conceded to the Express Company that the
statute had vagueness, it was competent for the court to
resolve it to clearness, which it did by an explanation of
the laws and the relation of their provisions, and deduced
therefrom their constitutionality and freedom from the
objections urged against them. We are not disposed to
an enumeration of the objections. They are somewhat
involved. A prominent one is, and it is variously expressed, that the Express Company was not heard in the
classification of railroads, it being insisted that between
the latter fact and the express business there is intimate

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

relation and therefore the same right of hearing to the
Express Company as to railroads. But the fact of the
classification of railroads was one that preceded the Express Company, of which it was aware, and was an element in the estimate of the privilege that was to be
granted, for only over the railroads the privilege could be
exercised. There was no element of judicial inquiry.
The tax was the condition of a privilege to carry on a
business-might, indeed, be denominated a license, but
call it privilege or license, it was a condition the State
could impose, and having the option to impose it, could
fix its amount directly or by reference to a standard.
Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Ohio Tax
Cases, 232 U. S. 576.
The objection that the Express Company was not given
a hearing upon the classification of railroads is made a
basis for the contention that the Express Company is
denied the equal protection of the laws. In specification
of this it is said that railroads are entitled to be heard
upon their classification, and, therefore, upon the condition upon which the amount of the privilege tax upon
them depends, while a hearing is denied to express companies when necessarily the classification is as intimate
to and a condition of the tax upon them as upon the railroads. The Supreme Court of the State found reasons
for the difference, and there is certainly a difference
between railroads and express companies of themselves
and necessarily in their relations to their respective businesses, and, against the action of the State and the judgment of its courts, the difference cannot be regarded as
not of legal consideration in the imposition of an excise
upon the express companies.
It is further urged that there is a discrimination
offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment in the laws of
Mississippi permitting damages against the Express Company in an amount equal to the privilege tax because it
failed to pay the tax before entering, May 1, 1921, while

SOUTHEASTERN EXP. CO. v. ROBERTSON.

541

Counsel for Parties.

535

other companies, persons and corporations already in
business are allowed thirty days after the taxes accrue
annually within which to pay them. The Supreme Court
of the State decided against the contention, and we think
that there is difference enough in the situations to justify
the difference in the provision and exempt it from the
charge of unconstitutionality.
The court thereupon reversed the judgment of the court
below and rendered judgment in favor of Robertson for
both the tax and damages sued for and, under the practice
of the court, entered judgment to that effect with interest
and costs.
Judgment affirned.

SOUTHEASTERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. ROBERTSON, STATE REVENUE AGENT, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 216.

Submitted April 7, 1924.-Decided April 21, 1924.

Decided upon the authority of Southeastern Express CJo. v. Robertsov,
ante, 535.
Affirmed.

Appeal from a decree of the District Court denying an
interlocutory injunction in a suit to restrain the enforcement of a privilege tax. Mr. Miller, successor in office to
Mr. Robertson, and Mr. Riley, successor in office to Mr.
Miller as state auditor, were substituted in this Court.
Mr. Sanders McDaniel and Mr. A. S. Bozeman for appellant. Mr. H. L. Greene was also on the brief.
Mr. R. H. Thompson for appellees. Mr. Jas. A. Alexander and Mr. Julian P. Alexander were also on the brief.

