OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the
District Court are reversed, and the case is remanded to
the District Court to proceed in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
BARNETT ET AL. v. KUNKEL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 134.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided February 1S, 1924.

1. The Court of its own motion Will dismiss an appeal not within its

jurisdiction. P. 19.
2. The federal jurisdiction of the District Court must appear in the
plaintiff's statement of his case. P. 20.
3. A bill to quiet title, averring diversity of citizenship, and showing that the land in question was allotted Indian lands conveyed
to plaintiff under the federal law and generally that the defendant
asserts a conflicting title, but not showing that the conflict will
involve the validity of conveyances made in virtue of the federal
law, invokes the jurisdiction of the District Court on the ground
of diverse citizenship only, so that review of the decree on the
merits, even though 1derai issues were brought in by answer and
cross bill, or at the trial, .id decided, is final in the Circuit Court
of Appeals (Jud. Code, § 12s,j umess thlb Court shall grant a certiorari (Id. § 240.) Pp. 19-21.
4. Section 3 of the Act of June 25, 1910, authorizing appeals to this
Court "in all suits affecting the allotted lands within the eastern
district of Oklahoma," etc., was repealed by the Judicial Code.
P. 21.
Appeal to review 283 Fed. 24, dismissed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a decree of the District Court for the plaintiff Kunkel, and the Prairie Oil and Gas Company, made
defendant by'a cross bill, and against the defendants and
cross plaintiffs, Barnett et al., in a suit brought by Kunkel
to quiet title to a piece of land in Oklahoma. Certiorari
was refused. 260 U. S. 738. A petition for rehearing was
denied.

BARNETT v. KUNKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

16

Mr. Lewis C. Lawson, with whom Mr. FrancisStewart,
Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser and Mr. Chas. A. Moon were on
the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Preston C. West, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Flannelly and Mr. Alexander A. Davidson were on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. CHMF JUsT CE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
W. A. Kunkel, a citizen of Indiana. began this suit in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Oklahoma to quiet title to 160 acres of land in that
district, and made defendants Hannah C. Barnett, her
husband, Tucker K. Barnett, and others, all citizens of
Oklahoma residing in the district. In his amended bill
the complainant averred that he deraigned his title from
one Mehaley Watson, a Creek citizen, to whom was
allotted the land in question, that a patent was issued in
her name signed by the principal chief of the Creek
Nation and approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
that she died in October, 1908, before the issue of the
patent in March, 1909, that she was an illegitimate child
of the defendant Hannah C. Barnett, a Creek of the full
blood, who was her heir and inherited the land in question, that on March 22, 1909, in consideration of $500,
the mother executed and delivered a warranty deed for
the tract to one B. 0. Sims, that on the same clay the
deed to Sims was approved by the County Court of
Hughes County, Oklahoma,-the court having jurisdiction to settle the estate of Mehaley Watson deceased,that Sims conveyed to Brannan, that Brannan conveyed
to Berrian and others from whom by some eleven mesne
conveyances, the details of which were set out in the bill,
the land was conveyed, in March, 1913, to one R. S.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Litchfield, that, the question then having arisen whether
Mehaley Watson was not a resident of Okfuskee County,
instead of Hughes County, when she died, Mrs. Barnett
and her husband filed their petition in the County Court
of Okfuskee County asking approval of her deed of
March, 1909, to B. 0. Sims, and obtained the approval
of that court accordingly in consideration of $2000 paid
her by Litchfield; that Sims on the same day made and
delivered a quitclaim deed of the land to Litchfield, that,
by several mesne conveyances set forth, the tract became
ultimately vested in the complainant, and that complainant in May, 1914, leased the land to the Prairie Oil and
Gas Company for oil and gas purposes, which entered
upon the land and was operating wells thereon and paying
complainant rentals and royalties.
The bill then alleged that the defendants and each of
them were asserting title adverse to that of the complainant, by leases and conveyances of the land and otherwise,
and unless restrained would make others, all of which were
or would be clouds upon complainant's title, wherefore
he prayed that defendants be required to set forth such
right, title or interest as may be asserted by them, and
that the title of complainant be adjudged valid, and
quieted against defendants' claims.
To the amended bill, the defendants, Hannah C.
Barnett and her husband, filed an answer and cross bill
in which they attacked the validity of her deed to Sims
as violating § 9 of the Act of Congress of May 27, 1908,
c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, in three respects: first, it was executed two days before the patent to Mehaley Watson was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; second, the
approval of the deed by the Hughes County Court in
1909 was of no effect because Mehaley Watson died a
resident of Okfuskee County; and third, the purported
approval of the deed by the Okfuskee County Court in
1913 was void for the reason that it was made by the

BARNETT v. RKTNKEL.
16

Opinion of the Court.

judge of that court during a vacation of the court, at his
residence and not at the court house, and that it was
obtained by fraud upon the judge and Hannah Barnett.
By cross bill the Prairie Oil and Gas Company, a corporation of Kansas, was made defendant. Mrs. Barnett.
asserting ownership in the land in herself, prayed for a
decree declaring the Sims deed void, and quieting her
title, and for an accounting for the profits made from the
land by complainant and the Prairie Oil and Gas Company. Evidence was heard and a decree rendered by the
District Court finding for the complainant and quieting
title in him. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, in which the decree of the District Court was
reversed (259 Fed. 394), and the case remanded for
another hearing because of the exclusion of material evidence. Upon a second hearing, the decree was again for
the complainant, and on the second appeal, the decree of
the District Court was affirmed. 283 Fed. 24. A petition for certiorari was filed and submitted to this Court,
October 23, 1922, and was denied November 13, 1922.
260 U. S. 738.
No question of our jurisdiction to hear this appeal is
raised by the appellees. That, however, does not relieve
us from the duty of inquiring into it. The jurisdiction
of the District Court was invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship of the parties. There was no other
ground set forth in the bill. The complainant in deraigning his title disclosed the fact that it rested on the allotment of the land in question to a deceased Creek Indian
minor, that the land was inherited by the minor's mother
and was conveyed by that mother as a full blood Creek
Indian with approval of the County Court, all in accordance with and by virtue of a law of Congress; but there
was nothing to show on the face of the bill that the
validity of this conveyance was questioned under that
law. The averment that the defendants were asserting

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

a conflicting title or interest did not show that the issues
which the assertion of their claims would present for trial,
would necessarily involve the validity of the conveyances
made under and by virtue of the federal law, any more
than the legal sufficiency of the many other conveyances
set forth in the bill in the chain of complainant's title.
It is true that the issues made by the answer clearly involved a consideration and construction of the effect of
the federal statute of May 27, 1908, and perhaps others,
but that fact subsequently developed would not furnish
a ground for jurisdiction of a Federal District Court. In
Florida Central R. R. Co. v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321, it was
said (p. 327):
"It must be regarded as conclusively established by
our decisions that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
must appear in the plaintiffs' statement of their case,"
citing Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Colorado
Central Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Oregon
Short Line Ry. Co. v. Skottowe, 162 U. S.490; Hanford
v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273; PressPublishingCo. v. Monroe,
164 U. S. 105.
And (pp. 328-329):
"In view of the frequent and recent decisions of this
court on this subject, it is not necessary to argue the
proposition that the mere assertion of a title to land derived to the plaintiffs, under and by virtue of a patent
granted by the United States, presents no question which,
of itself, confers jurisdiction on a Circuit Court of the
United States. Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Co.,
175 U. S. 571."
The subject is discussed and cogent reasons for the
rule are given in Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S.561,
569. See also Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S.74; Shoshone
Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S.505; De Lamar's Nevada
Co. v. Nesbitt, 177 U. S.523.
Had the bill of complaint in this case averred that the
suit arose under the laws of the United States, because

BARNETT v. KUNKEL.
16

Opinion of the Court.

Hannah Barnett insisted that her deed to Sims was void
under the statutes of the United States and so had created
a cloud upon complainant's title by her subsequent leases
and contracts, the District Court could have taken jurisdiction on that ground alone. Hopkins v. Walker, 244
U. S.486, 490; Lancaster v. Kathleen Oil Co., 241 U. S.
551; Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Pozo, 236 U. S. 635, 643,
644. But nothing of this kind appeared in the bill, and
the development of the real federal issues in the answer
or on the trial could not supply the defect in the original
jurisdiction of the suit as one arising under the laws of
the United States.
It being established that the sole ground for jurisdiction in the District Court was diverse citizenship, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the decree
of the District Court on appeal was final, § 128, Judicial
Code, and can only be reviewed in this Court by writ of
certiorari under § 240, Judicial Code. Shuithis v. McDougal, 225 U. S.561.
The appeal is dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.
On March 17, 1924, the Court, through the Chief
Justice, made an order in this case, as follows:
The Court orders that there be added to the opinion
already filed herein the following:
"The third section of the Act of Congress, approved
June 25, 1910, c. 408, 36 Stat. 836, was repealed by the
last paragraph of § 297 of the Judicial Code, approved
March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1169."
The petition for rehearing is denied.

