OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
Order.

563

circumstances in the present case sufficiently extraordinary to bring it within any class of "exceptional cases"
or make "the general rules of procedure" inapplicable.
Craig v. Hecht, supra, p. 277.
The writ of habeas corpus could not be used in this case
as a substitute for a writ of error. The order sustaining
the writ and discharging Valante from custody is accordingly reversed; and the cause will be remanded to the
District Court with instructions to vacate the order, discharge the writ, and remand Valante to the custody of the
warden.
Reversed and remanded.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.

No. 15, Original.

Order entered April 25, 1924.

Order that reports by commissioners, with accompanying maps,
respecting the running, etc., of the boundary line along the Big
Bend Area, and of part of the medial line in the river bed, be
received and filed, and limiting the time for objections or exceptions.

(Order announced by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT.)

The commissioners heretofore designated to run, locate
and mark upon the ground portions of the boundary line
between the States of Texas and Oklahoma, where it follows the course of the Red River, having this day presented a report, with accompanying maps, showing that
they have run, located and marked upon the ground the
portion of the boundary along the Big Bend Area, and
also a report, with accompanying map, showing that they
have surveyed, run upon the ground and platted the
medial line between such state boundary and the north-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Order.

264 U. S.

erly bank of the river for a length of three miles at and
in the vicinity of the river bed oil wells;
And it further appearing from such reports that the said
commissioners have transmitted copies of such reports,
with the accompanying maps, by registered mail to the
Attorney General of the United States, the Attqrney
General of the State of Texas, and the Attorney General
of the State of Oklahoma, and have lodged with the clerk
fifty additional copies of such reports and maps for the
use of such private interveners as may apply for themIt is ordered that the said reports, with the accompanying maps, be received and filed by the clerk.
And it is further ordered that all objections or exceptions to such reports or either of them, if there be any
such objections or exceptions, shall be presented to the
Court or filed with the clerk within a period of four weeks
from this date; and the periods heretofore fixed for presenting or filing such objections or exceptions are limited
and modified accordingly.

