JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
160

Syllabus.

established and notorious, that judicial notice of it may be
taken. But the usage here invoked is not that, but is
one of special application to a case where the collection
of a check is intrusted to the very bank upon which the
check is drawn and where payment is accepted in a medium which the contract, read in the light of the law,
forbids. The special situation with which we are dealing is controlled by a definite rule of law which it is
sought to upset by a custom to the contrary effect. It is
not now necessary to consider the effect of a custom which
contravenes a settled rule of law or the limits within
which such a custom can be upheld. See Barnardv. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, 390-394. Decisions upon that question are in great confusion. But whatever may be the
doctrine in other respects, certainly a custom relied upon
to take the place of a settled principle of law, and therefore to have the force of law, ought to be as definite and
specific in negativing the principle as the law which it
assumes to supplant is in affirming it.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES v. UNION GUANO COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 73.

Argued October 15, 1923.--Decided February 18, 1924.

1. In exercising its right to impose reasonable conditions upon the
bringing of suits, a State properly may treat as a separate claos
actions to recover damages resulting to crops from harmful or
deficient fertilizers, and require a chemical analysis as a condition
precedent, without excluding other evidence. P. 181.
2. A statute of North Carolina (Laws 1917, c. 143,) regulating the
sale of fertilizers to prevent deception and fraud, and granting the
purchaser new rights and remedies for departures from the standards fixed without depriving him of any right or cause of action

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

or of liberty to contract with the manufacturer on other terms,
provides that no suit for damages from results of the use of
fertilizer may be brought except after chemical analysis showing
deficiency of ingredients, unless it shall appear to the State Department of Agriculture that during the season the manufacturer has,
in other fertilizer offered, employed ingredients outlawed by the
act, or offered any kind of dishonest or fraudulent goods. The act
provides opportunity for official chemical analysis, limiting, however, the time and manner in which samples for analysis may be
taken, and declares that a certificate of the state chemist of an
analysis made by him of any sample drawn under these provisions
shall be prima facie proof that the fertilizer was of the value and
constituency shown by such analysis;
In an action to recover damages to a crop alleged to have resulted
from fertilizer of inferior quality and containing deleterious ingredients, in which the plaintiff was nonsuited for not having procured
a chemical analysis as required by the act, held, that the requirement was not arbitrary, but reasonable, and consistent with the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 180.
183 N. C. 338, affirmed.

EmoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, affirming a judgment of nonsuit in an action to
recover damages to a tobacco crop alleged to have resulted
from the use of fertilizer, bought from the defendant and
alleged to have been inferior in quality and to have contained harmful ingredients.
Mr. Edward C. Jerome, with whom Mr. J. 31. Sharp
and Mr. B. L. Fentress were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
The complaint may be treated as alleging two causes
of action: first, because defendant wrongfully inserted
into the fertilizer a substance harmful to tobacco; second,
for failure to put into the fertilizer the ingredients that
it was represented to contain, one cause of action being
for destruction, the other for failure to help as represented.

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
171

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The statute, in the absence of the required certificate,
abolishes all remedy for damage caused by the insertion
of a harmful substance in fertilizer, unless it was done
dishonestly or fraudulently, or accompanied by a similar
injury to another person.
A "chemical analysis showing a deficiency of ingredients," made a prerequisite to the bringing of this action, has
nothing to do with the additional presence of some harmful substance. This wrong was something that the legislature very evidently did not have in mind in passing the
statute, but the Supreme Court of the State has construed
the statute as applying to that cause of action. The only
alternatives given to one who has had his crop ruined are
absurd. We must make it " appear" to the Department
of Agriculture that the manufacturer in other goods offered in this State during such season, employed such ingredients as are outlawed by the provisions of this article;
or he must make it "appear to the Department of Agriculture that the manufacturer of such fertilizer has offered
for sale during that season any kind of dishonest or fraudulent goods." In other words, the one injured, as this
plaintiff has been, must find some other person who has
a like cause of action against the same defendant,
and make that appear to the Department, although
by what means the statute does not say. The Department may ignore the most convincing evidence,
and simply announce that it does not appear. No process
is provided for the plaintiff to secure witnesses before the
Department, and the Department is not compelled to have
a hearing. As much may be said for the other alternative, requiring it to appear that the fertilizer was "dishonest or fraudulent goods." This leaves out entirely a
cause of action based upon the negligent insertion of a
harmful substance in fertilizer, because in such case there
might be no deficiency of ingredients, no "other goods
offered in this State during such season " by the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Arguiment for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

manufacturer, or none that contained outlawed substances, and no dishonesty or fraud. Thus the plaintiff is
left entirely without remedy for the damage caused him
by the defendant's placing in his fertilizer some substance
that practically ruined his tobacco crop.
A State cannot abolish all remedy for an admitted tort.
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312.

There is a denial of equal protection of the law by a
statute which denies to one class of persons the right to
recover damages from another class for a particular injury, leaving actions identical in principle for the benefit of
all other classes. Atchison, etc. Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238
IT. S. 56; Park v. Detroit Free Press Co., 72 Mich. 560.
The classification, with reference to a tort, of farmers
on one side and fertilizer manufacturers on the other, cannot be sustained. Truax v. Corrigan,supra; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540. The statute requires the farmer to refuse to take the fertilizer manufacturer's word that his fertilizer contains the ingredients
in the proper proportion to help the growth of his crops,
and to have it analyzed before using it. A person who is
compelled to anticipate the commission of a tort upon
him, and to comply with conditions precedent to the
bringing of an action for a possible wrong before it is consummated, cannot be said to have the equal protection
of the law.
The statute deprives plaintiff in error of a property
right without due process of law. No statute can make
any evidence conclusive. United States v. Klein, 13 Wall.
128; Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418;
Missouri, etc. Ry. Co. v. Simonson, 64 Kans. 802.
The statute makes the absence of the particular kinds of
evidence that it specifies conclusive of the rights of the
plaintiff. It prescribes the kind of evidence that may be
introduced, without even a pretense of being general.
First, a certificate of chemical analysis showing a de-

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
171

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ficiency of ingredients; but there may be no deficiency of
ingredients and at the same time a harmful substance
present. Next, that plaintiff has made it appear to the
Department that the same defendant has similarly injured some other farmer in the State during the same
season; or that the defendant has been dishonest or
fraudulent. These three kinds of evidence have nothing
to do with the cause of action of the plaintiff. He does not
have to prove that the defendant dishonestly or fraudulently put a harmful substance into his fertilizer, but
simply that it was there. Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; McFarlandv. American Sugar Refg.
Co., 241 U. S. 79; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219;
Reitler v. Harris,223 U. S. 437; Mobile, etc. R. R. Co. v.
Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35. The effect is to deprive a party
of the right to try his action on the real facts.
The certificate of chemical analysis of this fertilizer.
made by the chemist of the State Department of Agriculture, shows that there was a deficiency of the ingredients
that the fertilizer was represented to contain. The plaintiff was denied the right to use this certificate as evidence
because the sample used for analysis was not drawn from
ten bags of the fertilizer; and, because the plaintiff had
used the fertilizer for the purpose for which defendant
represented it to be good, he was denied the privilege of
introducing evidence of any analysis of it. The court
below made much of the fact that this plaintiff bought
fifty-one bags of the fertilizer and therefore said that
he could not question the validity of the provision requiring samples to be drawn from at least ten bags, but
that does not answer the contention that it is not due
process of law to require the plaintiff, in advance of any
injury to him, to provide himself with the "same kind of
instruments used by the inspectors of the Department in
taking samples," and to draw the samples within thirty
days after delivery to him. The statute deprives the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

plaintiff of the privilege of making any contract for the
purchase of fertilizer that will obviate the necessity of
this expense and trouble.
The statute is void because it substitutes the arbitrary
discretion of an executive department for the judicial inquiry of the courts. In cases where there is no certificate
of chemical analysis showing a deficiency of ingredients,
it leaves it absolutely to the Department, in its ungoverned discretion, to say whether there is a cause of action.
It thus assigns a judicial function to an executive departinent without provisions for a hearing or for procuring
witnesses. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; State v.
Tenant, 110 N. C. 609; Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 456.
Mr. Louis M. Swink and Mr. W. M. Hendren, with
whom Mr. Oscar 0. Efird was on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff in error brought this action in the Superior
Court of Rockingham County to recover damages alleged
to have resulted to his tobacco crop from the use of fertilizer manufactured and sold by defendant in error. A
state law (ยง 7, c. 143, Laws of 1917) provides that no such
action shall be brought until after chemical analysis showing the ingredients of the fertilizer. The plaintiff in error
failed to meet this requirement, and, notwithstanding evidence tending to show inferior quality of and deleterious
ingredients in the fertilizer and injury to the crop resulting from its use, the court dismissed the case and entered
judgment of nonsuit. The Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the judgment. 183 N. C. 338. The question
here is whether the state law so applied is repugnant to.the
due process clause or equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
171

Opinion of the Court.

The facts alleged and on which plaintiff in error seeks
to recover are these. In the spring of 1919, he purchased
51 bags of fertilizer upon the representation and warranty
of defendant in error that it was good for and conducive to
the growth of tobacco. The weather was propitious, the
plants were good and properly set out, and the land was
properly tilled. The fertilizer contained deleterious ingredients not available as food for plants, and killed or
prevented the growth of tobacco. There was producedl
4469 pounds of tobacco on which, by reason of inferior
quality, there was a loss of thirty cents a pound, $1,340.70;
and in addition to the actual yield there should have been
produced 5281 pounds of the value of seventy cents per
pound, $3,696.70, making total damages alleged $5,037.40.
In North Carolina commercial fertilizer is generally
used for the production of crops. Prior to the passage of
the act, litigation between the users and sellers of fertilizers involving demands for damages for injuries to crops
alleged to have resulted from the use thereof, became a
matter of public concern affecting, or liable to affect, the
general welfare.' In earlier cases, the Supreme Court of
the State held the measure of damages to be the difference
between the actual value and the purchase price of fertilizer, and denied recovery for diminution of crops on the
ground that such a claim necessarily must be speculative.
Fertilizer Works v. McLawhorn, (1912) 158 N. C. 274.
Later, recovery for diminution of crops was permitted.
Tomlinson & Co. v. Morgan, (1914) 166 N. C. 557; Carter v. McGill, (1915) 168 N. C. 507, Rehearing, (1916) 171
I See Carson v. Bunting, (1911) 154 N. C. 530; Fertilizer Works v.
McLawhorn, (1912) 158 N. C. 274; Ober & Sons Co. v. Katzenstein,
(1912) 160 N. C. 439; Tomlinson & Co. v. Morgan, (1914) 166 N. C
557; Guano Co. v. Live-Stock Co., (1915) 168 N. C. 442; Carter v.
McGill, (1915) id. 507, Rehearing, (1916) 171 N. C. 775. See also
decisions subsequent to its passage: Fertilizer Works v. Aiken,
(1918) 175 N. C. 398; Fertilizing Co. v. Thomas, (1921) 181 N. C.

274.

978Z;1*-24-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

N. C. 775. In Guano Co. v. Live-Stock Co., (1915) 168
N. C. 442, where the contract of sale of fertilizer contained
a warranty that the seller should not be held responsible
for results in actual use, the court said (p. 448): "The
warranty was drawn for the very purpose of preventing the
recovery of such damages as are, in their nature, very
speculative, if not imaginary, and out of all proportion to
the amount of money or price received by the seller for
the fertilizer. If fertilizer companies can be mulcted in
damages for the failure of the crop of every farmer who
may buy from them, they would very soon be driven into
insolvency or be compelled to withdraw from the State,
as the aggregate damages, if the supposed doctrine be
carried to its logical conclusion, would be ruinous, and
the farmers in the end would suffer incalculable harm."
In 1917 the state legislature dealt with the situation
and passed the act above referred to, comprehensively regulating fertilizers. Among other provisions to prevent
deception and fraud, it requires that before sale there shall
be attached to each package a brand name, which is required to be registered with the state department of agriculture, the weight, the name and address of the manufacturer and the guaranteed analysis, giving the percentage
of valuable constituents,-phosphoric acid, nitrogen (or
equivalent in ammonia) and potash. Change of a registered brand to a lower grade is forbidden. The use of the
terms "high grade" and "standard" is regulated, and
minimum percentages of valuable constituents are prescribed for each grade. Deleterious substances are prohibited. Fertilizers offered for sale or sold contrary to the
provisions of the act are liable to be seized and condemned. Penalties are prescribed for violations of the
act or of the rules and regulations of the department made
to carry it into effect. Whenever the commissioner of
agriculture shall be satisfied that any fertilizer is five per
cent. below the guaranteed value in plant food, it is his

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
171

Opinion of the Court.

duty to require that twice the value of the deficiency shall
be made good by the manufacturer to one who has purchased such fertilizer for his own use. If ten per cent.
below, it is the duty of the commissioner to require three
times the value of such deficiency to be paid to the consumer. If the deficiency is due to intention of the manufacturer to defraud, then there shall be collected from him
double the amounts above stated. If the manufacturer
resists payment, the commissioner is required to publish
the analysis in an official bulletin and also in one or more
newspapers. The department is required to have sufficient chemists and assistants and the necessary equipment
to enable it promptly to make a report of the chemical
analyses of all samples sent by purchasers or consumers.
It is authorized to collect and analyze fertilizer offered for
sale in the State. Samples for analysis are required to be
taken from at least ten per cent. of the lot, but from not
less than ten bags of any lot or brand. The drawing of
samples is safeguarded by the act, and the department is
authorized to make additional rules and regulations for
taking and forwarding them to the department. No
sample shall be taken after thirty days from the actual
delivery to the consumer, except by the state inspector.
It provides (ยง 7) that in the trial of any case where the
value or composition of any fertilizer is called in question,
a certificate of the state chemist, setting forth the analysis
made by him" of any sample of said fertilizer drawn under
the provisions of this chapter . . . shall be prima facie
proof that the fertilizer was of the value and constituency
shown by said analysis. . . . Providedfurther, that no
suit for damages from results of use of fertilizer may be
brought except after chemical analysis showing deficiency
of ingredients, unless it shall appear to the Department of
Agriculture that the manufacturer of said fertilizer in
question has, in the manufacture of other goods offered
in this State during such season, employed such ingredients

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

as are outlawed by the provisions of this act, or unless it
shall appear to the Department of Agriculture that the
manufacturer of such fertilizer has offered for sale during
that season any kind of dishonest or fraudulent goods.
That nothing in this act shall impair the right of contract."
It is not contended that the provision making the certificate of the state chemist prima facie evidence is invalid.' The contention is that the act arbitrarily substitutes the determination of an executive department for a
judicial inquiry, and has the effect of abolishing all
remedies against manufacturers of fertilizer for damages
caused by the use of inferior or deleterious fertilizer, and
is therefore repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The act does not deprive purchasers of any right or
cause of action. On the contrary, it gives additional rights
and remedies to one who purchases for his own use fertilizer below the guaranteed value in plant food. The
terms of the statute are not made exclusive. Under the
act the parties were free to deal on other terms. Fertilizer
Works v. Aiken, (1918) 175 N. C. 398, 402; Fertilizing
Co. v. Thomas, (1921) 181 N. C. 274, 283. The ingredients of fertilizers can be ascertained definitely by chemical analysis. The department is required to provide
chemists and equipment and to make and report analyses
of all fertilizers sent in by purchasers or consumers. The
requirement imposed is reasonable and seems well calculated to safeguard against uncertainty, conjecture and
mistake. The analysis is not made conclusive. Other
'See Pillow v. Roberts, 13 How. 472, 476; Marx v. Hanthorn, 148
U. S. 172, 182; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.51, 59; Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S.585, 599; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53, 63; Mobile, J. & K. C. R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U. S.35, 42; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61,
8;: Reitler v. Harris,223 U. S. 437, 441; Luria v. United States, 231
U. S. 9, 25; EasterlingLumber Co. v.Pierce, 235 U. S.380; Meeker
& Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S.412, 430; Hawkins v.
Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 213; Hawes v. Georgia, 258 U. S. 1, 4.

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
171

Opinion of the Court.

evidence may be introduced by either party. The determination of the department is not substituted for a trial in
court.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State
from prescribing a reasonable and appropriate condition
precedent to the bringing of a suit of a specified kind or
class so long as the basis of distinction is real, and the
condition imposed has reasonable relation to a legitimate
object. See Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150, 155; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312. 337.
We think it plain that actions to recover damages to crops
resulting from the use of fertilizers may reasonably be
distinguished from other damage suits. Crops depend on
the kind and condition of the soil, the vitality of seeds
sown or plants set out, the cultivation and care given, the
weather and many other things, as well as the kind and
amount of the fertilizer applied. The amount or quality
of the yield cannot be known in advance. When good results are not obtained, it is impossible to discover the
causes and determine how much of the shortage, whether
of quantity or kind, properly may be attributed to any
particular thing. In such actions, peculiar difficulties
attend the ascertainment of the constituent elements of
the fertilizer used, and the determination whether it is
inferior in quality or contains ingredients that are deleterious or harmful to plant growth. To attempt to
establish the kind or quality of fertilizer applied to the
land by an inspection of the crop growing thereon, or by
the result of the season's planting and effort, is to indulge
in speculation and conjecture. A State has power to provide for and require a more definite method of ascertaining the essential facts and a better basis upon which
judicial determinations may be made.
The provision of the state law here under attack is not
repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

