286

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U.S.

Another clause not mentioned as yet reads: "The
Company will not be liable for damages or statutory penalties in any case where the claim is not presented in
writing within sixty days after the telegram is filed with
the Company for transmission." This could not be held
to apply literally to a case where through the fault of
the Company the plaintiff did not know of the message
until the sixty days had passed. It might be held to give
the measure of a reasonable time for presenting the claim
after the fact was known, in the absence of anything more.
But here the plaintiff called on Hackett, the General Manager at Boise, about February 14, 1918, as soon as he knew
the facts. Directly after, he received a letter from Hackett regretting the occurrence and enclosing the amount
paid by the plaintiff as toll. Three days later the plaintiff
returned the check by letter saying " an acceptance of this
check on my part might be construed as a settlement of
the matter," so that the defendant then had written notice
that a claim was made. There was further communication and finally on June 18 the plaintiff made a formal
written demand. We should be unwilling to decide that
the action was barred by this clause. But we are of
opinion that his claim is limited to fifty dollars for the
reasons given above.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

DORCHY v. STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 163.

Argued January 15, 16, 1924.-Decided March 10, 1924.

1. The system of compulsory arbitration of industrial disputes set up
by the Court of Industrial Relations Act of Kansas, and held unconstitutional in Wolff Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations,
262 U. S. 522, as applied to packing plants, is, for the same reasons,

invalid as applied to coal mines of that State. P. 289.

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
286

Opinion of the Court.

2. Quaere: Whether as a matter of statutory construction, § 19 of this
act, which declares that one who uses his position as an officer of a
union, or as an employer, to influence violations of the act or of
valid orders of the Court of Industrial Relations shall be deemed
guilty of a felony, is separable from the system of compulsory arbitration held invalid? P. 290.
3. A declaration in a statute that it shall be conclusively preumel
the legislature would have passed the statute without any part
of it found invalid by the courts, provides a rule which may aid in
determining the legislative intent, but is not an inexorable conmand. Id.
4. In reviewing a judgment of a state court, this Court may not only
correct errors but may make such disposition of the case as justiee
may require in view of changes in law and fact that have supervened since the judgment was entered. P. 289.
5. Where a conviction under § 19 of the above mentioned statute was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Kansas before this Court had, in
another case, declared a closely related part of the same act unconstitutional, held that the question whether § 19 is separable should
be remitted for primary determination by that court. P. 290.
112 Kans. 235, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
which affirmed a judgment entered against the plaintiff in
error in a criminal prosecution, under § 19 of the Court of
Industrial Relations Act of Kansas.
Mr. John F. McCarron and Mr. Phil H. Callery, with
whom Mr. Redmond S. Brennan and Mr. Frank Bonar
Hegarty were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John G. Egan, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Kansas, and Mr. Chester I. Long, with whom Mr.
Charles B. Griffith, Attorney General, Mr. Austin M.
Cowan and Mr. William E. Stanley were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE, BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Court of Industrial Relations Act was approved
January 23, 1920. Laws of Kansas, 1920, Special Session.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

c. 29. The purpose of the statute is to ensure continuity
of operation in coal mining and other businesses declared
to be affected with a public interest.' The means provided
for accomplishing this is a system of compulsory arbitration of industrial disputes. The instrument is the socalled industrial court. Upon it is conferred power to investigate all matters involved in such controversies; to
make findings thereon; to issue such orders as it may
deem needful, fixing the wages to be paid, the hours of
work, the rules for work, and the working and living conditions. The provisions in aid of the enforcement of this
system are both comprehensive and detailed. The employer is prohibited, among other things, from limiting or
ceasing operations with a view to defeating the purpose of
the statute. Likewise, every association of persons (e. g.,
trade unions) is prohibited from acting to that end. In
effect, strikes and lockouts, the boycott and picketing, are
made unlawful. Any person violating any provision of
the statute, or any order of the so-called court, is declared
guilty of a misdemeanor. Some of the provisions of the
act were considered in Howat v. Kansas, 258 U. S. 181, and
in Chas. Wolff Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522.
Section 19 provides that any officer of a union of workmen engaged in an industry within the provisions of the
act, who shall wilfully use the power incident to his official
position to influence any other person to violate any provision of the statute or any valid order of the Court of
'Section 2 of the statute, as enacted, conferred upon the Court of
Industrial Relations the functions theretofore performed by the Public
Utilities Commission. These functions were restored to a Public
Utilities Commission by c. 260, Laws of 1921. There was conferred
upon the Court of Industrial Relations by c. 262 of the Laws of 1921
the functions theretofore performed by the Commissioner of Labor
and Industry, and by c. 263 of the Laws of 1921 the functions theretofore performed by the Industrial Welfare Commission. These
latter powers were also enlarged.

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

286

Industrial Relations, shall be deemed guilty of a felony
punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000, or by imprison-

ment at hard labor, not to exceed two years, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Under this section an information was filed against Dorchy, a union official, for
calling a strike in a coal mine. He was found guilty. The
judgment entered was affirmed by the highest court of the
State, 112 Kans. 235; and a rehearing was denied. The
case is here on writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial
Code as amended. It is contended that § 19 is void, because it prohibits strikes; and that to do so is denial of the
liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
After the judgment under review was entered in the
Supreme Court of Kansas, this Court declared, in the
Wolff Packing Co. Case, supra, p. 544, that the system of
compulsory arbitration as applied to packing plants, vi,lates the Federal Constitution. For the reasons there set
forth, it is unconstitutional, also, as applied to the coal
mines of that State. The question suggests itself whether
§ 19 has not, therefore, necessarily fallen as a part of the
system of compulsory arbitration. If so, there is no occasion to consider the specific objection to the provisions
of that section. This Court has power not only to correct
errors in the judgment entered below, but, in the exercise
of its appellate jurisdiction, to make such disposition of
the case as justice may now require. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 506. In determining what justice requires the Court must consider
changes in law and in fact which have supervened since
the judgment was entered below. Watts, Watts & Co. v.

Unione Austriaca di Navigazione, 248 U. S. 9, 21. If
§ 19 falls as the result of the decision in the Wolff Pack;ng
Co. Case, the effect is the same as if the section had been
repealed without any reservation.
A statute bad in part is not necessarily void in its entirety. Provisions within the legislative power may stand
9T'I -24---19

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

if separable from the bad. Berea College v. Kentucky,
211 U. S. 45, 54-56; Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118,
121. But a provision, inherently unobjectionable, cannot
be deemed separable unless it appears both that, standing
alone, legal effect can be given to it and that the legislature intended the provision to stand, in case others included in the act and held bad should fall. Section 19
does not, in terms, prohibit the calling of strikes or influencing workingmen to strike. It merely declares that
one who uses his official position, or his position as an employer, to "influence, impel, or compel any other person
to violate any of the provisions of this act, or any valid
order of said Court of Industrial Relations, shall be
deemed guilty of a felony." Most of the provisions of the
original act are very intimately connected with the system of compulsory arbitration. Whether § 19 is so interwoven with the system held invalid that the section cannot stand alone, is a question of interpretation and of
legislative intent. Compare Butts v. Merchants Transportation Co., 230 U. S. 126. Section 28 of the act,
(which resembles that discussed in Hill v. Wallace, 259
U. S. 44, 70, 71) provides a rule of construction which may
sometimes aid in determining that intent. But it is an aid
merely; not an inexorable command.
The task of determining the intention of the state legislature in this respect, like the usual function of interpreting a state statute, rests primarily upon the state court.
Its decision as to the severability of a provision is conclusive upon this Court. Gatewood v. North Carolina, 203
U. S. 531, 543; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347, 366;
2 Section 28:

"If any section or provision of this act shall be

found invalid by any court, it shall be conclusively presumed that
this act would have been passed by the legislature without such invalid section or provision, and the act as a whole shall not be declared invalid by reason of the fact that one or more sections or pro-

visions may be found to be invalid by any court."

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
286

Opinion of the Court.

Schneider Granite Co. v. Gast Realty Co., 245 U. S. 2S.
290. In cases coming from the lower federal courts, such
questions of severability, if there is no controlling state
decision, must be determined by this Court. Compare
Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368, 381; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 311. In cases
coming from the state courts, this Court, in the absence
of a controlling state decision, may, in passing upon the
claim under the federal law, decide, also, the question of
severability. But it is not obliged to do so. The situation may be such as to make it appropriate to leave the
determination of the question to the state court. We
think that course should be followed in this case.
The Supreme Court of Kansas has already dealt, to
some extent, with the effect of our decision upon other
sections of the act. When a motion was made there in
the Wolff Packing Co. Case to spread the mandate of this
Court upon its record, the state court held that the order
of the Court of Industrial Relations under review remains
in force in so far as it regulates hours of labor and weekly
rest periods. 114 Kans. 304. The judgment then entered was modified November 10, 1923, upon a rehearing.
[114 Kans. 487.] The relation of § 19 to the provisions
held invalid is a different matter. So far as appears, the
state court has not passed upon the question whether § 19,
being an intimate part of the system of compulsory arbitration held to be invalid, falls with it. In order that the
state court may pass upon this question, its judgment in
this case, which was rendered before our decision in the
Wolff Packing Co. Case, should be vacated. Compare
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Dennis, supra, p.
509. To this end the judgment is
Reversed.
3The action of the state court has been brought here for review
by proceedings entered February 16, 1924, and not yet disposed of

