SOUTHEASTERN EXP. CO. v. ROBERTSON.

541

Counsel for Parties.

535

other companies, persons and corporations already in
business are allowed thirty days after the taxes accrue
annually within which to pay them. The Supreme Court
of the State decided against the contention, and we think
that there is difference enough in the situations to justify
the difference in the provision and exempt it from the
charge of unconstitutionality.
The court thereupon reversed the judgment of the court
below and rendered judgment in favor of Robertson for
both the tax and damages sued for and, under the practice
of the court, entered judgment to that effect with interest
and costs.
Judgment affirned.

SOUTHEASTERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. ROBERTSON, STATE REVENUE AGENT, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 216.

Submitted April 7, 1924.-Decided April 21, 1924.

Decided upon the authority of Southeastern Express CJo. v. Robertsov,
ante, 535.
Affirmed.

Appeal from a decree of the District Court denying an
interlocutory injunction in a suit to restrain the enforcement of a privilege tax. Mr. Miller, successor in office to
Mr. Robertson, and Mr. Riley, successor in office to Mr.
Miller as state auditor, were substituted in this Court.
Mr. Sanders McDaniel and Mr. A. S. Bozeman for appellant. Mr. H. L. Greene was also on the brief.
Mr. R. H. Thompson for appellees. Mr. Jas. A. Alexander and Mr. Julian P. Alexander were also on the brief.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

264 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case Involves the consideration of the privilege tax
passed upon in Southeastern Express Co. v. Robertson,
just decided, ante, 535.
It is a suit in equity which seeks to have the tax decreed
"illegal, void and unenforceable." An interlocutory injunction was petitioned and the district judge called to
his assistance two other judges in accordance with ยง 266
of the Judicial Code to hear the application. A preliminary restraining order was granted.
The application for injunction coming on subsequently
to be heard, was denied, and from the order and decree
denying it this appeal was granted and is prosecuted.
The grounds of appeal and assignments of error are the
same as in the other case, except as we shall notice, the
difference being only in the nature of the suit and procedure-in this case a bill in equity to enjoin the enforceiment of the second year's tax; in that, grounds of defense
against the collection of the first year's tax, the facts being
stipulated. In this they are alleged in the bill of complaint.
In that case all the grounds relied on in this case were
decided adversely to the Express Company, that is, the tax
was adjudged to be legal, and the judgment was affirmed
by the opinion just delivered, and on the authority of that
decree the decree in this case may be based.
It may be well to observe, to avoid misunderstanding,
that in the order and decree denying the interlocutory injunction the statute of Mississippi was held constitutional
against the charge of violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and also of being a charge against Article I, ยง 8,
Clause 3, being the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States. The ruling in the latter respect is
assailed and assigned as error in the record but not in the
argument and we therefore do not discuss it. It will be
observed besides that the tax imposed is on business done
between stations in the State. ยง 21, c. 104, Laws of 1920.
Affirmed.

