OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

direct or necessary result of the structure; nor that it was
within the contemplation of or reasonably to be anticipated by the Government. If the case were one against
a private individual, his liability, if any, would be in tort.
There is no remedy in such case against the United States.
Keokuk Bridge Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 125.
The most that can be said is that there was probably
some increased flooding due to the canal and that a
greater injury may have resulted than otherwise would
have been the case. But this and all other matters aside,
the injury was in its nature indirect and consequential,
for which no implied obligation on the part of the Government can arise. See Gibson v. United States, 166
U. S. 269; Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217; Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Jackson v. United
States, 230 U. S. 1; Horstmann Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 138; Coleman v. United States, 181 Fed. 599.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
TEXAS TRANSPORT & TERMINAL

COMPANY,

INCORPORATED, v. CITY OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 141.

Argued January 4, 7, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

A state license tax cannot be laid upon the business of a corporation
employed as agent by owners of vessels engaged exclusively in
interstate and foreign commerce, where its business is confined to,
and is a necessary adjunct of, their commerce, consisting in the
soliciting and engaging of cargo, nominating vessels to carry it,
arranging for delivery on wharf and for stevedores, issuing bills of
lading, collecting freight charges, paying ships' disbursements, and

other incidental matters. McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104,
followed. Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1,
distinguished.
152 La. 497, reversed.

TEXAS TRANSP. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 151
150

Opinion of the Court.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which affirmed a judgment for the City of New
Orleans in an action for a license tax.
Mr. George H. Terriberry, with whom Mr. W. W.
Young and Mr. Joseph M. Rault were on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. Ivy G. Kittredge was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The City of New Orleans brought this action in a
Louisiana state court to recover from defendant (plaintiff in error here) a license tax of $400, imposed, for the
year 1922, upon its business of steamship agent. The
demand was resisted on the ground that the tax was in
contravention of the Commerce Clause of the Constitution of the United States in that it was an interference
with and tax upon interstate and foreign commerce. Defendant was regularly employed as agent for four steamship lines, under a contract fixing its compensation on
the basis of commissions, calculated upon the gross
amount of freight charges collected by it for each company. In addition, defendant occasionally represented
other ship owners. All were exclusively engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, and defendant's business
was confined solely to representing principals so engaged
in such commerce. The service rendered consisted of
soliciting and engaging cargo, nominating ships for carrying it, arranging for its delivery on the wharf, issuing
bills of lading under the name of ship owner or charterer,
arranging for stevedores for loading and discharging
cargo, collecting freight charges, paying ships' disbursements, attending to immigration service and assisting
generally in matters of local customs and regulations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Freight moneys collected, after deducting commissions,
were remitted to the owners or charterers. As such agent,
defendant was authorized to solicit cargo and quote
freight rates and to issue receipts in the name of its principal for cargo delivered on the wharf.
Upon these facts the trial court held that defendant's
business was local in character and subject to the tax.
Upon appeal, this judgment was affirmed by the State
Supreme Court. 152 La. 497.
The State Supreme Court thus stated the necessity
and character of the agent's duties:
"The business of steamship agents is an extensive
business in New Orleans, as it is in every large seaport.
As a separate or an independent business, it is a result
of the development of the country's commerce with foreign nations and among the several states. In the early
days, when time was not so much the object or subject
of economy as it is today, every ship's captain, for his
own ship, discharged the duties and rendered the services
for which local steamship agents are employed nowadays.
But it would be impracticable now for a ship's captain
to remain with his ship in port long enough to attend to
the many matters which the local steamship agents can
and do attend to for a ship at sea or in a foreign port.
The business of steamship agents is therefore a necessary
adjunct to commerce on the high seas."
This Court has had frequent occasion to consider and
determine the effect of taxes of the same general character as that here involved, and, for present purposes,
we find it unnecessary to do more than refer to the general and well established rule, which is that a State or
state municipality is powerless to impose a tax upon persons for selling or seeking to sell the goods of a nonresident within the State prior to their introduction therein, Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; or to impose a tax
upon persons for securing or seeking to secure the trans-

TEXAS TRANSP. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 153
150

Opinion of the Court.

portation of freight or passengers in interstate or foreign commerce. McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104.
The latter decision controls the present case. There the
agent of a railroad company was engaged in San Francisco in the business of soliciting and inducing persons
to travel from the State of California into and through
other States to New York City, over the line of railroad
which he represented. It was held that the business of
the agent constituted a method of securing passenger
traffic for the company, and therefore (p. 109) the tax
was one "upon a means or an occupation of carrying on
interstate commerce, pure and simple." The only difference between that case and this is that there the
agent was engaged in seeking interstate passenger business, while here the agent was engaged in seeking interstate and foreign freight business. Plainly, as pointed
out in the McCall Case (p. 109), the principle is the same.
Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1,
is relied upon to justify the tax, but quite clearly it does
not do so. The facts of that case differ materially from
those of the McCall Case and those with which we are
here dealing. In the Ficklen.Case complainants were general merchandise brokers. They paid the initial tax imposed by the Tennessee law for the year 1887 and received
and held throughout the year a general and unrestricted
license to do business as such. They thereby became
liable, under the statute, to pay an additional privilege
tax in part graduated according to the amount of commissions received. It happened that, during 1887, the principals of one complainant were wholly nonresident and
those of the other, largely so. The opinion pointed out
that the fact might have been otherwise then and afterward, since their business was not confined to transactions
for nonresidents. At the expiration of the year complainants applied for a renewal of their licenses, which was
refused because they had made no return of their conmis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

sions and no payment of the tax, as required. In deciding
the case, stress was laid upon the fact that they had taken
out a license under the law to do a general commission
business, had given bond to report their commissions during the year and to pay the required percentage thereon;
and, agreeing with the state court, it was said that resort
to a judicial remedy could not be had because the authorities had refused to issue a license for the ensuing year
without payment of the stipulated tax. Concluding the
opinion, it was said: "What position they wpuld have
occupied if they had not undertaken to do a general commission business, and had taken out no licenses therefor,
but had simply transacted business for non-resident principals, is an entirely different question, which does not
arise upon this record." The decision rests largely upon
the elements above stated, as was pointed out by Mr.
Justice Brewer in Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.
289, 307:
"It was held that the tax was an entirety, and was not
affected by the variable and adventitious results of business from year to year. . . . In other words, the tax imposed was for the privilege of doing a general commission
business within the State, and whatever were the results
pecuniarily to the licensees, or the manner in which they
carried on business, the fact remained unchanged that the
State had, for a stipulated price, granted them this privilege. It was thought by a majority of the court that to
release them from the obligations of their bonds on account of the accidental results of the year's business was
refining too much, and that the plaintiffs who had sought
the privilege of engaging in a general business should be
bound by the contracts which they had made with the
State therefor."
The case is near the border line and has been deemed
exceptional. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S.
292. 296; Stockard v. Morgan, supra, pp. 34-37.

TEXAS TRANSP. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 155
150

BRANDEIS and HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

The present case is sufficiently differentiated by the fact
that the agent here neither did nor held itself out as ready
to do a general business, partly local and partly interstate
and foreign, but confined itself exclusively to the latter.
Re versed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs
JUSTICE HOLTUES

dissenting, with whom MR.

concurs.

From the multitude of cases, this general rule may be
educed.1 The validity of a state tax under the commerce clause does not depend upon its character or classification. It is not void merely because it affects or
burdens interstate commerce. The tax is void only if it
directly burdens such commerce, or (where the burden
is indirect) if the tax discriminates against or obstructs
interstate commerce. In this case there is no claim that
interstate commerce is discriminated against or obstructed. The contention is that the tax imposes a direct
burden. Whether the burden should be deemed direct
depends upon the character of plaintiff's occupation and
its relation to interstate transactions.
The occupation tax laid by New Orleans is fixed in
amount;-businesses being classified into several grades
according to the amount of business done. The Texas
Transport & Terminal Company falls within the highest
grade-those whose receipts exceed $100,000 a yearand, thus, it is taxed $400 a year. The business is what
is called a steamship agency. The main office is in New
York City. It has branches in New Orleans and in five
other ports of the United States. It is a wholly independent concern. No ship owner has an interest in it;
and it has no interest in any ship which it serves. Some
"Compare Thomas Reed Powell, "Indirect Encroachment on Fedeial Authority by the Taxing Powers of the States," 31 Harv. Law
Rev. 321, 572, 721, 932; 32 Harv. Law Re'. 234, 374, 634, 902.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

264 U. S.

of these are regular ocean liners; others are casual tramp
ships. The services rendered include, among other things,
arranging with independent stevedore concerns for discharging and loading cargoes; arranging with independent dealers for bunkering, that is, buying fuel and
oil; making provision for fitting ships for any special or
peculiar cargo; making provision for compliance with the
imnig-ration and customs laws; and paying the ship's
disbursements. For these, and the other services of
soliciting cargoes, arranging for their delivery, and collecting payment for freight, the company is compensated.
Usually the compensation is measured by a percentage
on the gross freight charges collected. Sometimes it is
a lump sum for each ship served. These comprehensive
ervices require, for their efficient performance, the employment of a steamship agency, or its equivalent, whatever the home port of the ship or the principal place of
its owner's business.
It is settled law that interstate commerce is not directly burdened by a tax imposed upon property used
exclusively in interstate commerce, TransportationCo. v.
Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273, 284; Old Dominion S. S. Co.
v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, 306; or by a tax upon net
income derived exclusively from interstate commerce,
United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321;
Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 57; compare Peck & Co. v.
Lowe, 247 U. S. 165; or by an occupation tax, fixed in
amount, although the business consists exclusively of
selling goods brought from another State. Wagner v.
City of Covington, 251 U. S. 95. On the other hand,
the burden is deemed direct, where the tax is upon property moving in interstate commerce, Champlain Realty

Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366; or where it lays, like
a gross-receipts tax, a burden upon every transaction in
such commerce "by withholding, for the use of the State,
a part of every dollar received in such transactions,"

RALEY & BROS. v. RICHARDSON.
150

Syllabus.

Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292. 297;
or where an occupation tax is laid upon one who, like a
drummer or delivery agent, is engaged exclusively in inaugurating or completing his own or his employer's transaction in interstate commerce. Robbins v. Shdbiy
County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Davis v. Virginia,
236 U. S. 697.
The New Orleans tax is obviously not laid upon property moving in interstate commerce. Nor does it, like a
gross-receipts tax, lay a burden upon every transaction.
It is simply a tax upon one of the instrumentalities of
interstate commerce. It is no more a direct burden, thani
is the tax on the other indispensable instrumentalities;
upon the ship; upon the pilot boat, which she must employ; upon the wharf at which she must load and unload; upon the office which the owner would have to hire
for his employees, if, instead of engaging the services of
an independent contractor, he had preferred to perform
those duties himself. The fact that, in this case, th
services are performed by an independent contractor having his own established business, and the fact that the
services rendered are not limited to soliciting, differentiate this case from McCall v. California, 136 U. S.
104. If these differences are deemed insufficient to distinguish that case from the one at bar, it should be
frankly overruled as inconsistent with the general trend
of later decisions.
J. E. RALEY & BROTHERS, ET AL. v. RICHARDSON, TAX COLLECTOR OF FULTON COUNTY,
ET AL.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA,

No. 152. Submitted January 11, 1924.-Decided Februar, 18, 1)24.
1. The validity of a flat tax imposed by a state tlw uipon rrok~r or
commission merchants who solicit orders for good. in intrastate

