OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant.

264 U. S.

STATE OF GEORGIA v. CITY OF CHATTANOOGA,
TENNESSEE.
IN EQUITY.
No. 21, Original.

Argued on motion to dismiss December 3, 1923.Decided April 7, 1924.

1. Land acquired and held for railway purposes by one State within
the borders of another with the latter's consent remains subject to
the eminent domain of the State in which it lies and subject to be
condemned by that State, or her authorized municipality, for a
public street, in proceedings against the owner State, even though
she has not consented to be sued. P. 479.
2. Acceptance by Georgia of permission given her to acquire railroad
land in Tennessee, is inconsistent with an assertion of her own
sovereign privileges in respect of such land, and amounts to consent
that it may be condemned as may like property of others. P. 482.
3. Lack of opportunity to be heard before passage of an ordinance
opening a street furnishes no ground of complaint, since the taking
is a legislative and not a judicial function and an opportunity to
be heard in advance need not be given. P. 483.
4. In condemnation proceedings, personal service upon the owner
is not essential; notice by publication is sufficient. Id.
5. A suit brought by a State in this Court to enjoin proceedings to
condemn her land in another State begun by a city, will be dismissed for want of equity where no complaint is made that the
laws do not afford reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard
before final determination of judicial questions involved in the condemnation proceedings, and where these afford a plain, adequate
and complete remedy at law. Id.
Bill dismissed without prejudice.

ON defendant's motion to dismiss a bill filed in this
Court by the State of Georgia to enjoin the City of Chattanooga from prosecuting, in a court of Tennessee, proceedings to condemn part of a railroad yard, owned by
the plaintiff within the City, and from interfering with
the possession of the plaintiff and its lessee, etc.
Mr. Sam E. Whitaker, for defendant, in support of the
motion to dismiss the bill.
I. The courts of Tennessee had jurisdiction to entertain
the petition for condemnation and, that jurisdiction hav-

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

Argument for Defendant.

ing been invoked, this Court is without power to enjoin
the proceedings in the state court. Harkraderv. Wadley,
172 U. S. 148; Wallace v. McConnell, 13 Pet. 136; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191; Orton v. Smith, 1S How.
263; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Peck v. Jennis, 7
How. 612; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; Wiswali v.
Sampson, 14 How. 52; Covell v. Heyman, Ill U. S. 176;
Heidritterv. Elizabeth Co., 112 U. S. 294; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256;
In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443.
The sovereignty of Georgia cannot be extended within
the boundaries of Tennessee so as to prevent Tennessee
from exercising its eminent domain over all lands within
its borders by whomsoever owned. The courts of Tennessee, therefore, have authority to entertain petitions for
condemnation of such lands.
II. Georgia had acquired these lands within Tennessee
on the express condition that, as to them, it should be
subject to suit as private railroad corporations were subject to suit, and the courts of Tennessee, having authority
to entertain petitions for condemnation of the lands of
private railroad corporations, had the power to condemn
the lands of the plaintiff State. East Tenn., etc., Ry. Co.
v. Nashville, etc., Ry. Co., 51 S. W. 202; Western &
AtlanticR. R. Co. v. Taylor, 6 Heisk. 408; South Carolina
v. United States, 199 U. S. 437; United States v. Planters'
Bank, 9 Wheat. 904; Kentucky Bank v. Wister, 2 Pet.
318; Louisville, etc. R. R. Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497;
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518.
III. This Court has no power to enjoin the proceedings
in the courts of Tennessee, being prohibited from doing
so by § 720, Rev. Stats.
This section applies to the Supreme Court as well as to
other federal courts. Slaughter-House Cases, 10 Wall.
273.
The gravamen of the relief sought by the bill is an
injunction against the proceedings in the state court, and

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant.

264 U. S.

the transfer of the litigated questions to this Court. This
is prohibited by Rev. Stats., § 720. Dial v. Reynolds, 96
U. S. 340; Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254; United
States v. Parkhurst-Davis Co., 176 U. S. 317; Hull v.
Burr, 234 U. S. 712.
The parties are the same in the action pending in this
Court and in the state court and the matter in controversy
is the same. Tennessee Cent. R. R. Co. v. Campbell,
109 Tenn. 640; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679; Hunt v.
New York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322.
An injunction by this Court would not be one to protect
its jurisdiction previously acquired. French v. Hay, 22
Wall. 250; Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494; Julian
v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93; Madisonville Trac. Co.
v. St. Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239.
The suit in the state court had been commenced prior
to the institution of this suit and, therefore, this case does
not come within those decisions permitting an injunction
against the commencement of suits in a state court on an
alleged unconstitutional state statute. Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
The alleged unconstitutionality of a statute under which
a suit has been begun affords no reason for the issuance
of an injunction against a suit already begun. Robb v.
Connolly, 111 U. S. 624; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516;
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210; Singer
Sewing Mach. Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481.
This case is unlike Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
115, where an injunction was issued against the enforceinent of a void judgment.
Comity requires that this Court should not interfere
with the suit in the state court. Wells FargoExpress Co.
v. Taylor, 254 U. S. 175; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 168;
Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166.
IV. The Court is prohibited by the Eleventh Amendinent from assuming jurisdiction over proceedings begun
or pending in state courts,

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

Argument for Complainant.

The issuance of an injunction against the suit in the
state court, begun by a citizen of Tennessee against the
State of Georgia, would be an assumption of jurisdiction
over that suit within the prohibition of the Eleventh
Amendment. Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 200
U. S. 273.
A decision on the merits of the controversy pending in
the state court and raised here, whether or not an injunction is'issued, would be an assumption of jurisdiction over
that suit within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amend1ment.
The effect of an injunction against the suit in the state
court and the assumption of jurisdiction over the controversy by this Court would be to remove the case from the
state court to this Court, and this Court is without power
to remove a case brought in a state court by a citizen of
one State against another State. Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482; Tennessee Cent. R. R. Co.
v. Campbell, 109 Tenn. 640.
V. The defenses set up in the bill to the petition for
condemnation can be fully made and adequate relief
obtained in the Circuit Court for Hamilton County,
Tennessee, where the petition has been filed. The plaintiff here therefore has an adequate and complete remedy
at law, and this being so, equity will not intervene, even
if the plaintiff in the action at law threatens to invade
some constitutional right of the defendant. Singer Sewing Mach. Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624.
The plaintiff in this suit can make in the state court
every defense raised to the defendant's effort to condemn
its property. Tennessee Cent. R. R. Co. v. Campbell,
109 Tenn. 640.
Mr. George M. Napier, Attorney General of the State
of Georgia, and Mr. William L. Frierson, with whom Mr.
Robert H. Williams and Mr. Joe V. Williams were on the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Complainant.

264 U. S.

brief, for complainant, in opposition to the motion to
dismiss the bill.
I. The Eleventh Amendment is clearly inapplicable.
II. The state court has not acquired, and cannot acquire, jurisdiction of the State of Georgia, without its
consent. And the pendency of the proceeding in that
court cannot take from this Court its jurisdiction to
determine the controversy presented by the bill.
It will not be denied that Georgia is not subject to be
sued by a citizen of another State in any court without
its consent. It follows that, without such consent, no
court can ever acquire jurisdiction of a suit by a citizen
to which that State is a necessary party. The owner of
land is always a necessary party to a proceeding to condemn the land. Assuming that the necessary consent has
not been given, the prosecution of the proceeding in the
state court will be an idle ceremony, for any judgment
appropriating plaintiff's land will be a nullity. The pendency of that proceeding, therefore, cannot deprive this
Court of its jurisdiction to determine the controversy
when properly presented.
If it be conceded that § 720, Rev. Stats., forbids this
Court to enjoin the City from prosecuting its void proceeding to final judgment, the jurisdiction to enjoin the
use of that judgment to obtain plaintiff's property cannot
be doubted. Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115.
Georgia could doubtless prevent a judgment by submitting to the jurisdiction of the Tennessee court. But
it prefers not to waive its right to have the controversy
determined by this Court which, at its instance, has jurisdiction. Being unwilling to enter its appearance in the
state court, it can only expect that judgment by default
will go against it. And, though the judgment will be void,
defendant will, at once, proceed to execute it by taking
plaintiff's land. Hence, even if defendant cannot be enjoined from prosecuting its proceeding to judgment, it

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

Argument for Complainant.

can and ought to be enjoined from interfering with plaintiff's possession until this Court determines the controversy.
But § 720, Rev. Stats., does not really forbid an injunction against prosecuting the condemnation proceeding.
As said in Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., supra, the inhibition
is against staying " proceedings" in a state court, and this
means a proceeding of which the court has jurisdiction.
The same conclusion results from another consideration.
This Court has taken jurisdiction of the controversy and
will use such process as may be necessary to protect its
jurisdiction. True, an injunction will not issue to restrain
proceedings previously begun in another court of concurrent jurisdiction. In other words the jurisdiction of
such a court, if first acquired, will be respected. But here,
when the bill was filed the state court had not acquired
and was powerless to acquire jurisdiction to deternine the
rights- of Georgia. Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254
U. S. 175.
III. The State of Georgia has not consented to be sued,
either in its own legislation or by inference from the
enabling acts under which it extended its road into
Tennessee.
It is insisted that in East Tennessee, etc., Ry. Co. v.
Nashville, etc., Ry. Co., 51 S. W. 202, the Supreme Court
of Tennessee has construed the enabling acts as making
Georgia subject to suit, with respect to its railroad, in
Tennessee. But this contention cannot be maintained.
There the State, by filing an answer, consented to the
jurisdiction; there was no occasion to consider whether
it had previously consented, and the court obviously did
not consider it. Certainly the court did not sustain the
jurisdiction on any construction of the enabling acts. See
Tappan v. Railroad Co., 3 Lea, 106.
There has been no authoritative construction of these
acts by the court of last resort and the only fair construe-

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tion of them is that no consent on the part of Georgia to
submit to the jurisdiction of the Tennessee courts is to be
implied except, perhaps, in cases in which it, itself, seeks
to condemn property.
IV. It is said that this suit cannot be maintained because there is an adequate remedy at law; that Georgia
may go into the Tennessee court and, by way of defense,
have determined the same questions it has brought to this
Court. If the Tennessee court had jurisdiction of Georgia
there might be force in this suggestion. But Georgia cannot be forced to submit to the jurisdiction of that court.
It has before it the threat that through the void judgment
of a court, without jurisdiction of it, it will be dispossessed
of its property. It asserts that, since it is unwilling to
waive its rights, this is the only court which may rightfully
determine the controversy it submits.
AR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The State of Georgia obtained leave to file its bill of
complaint in this Court in a suit against the City of Chattanooga to enjoin it from appropriating for street purposes
certain lands constituting a part of a railroad yard which
that State owns in Chattanooga.
The substance of the bill may be stated briefly. In
1837, Georgia undertook the construction of a railroad,
known as the Western and Atlantic Railroad, extending
from Atlanta to Chattanooga. The legislature of Tennessee granted to Georgia the right to acquire the necessary right of way from the state line to Chattanooga and
also land for terminal facilities. In 1852, Georgia purchased about 11 acres, then in the outskirts of that city,
on which is located its railroad yard. The city has grown
and this tract of land is now near the business center.
Georgia owns and formerly operated the railroad, but since
1870, it has been operated by lessee companies.; and now
the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company
operates it under a lease which will expire in 1969.

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

479

Opinion of the Court.

For some years, there has been a demand for extending
one of the principal streets of the city through this railroad yard. Georgia denies the power of the city to condemn the necessary right of way for the street. It says
that the right of Tennessee to condemn this land or t,
authorize the city to condemn it is not involved. But it
asserts that the State has not authorized the city to condemn this land; that the city has been granted power of
eminent domain only to the extent that it is granted by
general statutes to corporations; that these statutes do not
confer the power to appropriate land already devoted to
public use; that such land can be taken only when specifically authorized and that no power has been delegated to
take property which the State has permitted a sister State
to acquire. It is stated that the city officials have assumed by ordinance to open the street in such a way as
will destroy the yard for railroad purposes, and that, prior
to the filing of the bill in this case, the city conmenced
proceedings in the Circuit Court of Hamilton County,
Tennessee, to condemn the right of way for the proposed
street extension, and in its petition named the State of
Georgia and its lessee as defendants, and caused publication to be made for that State as a non-resident defendant.
The bill alleges that Georgia has never consented to be
sued in the courts of Tennessee, and prays for a decree
enjoining the city from prosecuting the proceedings, and
from interfering with Georgia or its lessee in the possession and use of the land, and decreeing that its land which
the city seeks to appropriate is not subject to condemnation. The city moves to dismiss the bill. The motion
must be granted.
1. The power of Tennessee, or of Chattanooga as its
grantee, to take land for a street is not impaired by the
fact that a sister State owns the land for railroad purposes.
Having acquired land in another State for the purpose of
using it in a private capacity, Georgia can claim no soy-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

ereign immunity or privilege in respect to its expropriation. The terms on which Tennessee gave Georgia permission to acquire and use the land and Georgia's acceptance amount to consent that Georgia may be made a party
to condemnation proceedings.
The power of eminent domain is an attribute of sovereignty, and inheres in every independent State. See
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403, 406; United States
v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 518; Shoemaker v. United States,
147 U. S. 282, 300; Cincinnati v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390, 404. The taking of private
property for public use upon just compensation is so often
necessary for the proper performance of governmental
functions that the power is deemed to be essential to the
life of the State. It cannot be surrendered, and if attempted to be contracted away, it may be resumed at will.
Pennsylvania Hospital v. Philadelphia, 245 U. S. 20;
Galveston Wharf Co. v. Galveston, 260 U. S. 473. It is
superior to property rights (Kohl v. United States, 91
U. S. 367, 371) and extends to all property within the
jurisdiction of the State,-to lands already devoted to
railway use, as well as to other lands within the State.
United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S.
668, 685; Adirondack Ry. Co. v. New York State, 176
U. S. 335, 346. Land acquired by one State in another
State is held subject to the laws of the latter and to all
the incidents of private ownership. The proprietary right
of the owning State does not restrict or modify the power
of eminent domain of the State wherein the land is situated. See Burbank v. Fay, 65 N. Y. 57, 62; United States
v. RailroadBridge Co., 6 McLean, 517, 533; United States
v. Chicago, 7 How. 185, 194. Tennessee by giving Georgia
permission to construct a line of railroad from the state
boundary to Chattanooga did not surrender any of its
territory or give up any of its governmental power over
the right of way and other lands to be acquired by Georgia

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

Opinion of the Court.

for railroad purposes. The sovereignty of Georgia was
not extended into Tennessee. Its enterprise in Tennessee
is a private undertaking. It occupies the same position
there as does a private corporation authorized to own and
operate a railroad; and, as to that property, it cannot
claim sovereign privilege or immunity. Bank of the
United States v. Planters'Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907; Bank
of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318, 323; Louisville, C. &
C. R. R. Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497, 550; South Carolina
v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 463. Undoubtedly Tennessee has power to open roads and streets across the
railroad land owned by Georgia.
Chattanooga contends that Georgia has consented to be
sued in the courts of Tennessee in respect of its railroad
in that State. This claim is based upon the terms of the
permission. Chapter 1, Tennessee Laws 1845-6, created
the Nashville & Chattanooga Railroad Company for the
purpose of constructing and operating a line of railroad
between Nashville and Chattanooga, and among other
things made it capable in law of suing and being sued.
Chapter 195, Tennessee Laws 1847-8, provides that "all
the rights, privileges and immunities, with the same restrictions which are given and granted to the Nashville
and Chattanooga Rail Road Company by the act [Chapter 1 above-mentioned] . . . are, so far as they are
applicable, hereby given to and conferred upon the State
of Georgia, to be enjoyed and exercised by that State in
the construction of that part of the Western and Atlantic
Rail Road, lying in Hamilton county, Tennessee, and in
the management of its business." East Tennessee, Virginia.and Georgia Railway Company v. Nashville, Chattanooga and Saint Louis Railway Company, and others,
including the State of Georgia (Court of Chancery Appeals, Tennessee, 1897, 51 S. W. 202) was a suit concerning the administration of this railroad owned by Georgia
in Tennessee. (page 211.) Georgia insisted that, being
978.51°-24---31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

a sovereign State, it could not be sued in Tennessee.
(page 203.) The court said that the act last above mentioned "includes among the rights and restrictions the
right to sue and be sued. This includes, namely, the
courts of Tennessee along with other courts." (page 211.)
The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
where a decree was entered affirming the lower court (with
modifications) in which it was said, "The relief allowed
as to the State of Georgia does not touch her sovereignty,
but concerns only her contracts as to the operation of the
Union Depot situated in the City of Chattanooga.

.

.

These decisions support the contention that Georgia has
consented to be sued in the courts of Tennessee in respect
of its railroad property in that State.
But we need not decide the broad question whether
Georgia has consented generally to be sued in the courts
of Tennessee in respect of all matters arising out of the
ownership and operation of its railroad property in that
State. The Circuit Court of Hamilton County had jurisdiction in the matter of the condemnation of land for
streets by the City of Chattanooga, and exercised it prior
to the filing of the bill of complaint in this Court. The
State of Georgia and its lessee were named as parties.
Notice was given to Georgia as a non-resident by publication. Having divested itself of its sovereign character,
and having taken on the character of those engaged in the
railroad business in Tennessee ( Bank of the United States
v. Planters'Bank, supra), its property there is as liable to
condemnation as that of others, and it has, and is limited
to, the same remedies as are other owners of like property
in Tennessee. The power of the city to condemn does not
depend upon the consent or suability of the owner.
Moreover, the acceptance by Georgia of the permission
given it to acquire the railroad land in Tennessee is inconsistent with an assertion of its own sovereign privileges in
respect of that land and precludes a claim that it is not

GEORGIA v. CHATTANOOGA.
472

483

Opinion of the Court.

subject to taking for the use of the public, and amounts
to a consent that it may be condemned as may like property of others.
2. There is such a want of equity that the bill will be
dismissed. The lack of opportunity to be heard before
the passage of the ordinance opening the street furnishes
no ground for complaint. The taking is a legislative and
not a judicial function, and an opportunity to be heard in
advance need not be given. Bragg v. Weaver, 251 U. S.
57, 58. Personal service upon the owner is not essential;
publication of notice is sufficient. Bragg v. Weaver,
supra, 59, 61. No complaint is made that the laws of
Tennessee do not afford the State of Georgia and other
owners reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard
before the final determination of judicial questions that
may be involved in the condemnation proceedings, e. g.,
whether the State has delegated to the city the power to
condemn; whether the taking is for a public purpose;
(Rindge Co. v. Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700, 705; Hairston
v. Danvle & Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598, 606) and
the amount of the compensation. Seaboard Air Line Ry.
Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.299, 304. Georgia has been
given notice and has the right voluntarily to appear. See
Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 447. All its objections
and defenses may be interposed in the Tennessee court.
It appears on the face of the bill of complaint that, if it
so elects, Georgia has a plain, adequate and complete
remedy in the condemnation proceedings instituted by the
city. Its contention that the requisite power to condemn
has not been delegated to the city involves a consideration
of the meaning and proper application of the laws of
Tennessee, and it is especially appropriate that the Tennessee courts shall first decide that question. The decision of its highest court on that question would be followed by this Court. Maguire v. Reardon, 255 U. S. 271;
Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 529; Reinnman, v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171, 176; Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 555. If the decision of
that court shall deny to Georgia any rights secured to it
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, the
case may be brought here for reexamination and review.
That suits in equity will not be sustained in any case
where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had
at law is declared by statute (Judicial Code, § 267) and
established by decisions of this Court so numerous*that
citation is not necessary.
Bill dismissed without prejudice.

McCURDY, COUNTY TREASURER, OSAGE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. Lands in Oklahoma allotted in severalty to the Osage Indians were
not taxable by the State while the title was held in trust by the
United States. P. 486.
2. Under the Osage Allotment Act of June 28, 1906, title to surplus
allotments did not pass from the United States until execution and
delivery of deeds of the Principal Chief approved by the Secretary
of the Interior (§ 8). Id.
3. The above act makes homestead allotments nontaxable, and surplus
allotments nontaxable within three years from the approval of the
act, "except where certificates of competency are issued or in case
of the death of the allottee ", the distinction between homestead
and surplus depending on designation by the allottee evidenced in
the allotment certificates and deeds. Held, that tracts allotted and
deeded as surplus were not made taxable within the three year
period, by the death of the allottees, where this occurred before
the allotments had been completed and approved. P. 487.
4. The title acquired by an Osage Indian through the execution and
delivery of the deed prescribed by this act cannot be related back
to the time of the completion of allotments for the purpose of

