RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. R.

79

Syllabus.

64

quiries that might protract them indefinitely. See Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U. S. 165, 175. But subject to that discretion, we think that, in such way as may
be found practicable, the relator should be enabled to
examine and meet the preliminary data upon which the
conclusions are founded and to that end should be given
further information in advance of the hearing, sufficient
to enable it to point out errors, if any there be. No present
need is shown for the issue of subpoenas; and with this
intimation of our views of the Railroad's rights we repeat
our opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirned.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the decision of this
case.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS ET AL.
v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL.
STATE OF TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEALS FROMI THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATE'
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 145 and 146.

Argued March 8, 1923.-Decided February
18, 1924.

1. The usual permissive charter of a railroad company does not
oblige the company to operate its railroad at a loss; nor is such obligation to be implied from acceptance of the charter and operation under it. P. 85.
2. In the presence of a reasonable cei-tainty that future operation
will be at a loss, a railroad company, in the absence of a contract,
may cease operation, dismantle its road and realize its salvage
value. Id.
3. Were the railroad to be compelled by the State in such circumstances to continue operation at ) loss, it would be deprived of its
property v"ithout due process of law. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

4. The principle allowing a railroad company to withdraw its property from public use that can be kept up only at a loss, is consistent with the State's power to regulate while the company continues to exercise the privileges of its charter. P. 85.
5. The mere presence of a particular provision in the statutes of a
State relating to railroads, or even in a special act incorporating
a railroad company, does not suffice to show that the provision is
a part of the charter contract. P. 86.
6. When it becomes necessary to consider whether a State is attempting to deprive a litigant of property without due process, and the
question turns on the existence and terms of an asserted contract,
this Court determines for itself whether there is a contract and
what are its terms. Id.
7. Article 6676, Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, of Texas, requiring all railroads " carrying passengers for hire," to run certain passenger trains
and make certain stops, etc., is a mere regulation of passenger
service on roads in operation, and does not subject a railroad company, through charter contract or otherwise, to an absolute duty
to operate for its full charter period in face of a reasonable certainty of pronounced loss. P. 87.
8. Article 6625, Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, of Texas, (Act of March 29,
1889, c. 24) relates to the organization, rights and duties of corporations formed to take over, maintain and operate railroads sold
under judicial decree, etc., and the clause, in its proviso, "nor shall
the main track of any railroad once constructed and operated be
abandoned or removed," applies only to railroads so sold. P. 88.
283 Fed. 584, affirmed.

APPEALS from two decrees of the District Court, the
first awarding a permanent injunction in the Railroad
Company's suit, brought in that court, to restrain the
Railroad Commission of Texas, and others, from interfering with its right to abandon operation and dismantle
and salvage its property; the second, dismissing a bill to
restrain such abandonment, etc., brought by the State in
a court of the State and removed to the District Court.
See also 258 U. S. 204, where the same cases were passed
upon by this Court in another aspect.

Mr. W. A. Keeling, Attorney General of the State of
Texas. with whom Mr. Walace Hawkins and Mr. Frank

RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. 11.
79

81

Argmnent for Appellants.

Kemp, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief,
for appellants.
The Eastern Texas Railroad Company is under contract to maintain and operate its railroad continuously
for the term of its charter. Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 347; Bullock v. Railroad Comm.,
254 U. S. 513; International, etc. Ry. Co. v. Anderson
County, 246 U. S. 424; Same v. Same, 106 Tex. 60;
Ricaud v. American Metal Co., 246 U. S. 304; Horn,
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 313; Robbins
v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489.
The Company is under statutory duty to maintain and
operate its railroad during the term of its charter. State
v. Enid, etc., Ry. Co., 108 Tex. 239; Enid, etc., Ry. Co. v.
State, 181 S. W. 498; State v. Sugarland Ry. Co., 163
S. W. 1047.
The St. Louis Southwestern bought the stock of the
Eastern Texas, except qualifying shares, and has since
operated the road.
Regardless of the specific statute, and even if it be
correctly limited to "sold out" railroads, we submit that
the manner by which the St. Louis Southwestern came
to own the stock of the Eastern Texas makes the statute
under such construction applicable. Chicago, etc., Ry.
Co. v. Minneapolis Civic Assn., 247 U. S. 490.
Because it is technically a separate legal entity, it does
not follow that the Eastern Texas is an independent
public carrier, free in the conduct of its business from the
control of the company which owns its capital stock,
furnishing its officers and electing directors. Article
6676, Tex. Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, requiring operation of
trains from day to day, is applicable.
The federal courts usually follow the state courts in
arriving at the contract and statutory obligations exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

ing between a State and its corporations. Ricaud v.
American Metal Co., 246 U. S. 304; Internatioicl, etc.,
Ry. Co. v. Anderson County, 246 U. S. 431; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Burgess v.
Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co.,
215 U. S. 349.
The constitutionality of the statute is immaterial when
the company accepts the charter. Interstate Consolidated Street Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79.
The Fourteenth Amendment, preventing an unconstitutional taking of property, is not available to a railroad company seeking to escape a contract and statutory
duty to continue operation and maintenance of its lines
of railroad even at a loss. Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Comm., 251 U. S. 396; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Bullock v. Railroad Comm.,
254 U. S. 519; International, etc., Ry. Co. v. Anderson
County, 246 U. S. 424; State v. Enid, etc., Ry. Co., 108
Tex. 239; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436; Newburyport
Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561.
Mr. Jno. R. Turney, with whom Mr. Daniel Upthegrove, Mr. E. B. Perkins, Mr. E. J. Mantooth and Mr.
I. B. Hamilton were on the briefs, for appellees.
11R. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These two suits involve the right of the Eastern Texas
Railroad Company, a Texas corporation having a railroad
in that State, to dismantle and abandon its road. One
was brought by the company to prevent threatened interference by the State's officers; the other by the State to
prevent intended dismantling and abandonment by the
company. The former was begun in the District Court;
the latter was removed into that court from a state court.
The company prevailed, 283 Fed. 584, and the State and
its officers prosecute these direct appeals.

RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. R.
79

83

Opinion of the Court.

The road is 30.3 miles long and all in Texas. The
company constructed it in 1902, operated it continuously
until April 30, 1921, and then discontinued its operation
because it had proved a losing venture. The traffic over
it during the period of operation was in greater part
interstate and foreign commerce and in lesser part intrastate commerce. The withdrawal from interstate and foreign commerce had the sanction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, given under a law of Congress, and
was sustained by this Court in Texas v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204. The present controversy relates
to the withdrawal from intrastate commerce and the intended dismantling and abandonment of the road.
The road was constructed primarily to carry traffic to
and from large lumbering industries in that territory; but
in the course of time those industries exhausted the adjacent supply of timber, and in 1917 they were permanently
closed and the people who had been employed in them
moved away. The traffic over the road then fell off so
much that the revenue became pronouncedly less than
the cost of operation. But the operation was continued
until the company had exhausted its surplus accumulated
in prior years, had come to be without cash or credit, and
was unable to go on. Its only remaining property consisted of the road and some meager equipment; and these
had shrunken in value from $450,000 to $50,000,-the
latter being the estimated salvage value less the cost of
dismantling. The property was offered for sale at $50,000
to any one who would operate the road, and the offer was
widely advertised, but without eliciting any acceptance or
bid. Essential repairs would cost $185,000. The operating cost would be as much as $84,000 per year; the possible revenue from all traffic would not exceed $50,000,
and that from intrastate traffic would not be more than
$20,000. The adjacent country was sparsely populated;
the soil had proved to be usually unproductive; there were

OCTOBER TERM, 1923
Opinion of the Court

264 U. S.

no local industries, and the general situation precluded
any reasonable expectation that the road would become
self-sustaining in the future. In these circumstances the
company concluded to cease all operation and to dismantle
and abandon the road.
The company was incorporated under a general law of
the State in 1900 for a term of 25 years, and when it
ceased operating the road four and one-half years of that
term remained. It had not received any state land grant
or other public aid; nor had it acquired any property
through an exercise of the power of eminent domain,
although that power was available under the law of the

State.
In the District Court, the State and its officers took
the position that under the state statutes the company
was prohibited from dismantling or abandoning its road
and was in duty bound, and could be compelled, to operate
the same in intrastate commerce for the remainder of the
25-year term. In this Court they have adhered to that
position, with the qualification that, in the circumstances
shown, the company may not be compelled to operate the
road but may be made to respond in damages to the State
for a failure to operate it. The company, on the other
hand, has contended throughout that the state statutes
neither prohibit the dismantling and abandonment of the
road nor lay on the company a duty to operate it when
that can be done only at a loss, and that, if the statutes
be as insisted on the other side, they deprive the company
of property without due process of law and in that respect
are in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
The appellants rely on two statutory provisions,
which they insist were in force when the company was incorporated and became a part of the charter contract. Before examining these provisions it is well to advert to principles which would govern in their absence, and also to
considerations bearing on their office and effect.

RAILROAD COMM. v. ]]ASTERN TEX. R. R.
79

85

Opinion of the Court.
to

The usual permissive charter of a railroad company does
not give rise to any obligation on the part of the company
to operate its road at a loss. No contract that it will do
so can be elicited from the acceptance of the charter or
from putting the road in operation. The company, although devoting its property to the use of the public, does
not do so irrevocably or absolutely, but on condition that
the public shall supply sufficient traffic on a reasonable
rate basis to yield a fair return. And if at any time it
develops with reasonable certainty that future operation
must be at a loss, the company may discontinue operation
and get what it can out of the property by dismantling
the road. To compel it to go on at a loss or to give up
the salvage value would be to take its property withont
the just compensation which is a part of due process of
law. The controlling principle is the same that is applied
in the many cases in which the constitutionality of a rate
is held to depend upon whether it yields a fair return.
Brooks-Scanion Co. v. RailroadComnmission of Lonisiana,
251 U. S. 396, 399; Bullock v. Railroad Coinmission of
Florida, 254 U. S. 513, 520; State ex rel. Czinninghanz v.
Jack, 113 Fed. 823; s. c. 145 Fed. 281; Iowav. Old Colony
Trust Co., 215 Fed. 307, 312; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Dustin, 142 U. S. 492, 499; Commonwealth v. Fitchburg
R. R. Co., 12 Gray, 180, 190; State v. Dodge City, etc. Ry.
Co., 53 Kan. 329, 336.
So long as the railroad company " continues to exercise" the privileges conferred by its charter, the State
has power to regulate its operations in the interest of the
public, and to that end may require it to provide reasonably safe and adequate facilities for serving the public,
even though compliance be attended by some pecuniary
disadvantage. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North
Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 26; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 279; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Public Service Coin nission, 242

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

U. S. 603, 607. But this rule in no wise militates against
the principle that the company may withdraw its property
from use by the public "when that use can be kept up
only at a loss." Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission of Louisiana, supra.
A State often has many laws relating to railroads on its
statute books which do not become a part of the charter
contract,-which are of such a nature that it is apparent
the State could not have intended to make or exact a continuing and binding stipulation embodying their terms.
Among such laws are those containing specific regulations
respecting the safety of employees and travellers, liability
for injuries, facilities for handling and moving traffic and
redress for failure to provide the facilities prescribed. The
occasion for keeping such matters where the legislature
may deal with them as changing conditions may require
forbids that they be regarded as part of the charter con tract unless a purpose to make them such be plainly disclosed. In short, the fact that a particular provision is
found in the statutes of the State relating to railroads, or
even in a special act incorporating a railroad company,
does not in itself suffice to show that the provision is a part
of the charter contract. Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co.
v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 415; Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin,
237 U. S. 220, 234. And see Wisconsin & Michigan Ry.
Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 387.
Where it becomes necessary to consider whether a State
is depriving, or attempting to deprive, a litigant of property without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the question turns on the existence and terms of an asserted contract, this Court determines for itself whether there is a contract and what are
its terms. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Palmes,
109 U. S. 244, 255; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223,
232. "The principle is general and necessary. Ward v.

RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. R.
79

87

Opinion of the Court.

Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22. If the Constitution and
laws of the United States are to be enforced, this Court
cannot accept as final the decision of the state tribunal as
to what are the facts alleged to give rise to the right or
to bar the assertion of it even upon local grounds."
Davis, Director General of Railroads, v. Wechsler, 263
U. S. 22, 24.
By way of distinguishing the cases in hand from some
which are cited by the appellants it is enough to observe
that here the company has ceased to exercise the privilege
conferred by its charter, of maintaining and operating the
road as a common carrier,-and this because the available
traffic has diminished to a point where further operation
is economically impossible.
One of the statutory provisions relied on is found in
Article 6676 of the Revised Civil Statutes of 1911, and
requires that on all railroads "carrying passengers for
hire" there shall be at least one passenger train a day,
Sundays excepted; that these trains shall stop at stations
a sufficient time to discharge and receive passengers, and
that, "if so many are run", four of these trains going.
each way shall stop daily, Sundays excepted, at county
seats. This is nothing more than a regulation of passenger service on roads which are in operation and engaged in that service. It does not purport to impose an
unconditional duty to operate, or to carry passengers, but
requires that where and while a passenger service is maintained it shall conform to the standards stated. Such a
provision falls far short of subjecting a railroad company,
through charter contract or otherwise, to an absolute duty
to operate its road for the full charter period, even after
it becomes reasonably certain that the operation will be
at a pronounbed loss.
The other provision on which the appellants rely was
enacted as part of an Act of*M6'arch 29, 1889, c. 24, and
was reenacted as Article 4550 of the Reviqed (ivil

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 T.S.

Statutes of 1895, and as Article 6625 of the like statutes
of 1911. The original enactment is described in its caption as relating "to rights of purchasers of roadbeds, etc.,
sold for debt," and in the captions of both reenactments
as relating to "new corporations in case of sale." It provides that the purchasers of any railroad sold under
judicial decree, etc., and their associates shall be entitled
to form a corporation to take over, maintain and operate
the road with power to "construct and extend." This
is followed by provisos of a restrictive nature, the last
of which reads: "Provided, that by such purchase and
organization no rights shall be acquired under any former
charter or law in conflict with the provisions of the present constitution in any respect, nor shall the main track
of any railroad once constructed and operated be
abandoned or removed." A second section provides that
any corporation so formed which shall "claim to be under the jurisdiction of the federal courts" shall thereby forfeit its reorganization, etc., and a third section declares the existence of an emergency requiring that the
act take effect immediately on its passage, because of
the absence of any sufficient law providing for the formation of a corporation "for the purpose of acquiring,
owning, and extending such sold out property." A reading of the enactment, including its caption and emergency section, shows that every part of it relates to the
organization, rights and duties of corporations formed to
take over, maintain and operate railroads sold under judicial decree, etc., unless the concluding part of the proviso just quoted is to be taken as having a broader scope.
The appellants contend that it should be so taken. Read
by itself it gives strong support to the contention. But
can it be rightly separated from the context and read
alone? Does it when so read reflect the legislative intent? In our opinion the answers must be in the negative. The provision evidently is intended to have the

RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. R.
79

89

Opinion of the Court.

same scope as the other parts of the act, and to be limited
to the same railroads that they are. The captions used
to describe the subject of the enactment give some support for this view, and the terms of the emergency section give it further support, for they make it fairly certain that only railroads sold for debt were in mind. The
fact that the provision is included in a proviso strongly
suggests that it is intended to qualify or restrict what
precedes it rather than to reach into a larger field, and
the suggestion is emphasized by the first part of the proviso, "that by such purchase and organization no rights
shall be," etc. A single word, supplied by fair implication, will bring the provision into full accord with all
that is in the proviso, and with all other parts of the
act. With that word included, the provision will read
"nor shall the main track of any [such] railroad once
constructed and operated be abandoned or removed." To
us it appears very plain that this is what is intended.
There was no decision on the question in the courts of
the State when the company was incorporated or when
it made its investment in the road. Two decisions made
several years later have a bearing but seem to leave
the matter more or less open even in those tribunals.
One by the Supreme Court, given in 1917, treats the provision as applicable to all railroads. But the question
was not discussed, possibly because the road there involved had been sold under a judicial decree. State v.
Enid, Ochiltree & Western Ry. Co., 108 Texas, 239. The
other by the Court of Civil Appeals at Galveston, given
in 1922, appears to treat the provision as applicable only
to railroads sold for debt. Wexler v. State, 241 S. W. 231.
As already indicated, we are of opinion that the provision, like other portions of the enactment of which it is
a part, applies only to railroads sold under judicial decree,
etc. This road never was so sold. The company did not
acquire it through such a sale, but constructed it as an
original undertaking.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

90

264 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Our conclusion is that the appellants' reliance on the
two statutes is not well grounded. They are all that are
claimed to make the company's charter other than one of
the usual permissive type. It follows that the District
Court rightly held the company was entitled to withdraw
the road from intrastate commerce and to dismantle and
abandon it.
Decrees affirmed.
THE "GUL DJEMAL."

1

APPEAL FROM. THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 83.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

The objection that a vessel, owned, possessed, manned, and operated
by a foreign State, but engaged in ordinary commerce under charter
to a private trader, is immune to libel in the District Court for
ervices and supplies, can not be raised by her master, who, although a naval officer, is not functioning as such, and is not shown
to have authority to represent his sovereign in making the objection.
P. 94.
296 Fed. 567, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court sustaining a
libel against a ship, for services and supplies.
Mr. William A. Purringtonand Mr. John M. Woolsey,
with whom Mr. Frank J. McConnell was on the brief, for
appellant.

Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. Ezra G. Benedict Fox was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Seeking to recover for supplies and services furnished
at New York during November, 1920, in order to fit her
'The (locket title of this case is: Steamship "Gul Djemal," her
engines, etc.; Hussein Lutfi Bey, Master, v. Campbell & Stuart, Inc.

