OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

plaint. The statements in the other affidavit have no
relevancy to the question of jurisdiction.
It must appear on the face of the complaint or otherwise from the proofs that the matter in controversy
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of $3,000. Pinel v. Pinel, 240 U. S. 594, 597. The value
of the object to be gained is the test of the amount
involved. Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 264, 267; Glenwood Light Co. v.
Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121, 125; Berryman v. Whitman College, 222 U. S. 334, 345; Bitterman v. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205, 225; Hunt v. New
York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 336. The mere
assertion that more than the required amount is involved
is not enough where, as in this case, the facts alleged do
not even tend to support the claim. There is nothing to
indicate that the matter sought to be enjoined would be
of any pecuniary detriment to the appellant or would in
any way detract from the value of its property. Indeed,
it affirmatively appears that the requisite amount or value
is not involved. See Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262
U. S. 77, 86. No argument is required to show that the
facts set forth in the complaint and affidavits fail to
support jurisdiction. Appellees' motion to affirm must
be granted.
Judgment affirmed.
CITIZENS SAVINGS BANK & TRUST COMPANY v.
SEXTON, EXECUTOR OF CHAPMAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 261.

Argued February 25, 1924.-Decided March 17, 1924.

1. Where the parties to a note and mortgage are citizens of the same
State, jurisdiction to collect the note by foreclosure of the mortgage

CITIZENS SAVINGS BANK v. SEXTON.
310

311

Opinion of the Court.

and deficiency judgment does not exist in the District Court through
diversity of citizenship, if one of the defendants is a citizen of that
State and the plaintiff, although of another State, acquired the
obligations by assignment from the original obligee. Jud. Code,
§ 24. P. 312.
2. While this restriction does not apply to a plaintiff who, although
nominally the assignee, was really the payee, the evidence in the
present case fails to sustain the allegation that the payee named
in the note acted as the maker's broker in securing the loan from
the plaintiff and that the plaintiff was at all times the beneficial
owner of the paper. P. 313.
3. The rule that the restriction of Jud. Code, § 24, does not prevent
a suit by the assignee on a new and subsequent agreement is
inapplicable where the suit is for foreclosure of a mortgage and
the relief sought by a deficiency judgment, against a purchaser of
the property who assumed its payment, is merely ancillary and
incidental to the primary purpose of the bill. Id.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, a suit on a promissory note and
mortgage.
Mr. Lawrence H. Brown, with whom Mr. Frederick W.
Dewart was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. James A. Williams, with whom Mr.Samuel Herrick,
Mr. Robert J. Danson and Mr. Robert W. Danson were on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code from
a decree dismissing a suit in equity for want of jurisdiction. The question certified for decision arises under the
provision in § 24 of the Judicial Code that, "No district
court shall have cognizance of any suit . . . to recover upon any promissory note or other chose in action in
favor of any assignee . . . unless such suit might

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

have been prosecuted in such court . . . if no assignment had been made."1
The appellant, a citizen of Vermont, brought suit in the
Eastern District of Washington, to recover on a promissory note for $5,000 and to foreclose a mortgage on land
in the latter State given to secure it. The makers and the
payee of the note are citizens of Washington. The note
and mortgage were assigned and transferred by the payee
to the plaintiff for a valuable consideration. The mortgaged land was thereafter conveyed by the makers of
the note to a citizen of Washington, who, it is alleged, in
consideration of a subsequent extension of the mortgage
by the plaintiff expressly assumed its payment. The purchaser thereafter died. The defendants are the executor
of his will, a citizen of Washington, and the devisees,
citizens of Michigan and Ohio. A deficiency judgment is
prayed against the executor if the proceeds of the foreclosure prove insufficient to pay the debt. Neither the
makers nor the payee of the note are sued.
We conclude that the suit was rightly dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
1. Jurisdiction was invoked solely on the ground of
diversity of citizenship. However the plaintiff's assignor,
the payee of the note, being a citizen of Washington, could
not have proceeded in the District Court against another
citizen of the same State; and hence, under the restriction
in § 24 of the Code, nothing else appearing, the court had
no jurisdiction of the suit brought by the plaintiff as assignee. Gibson v. Chew, 16 Pet. 315, 316; Kolze v.
Hoadley, 200 U. S. 76, 83, and cases cited.
'This restriction upon the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts
has been in force, with some changes not here material, since the
Judiciary Act of 1789. The prior statutes, except § 629 of the
Revised Statutes, are set forth in New Orleans v. Quinlan, 173 U. S.
191, 192. Decisions under them as well as under the Code provision
are cited in this opinion without distinction in this respect.

CITIZENS SAVINGS BANK v. SEXTON.
310

313

Opinion of the Court.

2. If, however, it is shown, upon allegation and proof,
that the relation of the parties to a note is otherwise than
appears from its terms, and that the plaintiff, although
apparently assignee, is in reality the payee, the Code provision does not apply and his right to invoke the jurisdiction of the District Court is not restricted by the fact that
the suit could not have been prosecuted by the nominal
payee. Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U. S. 150, 159. Such
is the case where the nominal payee was merely the agent
of the maker for the purpose of negotiating the note and
had no beneficial interest therein or right of action
thereon. Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 448; Kirvcn v.
Chemical Co. (C. C. A.) 145 Fed. 288, 290; Wachusett
Bank v. Stove Works (C. C.) 56 Fed. 321, 323; Baltimore
Trust Co. v. Screven County (D. C.) 238 Fed. 834, 836;
Commercial Trust Co. v. Laurens County (D. C.) 267
Fed. 901, 903.
To bring the suit within this exception the plaintiff
alleged that in taking and assigning the note and mortgage, the payee acted as the mere broker and agent of the
makers in procuring a loan from the plaintiff and neither
became their creditor nor acquired any beneficial interest
in the note or mortgage; but that the plaintiff was at all
times the beneficial owner. The defendants denied these
allegations. These issues of fact were tried by the District
Judge, on evidence taken before him, from which he found
that the payee, a member of a firm engaged in the mortgage loan business, did not act as agent for the makers,
but for his firm, as independent dealers, and acquired the
note and mortgage and afterwards sold them to the
plaintiff as in "the ordinary case where a person purchases property for resale."
An examination of the evidence discloses no error in
this finding; on the contrary it accords with the greater
weight of the testimony.
3. It is urged that as the plaintiff seeks a deficiency
judgment against the executor on the ground that his

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

testator expressly assumed payment of the mortgage to
the plaintiff, the suit is maintainable in the District Court
on this agreement, by reason of diversity of citizenship,
without reference to the question whether the payee could
have proceeded on the original note. The assignee of a
chose in action, although prevented by the Code from
maintaining an action thereon in the District Court, may
nevertheless, if the requisite diversity of citizenship appears, proceed therein upon a new agreement subsequently made. American Colortype Co. v. Continental
Colortype Co., 188 U. S. 104, 106; Kolze v. Hoadley,
supra, p. 83. This rule, however, has no application here,
since the main object of the suit is the foreclosure of the
mortgage, to which the plaintiff must trace title through
the assignment, and the relief sought by a deficiency
judgment against the executor is merely ancillary and
incidental to the primary purpose of the bill. Blacklock
v. Small, 127 U. S. 96, 103; Kolze v. Hoadley, supra,p. 85.
The decree of the District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.
KELLER ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS HARTFORD
WINDSHIELD COMPANY, v. ADAMS-CAMPBELL
COMPANY, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 315. Argued February 27, 28, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. An ordinary patent case, with the usual issues of invention, breadth
of claims and infringement, will not be brought here by certiorari

unless it be necessary to reconcile decisions of the circuit courts of
appeals on the same patent. P. 319.
2. Certiorari granted under the impression that the case involved an
important general question under Rev. Stats., § 4916, as to rights
intervening between the issue and reissue of a patent, will be

