OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

264 U. S.

STANDARD PARTS COMPANY v. PECK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160. Argued January 15, 1.24.-Decided February 18, 1924.
One who is employed and paid by another to develop a process and
machinery for manufacturing a specified product, and who patents an invention made by him in the course of the employment,
holds the patent for his employer. P. 58.
282 Fed. 443, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed in part a decree of the District Court in a
suit brought by Peck to enjoin the Standard Parts Company from infringing his patent and for an accounting,
etc. The District Court adjudged the equities in the
company's favor and ordered Peck to assign to it the patent in question and any others, or applications therefor,
based on inventions made by him in pursuance of his employment by the company's predecessor. The Court of
Appeals allowed the company only certain rights as
licensee.

Mr. Bert M. Kent and Mr. A. V. Cannon, with whom
Mr. John M. Garfield and Mr. James P. Wood were on
the brief, for petitioner, cited and discussed the following
cases:
Solomons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342; McAleer v.
United States, 150 U. S. 424; Gill v. United States, 160
U. S. 426; Bloxam v. Elsee, 1 Carr. & Payne, 558;
McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202; Hapgood v. Hewitt,
119 IT. S. 226; Dalzell v. Dueber Mfg. Co., 149 U. S. 315;
Air Reduction Co. v. Walker, 195 N. Y. S. 120.
Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Charles L.
Byron was on the brief, for respondent.
Any right of action which petitioner may have must
be based upon an implied contract growing out of the

STANDARD PARTS CO. v. PECK.
52

Argument for Respondent.

employment of Peck by the Pontiac Company. Whether
or not a contract may be implied depends upon the intentions of the parties.
There was no intention on the part of either Peck or
the Pontiac Company that Peck should assign any inventions or patents. The parties did not have in contemplation the making of patentable inventions by Peck in performing the work for which he was employed. Peck's
uncontradicted testimony is that it was not until after
the contract had been entered into that any question
arose as to the possibility of any patentable inventions
being made by him in building the machines and in
developing the processes, for which he was employed.
Specific performance will only be granted where it is
clearly established by evidence that the party seeking it
is entitled to it. Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438;
Colson v. Thompson, 2 Wheat. 336; Dalzell v. Dueber
Mfg. Co., 149 U. S. 315.
A license under a, patent will only be implied where
the circumstances are such as to estop the patentee from
denying the existence of such license. Edison Co. v.
Peninsula,101 Fed. 831. The same rule would seemingly
equally apply to an implied agreement to assign a patent
to an employer.
An employer is not entitled to a patent covering an
invention made by an employee, in the absence of an
express agreement to that effect, but only to a shopright, or nonexclusive, nontransferable license thereunder.
Hapgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226; Dalzell v. Duebcr
Mfg. Co., 149 U. S. 320; Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Hansen,
128 Fed. 445; Morton v. Andrews Co., 229 Fed. 150;
NiagaraCo. v. Hibbard, 179 Fed. 845; Burpee v. Guggenheim, 226 Fed. 219; Johnson Co. v. Western Co., 178
Fed. 823; Hildreth v. Duff, 139 Fed. 141; Barber v.
Aational Co., 129 Fed. 372.
Solomons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342, did not refer
to Hapgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226, doubtless because

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

264 U. S.

the title to the patent in suit was not at issue, but merely
the right of the United States to a license thereunder.
Subsequently, this Court, in Dalzell v. Dueber Mfg. Co.,
149 U. S. 315, a case in which was directly involved the
title of an employer to a patent covering an invention
made by an employee, followed Hapgood v. Hewitt, and
held that the employer was not entitled to an assignment
of the patent. McAleer v. United States, 150 U. S. 424,
and Gill v. United States, 160 U. S. 426, were implied
license cases.
No decision of a federal court has been found in which,
in the absence of an express agreement, an employer has
been held entitled to an assignment of a patent covering
an invention made by an employee regardless of whether
the employment was general, or for the special purpose
of developing or devising certain specific machines, processes or improvements. Barberv. National Co., 129 Fed.
370; Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Hansen, 137 Fed. 403; Air
Reduction Co. v. Walker, 195 N. Y. S. 120.
The suit is barred by laches.
The consideration which Peck received under his contract was for the work which he did for his employer
without regard as to whether or not he might make any
patentable inventions. No consideration whatever has
passed to him to support the assignment. Dalzell v.
Dueber Mfg. Co., 149 U. S. 315.
The shop-right of an employer is not transferable.
Hapgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226; Boston v. Allen, 91
Fed. 248; Barber v. National Co., 129 Fed. 370; Gill v.
United States, 160 U. S. 426; Pressed Steel Car Co. v.
Hansen, 137 Fed. 403; Lane Co. v. Locke, 150 U. S. 193;
Rowell v. Rowell, 122 Wis. 21; Bowers v. Lake Superior
Co., 149 Fed. 983.
The procedure adopted by the Court of Appeals in
this case would permit the piecemeal trial of cases in
disregard of the evident intent of Equity Rule 30.

STANDARD PARTS CO. v. PECK.
52

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Suit for injunction, preliminary and perpetual, and
accounting for profits and damages, upon the ground of
infringement of Letters Patent No. 1,249,473, issued to
William J. Peck, respondent.
The bill is the usual one in patent cases. For answer
to it the Standard Parts Company admits the use of the
devices of the patent and alleges they were constructed
under the supervision of Peck and under the terms and
provisions of a contract dated August 23, 1915, by and
between him and the Hess-Pontiac Spring and Axle Company, for and in behalf of the latter company and the
Western Spring and Axle Company, and that it, the
Standard Company, has succeeded to the entire assets,
business and good will of those other companies, including all of their rights in said contract and devices. And
the Standard Company avers that Peck was fully compensated for his connection with the devices.
As an offset and counterclaim, the Standard Company
avers that all of the invention in the letters patent was
made while Peck was in the employ of its predecessors
in business, the Axle Companies above mentioned, and
that he was so employed for a period of approximately
one year and eight months, and paid, while so employed.
a salary of $300 per month, and, at the conclusion of the
employment, paid a bonus of $660.
In answer to the counterclaim, Peck admits the contract but denies that it raised the contractual relations
averred, or that it could be construed as passing any title
to any inventions which might be incorporated in machinery built thereunder; and that neither the Axle Companies nor any person who might have purchased their
assets, business and good will could have acquired any
right, title or interest in the inventions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Admits the period of employment averred and that he
received the compensation averred, and that at the conclusion of his employment he received a bonus of $660,
being the amount of $10 for each 10% of reduction of
direct labor cost as called for in said contract, the figures
compiled by the Hess Company showing a reduction of
66% in direct labor.
Admits that prior to and during the continuance and
subsequent to the period of his employment he practiced
as an attorney at law and solicitor of patents, but denies ever so acting for either the Hess Company or
Western Company, and denies that he ever prepared or
filed or executed any applications for either of the companies, or that any of such applications matured into the
patent in suit.
He denies the other allegations of the counterclaim.
On the case as thus presented, Peck's testimony and
some other testimony was taken, and certain exhibits
introduced, and the judgment of the District Court was,
after a review of the decisions of this and other courts,
"that the property in the invention belonged to the employer" (the Hess-Pontiac Spring and Axle Company),
and that this property passed to the Standard Parts Company when it acquired the assets of the Axle Company,
and that Peck holds the legal title in trust for the Standard Company. A decree was directed to be entered requiring an assignment of the legal title to the latter
Company.
A motion for rehearing was made and denied, and on
March 2, 1921, a formal decree was entered, adjudging
the equities to be in favor of the Standard Company, and
that Peck, within ten days from the date of the decree,
assign and transfer to the company the legal title to the
letters patent, and also transfer to it all other patents or
pending applications for patents for inventions made by
him, in connection with the processes and machinery de-

STANDARD PARTS CO. v. PECK.
52

Opinion of the Court.

veloped in the performance of the agreement with the
Axle Company.
It was further adjudged that, if Peck failed to perform
the decree, "then and in that event" the "decree shall
have the same force and effect as such assignments and
transfers would have had if made."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree of
the District Court in so far as it decreed an assignment
and transfer of the patent in suit and other patents and
applications from Peck to the Standard Company.
The court decreed a license to exist in the Standard
Company in the machines, distinguishing, however, between the first six and the last four, in that, in the first six,
title was in the Standard Company "wholly free from the
monopoly of the patent," this being "within the spirit
and fairly within the letter of Sec. 4899 ",1 and that the
Pontiac Company had a right to sell these six machines to
the Standard Company free from the patent. As to the
last four, it was decided, that the license to construct them
was not assignable and could not pass to the Standard
Company "by the ordinary purchase and sale of a business."
The court concluded its opinion as follows: "Defendant
[Standard Company] may be advised that it can abandon
any further claim of license as to these four machines and
contest the patent on its merits-a matter about which we
express no opinion-and otherwise it is clearly open to defendant to make what effort it can to establish a license on
the theory of estoppel by reason of Peck's knowledge of
"Every person who purchases of the inventor, or discoverer, or
with his knowledge and consent constructs any newly invented or discovered machine, or other patentable article, prior to the application
by the inventor or discoverer for a patent, or who sells or uses one so
constructed, shall have the right to use, and vend to others to be
used, the specific thing so made or purchased, without liability

therefor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

the building of these four machines without objection-if
such knowledge and conduct occurred-or on the theory
of a practical consolidation of the Pontiac Company with
the present defendant-if their relationship has that
character. (Lane v. Locke, 150 U. S. 193).
"The decree below is reversed and the record remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion."
The courts reached different rulings because of different
readings of the cases. That of the District Court was,
that while the mere fact that one is employed by another
does not preclude him from making improvements in the
machines with which he is connected, and obtaining patents therefor, as his individual property, yet, if he "be
employed to invent or devise such improvements his patents therefor belong to his employer, since in making such
improvements he is merely doing what he was hired to do."
The Circuit Court of Appeals rejected this test. It
conceded, however, that the deduction of the District
Court was sustained by Solomons v. United States, 137
U. S. 342; McAleer v. United States, 150 U. S. 424, and
Gill v. United States, 160 U. S. 426, and if correct, required the affirmance of the decree of the District Court.
And the court admitted that there was no later declaration
than that of those cases, nor any criticism of it. The court,
nevertheless, dissented from it, subordinating it to other
cases and reasoning, they establishing, it was considered,
" that an invention does not belong to the employer,
merely by virtue of an employment contract, as well when
that employment is to devise or improve a specific thing
as when the employment is to devise improvements generally in the line of the employer's business." And considering further that Peck's employment was to devise or
improve a specific thing, decided that his contract did not
"of its own force, convey to the employer the equitable
title to the patentable inventions" which he "might make
in the course of its execution" but gave "to the employer
a license only."

STANDARD PARTS CO. v. PECK.
52

Opinion of the Court.

It is going very far to say that the declaration of Sob)mons v. United States, repeated in subsequent cases, and
apparently constituting their grounds of decision, may
be put aside or underrated-assigned the inconsequence
of dicta. It might be said that there is persuasion in the
repetition. It cannot be contended that the invention of
a specific thing cannot be made the subject of a bargain
and pass in execution of it. And such, we think, was the
object and effect of Peck's contract with the Hess-Pontiac
Spring and Axle Company. That company had a want in
its business, a "problem ", is Peck's word, and he testified
that "Mr. Hess thought probably" that he, Peck, "could
be of some assistance to him [Hess] in working out " the
"problem ", and the "thought" was natural. Hess had
previous acquaintance with Peck-his inventive and other
ability, and approached him, the result being the contract
of August 23, 1915, the material parts of which are as
follows: "This Agreement Witnesseth, that second party
is to devote his time to the development of a process and
machinery for the production of the front spring now used
on the product of the Ford Motor Company. First party
is to pay second party for such services the sum of $300
per month. That should said process and machinery be
finished at or before the expiration of four months from
August 11, 1915, second party is to receive a bonus of
$100 per month. That when finished, second party is to
receive a bonus of $10 for each per cent of reduction from
present direct labor, as disclosed by the books of first
party."
By the contract Peck engaged to "devote his time to
the development of a process and machinery" and was
to receive therefor a stated compensation. Whose property was the "process and machinery" to be when developed? The answer would seem to be inevitable and
resistless-of him who engaged the services and paid for
them, they being his inducement and compensation, they

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

being not for temporary use but perpetual use, a provision for a business, a facility in it and an asset of it,
therefore, contributing to it whether retained or soldthe vendee (in this case the Standard Company) paying
for it and getting the rights the vendor had (in this case,
the Axle Company).
Other meaning to the contract would confuse the relation of the parties to it-take from the Axle Company
the inducement the company had to make it-take from
the company the advantage of its exclusive use and subject the company to the rivalry of competitors. And
yet. such, we think, is the contention of Peck. He seems
somewhat absorbing in his assertion of rights. He yields
to the Axle Company a shop right only, free from the
payment of royalty but personal and temporary-not one
that could be assigned or transferred. Peck, therefore,
virtually asserts, though stimulated to services by the
Hess Company and paid for them-doing nothing more
than he was engaged to do and paid for doing-that the
product of the services was so entirely his property that
he might give as great a right to any member of the mechanical world as to the one who engaged him and paid
him-a right to be used in competition with the one
who engaged him and paid him.
We cannot assent to this nor even to the limitation the
Court of Appeals put upon Peck's contention. We concur
with the District Court and therefore reverse the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Reversed.

