OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U.S.

courts, the tax falls upon those engaged in domestic business and does not fall upon those engaged in interstate
business, it is void for inequality. It would be a strange
application of the equality provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment to say that because a State is forbidden by
paramount law to impose a tax upon some merchants,
it is therefore powerless to impose it upon other merchants
to whom the restriction does not apply. It is enough
if the State observe the rule of equality among the persons subject to its taxing power.
Affirmed.
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND v.
MALLOY ET AL., TRADING AS MALLOY
BROTHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 553. Argued January 9, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.
I. Generally, as held in Exchange Natl. Bank v. Third Natl. Bank.
112 U. S. 276, where a check, deposited by the owner in a bank, is
forwarded by it in due course to another bank for collection, the
second bank does not become responsible, as an agent, to the
owner. P. 164.
2. But it is otherwise where, by a state statute with reference to
which the first bank and the check-owner presumably contract,
the forwarding of such instruments for collection, in the regular
course of banking, is to be deemed due diligence acquitting the
forwarding bank of liability until it has received actual payment,
for, in such case, the initial bank has implied authority to employ
another bank as subagent, and this in turn another, and the risk
of their default or neglect is with the depositor of the instrument. Id.
3. If a bank, responsible to the payee for the collection of a check,
surrender the check to the drawee bank and accept in payment an
exchange draft of that bank which proves worthless, the collecting bank is liable to the payee of the check for the resulting loss.
P. 165.

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK v. MALLOY.

161

Opinion of the Court.

160

4 A regulation of the Federal Reserve Board providing for authority
to Federal Reserve Banks "to send checks for collection" to banks
on which they were drawn, cannot be enlarged by implication to
include authority to accept a draft of the drawee of a check in
payment. P. 166.
5. A practice of banks to send checks for collection to the banks on
which they are drawn, with the expectation that they will be cancelled and charged to the makers and remittance returned either
in currency or by the drawees' exchange drafts, lacks the certainty
and uniformity essential to make it a custom binding the owner of
a check who did not know of it. P. 169.
6. Assuming that the legal principles forbidding that a check be entrusted for collection to the bank on which it is drawn, and requiring payment in money, can be supplanted by custom, the custom must be as definite and specific as the principles themselvp-.
P. 171.
291 Fed. 763, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a recovery in the District Court of the

amount of a check.
Mr. M. G. Wallace for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert H. Dye for defendants in error
MR. JusTIcE SUTmRLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Malloy Brothers brought this action against the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond in a state court, to recover $9,000, alleged to be the amount of a check drawn
to their order upon the Bank of Lumber Bridge, North
Carolina. The case was removed to the Federal District
Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, where
it was tried without a jury and judgment rendered for
plaintiffs, 281 Fed. 997, which was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. 291 Fed. 763.
The check was drawn on November 30, 1920. delivered
to and received by plaintiffs and the amount credited
97 51'-24-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

to the drawer. It was properly indorsed and deposited
with the Perry Banking Company of Perry, Florida, for
collection and credit, on December 1. A credit card was
delivered to plaintiffs upon which was printed: "Checks,
drafts, etc., received for collection or deposit, are taken at
the risk of the endorser until actual payment is received."
A statute of Florida, then and ever since in force (Laws
of Florida, 1909, c. 5951, p. 146) provides as follows:
"That when a check, draft, note or other negotiable
instrument is deposited in a bank for credit, or for collection, it shall be considered due diligence on the part
of the bank in the collection of any check, draft, note
or other negotiable instrument so deposited, to forward
en route the same without delay in the usual commercial way in use according' to the regular course of
business of banks, and that the maker, endorser, guarantor or surety of any check, draft, note or other
negotiable instrument, so deposited, shall be liable to the
bank until actual final payment is received, and that
when a bank receives for collection any check, draft, note
or other negotiable instrument and forwards the same
for collection, as herein provided, it shall only be liable
after actual final payment is received by it, except in case
of want of due diligence on its part, as aforesaid."
The Perry Banking Company indorsed and transmitted
the check to a bank at Jacksonville, Florida, which, in
turn, indorsed and transmitted it, on account of the
Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank, to a bank at Atlanta,
Georgia; and by the latter bank it was transmitted for
collection to the Richmond bank, defendant herein.
On December 10, 1920, the Richmond bank transmitted the check, together with several other small
checks, to the Lumber Bridge bank for collection and
return. The letter containing these checks, by regular
course of mail, should have been received, and, so far as
appears, was received, by the Lumber Bridge bank on

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK v. MALLOY. 163
160

Opinion of the Court.

Saturday, December 11th. On Tuesday, December 14th,
the check in question was stamped "Paid" and charged
to the account of the drawer, and on the same day the
Lumber Bridge bank transmitted to the Richmond bank
its draft on the Atlantic Banking & Trust Company, of
Greensboro, North Carolina, for the aggregate amount of
the checks, including the one here in question. The draft
was received by the Richmond bank on December 15th.
and immediately forwarded to the bank at Greensboro
for payment. On December 17th the Greensboro bank
notified the Richmond bank by wire that the Lumber
Bridge bank did not have sufficient funds to its credit
to pay the draft. Thereupon the Richmond bank wired
the Lumber Bridge bank that its draft had been dishonored and called upon it to make it good. The Lumber
Bridge bank answered, promising to do so. It failed,
however, and the Richmond bank thereupon sent a representative to Lumber Bridge, who reached there on the
morning of December 20th, and demanded payment of
the draft from the cashier of the Lumber Bridge bank.
The cashier of that bank, after stating that it did not
have sufficient funds to pay the dishonored draft
promised that steps would be taken to meet it.
On December 21st the representative of the Richmond
bank was informed that the dishonored draft could not
be paid and on the same day the Richmond bank notified
the Atlanta. bank of the situation and this notice was
promptly transmitted to the plaintiffs. The amount of
the check was thereupon charged by the Richmond bank
to the Atlanta bank, which, in turn, charged the amount
to its immediate correspondent and so on until it was
finally charged back to the plaintiffs.
In view of the conclusion which we have reached, we
find it necessary to consider but two questions:
1. Can the present action be maintained by plaintiff.
Malloy Brothers, against the Richmond bank? and

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

2. If so, did the failure of the Richmond bank to require payment of the Malloy check in money, and its
acceptance of what turned out to be a worthless draft
in lieu thereof, create a liability against it and in favor
of Malloy Brothers for the amount of the loss?
First. The state decisions in respect of the liability of
a correspondent bank to the owner of a check forwarded
for collection by the initial bank of deposit are in conflict beyond the possibility of reconciliation. A number
of States, following the "New York rule," so-called, have
held that there is no such direct liability, but that the
initial bank alone is responsible to the owner. On the
other hand, an equal, if not a greater, number of States
following the "Massachusetts rule," have held exactly
the contrary, viz: that the initial bank by the mere fact
of deposit for collection, is authorized to employ subagents, who thereupon become the agents of the owner
and directly responsible to him for their defaults. This
Court. in Exchange National Bank v. Third National
Bank, 112 U. S. 276, after reviewing the two lines of
decisions, approved the "New York rule." But the rule
may. of course, be varied by contract, express or implied.
Id. 289. Here the relations of the drawee to the initial
bank of deposit are controlled by the Florida statute with
respect to which it must be presumed they dealt with
each other. This statute had the effect of importing the
"Massachusetts rule" into the contract, with the result
that the initial bank had implied authority to intrust the
collection of the check to a subagent and that subagent,
in turn, to another; and the risk of any default or neglect
on their part, rested upon the owners. 112 U. S. 281. It
follows that the action was properly brought against the
Richmond bank.
Second. For the purposes of the case, we assume the
correctness of the decision below, holding that the Richmond bank was not negligent in sending the check di-

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK v. MALLOY.
160

165

Opinion of the Court.

rectly to the bank on which it was drawn, and consider
only whether the acceptance of an exchange draft, found
to be worthless, instead of money, creates an enforceable
liability.
It is settled law that a collecting agent is without
authority to accept for the debt of his principal anything
but "that which the law declares to be a legal tender,
or which is by common consent considered and treated
as money, and passes as such at par." Ward v. Smith, 7
Wall. 447, 452. The rule applies to a bank receiving coinmercial paper for collection, and if such bank accepts
the check of the party bound to make payment and surrenders the paper, it is responsible to the owner for any
resulting loss. Fifth National Bank v. Ashworth, 123
Pa. St. 212, 218; Hazlett v. Commercial National Bank,
132 Pa. St. 118, 125; Bank v. Bank, 151 Mo. 320, 329;
Essex County National Bank v. Bank of Montreal, 7
Biss. 193, 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4532; Noble v. Doughten, 72
Kans. 336, 351-353; Anderson v. Gill, 79 Md. 312, 317;
Bank of Antigo v. Union Trust Co., 149 Ill. 343. 351.
It is unnecessary to cite other decisions since they are
all practically uniform. Anderson v. Gill, supra, presented a situation practically the same as that we are
here dealing with, and the Supreme Court of Maryland,
in disposing of it, said:
"Now, a check on a bank or banker is payable in
money, and in nothing else. Morse Banks & Banking
(2d edition), p. 268. The drawer having funds to his
credit with the drawee has a right to assume that the
payee will, upon presentation, exact in payment precisely what the check was given for, and that he will
not accept, in lieu thereof, something for which it had
not been drawn. It is certainly not within his contemplation that the payee should upon presentation, instead
of requiring the cash to be paid, accept at the drawer's
risk a check of the drawee upon some other bank or

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

banker. The holder had a right to make immediate demand for payment upon receipt of Anderson's check,
though she was not bound to do so. When her agent,
the Old Town Bank-the collecting bank being the agent
of the holder-(Dodge v. Freedman's Say. & Tru. Co.,
93 U. S. 379) did make demand it was only authorized to
receive money (Ward v. Smith, 7 Wall. 451); and the
acceptance by the collecting agent of anything else rendered it as liable to the holder as though it had collected
the cash."
Acceptance of the draft by the Richmond bank as payinent of the Malloy check had the effect of releasing the
drawer and therefore materially altering the relations of
the parties. Technically, there resulted a transfer of the
drawer's funds and his right of action against the drawee
bank; and previous rights arid obligations between the
owners of the check and drawer were superseded. It follows,-this result having been brought about by the unauthorized act of the Richmond bank, standing in that
transaction in the relation of agent to the owners of the
check,-that such owners are entitled to recover from the
Richmond bank for the loss which they sustained, unless
the case falls within some exception to the general rule.
And as to this, the Richmond bank says: (1) That its
immediate correspondent, from whom it received the
check, was bound by a regulation of the Federal Reserve
Board, which authorized the method of collection pursued,
and that, since that correspondent was the agent of the
owners of the check in the transaction, they are likewise
bound; (2) that the method was justified by a custom,
binding upon Malloy Brothers. We consider these contentions in their order.
1. The regulation relied on, so far as pertinent, is to the
effect that a Federal Reserve bank will act as agent only
in handling items for member and non-member banks,
who are required to authorize "its Federal Reserve bank

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK v. MALLOY. 167
160

Opinion of the Court.

to send checks for collection to banks on which checks
were drawn, and, except for negligence, such Federal
Reserve banks will assume no liability." Regulation J (8)
of 1920. This regulation, while it contemplates the
sending of checks for collection to the drawee banks, does
not expressly permit the acceptance of payment other
than in money. It is insisted, however, that the authority
to send checks to the drawee bank carries with it, by necessary implication, authority to accept a draft in payment
from the drawee. We assume, for the purposes of the
argument, that the obligation which the law imposes to
collect only in money may be varied by a regulation,
clearly and positively so providing, although, in terms,
it relates only to the banks inter se, upon the ground that
the owner of the check is bound by the knowledge and
consent of his subagent. But to justify an extension by
implication of the terms of the regulation, it must be made
to appear, at least, that the addition sought to be annexed is a necessary means to carry into effect the authority expressly given by the regulation. See FirstNational
Bank v. Missouri, 263 U. S. 640. It follows from this
limitation upon the extent and purpose of implied powers, that a distinct and independent power cannot be
brought into existence by implication from the grant of
another distinct power. In other words, authority to do
a specific thing carries with it by implication the power
to do whatever is necessary to effectuate the thing authorized-not to do another and separate thing, since that
would be, not to carry the authority granted into effect,
but to add an authority beyond the terms of the grant.
The authority expressed by the regulation is "to send
checks for collection to banks on which checks were
drawn;" the authority now sought to be annexed by implication is "to accept exchange drafts in payment," instead
of money, as required by law. That neither is a necessary
means of carrying the other into effect, is clear. Nor are

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

they necessary to each other in the sense that they are
corollary or dependent. Certainly a check may be sent
for collection to the drawee bank without entailing the
necessity of remitting the amount in the form of exchange. Currency itself may be sent; and, as will appear
presently, frequently is sent. The first form of remittance,
to be sure, is more convenient; but it is not of such necessity as to exclude the second on the score of impracticability. There is nothing to prevent the sending bank from
requiring the drawee to remit currency as a condition
upon which the check may be satisfied and charged to the
account of the drawer. We must not lose sight of the
fact that we are here dealing with two distinct rules of
law, both of which are sought to be avoided: (a) that
which forbids a bank having paper for collection to use
the drawee bank as a collecting agent; and (b) that which
forbids a collecting agent accepting anything but money
in payment. The first rule is probably based upon the
theory that the drawee is not a suitable agent for the enforcement of his own obligation, and that commercial
paper calling upon him to pay should not be surrendered
to and satisfied by him, with the consequent release of the
drawer, except upon previous or contemporaneous payment. The second rule proceeds upon the fact that the
obligation of the drawee is to pay in money and nothing
else. Plainly, the two rules are of such nature that one
may be abrogated without the other; and it is obvious,
since the law imposes upon a collecting agent the duty to
collect in money, that none of the various subagents, receiving the paper to be collected upon the basis of that
duty, can waive the requirement of the law in favor of
the agent to whom it is transmitted. Indeed, in transmitting the check here in question to the Richmond bank the
intermediate banks, in effect, served only as instruments
for effectuating the transmission. In essence and in
substance the check was delivered by its owners to the

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK v. MALLOY. 169
160

Opinion of the Court.

Richmond bank; it is to that bank, as we have said, they
must look for redress; and the responsibility of that bank
is the same as though the check had been delivered directly to it for collection by the owners.
In this connection, certain state statutes are also referred to, but, if applicable, we find nothing in them that
justifies a different conclusion from that reached in respect
of the regulation just considered. Their provisions are
in substance the same.
2. Finally, it is urged that the acceptance of the
drawee's own draft, instead of money, was justified by
custom. The testimony relied upon to establish the
custom follows:
"The business of check collecting is handled by the
Federal Reserve Bank in a way very similar to that in
which it is handled by collecting banks throughout the
country. When one bank receives checks on another in
a distant city, it usually sends them to the bank upon
which they are drawn or to some other bank in that city,
and receives settlement by means of an exchange draft
drawn by the bank to which the checks are sent upon
some one of its correspondents. When checks are sent
with the expectation that the bank receiving them will
remit at once, we call it sending for collection and return.
When this is done, the bank upon which the checks are
drawn is expected to cancel the checks and charge them to
the accounts of the drawers and to remit by means of its
exchange draft or by a shipment of currency. An exchange draft is used more frequently than a shipment of
currency."
It thus appears that the custom, if otherwise established, does not fix a definite and uniform method of remittance. When checks are sent for collection and return, the bank is expected to cancel the checks and charge
them to the account of the drawers and remit "by means
of its exchange draft or by a shipment of currency," the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

former being used more frequently than the latter.
Whether the choice of methods is at the election of the
drawee bank or the collecting bank does not appear. If
it be the latter, it would seem to result that the election to
have remittance by draft instead of currency, being wholly
a matter of its discretion or even of its caprice, as to which
the owners are not consulted, would be at its peril rather
than at the risk of the owners of the check.
But the proof shows that the alleged custom was not
known to plaintiffs; and they could not be held to it
without such knowledge, because, all other reasons aside,
by its uncertainty and lack of uniformity, it furnishes
no definite standard by which the terms of the implied
consent sought to be established thereby, can be determined. It furnishes no rule by which it can be ascertained when an exchange draft shall be remitted and when
currency shall be required, or who is to exercise the right
of election. "A custom to pay two pence in lieu of
tithes is good; but to pay sometimes two pence, and sometimes three pence, as the occupier of the land pleases, is
bad for uncertainty." 1 Bl. Comm. 78. An alleged custom to remit either in exchange or in currency at somebody's option, means nothing more than a practice sometimes to remit by exchange and sometimes not, and therefore lacks the essential qualities of certainty and uniformity to make it a custom of accepting payment by exchange draft binding upon the owners of the check.
Oelricks v. Ford, 23 How. 49, 62; Kalamazoo Corset Co. v.
Simon, 129 Fed. 144, 146; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.
Lindeman, 143 Fed. 946, 949; Foley v. Mason & Son, 6
Md. 37, 50; Wilson v. Willes, 7 East, 121, 127. A custom
to do a thing in either one or the other of two modes, as
the person relying upon it may choose, can furnish no basis
for an implication that the person sought to be bound by
it had in mind one mode rather than the other.
It is said, however, that there is a custom among banks
to settle among themselves by means of drafts so well

JONES v. UNION GUANO CO.
160

Syllabus.

established and notorious, that judicial notice of it may be
taken. But the usage here invoked is not that, but is
one of special application to a case where the collection
of a check is intrusted to the very bank upon which the
check is drawn and where payment is accepted in a medium which the contract, read in the light of the law,
forbids. The special situation with which we are dealing is controlled by a definite rule of law which it is
sought to upset by a custom to the contrary effect. It is
not now necessary to consider the effect of a custom which
contravenes a settled rule of law or the limits within
which such a custom can be upheld. See Barnardv. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, 390-394. Decisions upon that question are in great confusion. But whatever may be the
doctrine in other respects, certainly a custom relied upon
to take the place of a settled principle of law, and therefore to have the force of law, ought to be as definite and
specific in negativing the principle as the law which it
assumes to supplant is in affirming it.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES v. UNION GUANO COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 73.

Argued October 15, 1923.--Decided February 18, 1924.

1. In exercising its right to impose reasonable conditions upon the
bringing of suits, a State properly may treat as a separate claos
actions to recover damages resulting to crops from harmful or
deficient fertilizers, and require a chemical analysis as a condition
precedent, without excluding other evidence. P. 181.
2. A statute of North Carolina (Laws 1917, c. 143,) regulating the
sale of fertilizers to prevent deception and fraud, and granting the
purchaser new rights and remedies for departures from the standards fixed without depriving him of any right or cause of action

