PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
353

359

Argument for Petitioner.

of Navigation informed of it. To these conditions Gay
was at all times in conformity.
The finding of the Court of Claims is that: "He has
always borne true faith and allegiance to the Unite41
States and has done no act inconsistent with his allegiance
nor with his status as an officer of the United States
Navy."
Judgment affirmed.

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 197.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 18, 19, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. The ownership of a registered trade mark consisting of a name
designating the owner's goods does not carry with it the right
to prohibit a purchaser, who repacks and sells them with or without added ingredients, from using the name on his own labels to
show the true relation of the trade-marked product to the article
he offers, provided the name be not so printed or otherwise used
as to deceive the public. P. 368.
2. In this regard, no new right under the trade mark can be
evoked from the fact that the goods are peculiarly liable to lie
spoilt or adulterated. P. 369.
285 Fed. 501, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a decree of the District Court in a suit to enjoin alleged unlawful uses of trade marks.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle and Mr. Louis Marshall, with
whom Mr. Isaac Reiss and Mr. WlTliam. J. Hughes were
on the briefs, for petitioner.
The labels ordered by the District Court were modeled
upon the wording proposed in Hennessy v. White, 6 W.
W. & A'B. Eq. 216. They stated the true name of the
merchandise and of the manufacturer and the true relation of the defendant to the product.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

264 U. S.

This Court has held in trade mark cases that the
essence of the wrong consists in the sale of the goods
of one manufacturer for those of another. Hanover
Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403; Elgin National
Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665; United
Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 90; Canal Co. v.
Clark, 13 Wall. 311.
A trade mark right is not a right in gross or at large,
like a statutory copyright or a patent for invention, and
its owner may not, like the proprietor of a patented invention, make a negative and merely prohibitive use of
it as a monopoly. Its function is simply to designate
the goods as the product of a particular trader and to
protect his good will against the sale of another's product
as his. United Drug Co. Case, supra.
Under the Trade Mark Act, § 16, there is no actionable
offense unless one man's trade mark is unlawfully reproduced on the product of another's manufacture; and
the common law of trade marks is but a part of the
broader law of unfair competition. Hanover Milling Co.
v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff,
Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118; Goodyear Co. v.
Goodyear Rubber Co., 128 U. S. 598; Laurence Mfg.
Co. v. Tennessee Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537; Davids Co. v.
Davids, 233 U. S. 461.
Federal cases directly in point are Russia Cement Co.
v. Frauenhar,126 Fed. 228; 133 Fed. 518; Apollinaris Co.
v. Scherer, 27 Fed. 18; Russia Cement Co. v. Katzenstein,
109 Fed. 314; Coty v. Ivory Novelties Trading Co., 12
Trade Mark Rep. 284; Gretsch v. Schoening, 238 Fed.
780; Vitascope Co. v. U. S. Phonograph Co., 83 Fed. 30;
Walker v. Reid, Fed. Cas. No. 17,084; Societe Anonyme
v. Consolidated Filters Co., 248 Fed. 358. See also
Farinav. Silverlock, 6 De G. M. & G. 214; Cox's Manual
of Trade Mark Cases, 2d ed., pp. 73, 74; Condy v. Taylor,
56 Law T. Rep. (N. S.) 891; Nims, Unfair Competition

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
359

361

Argument for Petitioner.

and Trade Marks, 2d ed., 1917, p. 253; Sweezy v. McBrair,
89 Hun, 155; Edison v. Mills-Edisonia, 74 N. J. Eq. 521.
The principle announced below is revolutionary and
perverts the settled purposes of the Trade Mark Act. It
is of vast commercial importance in its implications;
opens a new door to control by a wholesaler of the retail
trade; creates for the first time a reserved right of property surviving an absolute and unconditioned sale, and
restricting, at the mere caprice of the seller, the new
owner's right to use the merchandise for the very purpose
for which it was bought, i. e., resale.
The cases cited by the court below fall into one or both
of two classes, neither of which bears any analogy to the
present case: (1). The ordinary cases of the sale of the
goods of one manufacturer is those of another; (2) those
cases where a manufacturer of two brands or qualities of
the same article has given a separate trade mark or distinctive label to each brand or quality. In such case to
buy in bulk the inferior brand and then to sell it under
the trade mark or label reserved by the manufacturer for
the superior brand, is a palpable misrepresentation an(l
fraud.
The distinction between this latter class of cases and
the present case is, perhaps, nowhere better put than in
Hennessy v. White, 6 W. W. & A'B. Eq. 216. The cases of
Coca-ColaCo. v. Bennett, 238 Fed. 513; Hires v. Xeappas,
180 Fed. 952; and Ingersoll v. Doyle, 247 Fed. 620, are
of the former class; Coca-Cola Co. v. Butler & Sons, 229
Fed. 224, belongs to both the first and second classes; and
Krauss v. Peebles Co., 58 Fed. 585, is a case of the second
class.
Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel, 260 U. S. 689, involved a sale
by one vendor of his own goods under a trade mark and
labels belonging exclusively to another.
The argument that a careless or unscrupulous person
might adulterate or injure the perfume in rebottling or

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

264 U. S.

repacking, and that, therefore, it is improper to affix
Coty's assurance of genuineness, is purely hypothetical
and irrelevant and misreads the labels ordered by the
District Court. Those labels do not give Coty's assurance.
See Sebastian, Trade Marks, p. 630.
The fact that a delicate perfume is involved gives the
plaintiff no new or special legal right. It is not the delicacy but the genuineness of the article which determines
the legal right.
There is no allegation or evidence that the labels ordered
by the District Court did not convey to the ordinary
observer the precise meaning which they expressed.
Handel Co. v. Jefferson Glass Co., 265 Fed. 286; Wrisley
v. Iowa Soap Co., 122 Fed. 796.
The New York statute, clted below, cannot possibly
uphold the unlimited injunction granted by the court
below; and, in any event, it was misinterpreted and has
no application to the labels ordered by the District Court
for either the liquid perfume or the compact.
In any event, even if not entitled to use for its compacts the label ordered by the District Court, the petitioner is entitled to use the label ordered by the District
Court for the liquid perfume.
Not only is the construction given by the court below to the Trade Mark Act and to the New York statute
erroneous, but it would render them unconstitutional as
confiscatory of a vested and essential right of property,
and as compelling the owner to sell his goods untruthfully or under a false description. People v. Luhrs, 195
N. Y. 377; People v. Otis, 90 N. Y. 48; Ames v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 64 Fed. 165; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 414; Carrollton v. Bazzette, 159 Ill.
283; Moskowitz v. Jenkins, 202 N. Y. 53; Tyroler v.
Warden, 157 N. Y. 116; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S.
590; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 133.

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
359

Argument for Respondent.

The registered trade mark purporting to cover the
name "L'Origan," is void, because it does not comply
with one of the jurisdictional requirements of § 2 of the
Trade Mark Act of 1905, under which it purports to
have been issued.
Mr. Asher Blum and Mr. Lindley M. Garrison, with
whom Mr. Hugo Mock was on the briefs, for respondent.
The general principles of trade-mark law, independent
of statute, forbid exposing plaintiff's good-will to the
hazards which are inevitably produced by the acts of
defendant.
With reference to the compacts, it is well established,
and in fact conceded by the defendant, that an unauthorized concern should not be permitted to sell inferior and independently manufactured goods by using
the trade marks of a well known manufacturer in any
manner whatever. The court below ruled that plaintiff had proved that the manufacturing and packing
methods used by defendant had injured the delicate perfume which is the basis of plaintiff's reputation, and this
finding of fact should not be overruled when the case
has not progressed beyond a motion for preliminary injunction. Meccano v. Wanamaker, 253 U. S. 136.
It makes no difference in this respect whether a trade
mark is protected upon the theory of safeguarding the
public or upon the theory of protecting private property,
namely the good-will of the owner of the trade mark,
because the use of "Coty" and "L'Origan" to sell
powders whose perfume has been injured is forbidden under either of these theories.
Trade marks are protected upon the theory that they
are private property and the right to the exclusive use
of a trade mark is a private monopoly, something akin
to that based upon a patent. An unauthorized use will
be enjoined even though the public is not injured and

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

264 U. S.

even though the defendant is offering to the public goods
similar to or identical with those provided by the owner
of the trade mark. Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel, 260 U. S.
689; International News Service v. Associated Press,
248 U. S. 215; Beecham v. Jacobs, 221 U. S. 263; Omega
Oil Co. v. Wechsler, 34 Misc. 441.
In the cases cited by the court below, the relief granted
was similar to that granted in the instant case. Discussing: Ingersoll v. Doyle, 247 Fed. 620; Coca-Cola Co. v.
Bennett, 238 Fed. 513; Same v. Butler & Sons, 229 Fed.
224; Same v. Stevenson, 276 Fed. 1010; Coca-Cola Bottling Co. v. Coca-Cola Co., 269 Fed. 796; Coca-ColaCo. v.
Brown & Allen, 274 Fed. 481.
The courts, in the Coca-Cola Cases, have never held
that merely because the selling methods of the Coca-Cola
Company afforded oportunity for unscrupulous retailers
to deceive and adulterate, the Company should be deprived of its exclusive control over bottled beverages to
which its trade mark was applied; and have refused to
permit unauthorized rebottlers to use "Coca-Cola" on
labels in any manner to designate a beverage made from
the genuine "Coca-Cola" syrup.
Plaintiff may be safely entrusted to insure the genuineness of his products, and there is nothing in the record to
show that adulteration has been permitted to go on unchecked by him. This defendant, and others in the same
position, who have appeared before this Court in Magnum
Co. v. Coty, 262 U. S. 159, cannot complain of plaintiff's
lack of promptness and energy in protecting his good will.
The decisions in foreign jurisdictions have granted the
same relief as that provided for in the instant case.
Browne, Trade Marks, 2d ed., Supp. 1885-1898, § 910,
p. 135.
Decisions to the effect that the protection granted to
trade marks is limited to preventing the sale of the goods
of one manufacturer as those of another, are not authori-

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
359

3615

Argument for Respondent.

tative, in view of International News Service v. Associated Press, supra; and of Bourjois & Co. v. Katzcl, supra.
Distinguishing: Hennessy v. White, 6 W. W. & A'B. Eq.
216; Russia Cement Co. v. Frauenhar,126 Fed. 228; 133
Fed. 518; Same v. Katzenstein, 109 Fed. 314; Apollinaris
Co. v. Scherer, 27 Fed. 18; Gretsch v. Schoening, 238
Fed. 780; Vitascope Co. v. U. S. Phonographic Co., 83
Fed. 30; Societe Anonyme v. Consolidated Filters Co.,
248 Fed. 358; Condy v. Taylor, 56 L. T. Rep. (N. S.) 891;
Farina v. Silverlock, 6 De G. M. & G. 214. The court
below did not overrule Coty v. Ivory Co., 12 Trade Mark
Rep. 284, because Judge Knox was there merely asked
to follow the ruling of the District Court in the instant
case.
A man's name, reputation and good will are his exclusive property irrespective of statute, and trespass is committed by one who uses that name, reputation or good
will without permission. This is the clear intent of the
Trade Mark Act.
The Trade Mark Statute forbids the acts complained
of. Act of February 20, 1905, §§ 16, 19; Act of March 19,
1920, §§ 4, 6. Congress never intended that the owner of
a trade mark could consent to the use thereof by another
upon entirely independent goods. This would be contrary to the theory of a trade mark, which, by its nature,
must be exclusive and a monopoly. What Congress had
in mind was that the good will of the owner of the trade
mark should not be used save as he permitted it.
The Acts of 1905 and 1920 forbid any unauthorized
person to reproduce, counterfeit, copy or colorably imitate
any trade mark. These words include every act of making every kind of likeness, whether with good intent or
with bad intent. Since Congress forbade an unauthorized
person to "reproduce" and brought in the idea of consent,
it must have had something else in mind than merely
passing off goods which were independently manufactured

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

in their entirety. "Reproduce" means to make a reproduction of, to cause to exist in the mind or imagination,
and every act whereby an authorized person uses the
reputation of another, as embodied in a registered mark,
is forbidden. Davids Co. v. Davids, 233 U. S. 461. The
statute, therefore, makes it unlawful to affix "Coty" or
"L'Origan" by means of labels, without plaintiff's consent. Act of 1905, § 20. It makes no distinction upon
the ground of explanatory matter being placed on the
labels, packages, wrappers, etc.
The labels ordered by the District Court clearly permitted a violation of § 2354, of the Penal Law of New
York, because the defendant was permitted to affix the
trade marks of plaintiff without his consent. People v.
Luhrs, 195 N. Y. 377.
No questions of constitutionality or of unlawful monopoly are here involved.
The registration for "L'Origan" is valid and is infringed by the use of "L'Origan" in different type upon
the labels approved by the District Court.
Mr. George S. Hornblower, Mr. Raoul E. Desvernine
and Mr. FredericD. McKenney, by leave of Court, filed
a brief as amic curiae.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the respondent, Coty,
a citizen of France, against Prestonettes, a New York
corporation, having its principal place of business in the
Southern District of New York. It seeks to restrain
alleged unlawful uses of the plaintiff's registered trade
marks, "Coty" and "L'Origan" upon toilet powders
and perfumes. The defendant purchases the genuine
powder, subjects it to pressure, adds a binder to give it
coherence and sells the compact in a metal case. It buys

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
359

367

Opinion of the Court.

the genuine perfume in bottles and sells it in smaller
bottles. We need not mention what labels it used before
this suit as the defendant is content to abide by the decree of the District Court. That decree allowed the defendant to put upon the rebottled perfume "Prestonettes, Inc., not connected with Coty, states that the
contents are Coty's-(giving the name of the article)
independently rebottled in New York," every word to
be in letters of the same size, color, type and general
distinctiveness. It allowed the defendant to make compacts from the genuine loose powder of the plaintiff
and to sell them with this label on the container: "Prestonettes, Inc., not connected with Coty, states that the
compact of face powder herein was independently compounded by it from Coty's-(giving the name) loose
powder and its own binder. Loose powder - per cent,
Binder - per cent," every word to be in letters of the
same size, color, type and general distinctiveness. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, considering the very delicate
and volatile nature of the perfume, its easy deterioration,
and the opportunities for adulteration, issued an absolute
preliminary injunction against the use of the above marks
except on the original packages as marked and sold by
the plaintiff, thinking that the defendant could not put
upon the plaintiff the burden of keeping a constant watch.
285 Fed. 501. Certiorari granted, 260 U. S. 720.
The bill does not charge the defendant with adulterating or otherwise deteriorating the plaintiff's product except that it intimates rather than alleges metal containers
to be bad, and the Circuit Court of Appeals stated that
there were no controverted questions of fact but that the
issue was simply one of law. It seemingly assumed that
the defendant handled the plaintiff's product without
in any way injuring its qualities and made its decree
upon that assumption. The decree seems to us to have
gone too far.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The defendant of course by virtue of its ownership
had a right to compound or change what it bought, to
divide either the original or the modified product, and to
sell it so divided. The plaintiff could not prevent or
complain of its stating the nature of the component parts
and the source from which they were derived if it did not
use the trade mark in doing so. For instance, the defendant could state that a certain percentage of its compound was made at a certain place in Paris, however well
known as the plaintiff's factory that place might be. If
the compound was worse than the constituent, it might
be a misfortune to the plaintiff, but the plaintiff would
have no cause of action, as the defendant was exercising
the rights of ownership and only telling the truth. The
existence of a trade mark would have no bearing on the
question. Then what new rights does the trade mark
confer? It does not confer a right to prohibit the use of
the word or words. It is not a copyright. The argument
drawn from the language of the Trade Mark Act does
not seem to us to need discussion. A trade mark only
gives the right to prohibit the use of it so far as to protect the owner's good will against the sale of another's
product as his. United Drug Co. v. Theodore Rectanus
Co., 248 U. S. 90, 97. There is nothing to the contrary
in Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel, 260 U. S. 689. There the
trade mark protected indicated that the goods came from
the plaintiff in the United States, although not made
by it, and therefore could not be put upon other goods
of the same make coming from abroad. When the mark
is used in a way that does not deceive the public we see
no such sanctity in the word as to prevent its being used
to tell the truth. It is not taboo. Canal Co. v. Clark, 13
Wall. 311, 327.
If the name of Coty were allowed to be printed in different letters from the rest of the inscription dictated by
the District Court a casual purchaser might look no

PRESTONETTES, INC. v. COTY.
359

Dissent.

further and might be deceived.

But when it in no way

stands out from the statement of facts that unquestion-

ably the defendant has a right to communicate in some
form, we see no reason why it should not be used collaterally, not to indicate the goods, but to say that the

trade-marked product is a constituent in the article now
offered as new and changed. As a general proposition
there can be no doubt that the word might be so used.
If a man bought a barrel of a certain flour, or a demijohn of Old Crow whiskey, he certainly could sell the
flour in smaller packages or in former days could have
sold the whiskey in bottles, and tell what it was, if he
stated that he did the dividing up or the bottling. And
this would not be because of a license implied from the
special facts but on the general ground that we have
stated. It seems to us that no new right can be evoked
from the fact that the perfume or powder is delicate and
likely to be spoiled, or from the omnipresent possibility of
fraud. If the defendant's rebottling the plaintiff's perfume deteriorates it and the public is adequately informed
who does the rebottling, the public, with or without the
plaintiff's assistance, is likely to find it out. And so of
the powder in its new form.
This is not a suit for unfair competition. It stands
upon the plaintiff's rights as owner of a trade-mark registered under the act of Congress. The question therefore is not how far the court would go in aid of a plaintiff
who showed ground for suspecting the defendant of making a dishonest use of his opportunities, but is whether
the plaintiff has the naked right alleged to prohibit the
defendant from making even a collateral reference to the
plaintiff's mark. We are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed and that
that of the District Court must stand.
Decree reversed.
Mr. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.

