DECEMBER TERM1,

1853.

571

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.

decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an ap.
plication to that court directly for the purpose. This appears
to be the prdctice of the Court of Chancery and House of Lords,
in England, and we think it founded in principles essential to
the proper administration of the law, and to a reasonable termination of litigation between parties in chancery suits. 1 Vern.
416; 2 Paige, 45; 1 MeCord's Ch.R. 22, 29, 30; 3 J. J. Marsh.
492; 1 Hen. & Munf. 13; Mitford's P1. 89; Cooper's Pl. 92;
Story's Eq. P1. ยง 408. Neither of these prerequisites to the
filing of the bill before us have been observed.
Wre think the decree of the court below, dismissing the bill
of review, was right, and ought to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky, and was axgued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIA.M J. SLICER, LAWRENCE SLICER, WILLIAM CROIMWELL
SLICER; AND IARCELLA SLICER, MINORS, BY THEIR FATHER
AND NEXT FRIEND, WILLIAM J. SLICER, AND MARTHA VIRGINIA BERKLEY, JERIMEMIAH BERRY, AND THOMAS CRO-MWELL
BERRY, APPELLANTS. v. THE BANK OF PITTSBURG.
Where there was a mortgage of land in the city of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, the mort
facias to be issued from the Court of Common Plcas
gagee caused a writ of seire
there being no chancery court in that State. There was no regular judgment entered upon the docket, but a writ of 1,rarifaciaswas issued, under which the mortgaged property was levied upon and sold. The mortgagee, the Bank of Pittsburg,
became the purchaser.
This took place in 1820.
In 1836, the court ordered the record to be amended byentering up the judgment
regularly, and by altering the date of tha scirefacias.
AUthough the judgment in 1820 was not regularly entered up, yet it was confessed
before a prothonotary, who had power to take the confession. The docket upon
which the judgment'should have been regularly entered, being lost, the entry must
be presumed to have been made.
loreover, the court had power to amend its record in 1836.
Even if there had been no judgment, the mortgagor or his heirs could not have availed
themselves of the defect in Lhe proceedings, after the property had been adversely
and quietly held for so long a time.

SUPREME
Slicer ct al. v.

COURT.

The Bank of Pittsburg.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of fhe United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of tne court.
It was argued by 11r. T. Fox Alden and Mr. Tohnson, for the
appellants, and by Mr. Hepburn and Mr. Loomis, for the appellee.
The points made by the counsel for th3 appellants were the
following:1. That a proceeding of scire facias sur mortgage, in Pennsylvania, is literally a bill in equity to forec.ose the equity of redemption, and forfeit the estate of the mortgagor. Dunlop's
Digest, 31, Act of 1705.
2. That the proceedings being in the nature of a bill in
equity to foreclose the mortgage, the principles of equity, in
that particular branch of chancery procedings, are alone applicable. Self-evident.
3. That amendments of judgments at common law, with all
-the authorities authorizing the entries of judgments nunc pro
tune, can in no case be applicable to amendments of decrees in
equity, for foreclosure, because the reason of the law does not
apply in such case, but e converso.
4. That while the bill to foreclose the equity of reddmption is
pending, the equitable bar, by analogy, does not run any more
than the statute would run, while suit at law was pending. 1
Powell on Mortgages, 320.
5. When it has been shown that suit was instituted, it is incumbent on the party wishing to avoid the effect of the principle of lis pendens, to show that the cause -was legally terminated.
13 How. 332.
6. The issuing of final process, void on Lhe face of the record,
does not terminate suit, at ]aw; still ldss, is it to be construed
in equity in such manner as to forfeit the estate of the mortgagor. Needs no authority.
1 7. No release of the equity of redemption, by express parol
agreement, or by implication, -arising from the acts of a distressed debtor, or mortgagor, m waiving inquisition, or notice,
or appraisement, can compromit his rights as mortgagor, and
,work a forfeiture of his estate, when his solemn covenant, contained ill -his condition of absolute sale, in his mortgage, will
not be permitted to have such effect.
. 8. That estoppels, either at law or equity, are only alldwable
to advance justice, never in equity, to wcrk a forfeiture of estate.
9. That presumptions are not allowed at law or equity,
against fact, a fortiori, in equity, when such allowance would
defeat an estate, the favorite of equity. 11 How. 360.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

573

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.
10. The confession of judgment, by warrant of attorney, in
Pennsylvania, is not a judgment of record, until the confession
ofjudgment'is duly entered by the proper officer of record; still
less is the parol declaration of any defendant, that he had confessed judgment, evidence of a judgment'in Pennsylvania.
11. If such parol admission of the confession of a judgment
is tantarount to the entry of a judgment in Pennsylvania; it
must be a judgment for every purpose.
12. That the respondents cannot avail themselves of the
amendment in this ease, on the motion of Mr. Bradford, as they
repudiate his acts as unauthorized by them, and further, witliout notice to Mir. Cromwell. Coke Litt. 303 a., 352b.; Bull.
N. P. 233; 1 Wash. C. C. R. 70; 11 Wheat. 286; 9 Cow. 274;
4 Mete. 384; 9 Wend. 147; 6 Ad. & Ellis, 469; 10 lb.. 90; 5
*Watts & Sergt. 306.
13. That even if the amendment of judgment was regular, it
did not, and could not, sanctify a void execution and sale.
4 Wend. 678, 474, 480; 1 Stark. Ev. 283; 12 Johns. Rep. 213;
1 Mloore & Payne, 236.
14. That if such judgment was regular, and within the
powers of the court, it was interlocutory in its nature, the proceedings being in the nature of a bill of foreclosure, &c., and
the defendants having been in possession of the mortgaged premises for sixteen years, would either have to account in equity,
for the reception of the profits, or have the same liquidated by
-action at law.
15. Laches, either at law or equity, when both parties are in
.pari delietu, are available by neither; and in this case it was
the fault of respondents, if they did not press their mo-tgage to
redemption.
the'foreclosure of the equity of
From which preceding propositions, if established, we contend that it flows as a legal consequence:
1st. That there was no judgment of the court, which would
authorize a writ of levarifacias.
2d. The sale, therefore, being void, the equity of redemption
still exists, and the mortgagee is bound to account !,)r rents and
profits, and if he paid his debt, is bound to reconvey the mortgaged premises, or pay the value thereof on such equitable
principles as the court may determine to be just and equitable
to all parties.
The points on the part of the appellee were the following:
1. The levari facias, upon which the mortgaged premises
were sold, was issued upon and fully warranted by a legal and
valid judgment, confessed by Thomas Cromwell on the 13th
day of September, A. D. 1820, to the plaintiff in the action

5?4

SUPREKME COURT.
Slicer et al. v. The Bank of :Pittsburg.

sci. fa. sur martgag-C, No. 136, August term, 1820, (the Bank
of Pittsburg v. Cromwell,) for the sum of $21,740.40. Of this
the complainants have exhibited record evidence in the certi'ficate of Edward Campbell, Jr., prothonotary of the Court of
Common Pleas of Alleghany county, which may be found on
page 17 of the record. That confession of judgment is a part
of the record of which he certifies a full exemplification, and is
correctly and rightfully certified as a part of the record. Reed
v. Hamet, 4 Watts's Rep. 441 ; Lewis v. Smith, 2 S. & R. 142;
Shaw v. Boyd, 12 Pa. State Rep. 216; Weatherhead's Lessee
v. Baskerville, 11 Howard's 360; 7 S. & R. 206; Railroad Co.
v. Howard, 13 Howard's R. 331; Cook v. Gilbert, 8 S. & R.
568; Wilkins v. Anderson, 1 Jones, 399; Sererenge v. Dayton,
4 Wash. C. C. R. 698.
II. If the entry of the judgment confessed by Cromwell in
favor of the bank (upon a docket of the court) were requisite
to its validity as a judgment, and material to the power and
authority of the sheriff in acting upon the levarifacias,by virtue
of which the mortgaged premises were sold, it being the duty of
the prothonotary to make an entry of the judgment upon a
docket of the court, and the rough docket of 1820 having been
lost, it will, after the lapse of thirty years, be presumed in favor
of the validity of the proceedings, and for the protection of purchasers at a public judicial sale; that such entry was made by
the prothonotary in pursuance of his duy upon the docket now
lost. Shaw v. Boyd, 12 Pa. State Rep. 216; Owen v. Simpson, 3 Watts's Rep. 88; De Haas V. Bunn, 2 Barr, 338-9; Demarest v. Wynkoop, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 129, 146 ; 2 Peters, 162,
168.
IIL The amendment made by the prothonotary, in the case
of the Bank of Pittsburg v. Thomas Cromwell, No. 136, August term, 1820, by order of the court, on the 14th day of December, A. ID. 1835, in the words and figures following, to
wit, -

"September 13th, 1820, judgment confessed per writing filed,
signed by defendant for the sum of twenty-one thousand seven
hundred and forty dollars and forty cents, besides costs of suit
a release of all errors, without stay of execution, and that the
plaintiff shall have execution by levari factas by November
HI. PETERSON, Prothonotary."
term, 1820.H.
was the legitimate exercise of an undoubted discretionary
power, vested in the court, and is not the subject of revision in
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, ncr can its validity be
properly questioned collaterally in the courts of the United
States. Mara v. Quin, 6 Term Rep. 1, 6, 7; Murray v. Cooper,

6 S. & R. 126-7; Ordroneaux v. Prady, 6 S. & R. 510; Marine

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

575

Slicer Ct al. v.,The Bank of Pittsburg.

Insurance Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 217; Griffeth v. Ogle,
1 Binney, 172-3; 1 Burrow's Rep. 148,226; Owen v. Simpson,
3 Waatts, 7, 88, 89; Maus v. Maus, 5 Watts, 319; De Haas v.
Bunn, 2 Barr, 335-9; Rhoads v. Commonwealth, 3 Harris, 273,
276-7; Strickler v. Overton, 3 Barr, 323; Clymer v. Thomas,
7 S. & R. 178, 180; Chirac v. Reimcker, 11 Wheaton, 302;
Hamilton v. Hamilton, 4 Barr, 193; Latshaw v. Steinman, 11
S. & R. 357-8.
IV. The exhibit marked "B," filed with complainants' bill,
and prayed to be taken as a part of said bill, shows (page 9
of the record) a judgment in the case of the Bank of Pittsburg
v. Cromwell, entered the 13th of September, 1820, for the sum
of $21,740.40, which fully authorized the levari facias and subsequent proceedings, estops the complainants from controverting
its verity or validity, and is, in this proceeding, conclusive upon
the rights of the parties. Rhoads v. Commonwealth, 3 Harris,
273, 276-7; Strickler v. Overton, 3 Barr, 325; Marine Ins. Co.
v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 217; Chirac v. Reimcker, 11 Wheaton,
302 ; United States v. Nourse, 9 Peters, 8-28; Voorhees v. Bank
of the United States, 10 Peters, 450, 478; Elliott v. Piersol,
1 Peters, 329, 340; Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters, 157; Clymer
v. Thomas, 7 S.& R. 178; Levy v. Union Canal Co. 5 Watts's
Rep. 105; Hauer's Appeal, 5 W. &. S.275; Drexel's Appeal,
6 Barr, 272; Davidson v. Thornton, 7 Barr, 131.
The amendment cannot be collaterally impeached, though no
notice is given to defendant.398.Robinson v. Zollinger, 9 Watts,
Ib.
170; Tarbox v. Hays, 6
V. The complainants are, in equity, estopped from having
the relief prayed in their bill, by the appearance of Thomas
Cromwell before the prothonotary of Alleghany county, on the
13th of September, 1820, and confessing judgment before that
officer in favor of the. Bank of Pittsburg for the sum of'
$21,740.40, besides costs, with a release of all errors, without
stay of execution, and that plaintiff (the Bank of Pittsburg)
have execution by levari facias to November term, 1820-by
the entry signed by him (page 16 of the record) on the levari
facias which recites a valid judgment warranting the sale of the
mortgaged premises commanded by said writ- by his suboequent acquiescence, for the period of thirty years, in the sale,
without objection or complaint, especially after the expenditure
of immense sums in improvement, and a great consequent enhancement in the value of the property. Dezell v. Odell, 3 Hill,
215-219; b Adolphus & Ellis, 475; 33 Eng. Com. Law,117;
10 Adolphus & Ellis, 90; 37 Eng. Com. Law, 58; Hamilton v.
Hamilton, 4 Barr, 193; Robinson v. Justice, 2 Penn. Rep. 22;
Epley v. Withero, 7 Watts, 163; Carr v. Wallace, 7 ib.4o00;
10 Barr, 530; 1 Story's Eq. Jur.,ยง 387.

576

SUPREME COURT.
Slicer Ct al. v. The Bauk of Pittsburg.

VI. The bank, and those claiming under it, having held the
possession of the mortgaged premises for a period exceeding
thirty years, without account for rents, issues and profits - without claim for such account by the mortgagor - without admission by the bank during that entire period, that it possessed a
mortgage title only, -the mortgagor and those claiming under
him have lost the right of redemption and claim to account,
and the title of the mortgagee and those claiming under the
mortgagee has become absolute in equity, whether the bank entered as mortgagee or vendee. 2 Story's Equity Jurisprudence,
ยง 1028 a, 1520, and authorities there cited. Moore v. Cable, 1
Johns. Ch. Rep. 320; Hughes v. Edwards, C,Wheaton's Rep. 489,
497-8; Dexter v. Arnold, 1 Sumner's C. C. Rep. 109; Rafferty
v. King, 1 Keen, 602, 609-10, 616-17; Demarest v. Wynkoop,
3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 135; Story's Equity Pleading, 757; Strimpler
v. Roberts, 6 Harris, 302; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheaton,
168; Underwood v. Lord Courtown, 2 Scho. & Lef. 71; Dikeman v. Parish, 6 Barr, 211; 1 Powell on Mortg. 362 a,.n. 1.
MrE. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court, for
the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The complainants represented in their bill that their ancestor,
Thomas Cromwell, was seised of a tract. of land, containing
one hundred and seventy acres, situate in the county of Alleghany, at or nearly adjoining the city of illeghany, and also a
certain lot of land situate in the city of Pittsburg, which were
mortgaged by the said Cromwell to secure a debt of twenty-one
thousand dollars which he owed to the Bank of Pittsburg.
That the bank, on the 9th of June, 1820, caused a writ of scire
facias to issue on the mortgage in the Court of Common Pleas,
which had jurisdiction of 'the case, a service of which was
accepted by the said Cromwell in writing, but that said writ
was never legally returned. That without any judgment on
the mortgage a writ of levari facias was issued, and the lands
mortgaged were levied on and sold, and the bank became the
purchaser.

That on the 1st of December, 1835, the bank, by its attorney.
Bradford, moved the court for a rule on Thomas Cromwell, the
defendant, to show cause on the second Monday of December,
why the record of the case should not be arnended on the docket,
so that the judgment, which appears among the papers, should
be entered as of September 13th, 1820. The rule was granted,
and on the 14th of December, 1835, the same was made absolute, and judgment, nunc pro tune entered in favor of the bank
by the prothonotary of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

677

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.

And on the 16th of March, 1836, the said. Bradford moved
that the scirefacias,which had been issued should be amended
by inserting the 13th of September, 1820, instead of the 13th
of May of the same year, so as to conform to the judgment,
and the motion was granted and the amendment made.
The judgment entered on the papers was as follows: The
Bank of Pittsburg sirefacias. "In my proper person I this day
appeared before the prothonotary in his office, and confessed
judgment to the .plaintiff for $21,740.40, besides costs, with
release of all errors without stay of execution' and that the
plaintiff shall have execution by levarifaciasto November term,
1820 :" signed, Thomas Cromwell-which paper the clerk states
was filed September 13th, 1820. This paper is alleged to be in
the handwriting of the attorney, but the signature is admitted
to be Cromwell's.
This authority, it is alleged, did not authorize the entry of a
judgment, and that it was no part of the record, and cannot
show the judgment, it being no more than parol proof; which
cannot be received to establish a judgment, unless it be shown
that the book containing the original entry had been lost..
The bank is alleged to have been in possession, by itself and
tenants, of the propertysold; and that there being no judgment,
the proceedings on the scire facias are void, and that in equity
the bank should only be considered as a mortgagee and compelled to account for the rents and profits, and be decreed to
release the mortgage on receiving the money and interest on
the debt due to the bank as aforesaid.
The complainants are shown to be the heirs of Thomas
Cromwell.
The bank, in its answer, admits the facts as set forth in the
bill as to the debt, the mortgage, the issuing of the scire facias,
the judgment, and the sale of the premises, &c., and alleges their'
validity, under the laws of Pennsylvania. That the mortgage
having been produced and the property sold, which, before the
year 1829, wds sold, and conveyed by the bank to different individuals, and that it has ever since been in the hands of-innoeent
purchasers; and it alleges there is no right of redemption under
the circumstances, and it prays that the bill may be dismissed.
at the cost of the complainants.
From the proceedings in this case it appears, that the records
of the court, where the proceedings on the mortgage were had,
are kept loosely, and dififrently from the judicial records of the
courts of common law in England or in this country. But the
usage must constitute the law, under such circumstances, as. a
requirement of the forms observed elsewhere, would affect titles
under judicial sales to a ruinous extent.
49
VOL. XVI

578

SUPREME

COURT.

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.

By the Judiciary Act of Pennsylvania, of the 13th of April,
1791, it is provided that prothonotaries shall have the power to
sign all judgments, writs, or process, &c., as they had for those
purpohes when they were justices of the court. Before this
statute it appears that one of the justices of the court, having
possession of the seal, signed all writs and judgments, took bail,
&c., and performed the duties of prothonotary. And under the
above statute, the prothonotary still exercises many judicial
functions.
The confession of judgment with release of errors, and the
agreement that execution should issue returnable to November
term ensuing, evinced a desire on the part of the mortgagor, to
remove every obstructioa to a speedy recovery of the demand
by the bank. The scire facias was returned to August term,
1820. This mo4e of procedure on a morl;gage was authorized
by a statute, and was intended as a substitute for a bill in chancery, there being no such court in Pennsylvania.
The objection to this judgment is, that it was not entered
upon the minutes kept by the prothonotary. It is in proof that
these minutes or dockets were not carefully preserved by the
prothonotary, and that the one in which this entry should have
been made is lost, but there is no positive proof that any such
entry was made.
The prothonotary took the confession of the judgment in
writing, and there can be no doubt he had power to do so. By
the practice of the common pleas, it seems the judgment is
entered sometimes on the declaration, at others on a paper filed
in the cause. From the entry of judgment the prothonotary is
enabled to make out the record in form when called for, but unless required, the proceedings are never made out at length.
For this purpose it would seem that the paper filed, containing
the confession of a judgment by the defendant, would afford
more certainty than the abbreviated manner, in which it was
usually entered.
In Reed v. Hamet, 4 Watts's Rep. 441, the court say that judgments by confession, on the appearance of the party in the
office, taken by the prothonotary, though not universal, have,
fiom time immemorial, been frequent, and their validity has
never been questioned.
Confession of judgment is a part of the record when made
out, and it may be copied fiom the papers in the case. Cooper
v. Gillett, 8 Serg. & R. 568; McCaalmont v. Peters, 13 Serg.
& R. 196; Lewis v. Smith, 2 Serg. & R. 142; Shaw v. Boyd,
12 Pa. State Rep. 216; 7 Serg. & R. 206.
The docket being lost, under the circumstances the court
would, if necessary, presume the 'entry ol' the judgment was

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

579

Slicer et al. v. The Bank of Pittsburg.'

made on it. This presumption would rest upon the fact, that
judgment was confessed with the release of all errors, ind anagreement that execution should issue by the mortgagor, which
execution did issue and on which the land was sold, shortly after
which the mbrtgagor surrendered the possession and an acquiescence by him and his heirs for thirty years, w6uld afford ample ground to presume that the prothonotary had performed the
clerical duty of entering the judgment on the docket.
But the court had the power to make the amendment, which
they did make, and which removed the objection, by causing the
judgment to be entered nunc pro tune. This was a duty discharged by the court, in the exercise of a discretion, which no
court can revise. Clymer v. Thomas, 7 Serg. & R. 178, 180;
Chirac v. Reimcker, 11 Wheat. 302; Latshaw v. Stainman,
11 Serg. & R. 357-8; Walden v. Craig, 9 Wheat. 576.
If there had been- no judgment, under the circumstances, the
complainants could have no right to redeem the premises.
The complainants file their bill to redeem the land, as mortgagors, which, by the improvements and the general increase
of the value of real estate where the property is situated, has
become of great value. Thifty years have elalsed sin.ce it
was sold, under the appearance, at least, of judicial authority.
The property was purchased by the bank for less than the
amount of the debt. By the confession of judgment, with a
release of all errors, and an agreement that execution should
be issued, the mortgagor did all he could to facilitate the proceedings and to secure a speedy sale of the premises. The
bank, it seems, in the course of some six or nine years, sold the p operty in lots to different purchasers, for something more, perhaps,
than its original debt and interest. For nearly twenty-five years
the purchasers have been in possession of the property, improving it and enjoying it as their own.
No dissatisfaction was expressed by the mortgagor, who voluntarily relinquished the possession, and none appears to have
been expressed by his heirs, until the commencement of this suit.
For thirty years the mortgagee and its grantees -have been in
possession of the property, no claim of right being 3et up for
the equity of redemption, or on any other .account. Under such
circumstances a court of equity could give no relie had there
been no legal judgment.
" Twenty years undisturbed possession, without any admission of holding under the mortgage, or treating it as a mortgage
during that period, is a bar to a bill to redeem. But if within
that period there be any account, or solemn acknowledgment
of the mortgage as subsisting, it is otherwise. Dexter v. Arnold,
1 Sumn. C. C. Rep. 109.

SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradler et a.

A mortgagor cannot redeem after a lapse of twenty years,
after forfeiture and possession, no interest having been paid
in the mean time, and no circumstances appearing to account
for th& neglect. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 'Wheat. 489. Where
the mortgagee brings his bill of foreclosure, the mortgage will,
after the same length of time, be presumed to have been discharged unless there be circumstances to rspel the presumption,
as payment of interest, a promise to pay, an acknowledgment
by the mortgagor that the mortgage is still existing, and the
like. Ib.
In every point of view in which the case may be considered,
it is clear that there is no ground of equity, on which the complainants can have relief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby aff rmed, with costs.

CHARLES B. CALVERT AND GEORGE I. CALVERT,
IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH H. BRADLEY AND BENJAMIN
TON.

PLAINTIFFS
MIDDLE-

F.

Where a lease was made by several owners of a house, reserving rent to cadh one in
proportion to his interest, and there was a covenant on the part of the lessee that Ie
would keep the premises in good repair and surrender them in like repair, this covenant was joint as respbets the lessors, and one of them (or two representing onl,
interest) cannot maintain an action for the breach of it by the lessee.
The question examined, whether a mortgagee of a leasehold interest, reintaining
out of possession, is liable upon the covenants of the lease. The Engli.-h and
American cases reviewed and compared with the decisions of this court upon kindred points. But the court abstains from an express lecision, which is rendere-l
unnecessary by the application of the principle first above mentioned to the cacw in
hand.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holder,
in and for the county of Washington.
It was an Action of covenant brought by the Calverts againf
Bradley and Middleton, who weie the assignees of the unexpire,
term and property in the house for the purpose of paying the

