314

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

ALEXANDER

J MARSHALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE BALTIMORE AND OHIo RAILROAD COMPANY.

A citizen of Virginia may sue the Baltimore and Ohi. Railroad Company in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Maryland, and an averment that the defendants are a body corporate, created by the Legislature of Maryland, is sufficient
to give the court juridietion.
The constitutional privilege which a citizen of one State has to sue the citizen, of
another Siate in the federal courts cannot be taken tway by the ereetion of the
latter into a corporation by the laws of the State in which they live. The corporation itself umy. therefore, be stied as such.
The preceding eases upon this subject, examined.
Where a contract was made to obtain a certain law fron the legislature of Virginia,
and stated to be made on the basis of a prior communication, this communivation
is competent evidence in a suit upon the contract.
A cot tra-t is, void, as against public policy, and can have no standing in court by
which one party stipulates to employ a number of sceu'et agents in order to obtain
the p issage of a particular law by the legislature of a State, and the other party
promises to pay a large sum of-.ton-y in case the law should pass.
It was also' void if, when it was made, the parties agreec to conveal from the memhers of the legislature the fact that the one party was the agent of the other. and
was to receive a compensation for his services in case of the pas'age of the law.
And if there was no agree.ment to that effect, there can ba no recovery upon the contract, if in fact the agent did conceal from the members of the legislature that he
was an agent who was to receive compensation for' his services in case of the
passage of tbe law.
Moreover. in this particular, case, the law which was pass3ed was not such a one as
was stipulated for, and upon this ground there could be no recovery.
There hai m been a special contract between the parties by which the entire com.
penuation waos regulated and made contingent, there could be no recovery on a
count tor Jquantttm2ncruit.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
Marshall, a citizen of Virginia, sued the Railroad Company, to
recover the sum of fifty thousand dollars, wrhich he alleged that
they owed him under a special contract, for his services in
obtaining a law from the Legislature of Virginia, granting to the
company a right of way through Virginia to the Ohio River.

The declaration set out the special contract, and also contained a count for a quantum meruit.
The circumstances of the case are related in the opinion of
the court.
Inasmuch as one ,of the instructions of the Circuit Court
was that if "the services of the plaintiff were to be of the characterancl description set forth in his letter to the president of
the company, dated November 17th, 1846, and the paper therein
inclosed" no "action could be maintained on the contract," it
is proper, for future reference, that both of those papers should
be inserted. They were as follows:

I.etterfrom A. J. l1arshall to L. lJ1cLane, 17th November, 1846.
WARREISTON, November 17.
DE.XR SIR : In an interview with you a few days since, I pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

815

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railrbad Company.

rnised to submit in writing a plan, by which I thought your
much desired "right of way" through this State might be procured from our legislature. .Iherewith inclose my views on
that subject, and shall respectfully await, your reply.
In oflring myself as the agent of your company to manage
so delicate and important a trust, I am aware I lack that com
manding reputation which of itself would point me out as best
qualified for such a post. Of my qualification and fitness it is
not for me to speak; and, in consequence of the absolute secrecy
demanded, I cannot seek testimonials of my capacity, lest I
should excite inquiry. If your judgment approves my scheme,
it is probable you might get satisfactory information respecting
me by a cautious conversation with John L Gordon, A. B.
Gordon, Dr. John H. Thomas, or Joseph C. Wilson, all of your
city. Without impropriety, I may say for myself I have had
considerable experience as a lobby member before the legislature
of Virginia. For several winters past I have been before that
body with difficult and important measures, affecting the improvement of this region of the country" and I think I understand the character and component material of that honorable
body.
I shall have to spend six or eight weeks in Richmond, next
winter, to procure important amendments to the charter of the
Rappahannock Company. This will furnish reason for my
presence in Richmond.
There is an effort in progress to divide our county, to which
we of Warrenton are violently hostile. This furnishes another
reason for myself, and also for one or two other agents, to remain in the city of Richmond during the winter.
Col. Walden and myself are interested in large bodies of land
in western Virginia, near which the track of your railroad will
pass. This is an ostensible reason for our active interference.
I live in a range of country whose representation ought to be
entirely disintereste& on this question of the "right of.way."
Notwithstanding which, I believe a plurality of our representatives have heretofore been in opposition. I know the influences
,hat effected this, and am happy to say they will not exist next
winter.
Edmund Broaddus, for many years a representative from Culpepper, a shrewd, intelligent man, influenced this result. Broaddus was a sort of prot6gd of the Richmond and James River whigs,
was distinguished and promoted by them, and habitually acted
with them. His place is now filled by Slaughter, a personal
friend of mine. I should have little fear to carry this section of
the State.
The proposed plan best speaks for itself; if you think it feasi-

SUP'REME COURT.

316

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

ble, there is no time to be lost.

earliest leisure.
vant, &c.

I hope to hear from you at your

With entire respect, I am your humble serA. J.IMARSHALL.

T tax you with the postage, as I do not wish to be known as
in correspondence.
Document accompanying the fore.oing letter.
In explanation of the plan I wish to submit, it is necessary to
indulge some latitude of remark on the causes which have heretofore thwarted the just pretensions of your company.
Richmond City, the Petersburg, Richmond, and Potomac
Railroad, the James River Canal, and the Wheeling interests,
acting in concert, have heretofore successfully combated "the
right of way." These interests fall far short of a majority in the
two branches of the Virginia legislature. There is no sufficient
ground, in the numeric force of !his antagonist interest, to discourage the hope of an eventual, success. On an examination
of their arguments, based either upon justice or expediency, I
find nothing to challenge a conviction of right, or an assurance
of high State policy. On the contrary, standing heretofore as a
disinterested spectator of the struggle, I have condemned the
emptiness and arrogance of their pretensions, and felt indignant
at the success of their narrow, selfish, and bigoted policy.
I have observed no superiority of talent, no greater zeal, or
power of advocacy in the opposition, than in favor of the "right
of way." The success of a cause before our legislature, having
neither justice, greater expediency, stronger advocacy, or greater
numeric strength, is matter of just amazement to the defeated
p arq. The elements of this success should be a subject of cunous and deeply anxious investigation; for when the cause is
known, a remedy or counteracting influence may be readily applied. I have no idea that any dishonorable measures or appliances (further than log-rolling may be one) have been used to
defeat the "right of way." As to log-rolling, I am sorry to say
it has grown into a system in our legislature. Members openly
avow and act on it, and never conceal their bargain, exoapt where
publicity would jeopard success. No delegation are more skilful or less scrupulous at this game than oir western right-of-way
,men; so, in that regard, there is a stand off. It seems to me
the great secret of this success is the propinquity, the presence
on the ground, of your opponents. The legislature sits in their
midst. They exercise avigilant, pressing, present out-of-door influence upon the members. If the capitol wer6 located at Weston or
.Dlarksburg, who would question success? The Richmond interest
is ever present and ever pressing; her associates of the railroad

DE( EMBER TERM, 1853.

317

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railioad Company.

and canal are at hand, and equally active. You have no counteracting influence, and hence the success and triumph of your
opponents. If I am right in these views, your claims, resting
alone on justice, sectional necessity, or .even high State policy,
will be urged in vain, and must become 'as mere sounding clamor in the hall, unless you meet your opponents with the weapons
they use so successfully against yourselves. Experience shows
that something beyond what you have heretofore done is necessary to success; and in this necessity the plan I have to submit
has its origin.
The mass of the members in our legislature are a thoughtless,
careless, light-hearted body of men, who come there for the
"per diem," and to spend the "per diem." For a brief space
they feel the importance and responsibility of their position.
They soon, however, engage in idle pleasures; and, on all questions disconnected with their immediate constituents, they become as wax, to be moulded by the most pressing influences.
You need the vote of this careless mass, and if you adopt efficient means you can obtain it. I never saw a class of men more
eminently kind and social in their intercourse. Through these
qualities they may be approached and influenced to do any thing
not positively wrong, or which will not affect "prejudicially their
immediate constituency. On this question of the "right of
way," a decided majority of the members can vote either way
without fear of their constituents. On this question, therefore,
I consider the most actie influences will ever be the most successful.
Before you can succeed, in my judgment, you must re~nforce
the "right-of-way" members of the house with an active, interested, well-organized influence about the house. You must
inspire your agents with an earnest, nay, an anxious wish for
success. The rich reward of their labors must depend on success. Give them nothing if they fail - endow them richly if
they succeed. This.is, in brief space, the outline of my plans.
Reason and justice are with you; an enlarged expediency favors
your claim. You have able advocates, and the best of the argument; yet, with all these advantages, you have been defeated.
I think I have pointed out the cause. Your opponents better
understand the nature of the tribunal before which this vast interest is brought. They act on individuals of the body out of
doors and in their chambers. Your adversaries are on the spot,
and hover around the careless arbiters of the question in vigilant
and efficient activity. The contest, as now waged, is most
unequal. My plan would aim to place the "right-of-way" members on an equality with their *adversaries, by sending down
27

318

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio RaLroad Company.

a corps of agents, stimulated to an activa partisanship by the
strong lure of a high profit.
In considering the details of the plan, I would suggest that
all practicable secrecy is desirable. It strikes me the company
should have or know but one agent in the matter, and let that
agent select the subagents from such quarters and classes, and
in such numbers, as his discreet observation may dictate.
I contemplate the use of no improper m3ans or appliances in
the attainment of your purpose. My scheme is to surround the
legkilature with respectable and influential agents, whose persuasive arguments may influence the members to do you a naked
act of justice. This is all. I require secrecy from motives of
policy alone, because an open agency would furnish ground of
suspicion and unmerited invective, and might weaken the impres.
sion we seek to make.
In regard to the cost of all this it mus; necessarily be great.
The subagency must be extensive, and of first influence and
character. All your agents must be inspired by an active zeal
and a determined purpose of success. This can only be accomplished for you by offers of high contingent compensation.
I will illustrate this point by a single example. Were I to
become your agent on my plan, 1 shuuld like to have the services of Major Charles Hunton, of this county. Hunton, for
many years, was a member of our State senate. His last year
of service was as president of that body. He is an unpretending man, of good understanding and excellent address. He is
a great favorite with his own party, (democratic,) and universally esteemed as a gentleman of highest character. He is in
moderate circumstances, with a large family. I have no doubt,
if I would bear his expenses, and secure him a contingent of
one thousand dollars, he would spend the winter in Richmond,
and do good service; but if I could offer him two thousand, it
would becpme an object of great solicitude. It would pay all
his debts and smooth the path of an adv.ncing old age. Two
thousand dollars would stimulate his utmost energies. If I am
enabled to offer uch inducements, I should have great confidence of success. Under this plan you pay nothing unless
a law be passed which your company vill accept. Of what
value would such a law be to you? Measure this value, and
let your own interests, in view of the high stake you play for,
fix the price. There is no use in sending a boy on a man's
errand; a low offer, and that contingent, is bad judgment; high
service can't be had at a low bid.
I have surveyed the difficulties of this undertaking, and think
they may be surmounted. The cash outlay for my own expenses, and those of the subagents, would oe heavy. 1 know the

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853..

319

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

effective service of such agents as I would employ cannot be
had except on a heavy contingent. Taking all things into
view, I should not like to undertake the business on such 'terms,
unless provided with a contingent fund of at least fifty thousand
dollars, secured to my order on the passage of a law, and its
acceptance by your company.
If the foregoing views are deemed worthy of consideration, I
hold myself in readiness to meet any call in that behalf that
may be made upon me. Respectfully, &c.
A.

3. MARSHALL.

After the evidence had been closed, the counsel for the plaintiff asked the court to instruct the jury as follows:
1. That there is nothing in the terms or provisions of the
agreement embraced in the resolution of the committee of correspondence, dated 12th December, 1846 (which is set forth in
the opinion of the court) offered in evidence, which renders the
same void, on grounds of public policy.
2. That the plaintiff is not precluded from recovering under
the agreement aforesaid, dated 12th December, 1846, as modified
by the agreement stated ifi the letter of 11th of February, .1847,
by reason merely of the second proviso contained in the first section of the act of 6th of March, 1847, which has been offered in
evidence, provided the jury shall find that the route, entering the
ravine of the Ohio River at the mouth of Fish Creek, and running
so as to pass from a point in the ravine of Buffalo Creek, at or
near the mouth of Pile's Fork, to a dep6t to be established by
the defendant on the northern side of Wheeling Creek, in the
city of Wheeling, upon minute estimates made in the manner
and on the basis prescribed in said act, and made after full
examination and instrumental surveys of the feasible or practicable routes, appeared to be the cheapest upon which to construct, maintain, and work said railroad; and provided they
shall also find that the city of Wheeling did not agree to pay
the difference.of cost, as specified in said act, but on the contrary renounced the right to do so as early as the 10th of July,
1847; and provided they shall also find that said act was
accepted by the stockholders of the defendant, as a part of its
charter, on the 25th of August, 1847.
3. Upon the evidence aforesaid, the plaintiff prays the court
to instruct the jury-That if they find the contract contained in the resolution of
the comnittee of correspondence of 12th of December, 1846,
and in the resolution of the committee of correspondence of the
18th of January, 1847, and in the letter of Louis MeLane of
the 11th of February, 1847, aforesaid, to have been made with

320

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

the plaintiff by the defendant; and also that the act of Virginia
of the 6th of March, 1847, was passed at the session of the Legislature of Virginia for 1846-1847, in the contract mentioned;
and also that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, by the cheapest
route to the city of Wheeling, entering the ravine of the Ohio
at or north of Grave Creek, was ascertained, by such estimates
as the law prescribed, to be more costly to construct, maintain,
and work, than said road would be by the route passing into
the ravine of the Ohio at or near the mouth of Fish Creek, and
then to the city of Wheeling, and that the difference of said
probable cost was then in like manner ascertained; that the
defendants accepted the said law within six months from the
passage thereof; and also, that when the difference of probable
cost between said two routes was ascertained, according [to]
said act, the city of Wheeling did not agree to pay to the defendant such difference of cost by the time specified in said act,
and that the plaintiff did attend at Richmond during the session
aforesaid, and did then and there superintend and further the
applications and other proceedings to obtain the right of way
through the State of Virginia, on behalf of the defendant, then
the plaintiff is entitled to recover, on the special contract contained in the instrument aforesaid, the value of the contingent
compensation therein stipulated.
And the defendants, by their counsel, prayed the court to
instruct the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover,
because the contract., which stipulated for the payment of a
contingent fee of fifty thousand dollars, in the event of the
obtaining from the Legislature of Virginia such a law vs is
described therein, was against public policy, and void.
2. That if the jury shall believe that it was agreed between
the parties to the said contract that the same should be kept
secret, either in the terms of It or otherwise, from the Legislature
of Virginia or the public, such contract, if otherwise proper and
legal, was invalid as against public policy, and the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover.
3. If the jury find that the special contract offered in evidence
by the plaintiff was proposed to be enteied into by plaintiff
from the reasons and motives, and to be executed by him in
the way suggested in his communication of the 17th of November, and its inclosure, offered in evidence by the defendant, (if
the jury shall find that such communication was so made by
plaintiffl) and if they shall find that the contract aforesaid was
entered into accordingly, and that said contract, or plaintiff's
agency under it, was not made known 1;o the Legislature of
Virginia, but in fact concealed, that then said contract was illegal and void, upon grounds of public policy.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

321

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

4. That the contract between the plaintiff and defendants of
12th of December, 1846, looked to the obtaining of a law authorizing the defendants to extend their road through the State of
Virginia, to a point on the Ohio River as low down the river
as Fishing Creek, whieh law should be afterwards 'accepted by
the defendants with a determination to act under it, or to the
incorporation of an independent company, which the defendants
should determine to accept and adopt, or of whose charter they
should become the proprietors, authorizing the construction of a
railroad from any point on'the Ohio River between the mouth
of Little Kenawha and 'Wheeling, and that no such law having
been obtained, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
5. That the modified contract of the 11th of February looked
to the obtaining of the passage of Hunter's substitute, with the
adoption of Fish Creek instead of Fishing Creek, as the point
of striking the Ohio: That the law which was passed on the
6th of March, 1847, was a law which did not, in its terms or
effect, fulfil the stipulations of the modified agreement of February 11th, 1847.
6. That the acceptance bf the law of March 6th, 1847, by the
defendants, even supposing it to be substantially the same as
Hunter's substitute, did not entitle the plaintiff to recover unless
the jury should believe that such law was obtained through his
agency, under the agreement with the defendants.
7. That even if the jury should believe that the law of March
6th, 1847, was .btained tlirough the plaintiff's agency, the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover if they shall believe that it
was accepted by the defendants in consequence of the waiver,
by the city of Wheeling, of the privileges accorded to it therein,
and the stipulations contained in the agreement between the
city of Wheeling and the defendants of March 6th, 1847.
8. That the modified agreement of February 11th, 1847;
which made Hunter's substitute, modified as stated in the foregoing prayer, the standard of the law which was to be obtained
to entitle the plaintiff to the stipulated compensation, made it
necessary that such law should give to the defendants the absolute right to approach the city of Wheeling by way of Fish
Creek; should release them from the necessity of continuing
their road to Wheeling, unless the city should, within one year,
or the citizens of Ohio county should, in the same time, subscribe one million dollars to the stock of the defendants; should
enable the defendants to open and bring into use, as they progressed, the sections' of their road as they were successively
finished; and should authorize the defendants to charge, in
proportion to distance, upon passengers and goods taken from
Baltimore to Wheeling, should the road be continued to the

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimqre -and Ohio Railroad Company.

latter place; while the law that was actually passed made it
the right of the defendants to take the Fish Creek route depend
upon its being the cheapest, and even then placed the defendants' iight to go to Fish Creek at the option of the city of
Wheeling; made it imperative that Wheeling should be the
terminus of the road, without any subscription on the part of
herself or others; prevented the opening of any portion of her
road west of Monongahela until the whole road could be opened
to Wheeling, and obliged the defendant to charge no more for
passengers or tonnage to Wheeling than they charged to a
point five miles from the river; and that before the defendant
accepted the law thus differing from that referred to in the
modified agreement of February 11th, 184:7, the city of Wheel,ng waived its control of the route, leavi-ng it to depend upon
"ts comparative cost, agreed to subscribe five hundred thousand
lollars to the stock of the defendants, and. provided a depot for
he defendants at the terminus of the road; and that the adopion and acceptance of the law of March the 6th, 1847, thus
liffering from Hunter's substitute, and induced by the waiver
mud stipulation of Wheeling, already mentioned, and action
inder it, was not such an acceptance, adoption, and action, as
mtitled the plaintiff to recover.
9. That if the jury shall believe that the plaintiff received
from the defendants the six hundred dollars given in evidence
in full discharge of his claims for compensation under the agzeement in question, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
But. the court refused to give the inst:uctions as prayed, by
either plaintiff or defendant, but instructed the jury as follows:
1. If at the time the special contract was made, upon which
this suit is brought, it was understood beiveen the parties that
the services of the plaintiff were to be of the character and
description set forth in his letter to the president of the railroad
company, dated November 17, 1846, and the paper therein inclosed, and that, in consideration of the contingent compensation mentioned in the contract, lie was -to use the means and
influences proposed in his letter and the accompanying paper,
for the purpose ,of obtaining the passage of the law mentioned
in the agreement, the contract is against the policy of the law,
and no action can be maintained.
2. If there was no agreement between the parties that the
services of the plaintiff should be of the character and description mentioned in his letter and communication referred to in
the preceding instruction, yet the contract is against the policy
of the law, and void, if at the time it was made the parties
agreed to conceal from the members of the Legislature of Virginia the fact that the plaintiff was employed by the defendant.

DECE-MBER TERMT, 1853.

323

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

as its agent, to advocate the passage of the law it desired to obtain, and was to receive a compensation, in money, for his services in case the law was passed by the legislature at the session
referred to in the agreement.
3. And if there was no actual agreement to practise such
concealment, yet he is not entitled to recover if he did conceal
from the members of the legislature, when advocating the passage of the law, that he was. acting as agent for the defendant,
and was to receive a compcnsation, in money, in case the law
passed.
4. But if the law was made upon a valid and legal consideration, the contingency has not happened upon which the sum of
fifty thousand dollars was to be paid to the plaintiff- the law
passed by the legislature of Virginia being different, in material
respects, from the one proposed to he obtained by the defendant
by the agreement of February 11th, 1847; and the passage of
which, by the terms of that contract, was made a condition precedent to the payment of the money.
5. The subsequent acceptance of the law as passed, under
the agreement with the city of Mrheeling, stated in the evidence,
Was not a waiver of the condition, and does n6t entitle the
plaintiff to recover in an action on the special contract.
6. There is no evidence that the plaintiff rendered any services, or was employed to render any, under any 'contract, express or implied, except the special contract stated in his declaration; and as no money is due to him under that contract, he
cannot recover upron the count upon a quantum meruit.
And thereupon the plaintiff excepts, as well to the refusal of
his prayers as to the granting of the instructions aforesaid given;
and tenders this his second bill of exceptions, and prays that
the same may be signed and sealed by the court, which is accordingly done
day of November, 1852.
R.. B. TANEY. [SEAL.]
The first bill of exceptions was to the admissibility of the
evidence above mentioned.
Upon these two exceptions the case came up to this court.
It was argued by 31r. Davis and .1P. Schley, for the plaintiff
in error, and by Xr. Latrobe and -Tfr. Johnson, for the defendants
in error.
All the points, on either side, relating to the particular route
to be attained, are omitted, because it would be impossible to
e::plain them without roaps and minute geographical details.
Witl respcet to the three fu'st instuctions, the counsel for the
plaintiff iii error contended:
1. That the first instruction is erroneous - because

SUIREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

a. There is no proof of any understanding between the parties
at the time of the contract, that the services were to be of the
nature mentioned in the paper No. 1.
b. No service is proposed in paper No. 1, which is against the
policy of the law, if th&paper be fairly contrued.
The paper describes the characters of the members, the conduct of the opponents of the company in influencing them, and
the necessity of a counteracting influence out of doors; but it
expressly disclaims all improper means and appliances, and the
proposal is confined to "surrounding the legislature with
respectable and influential agents, whose persuasive arguments
may influence the members to do you a naked act of justice."
c. Even if the paper be open to a doubt, the law resolves that
doubt against the conclusion of illegality, as well in object as in
means. Lewis v. Davison, 4 M. & W. 654.
2. That the second instruction is erroneous -because
a. There is no proof of any agreement at the time of the contract for the concealment of the agency of the plaintiff from the
members of the legislature.
b. There is n6 difference between the obligation of an agent
to procure a law and an agent for any ot.ier purpose legal in
itself; and the law does not avoid a contract of agency because
it is to be kept secret.
3. That the third instruction is erroneous -because
a. There is no proof of any actual concealment.
b. In the absence of proof of disclosure, the law does not presume concealment.
c. The proof is that, in point of fact, the agency was so con.
ducted as to be apparent to the members of the legislature without being in words disclosed.
d. it is proved that it was expressly disclosed both by the
plaintiff and the company.
e. But in the absence of any agreement or understanding as
to concealment, which is the hypothesis of the instruction, it is
clearly erroneous to avoid the contract at the instance of the
company for the failure of the plaintiff to disclose his agency.
That is to avoid the contract at the instance of the defendants
by matter subsequent entirely foreign to it.
f The law does not require disclosure of an agency as a
condition precedent to the right of the agent to recover from the

principal.
And, upon these points, the counsel referr3d to the following
"mthorities: Davis v. Bank of Eng. 2 Bing. (393; Richardson v.
M Alish,
2 Bing. 229; Harrington v. Kloprogge, 4 Doug. 5; Stiles
v. Causten, 2 G. & i. 49; Kalkman v. Caustan, 2 G. & J.357;
Fishmonger Co. v. Robertson, 5 Mann. & Gr. 131; Howdon v.

DECEMEBER TERM, 1853.

325

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

Simpson, 10 Ad. & Ellis, 793, 800, and on appeal, 9 Cl. & Fin.
61; Wood v. McCann, 6 Dana, 366; Hunt v. Test, 8 Alab.
713; Edwards v. Gr. J. R. R. Co. 7 Sim. 337, and on appeal,
1 M. & Cr. 65; Vauxhall Br. Co. v. Spencer, 2 Madd. 356;
Jacob, 64.
Upon the principal point in the case, namely, that the contract
was against public policy, and therefore void, the counsel for the
defendant in error cited the following authorities: Hunt v. Test,
8 Alabama, 713; Hatzfeld v. Gulden, 7 Watts, 152; Clippinger
v. Hepbaugh, 5 Watts & Sergt. 315; Wood v. McCann, 6
Dana, 366; Fuller v. Dame, 18 Pick. 472.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
A question, necessarily preliminary to our consideration of
the merits of this case,-has been brought to the notice of the
court, though not argued or urged by the counsel.
The plaintiff in err6r, who was also plaintiff below, avers in
his declaration that he is a citizen of Virginia, and that " The
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, the defendant, is a
body corporate by an act of the General Assembly of Maryland." It has been objected, that this averment is insuffi.cient
to show jurisdiction in the courts of the United States over the
The decision of this court in the case
"suit" or "controversy."
of the Louisville Railroad v. Letson, 2 Howard, 497, it is said,
does not sanction it, or if some of the doctrines advanced
should s:eem so to do, they are exrajudicial, and therefore not
authoritative.
The published report of that case (whatever the fact may
have been) exhibits no dissent to the opinion of the court by
any member of it. It has, for the space of ten years, been received by the bar as a final settlement of the questions which have
so frequently arisen under this clause of the Constitution; and
the practice and forms of pleading in the courts of the United
States have been conformed to it. Confiding in its stability,
numerous controversies involving property and interests to a
large amount, have been heard and decided by the circuit courts,
and by this court; and many are still pending here, where the
jurisdiction has been assumed on the faith of the sufficiency of
such an averment. If we should now declare these judgments
to have been entered without jurisdiction or authority, we should
inflict a great and irreparable evil on the community. There
are no cases, where an adherence to the maxim of "stare
decisis"is so absolutely necessary to the peace of society, as
those which affect retroactively the jurisdiction of courts. For
this reason alone, even if the court were now of opinion that
the principles affirmed in the case just mentioned, and that of
VOL. XVI.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

The Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61, were not founded on right
reason, we should not be justified in overruling them. The
practice founded on these decisions,"to say the least, injures or
wrong no man; while their reversal could not fail to work
wrong and injury to many.
Besides the numerous cases, with similar averments, over
which the court have exercised jurisdiction without objection, we
may mention that of Rundle v. The Dela-ware and Raritan Canal, 14 Howard, 80, as one precisely in pcint with the present.
The report of that. case shows that the question of jurisdiction,
though not noticed in the opinion of the court, was not overlooked, three of the judges having severally expressed their
opinion upon it. Its value as a precedent is therefore not
merely negative. But as we do not rely nly on precedent to
justify our conclusion in this case, it may not be improper,
once again, to notice the argument used to impugn the correctness of our former decisions, and also to ihake a brief statement
of the reasons which, in our opinion, fully vindicate their propriety.
By the Constitution, the jurisdiction cf the courts of the
United States is declared to extend, inter aiia,to "controversies
between citizens of different States." The Judiciary Act confers
on the circuit courts jurisdiction "i n suits between a citizen of
the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of anothei
State."
The reasons for conferring this jurisdiction on the courts of
the United States, are thus correctly stated by a contemporary
writer (Federalist, No. S0.) "It may be es-teemed a the basis
of the Union, ' that the citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all the privileges and immunities of the citizens of the several
States.' And if it be a just principle, that every government
ought to possess the means of executing its own provisions by
its own authority, it will follow, that in order to the inviolable
maintenance of that equality of privileges and immunities, the
national judiciary ought to preside in all cases, in which one
State or its citizens are opposed to another State or its citizens."
Now, if this be a right, or privilege guaranteed by the Constitution to citizens of one State in their controversies with citizens of another, it is plain that it cannot *betaken away from
the plaintiff by any legislation of the State in which the defendant resides. if A, B, and C, with other dormant or secret partners, be empowered to act by their representz.tives, to sue or to be
sued in a collective or corporate name, their enjoyment of these
privileges, granted by State authority, cannot-nullify this important right confeired on those who contract with them. It was

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

327

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

well remarked by MIr. Justice Catron, in his opinion delivered in
the case of lundle, already referred to, that "if the United
States courts could be ousted of jurisdiction, and citizens of
other States be forced into the State courts, without the power
of election, they would often be deprived, in great cases, of all
benefit contemplated by the Constitution; and in many cases
be compelled to submit their rights to judges and juries who are
inhabitants of the cities where the suit must be tried, and to
contend with powerful corporations, where the chances of impartial justice would be greatly against them; and where no
prudent man would engage with such an antagonist, if he could
help it. State lalrs, by combining large masses of men under a
corporate name, cannot repeal the Constitution. All corporations must have trustees and representatives who are usually
citizens of the State where the corporation is created: and these
citizens can be sued, and the corporate property charged by the
suit. Nor can the courts allow the constitutional security to be
evaded by unnecessary refinements, without inflicting a deep
injury on the institutions of the country."
Lot us now examine the reasons which are considered so
conclusive and imperative, that they should compel the.court to
give a construction to this clause of the Constitution, practically destructive of the privilege so clearly intended to be conferred by it.
"4A corporation, it is said, is an artificial person, a mere legal
entity, invisible and intangible."
This is no doubt metaphysically true in a certain sense. The
inference, also, that such an artificial entity "cannot be a citizen " is a logical conclusion from the premises which cannot be
denied.
But a citizen who has made a contract, and has a "controversy" with a corporation, may also say, with equal truth, that
he did not deal with a mere metaphysical abstraction, but with
natural persons; that his writ has not been served on an imaginary entity, but on men and citizens; and that his contract was
made with them as the legal representatives of numerous unknown associates, or secret and dormant partners.
The necessities and conveniences of trade and business require that such numerous associates and stockholders should
act by representation, and lvive the faculty of contracting, suing, and being sued in a factitious or collective name. But
these important faculties, conferred on them by State legislation,
for their own convenience, cannot be wielded to deprive others
of acknowledged rights. It is not reasonable that those who
deal with such persons should be deprived of a valuable privilege by a syllogism, or rather sophism, which deals subtly with

328

SUPREM1E COURT.
11aTrshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

words, and names, without regard to the things or persons they
are used to represent.
Nor is it reasonable that representatives of numerous unknown
"and ever-changing associates should be permitted to allege the
different citizenship of one or more of these stockholders, in order
to defeat the plaintiff's privilege. It is true that these stockholders are corporators, and represented by this "juridical person,"
and come under the shadow of its name. But for all the purposes of acting, contracting, and judicial remedy, they can speak,
act, and plead, only through their representatives or curators.
For the purposes of a suit or controversy, the persons represented
by a corporate name can appear only by attorney, appointed by
-itsconstitutional organs. The individual or personal appearance
of each and every corporator would not be a compliance with
the exigency of the writ of summons or distringas. Though,
nominally, they are not really parties to the suit or controversy.
In courts of equity, where there are very numerous associates
having all the same interest, they may plead and be impleaded
through persons representing their joint interesis ; and, as in the
case between the northern and southern branches of the Methodist Church, lately decided by this court, the fact that individuals adhering to each division were known to reside within
both States of which the parties to the suit were citizeiis, was
not considered as a valid objection to the jurisdiction.
In courts of law, an act of inborporation and a corporate name
are necessary to enable the representatives of a numerous association to sue and be sued. " And this corporation can have
no legal existence out of the bounds of the sovereignty by which
it is created. It exists only in contemplation of law and by
force of the law; and where that law ceases to operate the corporation cal have no existence. It must dwell in the place of
its creation." Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 512. The per.
sons who act under these faculties, and use this corporate name,
may be justly presumed to be resident in the State which is the
necessary habitat of the corporation, and where alone.they can
be made subject to suit; and should be estopped in equity from
averring a different domicil as against those who are compelled
to seek them there, and can find them there and nowhere else.
If it were otherwise it would be in the power of every corporation, by electing a single director residing in a different State,
to deprive citizens of other States with whom they have contro.
versies, of this constitutional privilege. and. compel them to, resort to State tribunals in cases in which, of all others, such
privilege may be considered most valuable.
But it is contended that, notwithstanding the court in deciding the question of jurisdiction, will look behind the corporate

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

329

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

or collective name given to the party, to find the persons who
act as the representatives, curators, or trustees, of the association,
stockholders, or cestui que trusts, and in such capacity are the
real parties to the controversy; yet that the declaration contains
no sufficient averment of their citizenship. Whether the averment of this fact be sufficient in law, is merely a question of
pleading. If the declaration sets forth facts from which the citizenship of the parties may be presumed or legally inferred, it
is sufficient. The presumption arising from the habitat of a corporation in the place of its creation being conclusive as to the
residence or citizenship of those who use the corporate name and
exercise the faculties conferred by it, the allegation that the "defendants are a body corporate by the act of the General Assembly
of Maryland," is a sufficient averment that the real defendants
are citizens of that State. This form of averment has been used
for many years. Any established form of words used for the
expression of a particular fact, is a: sufficient averment of it in law.
In the case of Gassies v. Ballon, 6 Pet. 761, the petition alleged
that "the defendant had caused himself to be naturalized an
American citizen, and that he was at the time of filhig the petition residing in the parish of West Baton Rouge." This was
held to be a sufficient averment that he was a citizen of the
State of Louisiana. And the court say, "a citizen of the United
States residing in any State of the Union, is a citizen of that
State." They also express their regret that previous decisions
of this court lhad gone so far innarrowing and limiting the rights
conferred by this article of the Constitution. And we may add,
that instead of viewing it as a clause conferring a privilege on
the citizens of the different States, it has been construed t~o
often, as if it were a penal statute, and as if a construction which
did not adhere to its very letter without regard to its obvious
meaning and intention, would be a tyrannical invasion of some
power supposed to be secured to the States or not surrendered
by them.
The right of choosing an impartial tribunal is a privilege of
no small practical importance, and more especially in cases
where a distant plaintiff has to contend with the power and influence of great numbers and the combined wealth wielded by
corporations in almost every State. It is of importance also to
corporations themselves that they should enjoy the same privileges, in other States, where local prejudices or jealousy might
injuriously affect them.
With these remarks on the subject of jurisdiction we will now
proceed tb notice the various e.ceptions to the rulings of the
court on the trial.
The declaration, besides a count for work and labor done and

330

SUPRE.ME

COU:RT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Roilroad Company.

services rendered in procuring certain legislation in Virginia,
demands the sum of fifty thousand dollars on a special contract
made with the defendants, through a committee of the board of
directors, dated 12th of December, 1846, as follows:
" On motion, it was resolved, that the President be, and is
hereby authorized, in addition to the agent heretofore employed
by the committee for the same purpose, to employ and make
arrangements, with other responsible persons, to attend at Richmond during the present session of the legislature, in order to
superintend and further any application cr other proceeding to
obtain the right of way through the State of Virginia, on behalf
of this company, and to take all proper measures for that purpose-; that he also be authorized to agiee with such agent or
agents, in case a law shall be obtained from the said legislature,
during its present session, authorizing the company to extend
their road through that State to a point on the Ohio River as low
down the river as Fishing Creek; and the stockholders of this
company shall afterwards accept such law as may be obtained,
and determine to act under it; or, in case &law should be passed authorizing the construction of a railroad from any point on
the Ohio River above the mouth of the Little Kenawha and below
the city of Wheeling, with authority to intersect witb the present
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad; and the stcckholders of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company shall dettermnine to accept and
adopt said law, or shall become the proprietors thereof, and prosecute their road according to its provisions, then, in either of
the said cases, the president shall be and is authorized to pay to
the agent or agents whom he may employ in pursuance of this
resolution, the sum of fifty thousand dollrs, in the six per cent.
bonds of this company, at their par value, and to be -made payable at any time within the period of five years. Resolved,
That it shall be expressly stipulated in the agreement with the
said agent or agents employed pursuant to this resolution, anu
as a condition thereof, that if no such law as aforesaid shall pass,
or if any law that may be passed shall not be accepted, or
adopted, or used by the stockholders, the said agents shall not be
entitled to receive any compensation whatever for the service
they may render in the premises, or for any expense they may
incur in obtainir.g such law or otherwise."
And also the following resolution of January 18th, 1847:
" On motion it was unanimously resolved, that the right of
Ir.Marshall to the compensation under the existing contract
shall attach upon the passage of a law at the present session of
the legislature, giving the right of way to Parkersburg or to
Fishing Creek, either to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, or to an independent eompany: Provided this company

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

331

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

accept the one, and adopt and act under the other, as contemplated by the contract."
And also a letter from the president of the company, of February 11th, 1847, containing a further modification of the terms
as exhibited in the following extract:
"In this crisis, if after the utmost exertion nothing better 'can
be done, if it were practicable to pass Mr. Hunter's substitute
with Fish Creek instead of Fishing Creek, we would not undertake to prevent the passage of such a law. We would then
refer the whole question to the stockholders; and I am authorized to say that, every thing else failing, if such a law as is indicated pass, and the stockholders adopt it and act under it in
the manner contemplated by the contract, your compensation
shall apply to that as to any other aspect of the case."
The defendants gave notice of the following grounds of defence, as those upon which they intended to rely:
"1. That the agreement sought to be enforced by the plaintiff, admitting his ability to make it out by legal proof-to the
extent of his pretensions, was an agreement contrary to the policy of the law, and which cannot be sustained.
"2. That, admitting the said agreement to be a valid one,
which the courts would enforce, yet the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover, because he failed to accomplish the 6bject for which
it was entered into.
"3. That the law of Virginia, which was accepted by the defendants after it had been modified by the waiver of the city of
Wheeling, as mentioned in the plaintiff's notice, was not obtained through the efforts of the plaintiff, but against his strenuous opposition, and furnishes him no ground for his present
claim.
"4. That there was a final settlement between the plaintiff
and defendants, after the passage of the Virginia law aforesaid,
which concludes him on this behalf."
On the trial the plaintiff, after giving in evidence the contract
as above stated, produced varioas letters and documents tending
to show the measures pursued, and their result- a particular
recapitulation of these facts is not necessary, and would encumber the case. A very brief outline w)ill siffice to an understanding of the points to be considered.
it appears that the defendants were desirous to obtain, from
the Legislature of Virginia, the grant of a right of way so as to
strike the Ohio River as low down as possible in view of a connection from thence towards Cincinnati. It was the interest of
the people of Wheeling to pievent, if possible, the terminus o
the road on the Ohio from being anywhere else but at their
city. In the winter of 1846 -7 the antagonist parties came into

SUTREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

collision again before the Legislature of Virginia, at Richmond.
In this contest the plaintiff acted as genera. agent of the defend.
ants, under the contract in question. The bills granting the
desired franchise to the defendants were defeated in every formproposed by them, and a substitute, altered and amended to suit
the interests of Wheeling, was finally passed in face of the strenuous opposition of the defendants.
The plaintiff afterwards admitted his defeat, and want of
success in fulfilling the conditions of his contract. He at the
same time demanded and received the sum of six hundred dollars for expenses of agents, &c. But as Wheeling and defendants both desired the extension of the road to the Ohio, they
finally agreed to a compromise, modifying the operation of the
act under which the road has since been completed.
The defendants then offered in evidence, in support of their
defence, on the ground of illegality of the contract, a letter from
the plaintiff to the president of the board, dated 17th November, 1846, with an accompanying document, in which plaintiff
proposes himself as agent, and states his terms; and the course
he advises to be pursued, and the means to be used to ensure
success; and also a letter from the president in answer t'ereto,
stating his inability to act on his individual responsibility, and
inviting an interview; together, also, with a letter from the
same, dated 12th of December, in which Le says: "I am now
prepared to close an arrangement with you on the basis of your
communication of the 17th of November."
The plaintiff's objection to the admission of these documents
in evidence, and the reception of them, form the subject of the
first bill of exceptions.
In order to judge of the competency and relevancy of these
documents to the issue in the case, it will be necessary to give
a brief statement of some portion of their. contents.
The letter of November 17th commences by referring to a
former interview and a promise to submit e, plan, in writing, by
which it was supposed the much desired right of way through
Virginia might be procured from the legilature. It proposes
that the writer should be appointed, as agent of the company, to
manage "the delicate and important trust." It states that, as
the business required "absolute secrecy," he could not safely
get testimonials as to his qualifications; brt that he had "considerable experience as a lobby member" before the legislature
of Virginia, and could allege "an ostensible reason" for his
presence in Richmond, and his active interference, without disclosing his real character and object.
The accompanying document explains the cause of previous
failures, and shows what remedy or counteracting influence

DEC ?,MBEI.

TERM,

1853.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company..

should be employed. It announces that "log - ro llin g " was the
principal measure used to defeat them before. That it has
grown into a system; that however "skilful and unscrupulous"
the friends of defendants may have been in this respect, still
their opponents had got the advantage, being present on the
ground, and "using out-door influence." That it was necessary'
to meet their opponents with their own weapons. That the
mass of the members of the legislature were "careless and good
natured," and "engaged in idle pleasures," capable of being
"moulded like wax" by the "most pressing influences." That,
to get the vote of this careless mass, "efficient means" must be
adopted. That through their "kind and social dispositions"
they may be approached and influenced to do any thing not
positively wrong, "where they can act without fear of their constituents." That to the accomplishment of success it was necessary to have " an active, interested, and well organized influence
about the house." That these agents "must be inspired with
an earnest, nay, anxious wish for success,
and have their
whole reward depending on it." " Give them nothing if they
fail, endow them richly if they succeed." "Stimulate them to
active partisanship by the strong lure of high profit."
That, in order to the "requisite secrecy," the company should
know but one agent, and he select the others; that the cost of
all this will "necessarily be great," as the result can be obtained
"only by offers of high contingent compensation;" that "high
services cannot be had at a low bid," and that he would not be
willing to undertake the business unless "provided with a fund
of at least $50,000."
,ks the contract was made "on the basis of this communication," there can be no doubt as to its legal competence as evidence to show the nature and object ot the agreement. As
parts of one and the same transaction, they may be considered
as incorporated in the contract declared on. The testimony is
therefore competent, Is it relevant?
As the tirst three propositions, contained in the charge of the
court, have relerence to the question of the relevancy of this
matter to the issues, they may well be considered together.
They are as follows:
"1. If at the time the special contract was made, upon which
this suit is brought, it was understood between the parties that
the services of the plaintiff were to be of the character and
description set forth in his letter to the president of the railroad
company, dated November 17th, 1846, and the paper therein
inclosed, and that, in consideration of the contingent compensation mentioned in the contract, he was to use the means and
influenees proposed in his letter and the accompanying paper,

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

for the purpose of obtaining the passage of the law mentioned
in the agreement, the contract is against the policy of the law,
and no action can be maintained.
"2. If there was no agreement between the parties that the
services of the plaintiff should be of the character and description mentioned in his letter and communication referred to in
the preceding instruction, yet the contract is against the policy
of the law, and void, if at the time it was made the parties
agreed to conceal from the members of the Legislature of Virginia the fact that the plaintiff was employed by the defendant,
as its agent, to advocate the passage of the law it desired to obtain, and was to receive a compensation, in money, for his services, in case the law was passed by the legislature at the session referred to in the agreement.
"3. And if there was no actual agreement to practise such
concealment, yet he is not entitled to recover if he did conceal
from the members of the legislature, when advocating the passage of the law, that he was acting as agent for the defendant,
and was to receive a compensation, in money, in case the law
passed."
It is an undoubted principle of the comamon law, that it will
not lend its aid to enforce a contract to do an act that is illegal;
or which is inconsistent with sound morals or public policy; or
which tends to corrupt or contaminate, by improper influences,
the integrity of our social or political institutions. Hence all
contracts to evade the revenue laws are void. Persons entering
into the marriage relation should be free fiom extraneous or deceptive influences; hence the law avoids all contracts to pay
money for procuring a marriage. It is the interest of the State
that all places of public trust should be fill3d by men of capacity
and integrity, and that the appointing power should be shielded
from influences which may prevent the best selection; hence
the law annuls every contract for procuring the appointment or
election of any person to an office. The pardoning power, committed to the executive, should be exercised as free from any
improper bias or influence as the trial of the convict before the
court; consequently, the law will not enforce a contract to pay
money for soliciting petitions or using influence to obtain a
pardon. Legislators should act from high considerations of
public duty. Pablic policy and sound morality do therefore imperatively require that courts should put the stamp of their disapprobation on every act, and pronounce void every contract
the ultimate or probable tendency of which would be to sully
the purity or mislead the judgments of those to whom the high
trust of legislation is confided.
All persons whose interests may in any way be affected by

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

335

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

any public or private act of the legislature, have an undoubted
right to urge their claims and arguments, either in person or by
counsel professing to act for them, before legislative committees,
as well as in courts of justice. But where persons act as counsel or agents, or in any representative capacity, it is due to Ihose
before whom they plead or solicit, that they should honestly
appear in their true characters, so that their arguments and
representations, openly and candidly made, may receive their
just w;eight and consideration. A hired advocate or agent, assuming to act in a different character, is practising deceit on
the legislature. Advice or information flowing from the unbiased
judgment of disinterested persons, will naturally be received
with more confidence and less scrupulously examined than
where the recommendations are known to be the result of pecuniary interest, or the arguments prompted and pressed by
hope of a large contingent reward, and the agent "stimulated
to active partisanship by the strong lure of high profit." -Any
attempts to deceive persons intrusted with the high functions
of legislation, by secret combinations, or to create or bring into
operation undue influences of any kind, have all the injurious
effects of a direct fraud on the public.
Legislators should act with a single eye to the true interest
of the whole people, and courts of justice can give no countenance to the use of means which may subject them to be misled by the pertinacious importunity and indirect influences of
interested and unscrupulous agents or solicitors.
Influences secretly urged under false and covert pretences
must necessarily operate deleteriously on legislative action,
whether it be employed to obtain the passage of private or
public acts. Bribes, in the shape of high contingent compensation, must necessarily lead to the use of improper means and
the exercise of undue influence. Their necessary consequence
is the demoralization of the agent who covenants for them; he
is soon brought to believe that any means which will produce
so beneficial a result to himself are "proper means;" and that
a share of these pfofits may have the same effect of quickening
the perceptions and warming the zeal of influential or "careless"
members in favor of his bill. The use of such means and such
agents will have the effect to subject the State governments to
the combined capital of wealthy corporations, and produce universal corruption, commencing with the representative and ending with the elector.
Speculators in legislation, public and
private, a compact corps of venal solicitors, vending their secret
influences, will infest the capital of the Union and of every
State, till corruption shall become the normal condition of the
body politic, and it will be said of us as of Rome -" onme

Rom e venale."

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

That the consequences we deprecate are not merely visionary,
the act of Congress of 1853, c. 81, "to prevent frauds upon the
treasury of the United States" may be cited as legitimate evidence. This act annuls all champertous contracts with agents
of private claims..
2d. If forbids all officers of the United States to be engaged
as agents or attorneys for prosecuting claims or from receiving
any gratuity or interest in them in consideration of having aided
or assisted in the prosecution, of them, unc.er penalty of fine and
imprisonment in the penitentiary.
8d. It forbids members of Congress, under a like penalty, from
acting as agents for any claim in consideration of pay or compensation, or from accepting any gratuity for the same.
4th. It subjects any person who shall attempt to bribe a member of Congress to punishment in the penitentiary, and the party
accepting the bribe to the forfeiture of his office.
If severity of legislation be any evidence of 1he practice of
the offences prohibited, it must be the duty of courts to take a
firm stand, and discountenance, as against the policy of the law,
any and every contract which may tend to inti oduce the offences
prohibited.
Nor are these principles now advanced for the first time.
Whenever similar cases have been brought to the notice of
courts they have received the same decision.
Without examining them particularly, we would refer to the
cases of Fuller v. Dame, 18 Pick. 470; Hatzfield v. Gulden,
7 Watts, 152; Clippinger v.
eIepbaugh, 5 Wafts & Sergt,
315; Wood v. McCan, 6 Dana, 366; an d.Hunt v. Test, 8 Alabama, 719. The Commonwealth v. Callaghan, 2 Vrginia Cases
460.
The um of these cases is,- 1st. That Ell contracts for a contingent compensation for obtaining legis:ation, or to use personal or any secret or sinister influence on legislators, is void
by the policy of the law.
2d. Secrecy, as to the character under -which the agent or
solicitor acts, tends to deception, and is immoral and fraudulent; and where the agent contracts to use secret influences, or
voluntarily, without contract with his principal, uses such means.
he cannot have the assistance of a court to recover compensation.
3d. That what, in the technical vocabulary of politicians is
termed "log-rolling," is a misdemeanor at 3ommon law, punishable by indictment.
It follows, as a consequence, that the documents given in
evidence under the first bill of exceptions were relevant to the
issue; and that the court below very properly gave the instructions under consideration.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

337

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

We now come to the last three exceptions to the instructions
of the court, which were as follows:
"4. But if the contract was made upon a valid and legal
consideration, the contingency has not happened upon which
the sum of fifty thousand dollars was to be paid to the plaintiff- the law passed by the legislature of Virginia being different, in material respects, from the one proposed to be obtained
by the defendant by the agreement of February 11th, 1847;
and the passage of which, by the terms of that contract, was
made
condition
precedent
to the of
payment
of as
thepassed,
money. under
the law
"5. aThe
subsequent
acceptance
the agreemaent with the city of Wrheeling, stated in the evidence,
was not a waiver of the condition, and does not entitle the
plaintiff"to recover in an action on the special contract."
"6. There is no evidence that the plaintiff rendered any services, or was employed to render any, under any contract, express or implied, except the special contract stated in his declaration; and as no money is due to him, under that contract, he
cannot recover upon the count of quantum reruit."
*We do not think it necessary, in order to justify these instructions of the court below, or to vindicate our afflrraance of
them, to enter into a long and perplexed history of the various
schemes of legislative action, and their results, as exhibited by
the testimony in the case. It would require a map of the
country, and tedious anid prolix explanations. Suffice it to say,
that after a care -,l examination of the admitted facts of the
case, we are fully satisfied of the correctness of the instructions.
by his own showing, had not per1. Because the plaintifg
formed the conditions which entitled him to demand this stipulated compensation.
2. The act of assembly which was passed, and afterwards
used by defendant for want of better, was obtained by the op-'
ponents of defendants, and in spite of the opposition of plaintiff; and the fact that the company were compelled to accept
the act under modifications, by compromise with their opponents, would not entitle plaintiff to his stipulated reward.
3.peBy the stipulati ons of his contract he is estopped from
eruit, as his whole compensation
claming under a quantu
depended on success in obtaining certain specified legislation,
which he acknowledged he had failed to achieve.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore afirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice Catron, Mr. Justice Daniel, and Mr. Justice Campbell, dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON said that he concurred with his brovoL. xvI.

29

SUPREME COURT
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

ther, Mr. Justice Campbell, in the opinion which he was about
to pronounce, and had authorized him so to state. But inasmuch as reference had been made in the opinion of the court,
which had just been delivered, to an opinion which he himself
had given in the case of Rundle v. the Delaware and Raritan
Canal Company, 14 Howard, 80, he felt it to be a duty to himself to remark, that he had at all times denied that a corporation
is a citizen within the sense of the Consti-ution, and so he had
declared in the opinion just. referred to. He had there stated
the necessity of the existence of jurisdiction in the federal
courts as against corporations, but held that citizenship of the
president and directors must be averred to be of a difbrent
State from the other party to the suit; witiout which averment,
this court could not proceed, according to the settled practice
of fifty years standing. Letson's case (which is the foundation
of the new doctrine) contained the necessary averment within
the settled practice, and consequently it was not necessary to
give a separate opinion in that case.
He remarked, further, that according to the assumption that a
corporation was bLcitizen of the State where it was incorporated,
a company having a charter for a railroad. in two States (and
there were many such) might sue citizens of the State and
place where the president and directors resided, averring fhat the
company was a citizen of the other State, and vice versoa. In
such case the corporation could sue in every federal court in the
Union.
11r. Justice DANIEL.
From the opinion just delivered I must declare my dissent.
In the settlement of the discreditable controversy between the
parties to this cause, I take no part. If I (lid, I should probably
say that it is a case without merits, either in the plaintiff or in
the defendants, and that in such a case they should be dismissed
by courts of justice to settle their dispute by some standard
which is cognate to the transaction in which they have been
engaged.
Mly participation in this case has reference to a far different
and more important ingredient involved in the opinion just
announced, namely, the power of this court to adjudicate this
cause consistently, with a just obedience to that authority from
which, and from which alone, their being and their every power
are derived.
Having in former instances, and particularly in the case of the
Rundle v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, endeavored
to expose the utter want of jurisdiction in the courts of the
United States over causes in which corporations shall be parties

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

339

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

either as plaintiffs or defendants, I hold it to be unnecessary
in this place to repeat or to enlarge upon the positions maintained in the case above mentioned, as they are presented in
14 Howard, 96. Indeed, from any real necessity for enforcing
the general fundamental proposition contended for by me in
the case of Rundle and the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, namely, that under the second section of the third article
of the Constitution, citizens only, that is to say men, material,
social, moral, sentient beings, must be parties, in order to give
jurisdiction to the federal courts, I am wholly relieved by the
virtual, obvious, and inevitable concessions, comprised in the
attempt now essayed, to carry the provision of the Const'tution
beyond either its philological, technical, political, or vulgar acceptation. For in no one step in the progress of this attempt,
is it denied that a corporation is not and cannot be a citizen,
nor that a citizen does not mean a corporation, nor that the
assertion of a power by an individual outside of the corporation, and interfering with and controlling its organization and
functions, (whatever might be the degree of interest owned by
that individual in the corporation,) would be incompatible with
the existence of the corporat6 body itself. Nothing of this
kind is attempted. But an effort is made to escape from the
effect of these concessions, by assumptions which leave them
in all their force, and show that such concessions and assumptions cannot exist in harmony with each other.
Thus it has been insisted that a corporation, created by a
State, can have no being or faculties beyond the limits of that
State; and if its president and officers reside within that State
such a conjuncture will meet and satisfy the predicament laid
down by the Constitution.
The want of integrity, in this argument, is exposed by the
following questions:
1. Does the restriction of the corporate body within particular
geographical limits, or the residence of its officers within those
limits, render it less a corporation, or alter its nature and legal
character in any degree?
2. Does the restriction of the corporate faculties within given
bounds, necessarily or by any reasonable presumption, imply
that the interest of its stockholders, either in its property or its
acts, is confined to the same limits? If it does, then a change
of residence by officers, agents, or stockholders, or a transfer of
a portion of the interests of the latter, would.destroy the qualification of citizenship depending upon locality. If it would not
have this effect, then this anomalous citizen may possess the
rights of both plaintiff'and defendant, nay, by a sort of plural
being or ubiquity, may be a citizen of every State in the Union,

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

may even be a State and a citizen of the same State at the
same time.
Again it has been said, that the Constitution has reference
merely to the interests of those who may have access to the
federal courts; and that provided those interests can be traced,
or presumed to have existence in persons lesiding in different
States, it cannot be required that those by whom such interests
are legally held and controlled, or represented, should be alleged
or proved to be citizens, or should appear in that character as
parties upon the record. In reply to this proposition it may be
asked, upon what principle any one can be admitted into a
court of justice apart from the interest he may possess in the
matter in controversy; and whether it is not that interest alone
and the position he holds in relation thereto, which can give
him access to any court? But, again, the language of the Constitation refers expressly and conclusively to the civil or political
character of the party litigant, and constitutes that character
the test of his capacity to sue or be sued in. the courts of the
United States.
In .gtrict accordance with this doctrine has been the interpretation of the Constitution from the early, and what may in some
sense be called the cotemporaneous interpretation of that instrument, an interpretation handed down in an unbroken series
of decisions, until crossed and disturbed by the anomalous ruling
in the case of Letson v. The Louisville Railroad Company.
Beginning with the case of Bingham v. Cabot, in the 3d of
Dallas, 382, and running through the cases of Turner v. The
Bank of North America, 4 Dallas, 8; Turner's Admr. v. Enrille, lb. 7; Mossman v. Higginson, lb. 12; Abercrombie v.
Dupuis, 1 Cranch, 343; Wood v. Wagnon, 2 Ib. 1; Copron v.
Van Noorden, 2 Tb. 126; Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3 lb. 267;
The Bank-of the United States v. Deveaux, 5 Ib. 61; Hodgson
v. Bowerbank, 5 lb. 303; The Corporation of New Orleans
v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91; Sullivan v. The Fulton Steamboat
Company, 6 Wheat. 450 -the doctrine is ruled and reiterated,
that in order to maintain an action in the courts of the United States, under the clause in question, not only must the
parties be citizens of different States, but that this character
must be averred explicitly, and must appear upon the record,
and .cannot be inferred from residence or locality, however expressly stated, and that the failure to make the required averment will be fatal to the jurisdiction of a federal court, either
original or appellate; and is not cured by the want of a plea or
of a formal exception in any other form. But the decisions
have not stopped at this point; they have ruled that to come
within the meaning of the Constitution, the cause of action

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

341

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

must have existed ab orine between citizens of different States,
and that the article in question cannot be evaded by a transfer
of rights which, by their primitive and intrinsic character, were
not cognizable in the courts of the United States as between
citizens of different States. See Turner v. The Bank of North
America, already cited, and the cases of Montalet v. Murray, 4
Cranch, 46; and Gibson v. Chew, 16 Peters, 315. It is remarkable to perceive how prerfectly the case of Turner v. The Bank
of North America covers that now under consideration, and
how strongly and emphatically it rebukes the effort to claim by
indirect and violent construction, powers for the federal courts
which not only have never been delegated to them, nor implied
by the silence of the Constitution, but still more powers assumed
Jn defiance of its express inhibition. In the case last mentioned,
the plaintiffs were well described as citizens of Pennsylvania,
suing Turner and others, who were properly described as citizens of North Carolina, upon a promissory note made by the
defendants, and payable to Biddle and Company, and which,
by assignment, became the property of the plaintiffs. Biddle
& Co. were not otherwise described than as "using trade and
partnership" at Philadelphia or North Carolina. Upon an exception upon argument, taken for the first time in this court,
Ellsworth, Chief Justice, pronounced its decision in these
words: "A Circuit Court is one of limited jurisdiction, and has
cognizance not of causes generally, but only of a few specially
circumstanced, amounting to a small proportion of the cases
which an unlimited jurisdiction would embrace. And the fair
presumption is, (not as with regard to a,court of general jurisdiction, that a cause is within its jurisdiction unless the contrary appears, but rather) that a cause is without its jurisdiction
till the contrary appears.
This renders it necessary, inasmuch as the proceedings of
no court can be valid farther than its jurisdiction appears or can
be presumed, to set forth upon the record of a circuit court, the
facts or circumstances which give it jurisdiction, either expressly
or in such manner as to render them certain by legal intendment. Amongst those circumstances it is necessary, where the
defendant appears to be a citizen of one State, to show that
the plaintiff is a citizen of some other State, or an ali6n; or if,
as in the present case, the suit be upon a promissory note by an
assignee, to show that the original promisee is so, for by a
special provision of the statute it is his description as well as
that of the assignee, which effectuates the jurisdiction; but
here the description given of the promisee only is, that he used
trade at Philadelphia or North Carolina; which, taking either
place for that where he used trade, contains no averment that
29*

342

SUPREME

COURr.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

he was a citizen of a State other than that of North Carolina.
or an alien, nor any thing which by lEgal intendment can
amount to such aln averment." Let it be remembered, that the
statute alluded to by Chief Justice Ellsworth is nothing more
nor less than an assertion in terms of the second section of the
third article of the Constitution; and it mnay then be asked,
what becomes of this awkward attempt to force upon both the
Constitution and statute a construction which the just meaning
of both absolutely repels? Every one must be sensible that the
seat of a man's business, of his daily pursuits and occupations,
must probably, if not necessarily, be the place of his residence;
yet here we find it expressly ruled, that such a commorancy by
no just legal intendment any more than by express language,
constitutes him a citizen of that community or State in which
lie may happen to be then residing or transacting his business;
moreover, it is familiar to every lawyer or other person conversant with history, that during the periods of greatest jealousy
and strictness of the English polity, aliens .were permitted, for
the convenience and advancement of comnierce, to reside within
the realm and to rent and occupy real property; but it never
was pretended that, such permission or residence clothed them
with the character or with a single right pertaining to a British
subject.
Nor has the doctrine ruled by the cases just cited been applied
to proceedings at law alone, in which a peculiar strictness or an
adherence to what may seem to partake of form is adhered to.
The overruling authority of the Constitution has been regarded
by this court as equally extending it-self to equitable as to legal
rights and proceedings in the courts of the United States. Thus
in the case of Course v. Stead in 4 Dallas, 22. That was a
suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Georgia, in which it was deemed necessary to
make a new party by a supplemental bill. This last bill recited
the original bill, and all the orders which had been made in the
cause, but omitted to allege the citizenship vi -Et newly made
defendant. In this case, when brought here by appeal fiom
the court below, this -court say, in reference to the omission to
aver the citizenship of the new party, "it is unnecessary to
form or to deliver any opinion upon the merits of this cause;
let the decree of the Circuit Court be.reversed." The case of
Jackson v. Ashton, in 8 Peters, 148, is still more in point.
This also was a suit in equity. The caption of the bill was in
these words: "Thomas Jackson and otaers, citizens of the
State of Virginia v. The Rev. William E. Ashton, a citizen of
Pennsylvania." 'What said this court by its organ, Marshall,
Chief Justice, upon this state of the case? "The title or cap-

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

848

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

tion of the bill is no part of the bill, and does not -remove the
The bill and proobjection of the defects in the pleadings.
ceedings should state the citizenship of the parties to give the
court jurisdiction." In these last decisions must be perceived
the most emphatic refutation of this newly assumed version 'of
the Constitution, which affirms, that, although by th language
of that instrument citizenship and neither residence nor property, but citizenship, the civil and political relation or status
independently of either, is explicitly demanded, yet this requisition is fully satisfied by the presumption of a beneficiary
interest in property apart either from possession or right of possession or from any legal estate or title makes the interest thus
inferred equivalent -ith citizenship of the person to whom
interest is thus strangely imputed. Perhaps the most singular
circumstance attending the interpolation of this ne*ir doctrine
is the effort made to sustain it upon the rule stare decisis. After
the numerous and direct authorities before cited, showing the
inapplicability to this case of this rule, it-would have been
thought a' priori that the very last aid to be invoked in its support would be the maxim stare decisis. For this new class of
citizen corporations, incongruous as it must appear to,every
legal definition or conception, is not less incongruous nor less
nlovel to the relation claimed for it, or rather for its total want
It is
of relation to the settled adjudications of this court.
strictly a new creation, an alien and an intruder, and is at war
with almost all that has gone before it; and can trace its being
no farther back than the case of Letson v. The Louisville Railroad Company.
The principle stare decisis,'adopted by the courts in order to
give stability to private rights, and to prevent the mischiefs incident to mutations for light and insufficient causes, is doubtless
a wholesome rule of decision when derived from legitimate and
competent authority, and when limited to the necessity which
shall have demanded its application;. but, like every other rule,
must be fruitful of ill when it shaU be wrested to the suppression of reason or duty, or to the arbitrary maintenance of injustice, of palpable error, or of absurdity. Such an application
of this rule must be necessarily to rivet upon justice, upon social
improvement and happiness, the fetters of ignorance, of wrong,
and usurpation. It is a rule which, whenever applied, should be
derived from a sound discretion, a discretion having its origin
in the regular and legitimate powers of those who assert it. It
can never be appealed to in derogation or' for the destruction of
the supreme authority, of that authority which created and
which holds in subordination the agents whose functions it
has defined, and bounded by clear and plainly-marked limits.

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

Wherever the Constitution commands, discretion terminates.
Considerations of policy or convenience, if ever appealed to, I
had almost said if ever imagined in derogation of its mandate,
become an offence. Beyond the Constitution or. the powers it
invests, every act must be a violation of duty, an usurpation.
There cannot be a more striking example than is instanced
by the case before us, of the mischiefs that must follow from
disregarding the language, the plain words, or what may be
termed the body, the corpus, of the Constitution, to ramble in
pursuit of some ignis fatuus of construction or implication,
called its spirit or its intention, - a spirit n'ot unfrequently about
as veracious, and as closely connected with the Constitution, as
are the spirits of the dead with tho revolving tables and chairs
which, by a fashionable metempsychosis of the day, they are
said to animate.
The second section of the third article of the Constitution
prescribes citizenship as an indispensable requ site for obtaining
admission to the courts of the United States-, prescribes it in
language too plain for misapprehension. This court, in the case
of Deveaux and the Bank of the United States, yielded obedience, professedly at any rate, to the constitutional mandate: for
they asserted the indispensable requisite of citizenship; but in
an unhappy attempt to reconcile that obedience with an ufiwarranted claim to power, they utterly demolished the legal rights,
nay, the very existence of one of the parties to the controversy,
.thereby takirng from that party all standing or capacity to appear
in any court. This was ignis fatuus, Na. 1. This was succeeded by the case of Letson v. The Cincinnati and Louisville
Railroad Company, in which, by a, species of judicial resurrection, this party (the corporation) was deterri,raised up again, but
was not restored to the full possession of life and vigor, or to the
use of all his members and faculties, nor even allowed the privilege of his original name; but semianimate, and in virtue of
some rite of judicial baptism, though "curtailed of his natural
(mensions," he is rendered equal to a release from the thraldom
of colistituti6nal restriction, and made competent at any rate to
the power of commanding the action of the federal courts.
This is ignis fatuus, No. 2. Next in order is the case of Marshall v. The'Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. This is
indeed th6 chef d'lavre amongst the experiments to command
the action of the spirit in defiance of tha body of the Constitution.
It is compelled, from the negation of that instrument, by some
necromantic influence, potent as that by which, as we read, the
resisting Pythia was constrained to yield her vaticinations of
an occult futurity. For in this case is manifested the most en-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

345

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

tire disregard of any and every qualification, political, civil, or
local. This company is not described as a citizen or resident
of 'any State; nor as having for its members the citizens of any
State; nor as a quasi citizen; nor as having any of the rights
of a citizen; nor as residing or being located in any State, or
in any other place. No intimation of its "whereabout" is
alluded to. It is said to have been incorporated by the State
of Maryland ; but whether the State of Maryland had authority
to fx its locality or ever directed that locality, and whether
that be in the moon or ia terra incog-nita, is no where disclosed.
It is said that because this company was incorporated by the
Legislature of Maryland, we may conjecture, and are bound to
conjecture, that it is situated in Maryland, and must possess all
the qualifications appertaining to a citizen of Maryland to sue
or be sued in the courts of the United States; and this inference
we are called upon to deduce, in opposition to the pleadings,
the proofs, and the arguments, all of which demonstrate, that this
corporation claims to extend its property its powers, and operations, and of course its locality, over a portion of the State of
Virginia, and that it was in reference to its rights and operations
within the latter State, that the present controversy had its
origin.
Thus does it appear to me that this court has been led on
from dark to darker, until at present it is environed and is
beaconed onward by varying and deceptive gleams, calculated
to end in a deeper and more dense obscurity. In dread of the
precipices to which they would conduct me, I am unwilling
to trust myself to these rambling lights; and if I cannot have
reflected upon my steps the bright and cheering day-spring of
the Constitution, I feel bound nevertheless to remit no effort to
halt in what, to my apprehension, is the path that terminates in
ruin. And in considering the tendencies and the results of this
progress, there is nothing which seems to me more calculated
to hasten them than is the too evidently prevailing disposition
to trench upon the barrier which, in the creation by the several
States of the federal government, they designed to draw around
and protect their sovereign authority and their social and private rights; and to regard and tieat with affected derision every
effort to arrest any hostile approach, either indirectly or openly,
to the consecrated precincts of that barrier. It is indeed a sad
symptom of the downward progress of political morals, when any
to the Constitution shall fail to "give
;ppeal
us pause," and to

suggest the necessity for solemn reflection. Still more fearful
is the prevalence of the disposition, either in or out of office, to
meet the honest or scrupulous devotion to its commands with a
sneer, as folly unsuited to the times, and condemned by that

SUPREME COURT.
Marshall v. Baltim:re and Ohio Railroad Company.

new-born wisdom which measures the Constitution c..y by its
own superior and infallible standard of policy and convenience.
By the disciples of this new morality. it seems to be thought
that the mandates or axioms of the Constitution, when found
obstructing the way to power, and when they cannot be overstepped by "truth or logic, may be conveniently turned and
shunned under the denomination of abstractions or refinements;
and the loyal supporters of those mandates may be borne down
under the reproach of a narrow prejudice or fanaticism incapable of perceiving through the letter, and, in contradiction of
the language of the charter, its true spiri' and intent; and as
being xholly behind the sagacity and requirements of ihe age.
We cannot, however, resist the disposition to ask of those
whose expanded and more pervading view can pene'rate beyond
the palpable form of the charter, what it is they mean to convey
by the term abstraction,which is found so well adapted to their
purposes? .We would, with becoming moesty, inquire whether
every axiom or precept, either in politics or ethics, or in any
other science, is not an abstraction ? Whether truth itself,
whether justice or common honesty is not an abstraction ? And
we yould farther ask those who so deal with what they call
abstractions, whether they design to assail all general precepts
and definitions as incapable of becoming the fixed and. fundamental basis of rights or of duties. The philosophy of these
expositions may easily embrace the rejection of the decalogue
itself, and might be particularly effectual in reference to that
injunction which forbids the coveting of l that appertains to
our neighbor. The Constitution itself is nothing more than
an enumeration of general abstract rules, promulged by the
several States, for the guidance and control of their creature or
agent, the federal government, which for their exclusive benefit
they were about to call into being. Apet from these abstract
rules the federal government can have no functions and no
existence. All its attributes are strictly derivative, and any
and every attempt to transcend.the foundations (those prosciibed abstiactions) on which its existence depends, is an
attempt ai anarchy, violence, and usurlation. Amongst the
most dangerous means, perhaps, of accomplishing this usurpation, because its application is noiseless whilst it is persevering,
is the habitual interference, for reasons entirely insufficient, by
the federal authorities with the governments of the several
States; and this too most commonly under the strange (I had
almost called it the preposterous) pretext of guarding the people
of the States against their own governments, constituted of, and
administered by, their own fellow-citizens, bound to them by
the sympathies arising from a'community or identity of interests,

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

347

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

from intimate intercourse, and selected by and responsible to
themselves. Or it may be said, under the excuse of protecting
the people 6f the States against themselves, converting the
federal government in reference to the States into one grand
commission, "D e lnatico inquirendo." The effect of this pracfice is to reduce the people of the States and their governments
under an habitual subserviency to federal power; and gives to
the latter what ever has been and ever must be, the result of
intervention by a foreign, a powerful, and interested mediator,
the lion's share in every division. For myself I would never
hunt with the lion. I would anxiously avoid his path; 'and as
far as possible keep him from my own; always bearing in mind
ihe pregnant reply told in the Apologue as having been made to
his gracious invitation to visit him in his lair; that although in
the path that conducted to its entrance, innumerable footprints
were to be seen, yet in the same path there could be discerned
"iulla vestigia retrorsurn." The vortex of federal incroachment is of a capacity ample enough for the engulfing and
retention of every power; and inevitably must a catastrophe
like this ensue, so long as a justification of power, however
obtained, and the end of every hope of escape or redemption
can, to the sickening and desponding sense, in the iron rule of
stare decisis, be proclaimed. A rule which says to us, "The
abuse has been already put in practice; it has, by practice
merely, become sanctified; and may therefore be repeated at
pleasure." The promulgation of a doctrine like this does indeed cut off all hope of redress, of escape, or of redemption,
unless one may be looked for, however remote, in a single
remedy - that sharp remedy to be applied by the true original
sovereignty abiding with the States of this Union, namely, a
rceorganization of existing .institutions, such as shall give assurance that if in their definition and announcement their rights
can, by their appointed agents, be esteemed as 'abstractions
merely, yet in the concrete, that is, in the exercise and enjoyment, these rights are real-and substantive, and may neither be
impaired nor denied.
My opinion is, that this cause should have been dismissed
by the Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction, and should now
be remanded to that court with instruction for its dismission.
Aifr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from that portion of the opinion of the court which
affirms the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this case. The
question 'involves a construction of a clause in the Constitution,
and arises under circumstances which make it proper that I
should record the reasons for the dissent.

348

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

The conditions under which'corporations might be parties to
suits in the courts of the United States engaged the attention
of this court not long after its organization. At the session of the
court, in 1809, three cases exhibited questions of jurisdiction in
regard to them, under three distinct aspects. The Bank of the
United States v. Deveaux, was the case of a corporation plaintiff, whose corporators were described as citizens of Pennsylva:nia suing a citizen of Georgia in the Federal Court of that State.
Tile case of Wood v. Maryland Insurance Company, was that
of a corporation defendant, whose corporators were properly
described, sued in the State of its charter. And the case of
Zjope Insurance Company v. Boardman, was that of a "legally
incorporated body," sued in the State from which it derived its
charter, and -as "legally established," but of whose corporators
there was no description, 5 Cranch, 67, 61, 78.
The cases were argued together by coumel of eninent ability,
with preparation and care, and were decided by the court- zith
much deliberation and solemnity. Chief Justice Marshall declared the opinion of the court to be "that the invisible, intangible,
and artificial being, the mere legal entity, a corporation aggregate,
is certainly not a citizen, and consequently cannot sue or be sued
in the courti of the United States unless the rights of the members in this respect can be exercised in the corporate name."
As it appeared in the two cases first mentioned that the corporators might sue and be sued in the courts of the United States
under the circumstances of the cases, the court on those cases treated them "as a company of individuals whD, in transacting their
joint concerns, had used a legal name," and for the reason "that
the right of a corporation to litigate depended upon the character (as to citizenship) of the members which compose it, and
that a body corporate cannot be a citizen within the meaning
of the Constitition. 'The judgment in the last case was reversed
for want of jurisdiction."
In Sullivan v. Fulton Steamboat Company, 6 Wheat.'460,
the defendant was described as a body corporate, incorporated
by the Legislature of the State of New York, for the purpose of
navigating, by steamboats, the waters of East liver or Long
Island Sound, in that State." This corporation was sued in
Circuit
determinedInthatthe
thisthe
court
appeal, of
New York.
Court
had noUpon
jurisdiction
defendant.
Brithaupt
v.
The Bank of Georgia, that corporation
was sued in that State,
but
this court certified "that as the bill did not aver that the
corporators
of the Bank of Georgia aae ci'izens of the Stae of
Georgia,
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case." In
The Vicksburg
Bank v. Slocomb, 14 Pet. 60, a corporation was
sued by a citizen of a different State, in the State of its char-

DECEMBER TERMA,

1853.

349

3Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

ter, but it appearing by plea, that two of its corporators were
citizens of the same State as the plaintiff, this court declined
jurisdiction 'for the federal tribunals. This was in accordance with the circuit decisions, 4 Wash. C. C. 597; 3 Sumn.
472 ; 1 Paine; and their doctrine was repeated in rvine v. Lowrey, 14 Pet. 293. Such was the condition of the precedents in
this court when, in 1844, the case of Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson, 2 How. 497, arose. The case was one of a
New York plaintiff suing a South Carolina corporation, in that
State, and describing its corporators as citizens. It appeared by
plea, among other things, not material to the. present discussion,
"that two of the corporators were citizens of North Carolina."
In irnilar pleas, before this, it had appeared that the corporators belonged to the State of the adverse party, and consequently
were within the exclusion of the eleventh secti6n of the Judiciary
Act of 1789. In the present case the plaintiff was a citizen
from a different State from these corporators. The court notices this fact as a peculiarity. " The point," they say, "has
never before been under the consideration of this court. We
are not aware that it ever occurred in either of the circuits until
it was made in this case. It has not then been directly ruled in
any case." The court proceeded then to decide that there was
jurisdiction under the Constitution, for the parties were citizens
of different States, and that the Judiciary Act did not exclude it.
Thus was this point in the plea disposed of, upon grounds which
unsettled none of the cases before cited. The court avows this,
and says, "that the case might b3 safely put upon these reasonings," conducted "in deference to the doctrines of former cases."
It then prbeeeds, "but there is a broader ground, upon which
we desire to be understood upon which we altogether rest
our present judgment, although it might be maintained upon
the narrower ground already suggested. It is, that a corporation
created by and doing business in a particular State, is to be
deemed, to all intents and purposes, as a person, although an
artificial person, an inhabitant of the same State, for the purposes of its incorporation, capable of being treated as a citizen
of that State, as much as a natural person."
Since the decision of Letson's case, there have been cases of
corporations, suing in the federal courts beyond the State of
their location, and suing and being sued in the State of their
location, in which this question might have been considered in
this court. But there was no argument at the bar, and no notice
of it in the opinion of the court. In one of these, one of the six
judges who assisted in the decision of Letson's case expressed
strongly a disapprobation of its doctrine, while another limited
VOL. XVI.

so

SUTRETIE COURT.
Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Rail-oad Company.

the conclusions of the court to the decision of the case then before it. Rundle v. Delaware Canal Company, 14 How. 80.
The case of the Indiana Rairoad Company v. Michigan Railroad Company, 15 How. 233 presented the question now before
us, and at that time I was favorable to itR reexamination; but
this was expressly waived by the court, and the case decided
upon another question of jurisdiction.
In the case of the Methodist Church, there was but one corporation before the court as a party. The two corporators who
composed that were defendants in their corporate, as well as
individual capacity. The citizenship of all the parties to the record was legally declared; and the parties to the record legally
*represented, all the interests of the voluntary association at issue.
In reference to jurisdiction, Justice Washinton says, "the cases
of a voluntary association, trustees, executors, partners, legatees,
distributees, parishioners, and the like, are -totally dissimilar to a
corporation, and this. dissimilarity arises fiom the peculiar character of a corporation, (4 Wash. C. C. R. 595,) and this is clear
by the decisions of this court. 4 Cranch, :06; 8 Wheat. 642.
I have been thus specific in the statement of the precedents
in the court, that it may appear that this dissent involves no attempt to innovate upon the doctrines of the court, but the contrary, to maintain those sustained by time and authority in all
their integrity.
The declaration before us describes the defendant "as a body
corporate by act of the General Assembly of Maryland," and corresponds therefore with the cases cited from 5 Cranch, 57;
.6 Wheat. 4.50; 1 Pet. 238; and in those cases jurisdiction was
first questioned and disclaimed in this court. These cases were
not cited in Letson's case, and are decisive of this.
If we search the record for facts to sustain the jurisdiction,
we can collect that the defendant has been recognized as a body
corporate by the Legislature of Virginia, is commorant, and
transacts business there by its authority, has for its corporators
citizens and a city of that State, and that -the plaintiff is. also a
"citizen of Virginia. If these facts are considered with reference
to the question of jurisdiction, all the cases decided by this court
on this subject have principles which would exclude it. Even
Letson's case prescribes, that the corporation should carry on its
business in the State of its charter, and that case hardly contemplated an estoppel, such as is described in the opinion of
the court.
I am compelled to consider this case as uncontrolled by the
d'eclaration of doctrine in Letson's case; nor do I consider the
cases in which the decision of the question has been waived as
obligatory. I cannot look for the conclusions of this court or

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

351

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

any of its members, except from the public, authorized and responsible opinions delivered here in cases legitimately calling for
them. For this conclusion I have the sanction of the highest
authority. Chief Justice Marshall, replying to the argument
that corporations under no circumstances, and by no averment,
could be a party to a suit in the courts of the United States,
says "repeatedly has this court decided cases betwen a corpotion and an individual withdut feeling a doubt of its jurisdiction,"
and adds, "those decisions are not cited as authority, for they
were made without a consideration of the particular point."
The inquiry now presented is, shall I concur in a judgrfent
which removes the ancient landmarks of the court, in reference
to its jurisdiction, and which it established with care and
solemnity, and maintained for so long a period with consistency
and circumspection? I am compelled to reply in the negative.
A corporation is not a citizen. It-may be an artificial person,
a moral person, a juridical person, a legal entity, a faculty, an
intangible, invisible being; but Chief Justice* Marshall employed no metaphysical refinement, nor subtlety, nor sophism,
but spoke the common sense, "th e universal understanding," as
he calls it, of the people, when he declared the unanimous judgment of this court, "that it certainly is not a citizeib."
Nor were corporations within the contemplation of the framers
of the Constitution when they delegated a jurisdiction over controversies between the citizens of different States. The citation
by the court frbm the Federalist, proves this. It is said by the
writers of that work, "that it may be esteemed as the basis o
union that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the immunities and privileges of citizens of the several States."
And if it be a just principle that every government ought to
possess the means of executing its own provisions, by its own
authority, it wxill follow.that, in order to the inviolable maintenance of that equality of immunities and privileges to Which
citizens of the Union will be entitled, the national judiciary
ought to preside in all cases in which one State or its citizens
are opposed to another State or its citizens." Thus to administer the rights and privileges of citizens of the different
States, held under a constitutional guaranty, when brought
into collision or controversy -rights
and immunities derived
from the constitutional compact, and forming one of its fundamental conditions, was the object of this jurisdiction. The
commonplace, that it resulted as a concession to the possible
fears- and apprehensions of suitors, that justice might not be impartially administered in State jurisdiction, soothing as it is to
the official sensibilities of the federal courts, furnishes no satisfactory explanation of it.

SUPREME

COURT.

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

Hence the interpretation of that instrum(.nt which transferred
to the artificial persons created by State ,egislation, the rights
or privileges of the corporators, derived from the Constitution of
the United States, as citizens of the Union, and held independently and without any relation to their rights as corporators was, to say no more, a broad and liberal interpretation. Nor did
the court in Deveaux's case affect the least self-denial or diffidence in making the bounds of its power. It declared that
"the duties of the court, to exercise a jurisdiction where it-is
conferred, and not to usurp it where it is not conferred, are of
equal obligation," and in this spirit rejected a jurisdiction over
a case exactly like the present.
The doctrine of the court in Earle's case, 13 Peters, 519, and
Runyan's case, 14 Peters, 1-22, to the result that corporations
have no extraterritorial rights, but that the L.egal exercise of their
faculties, extraterritorially, was the effect of a rule of comity
among the States, dependent upon their policy and convenience,
and revocable at their pleasure, was in harmony with these
judgments of the court, and the constituticnal principles I have
stated. The administration of the rules of domestic policy
adopted by the several States, in reference to these artificial
creatures of a domestic legislation, belonged to State jurisdictions, and'were ascertainable from its laws and judicial inter.
pretations. But when, from the later ease of Letson, it was
supposed that these legal entities had a status which admitted
them to the federal tribunals by a constitutional recognition,
the inquiry at once arose, for what purpose was this privilege
held ? The interdependence between the sections of the Constitution which defined the privileges and. immunities of citizens of the Union, and the jurisdiction of the federal cQurts in
controversies between citizens of the States, was known and
felt. It was argued that thd capacity to sue was only a consequent of the right to contract, to hold property, and to perform
civil acts. They commenced, therefore, an agitation of the
State courts for their rights as "citizens of the Union." The
Supreme Court of Kentucky, (12 B. Mon. 212,) repelling these
pretensions and exposing their perilous character, thus refers to
Letson's case, which had been relied on for their support:
"There are some expressions in that opinion which indicate
that corporations may be regarded as citizens to all intents and
purposes. But in saying this, the court went far beyond the
question before them, and to which it may be assumed that
their attention was particularly directed2 So, too, in New
Jersey, 3 Zabris. 429, it was argued that the existence of the
extraterritorial rights of corporations "is not now a question of
comity in the United States, but a constitutional principle incapable of being altered by State legislation."

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

353

Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Rai-lroad Company.

And opinions from jurists of preeminence in Massachusetts
and New York were laid before the court to sustain the argument founded upon the relaxing doctrines of this court.
Thus the introduction of new subjects of doubt, contest, and
contradiction, is the fruit of abandoning the constitutional landmarks.
Nor can we tell when the .mischief will end. It may be safely
assumed that no offering could be made to the wealthy, powerful, and ambitious corporations of the populous and commercial
States of the Union so valuable, and none which would so
serve to enlarge the influence of those States, as the adoption, to
its full import, of the conclusion, "that to all intents and purposes, for the objects of their incorporation, these artificial persons are capable of being treated as a citizen as much as a
natural person."
The Supreme Court of Kentucky sqys, truly, "The apparent
reciprocity of the power would prove to be a delusion. The
competition for extraterritorial advantages would but aggrandize
the stronger to the disparagement of the weaker States. Resistance and retaliation would lead to conflict and confusion,
and the weaker States must either submit to havd their policy
controlled, their business monopolized, their domestic institutions reduced to insignificance, or the peace and harmony of the
States broken up and destroyed." To this consummation this
judgment of the court is deemed to be a progress. The word
"citizen," in American constitutins, state and federal, had a
clear, distinct, and recognized meaning, understood by the com.
mon sense, and ierpreted accordingly -bythis court through a
series of adjudications.
The court has contradicted that interpretation, and applied to
it rules of construction which will undermine every limitation
in the Constitution, if universally adopted. A single instance"
of the kind awakens apprehension, for it is regarded as a link
in a chain of repetitions. "
The litigation before this court, during this term, suffices to
disclose the complicati6n, difficulty, and danger of the controversies that must arise before these anomalous institutions shall
have attained their legitimate place in the body politic. Their
revenues and establishments mock at the frugal and stinted
conditions of State administration; their pretensions and demands are sovereign, admitting impatiently interference by State,
legislative authority. And from the present case we learn that
disdainful of "the careless arbiters" of State interests, they
are ready "to hover about them" in "efficient and vigilant
activity," to make of them a prey; and, to accomplish this, to
employ corrupting and polluting appliances.
.90o*

SUPREME

COURT.

Homer v. Brown.

I am not willing to strengthen or to enlarge the connections
between the courts of the United States and these litigants. I
can consent to overturn, none of the precedents or principles of
this court to bring them within their control or influence. I
consider that the maintenance of the Constitution, unimpaired
and unaltered, a greater good than could possibly be effected
by the extension of the jurisdiction of this court, to embrace
any class either of cases or of persons.
Mr. Justice Catron authorizes me to say that he concurs in
the conclusions of this opinion.
Our opinion is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court should
be affirmed for the want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

FITZ HENRY HoMER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GEORGE L.
BRowN.
in April, 1815, William Brown, of Massachusetts, made his will by which he made
sundry bequests to his youngest son, Samuel. One of them was of the rent or
improvement of the store and wharf privilege of the Stoddard property, during
his natural life, and the premises to descend to his heirs. After two other similar
bequests, the will then gave to Samuel, absolutely, a share in certain property when
turned into money.
In May, 1816, the testator made a codicil, revoking that pvrt of the will wherein any
part of the estate was devised or bequeathed to SamuSfl, and in lieu thereof, be.
queathing to him only the income, interest, or rent. At his decease it was to go
to the legal heirs.
Under the circumstances of this will and codicil; the revoking part applied only to
such share of the estate as was given to Samuel, absolutely; leaving in the Stoddard property a life estate in Samuel, with a remainder to his heirs, which remainder was protected by the laws of Massachusetts until Sanuel's death.
At the death of Samuel the title to the property became -ested in fee .simple in the
two children of Samuel.
One of these -children had a right to bring a real action by a writ of right for his
undivided moiety of 'the property.
The writ of right was abolished by Massachusetts, in 1840, but was previously adopted as a process by the acts of Congress of 1789 and 1792. Its repeal by Massachusetts did not repeal it as a process in the Circuit Court of the United States.
A judgment of nen pros given by a. State court in a case between the same parties,
for the same property, was not a sufficient plea in bar to prevent a fecovery under
the writ of right,; nor was the agreement'of the plaintiff to submit his case to that

