SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet -et al. v. Perkins.

EDwARD

P.

FOURNIQUET

AND

AND WIFE, AND MARTIN NV.EWING

Wi'PE, APPELLANTS,

V. JOHN PERKINS.

Where a case in equity was referred to a Master, which came again before the court
upon exceptiobs to the Master's report, the court had a right to change its opinion
from that which it had exprcssed upon the interlocutory order, and to dismiss the
bill. All previous interlocutory orders were open for revision.

The decree of dismissal was right in itself, because it conformed to a deciqion of this
court in a branch of the same case, which decision w-as given in the interval between the interlocutory order and final decree of the Circuit Court.

TirIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern Dist-ict of Louisiana.
The controversy between the parties had been at several different times, in various shapes before this court, as will be seen
by reference to 6 Howard, 206, 7 Howard, 160, and 14 Howard,
313.
The case in 6 Howard was this: The Circuit Court had
decreed, on the 12th of April, 1847, that a community of acquests and gains had existed between Perkins and wife, during
the marriage, and that the present appellants, representing Mrs.
Perkins, were entitled to an account. Accordingly, the matter
was referred to a master to ascertain the landed property, and
to divide it and report an account. This was held by this court
to be an interlocutory order only, and not a final decree, and the
appeal was dismissed. 6 Howard, 208. The mandate sent from
this court, after reciting the decree or order appealed from, and
the reference to a master, concluded thus: " You therefore are
hereby commanded that such further proceedings be had in
said cause as, according to right and justice and the laws of
the United States, ought to be had, the kaid appeal notwith.
standing."
Under this mandate the master took up the reference, and
made a report awarding a large sum of money and a large
amount of land to Fourniquet and wife and Ewing and wife.
Both parties filed exceptions to the report. These exceptions
were before the court, upon argument, in February and March,
1852.
In the mean time, viz. at January term, 1849, the case of
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins was decided by this court as reported in 7 Howard, 160. The Circuit Court appeared to consider
this case as deciding the points involved in a different way from
that in which it had itself decided them when referring the case
to a master to state an account. Upon hearing the exceptions,
it therefore reversed the former decree, and dismissed the bill.
£he complainants appealed to this court.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

83

Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

It may be proper to mention that whilst this appeal was
pending another branch of the case reached this court, which is
reported in 14 Howard, 313.
The appeal was argued by lr. Henderson,for the appellants,
and by MJIr. Benjamrin and Mr. olinson, for the appellee.
Mir. Henderson contended that it was entirely irregular to
dismis the bill, when the only point before the court was the
exceptions to the master's report: and that, even if such an
order was proper at. such a time, still the reasons upon which
it was founded, were insufficient. He then proceeded to distin-uish the case from that in 7 Howard, and went into a minute examination of it upon the merits. The first proposition is
the only one which it is thought necessary to insert in this
report, namely:
We concede the point as not debatable, that an interlocutory decree, before enrolment, or before sanctioned on appeal,
(where appealable,) continues subject to the chancellor's power,
to review, amend, or set aside, at any time before final decree.
But a rightful power must be rightly exercised, or the power
becomes usurpation.
Now the exceptions only were at hearing before the court.
(See Ch. R. 83.) This "decretal order" had been enrolled, Rule
85. See 1 rez. R. 93; 1 Stark. Ev. 245.
The case, therefore, was in no attitude for a rehearing to be
entertained, certainly not at that time.
But a rehearing cannot be granted except on petition. 11
Ves. 602; Stor. Eq. PI., § 426 and n.; 17 Yes. 178; 19 Ch. R.
201; 3 Ed. Ch. 479, 480; 7 Paige, 382; Walk. Oh. R. 356;
2 Haywood's R. 175; 1 Paige's Ch. 39; 2 Hill, 156; and Ch.
Rule 88.
And as one petition for a rehearing was overruled in 1847, this
is a reason why a rehearing should not have been entertained
again; especially for the same cause. 16 Yes. 214; 3 Ed. Ch.
479, 480; Walk. Ch. R. 309.
Especially shall not a rehearing be allowed after the party
has proceeded to take an account before the master. 3 J. Ch.
R. 365, 366; 11 Yes. 602; 3 Barb. S. C. R. 232.
The case of Consequa v. Fanning, 3 J. Ch. 364, is not dissimilar to the case before the court, as it was there a decretal
order to account, and the defendants had attended the master;
and after report returned, filed petition for rehearing. It was
granted, but on stringent terms. See the case.
The case of Hunter v. Carmichael, 12 Sm. & AL Miss. Rep. 726,
is very like the present case, though less objectionable, where
the chancellor set aside an interlocutory decree (but did not dis-

SUPREME

COURT.

Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

miss the bill) without motion, petition, or other cause assigned,
or appearing on record. The case is carefully considered by
the Supreme Court, with its accustomed ability. In their opinion, they say:
"The order seems without any foundation to support it. No
petition is filed, no proofs-exhibited, no g:ound laid, no reasons
assigned, no excuse offered for delay, no cause of any kind
shown. ThiA seems to us not the exercise of a "sound judicial
discretion," but the exertion of power without legal warrant. If
this order be sustained, then the rights of the parties, in some degree, rest not upon fixed and established :ules of law, but upon
the varying opinions of the court. The parties could not know
on what to repose, and certain reliance on judicial proceedings
would be greatly diminished. We do not mean to say it is not
in the power of the Chancery Court to set aside an interlocutory
decree, but only that some cause must ba shown sufficient to
authorize the act. Where there is error upon the face of the
decree, or report under it, that is in itself sufficient ground for
the court to act on. But no such error appears in this case.
.....
The order setting aside the interlocutory decree without
cause, is erroneous. It is therefore reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings."
A very similar case is that of Moore v. Hilton, 12 Leigh's
Rep. 30. The court say that where new evidence is brought
forward as a ground to change an inferIccutory decree, the application must be made on motion, or notice to rehear the cause
on the new evidence, or by petition for rehearing.
The counsel for the defendant in error replied to this argument.
The counsel for appellants concedes that an interlocutory
decree continues subject to the chancellor's power to review,
amend, or set aside, at any time before final decree; but he
urges that the power must be rightfully exercised, or it becomes
usurpation.
Taking the position of the counsel as correct, the question
recurs, whether this power was rightfully exercised; and on his
own ftatement, connected with the record, it appears that the
court beard his argument on the merits, and became satisfied on
a review of its opinion, and on the authority of two cases decided since the interlocutory decree was rendered, that it. had
erred in its construction of the releases, and its decision on their
effect as a legal bar to the complainams' demand, and therefore
corrected its error and dismissed the complainants' bill. In this
view of the merits, the court below has sirc been sustained by
the opinion of this court in 14 Howard. If appellants' position be

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

85

Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

sustained, it would now be necessary to reverse the ilnal decree
of the lower court, and to send the case back with directions to
carry out the erroneous interlocutory decree to an erroneous
final decree, in order that this court might then reverse the
erroneous final decree rendered in accordance with its own
mandate, and restore the final decree which it had previously
reversed.
The complainants' brief, after urging the irregularity of the
action of the lower court in reversing its interlocutory decree,
is confined to reiterating the argument and authorities already
adduced in the case decided in 14 How. As the court has already passed judgment on the subject, we respectfully refer to
the argument for defendant, and the decision in that cause, as
conclusive of the present controversy.
M~r. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case came before the court some years ago, on an appeal
from an interlocutory, order of the Circuit Court, which stated
that the appellants were entitled to recover certain claims set
out in their bill, and directed an account to be taken by the
master. It is reported 6 How. 206. The appeal was dismissed,
upon the ground that an appeal would not lie from an interlocutory order, and the case was remanded to the court below,
with directions to proceed to a final decree. Upon receiving
this mandate the Circuit Court proceeded to take the account
upon the principles stated in its interlocutory order; and when
the report of the master came in, exceptions were taken to it on
both sides. At the argument of these exceptions, it appears that
the court reconsidered the opinion it had expressed on the merits in th6 interlocutory order; and believing that opinon to be
incorrect, dismissed the complainants' bill. The case now before
us is an appeal from that decree.
The decree is undoubtedly right. For it conforms to the opinions expressed by this court in relation to the matters now in
controversy in the case between Fourniquet and wife and the
present appellee, reported 7 How. 160; and again in the case
between these appellants and Perkins the appellee, in the case
reported in 14 How. 313. It is unnecessary to state here the
facts in the present case, or the matters in disputeas they are
fully set out in the cases referred to; and especially in the one
last mentioned. For, in that case, the parties and the matters
in dispute were the same with those now before the court.
,
The counsel for the appellants however objects to the decree
of dismissal, because it was made, at the argument upon the
exceptions to the master's report, and is contrary to the opinion
on the merits expressed by the court in its interlocutory order.
3
VOL. XVI.

SUPREME

COURT.

McCabe v. Worthington.

But this objection cannot be maintained. The case was at final
hearing at the argument upon the exceptions; and all of the
previous interlocutory orders in relation to the merits, were open
for revision, and under the control of the court. This court so
decided when the former appeal hereinbefore mentioned, was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. And if the court below, upon
further reflection or examination, changed its opinion, after passing the order, or found that it was in conflict with the decision
of this court, it was its duty to correct the error. The Circuit
Court on this occasion has properly done so, and the decree of
dismissal must be -affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause tame on to be heard, on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, be and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

EDWARD H. MC CAB E, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. LLOYD

D.

WORTH-

INGTON.

The act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March, 1807, (2 St. at L. 440,) declared that
all claims to land in Missouri should be void unless notice of the claim should be
filed with the Recorder of Land Titles, prior to the Ist. of July, 1808.
Hence, in the year 1824, a claim which had not been thus filed had no legal existence.
The act of the 26th May, 1824, (4 St. at L. 52,) author zing the institution of pro.
ceedings to try the validity of claims, did not reserve fiom sale lands, the claims to
which had not been filed as above.
Therefore, when the owner of such a claim filed his petition in 1824, which was decided against him; and he brought the case to this cot rt, which was decided in his
favor in 1836, bat in the mean time entries had been made for parts of the land,
the latter were the better titles.
Moreover, the act of May 24, 1828, (4 St. at L. 298,) provides that confirmations
and patents under the act of 1824 should only operate as a relinquishment on the
part of the United States. Therefore, the confirmaticn by this court in 1836 was
subject to this act.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
It was an action of ejeetment commer.ced by the plaintiff
against the defendant in the State Circuit Court of Missouri,
where the defendant had judgment, which, on appeal by the
plaintiff to the Supreme Court of the State of issouri, was
affirmed by that court.

