SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradler et a.

A mortgagor cannot redeem after a lapse of twenty years,
after forfeiture and possession, no interest having been paid
in the mean time, and no circumstances appearing to account
for th& neglect. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 'Wheat. 489. Where
the mortgagee brings his bill of foreclosure, the mortgage will,
after the same length of time, be presumed to have been discharged unless there be circumstances to rspel the presumption,
as payment of interest, a promise to pay, an acknowledgment
by the mortgagor that the mortgage is still existing, and the
like. Ib.
In every point of view in which the case may be considered,
it is clear that there is no ground of equity, on which the complainants can have relief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby aff rmed, with costs.

CHARLES B. CALVERT AND GEORGE I. CALVERT,
IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH H. BRADLEY AND BENJAMIN
TON.

PLAINTIFFS
MIDDLE-

F.

Where a lease was made by several owners of a house, reserving rent to cadh one in
proportion to his interest, and there was a covenant on the part of the lessee that Ie
would keep the premises in good repair and surrender them in like repair, this covenant was joint as respbets the lessors, and one of them (or two representing onl,
interest) cannot maintain an action for the breach of it by the lessee.
The question examined, whether a mortgagee of a leasehold interest, reintaining
out of possession, is liable upon the covenants of the lease. The Engli.-h and
American cases reviewed and compared with the decisions of this court upon kindred points. But the court abstains from an express lecision, which is rendere-l
unnecessary by the application of the principle first above mentioned to the cacw in
hand.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holder,
in and for the county of Washington.
It was an Action of covenant brought by the Calverts againf
Bradley and Middleton, who weie the assignees of the unexpire,
term and property in the house for the purpose of paying the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

581

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

creditors of the lessee. The lease was of the property called the
National Hotel, in Washington, owned as follows:
Shares.
George H. Calvert and Charles B. Calvert, jointly ....................
205
Roger C. Weightman ............................................
66
Philip Otterback .................................................
22
20
W illiam A. Bradley ................................................
Robert Wallach, represented by his guardian, Alexander Hunter .......... 2
Total shares ....................................................

315

All of the above named persons signed the lease.
The history of the case and the manner in which it came up
are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by M1r. Wylie, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
Mrt. Bradley and lfr. Lawrence, for the defendants.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error were
the following.
Two questions arise out of the record for the decision of this
court:
I First. Whether the plaintiffs have brought their action in
proper form, without joining with the other covenantees.
Second. Whether the defendants, being assignees of the term,
and having accepted the same for the purpose of fulfilling a
trust, are liable on the covenants of the lease, as other assignees
would be.
First point. In this case the covenant was with the covenantees jointly and severally; but as the two Calverts were the
only parties whose interest in the property, and whose demise
was joint, it was probably the intention of the parties that the
term "jointly," in the covenants, was intended to apply to their
case, and that as to all the rest the covenants were to be several. That construction, at least, will render all parts of the instrument consistent.
There is a distinction as to ti.ese terms "jointly and severally,"
when applied to covenantees, and when applied to covenantors.
Covenantors may bind themselves jointly and severally, and they
-ill be so bound, because that is their contract. But covenantees
must bring their actions- jointly or severally, according as their
interests are joint or several. The rule is laid down by Lord
Denman in Foley v. Addenbrooke, 4 Adol. & E. 205,206, in the
following terms: "But the result of the cases appears to be this,
that where the legal interest and caus, of action of the covenantees are several, they should sue separately, though the covenant be joint in terms; but the several interest and the several
ground of action must distinctly appear, as in the case of cove49'.

582

SUPREME COURT.
Calvert ct al. v. Bradley et al.

nants to pay separate rents to tenants in common upon demises
by them."
So in James v. Emery, 8 Taunt. Rep. 244, it was said by C.
J. Gibbs: "The principle is well known, and fully established,
that if the interest be. joint, the action mast be joint, although
the words of the covenant be several; and if the interest be
several, the covenant will be several, although the terms of it be
joint."
The more recent decisions all refer to SlIngsby's case, 5 Rep.
18,19, as kAhe leading authority on this question; then to Anderson v. Martindale, 1 East, 497; Ecckston v. Clipsham, 1
Saund. 153; Wilkinson v. Lloyd, 2 Mod. Rep. 82, besides the
cases already referred to; S. P. in Slater v. Magraw, 12 Gill &
J. 265.
The rule, as above established, is subject to modification where
one of the coveiantees possesses no beneficial interest, in which
case the action must be joint; for though "the covenant be separate, the legal interest is joint. Anderson v. Martindale, 1 East,
497; Southcote v. Hoare, 3 Taunt. 87; Scott v. Godwin, I Bos.
& Pul. 67; which explains the decision in the case of Bradburn
v. Botfield, 14 Mees. & Wel. 559.
Second point. The question is whether a party who accepts
an assignment of lease in a deed of trust, as a security for
money leit, or debt incurred, is liable upon the covenants in the
lease, as -he would be if the hssignment were absolute, though
he has never occupied the premises in fact?
On this question the decision in Eaton v. Jaques, Douglas's
Rep. 460, is directly adverse to the plaintifih in this cause.
That decision, however, was at the time not acquiesced in by
other judges, or by the profession, and has since been repeatedly
overruled, and stands alone and unsustained by any other authority.. See the case of Williams v. Bosan quet, 1 Brod. & B.
238; Platt on Coy. 3 Law Lib. 488; Tayl o r 's Land. & Tenant,
223; Turner v. Richardson, 7 East, 344; "Walter v. Cronly, 14
Wend. 63.
The doctrine of Eaton v. Jacques has beeii followed in New
York, (see 4 Kent's Comm. 153, 154,) but the doctrine of that
case was repudiated as to the District of Columbia in the
cases of 'Stelle v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 201; and. Van Ness v. Hyatt,
13 Tb. 294.
Again, these trustees might themselves have sold and con.
veyed the leasehold interest in question. Suppose that had been
done, would not the purchaser have taken the interest, subject
to all the covenants in the lease? That cannot be questioned.
If so, then the trustees must have held the lease in the same
manner themselves; for they could not have assigned the lease

DEC'EMBER TERM, 1853.

585

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

subject to a burden from -which it was exempt whilst in their
own hands.
Finally, how does the question stand in reference to considerations of justice and equity?
Suppose the lease had been one of great value. Blackwell
chose to incur debts, and to make an assignment of all his property in the world, not only to secure particular favored creditors
for debts already incurred, but for all liabilities which he might
afterwards incur to them. The deed of trust is recorded, and
protects this property froth the just obligations imposed by the
covenants in the lease. He holds the property by permission of
the trustees from year to year, until the lease is about to expire,
when he absconds, and abandons the premises in a dilapidated
condition. The trustees then come forward, and under their
deed of trust take possession of all the property on the premises,
sell it, and pay the favored creditors in full from the proceeds;
but because the lease is about to expire, they repudiate that, together with its covenants, because it was unprofitable to perform
them. They had received and accepted the lease when it was
made, and when it was valuable; but when it was about to expire they reject it, because to hold it, and perform its covenants,
or to sell it, would be no longer to their advantage.
The points made by the counsel for the defendants in error,
were the following:
First. That the action is improperly brought, and the first vice
in the pleading being in the plaintifi' declaration, on general
demurrer, the judgment of the court must be affirmed.
Second. Failing in this, they maintain that the matters set
up in the second and third pleas, are properly pleadable to this
action, and furnish a complete bar to plaintiffs' recovery.
First. As to the first general point, they say:
1. The action on the .covenant to repair, in this demise, should
have been a joint action by all the landlords.
If the covenant is expressly joint, the action must be joint;
and if it be joint and several, or several only in the terms of it,
yet, if the interest be joint, and the cause of action be joint, the
action must be joint. Slingsby's Case, 5 Co. 18, (6); Eceleson
v. Clipsham, 1 Saund. 153; 2 Keb. 338, 339, 347, 385; Spencer
"v.Durant, Comb. 115; 1 Show. S; Johnson v. Wilson, Willes,
248; 7 Mod. 345; Saunders v. Johnson, Skin. 401*; Hopkinson
v. Lee, 14 Law J. (N. S.) 101; Anderson v. Martindale, 1 East,
497; Kingdom v. Jones, T. Jones, 1-50.
And the reason is clearly given in Anderson v. Martindale, 1
East, 500, where the court say: If both parties were allowed to
bring separAte actions for the same interest, where only one

584

SUPRE

E COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

duty was to be performed, which of them ought to recover for
the non-perforimance of the covenant?
If the covenant is equivocal, the interest of the parties wvill
determine the right of action, and make it joint or several, as
the interest and cause of action is joint or several. Sheppard's
Touchstone, by Preston, 166.
If tenants in common make a lease to another, rendering to
them a certain rent during the term, "the tenants in common
shall have an action of* debt against the :essee, and not divers
actions, for that the action is in the personalty. Littleton, §
316. And this because the demise is joint; but if the demise)
were several, whether in the same instrument or not, the action
must be several for the rent, because the interest and cause of
action is several. Wilkinson v. Hall, 1 Bing. N. C. 713; 1
Scott, 675.
The action must be joint in all matters that concern'the tenements in common (and where the injury complained of is entire
and indivisible) action on the case for nuisance , &c., detinue of
charters - warrantiacharttv; case for ploughir. g lands whereby
cattle were hurt; trespass for breaking into -.heir house; breaking
their inclosure or fences; feeding, wasting, or defouling their
grass; cutting down their timber; fishing .tn their piscary, &c.;
because in these cases, though their estates are several, yet the
damages' survive to' all; and it would be unreasonable to bring
several actions for one single trespass; so if there be two tenants in common, and they make a bailiff, and one of them dies,
the survivor shall have an action of account, for the action given
to them for the arrearages of rent was joint. See Archbold's
Civil Plead. tit. Joinder of Plaintiffs, 54, and the cases cited;
Bac. Ab., (Dub. Ed. 1786,) tit. Joint-Tena.nts and Tenants in
Common, let. K. and cases cited.
Bacon says: A makes a lease in which the lessee covenants
to repair; lessor grants his reversion by several moieties to several persons, and lessee assigns to J. S. 'In an action of rovenant by the grantees of the reversion for not repairing, the question was. If two tenants in common of a reversion, could join
in bringing an action of covenant against the assignee? And
it was held, that they could and ought to join in this case, being
a mere personal action according to Littleton's rule, which was
held general, without relation to any privity of contract; and
that the covenant being indivisible, the wrong and damages could
not be distributed, because uncertain;" and he cites the same
cases that Archbold does. Archbold says,.after speaking of the
several cases of personal actions in which They must join, and
-enumerating the cases in which they need not join, "But in all
other cases where that which is sued for is not distributable, a in

DECEMLBER
Calvert et al. v.

TERMI,

1853.

585

Bradley et al.

covenant for not repairing where the damages are not distributable because uncertain, tenants in common must join in the
action."
In Foley v. Addenbrooke, 4 Q. B. 207, 3 G. & D. 64, Lord
Denman says, "The result of the cases appears to be this, that
when the legal interest and cause of action of the covenantees
are several, they should sue separately, though the covenant be
joint in its terms; but the several interest and several ground of
action must distinctly appear."
And in Bradburne v. Botfield, 14 M. & W, 574, Parke, B. delivering the opinion of the court, says: "It becomes unnecessary to decide whether one of several tenants in common.
lessors, could sue on a covenant with all to repair, as to which
there is no decisive authority either way. That all could sue
is perfectly clear;" and he eltes the cases referred to by Bacon
and Archbold. See also, Simpson v. Clayton, per Tindal, C. J.
4 Bing. N. C. 781, and Wakefield v. Brown, Q. B. Trin. T. 1846,
7 Law Times, 450.
These two cases of Foley v. Addenbrooke, and Bradburne v.
Botfield, are cases in point, and show that-if there are covenants
which are joint and several in the same instrument, and there
is any one act or thing to be done for the redress of which they
may all join, and there are covenants where they may sue severally, then the action for a breach of that covenant in which all
may join, must be a joint action, and the action for the breach
of any covenant when all cannot join, must be a separate action.
See also Sorsbie v. Park, 12 Al. & V. 146, and see the query put
by Parke, B. at p. 566, 14 M. & Wr. " If there is a demise by
one tenant in common as to his moiety, and a demise by the
other tenant in common as to the other moiety, by the same
instrument, and there is a covenant to repair, I wafit you to
show that each may sue separately"
In this case the covenants are joint and several: they all may
join in an action for reliairs; they all may join for a failure to
pay taxes; they are all jointly inierested in the possession and
mode of enjoyment ; the covenant for repairs affects- only the
reversioners' possession and enjoyment, not the title; it is a joint
and several demise, and the covenant is to them jointly and severally for a thing which is not distributable. They must join.
The non-joinder of plaintiffs on oyer may be taken advantage
of on the plea of non estfactum, and is for the court. Eecleston
v. Clipsham, 1 Saun. 154, n. 1.
Second. The matters set up in the second and third pleas,
are properly pleadable in bar.
Firstplea. It is a conveyance of a leasehold interest to third
parties upon trust to secure a debt.

686

SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

The possession is to remain in the assignor until default, and
he is to pay the rent.
The assignment is not signed or sealed by the assignees, and
they never took possession.
Second plea. The plaintiffs themselves took possession before
the expiration-of the term, and on the default. of the assignor,
and offered the premises for rent, and mace alterations and repairs before the expiration of the term.
It. is a trust, and not simply a mortgage. It is a confidence,
not issuing out of the land, but as a thing collateral, annexed
in privity to the estate of the land, and to*the person touching
the land. Co. Litt. 272, (b.)- While a mortgage is a debt by
specialty, (2 Atk. 435,) secured by a pledge of lands of which
the legal ownership is vested in the creditor, but of which in
equity the debtor and those claiming under him remain the
actual owner until foreclosure. Cootq on Mort. 1.
Here is a special trust, ministerial in its character, (Lewin
on Trusts,'21, 22,) in which the trustee holds the legal estate
with a power to sell and convey for the 'enefit of the debtor
and creditor. He takes no ii/erest personally in the land. He
has no right to the possession, except for the mere purposes of
sale; he has no riglt to the rents, issues, profits, or other income
from the land. In all this he differs from a mortgagee..
He is a mere agent of both parties, as a means of holding and
transmitting the title to others.
Can he be bound personally by the covenant of those from
whom his authority emanates?
But it is said he is a mortgagee of a leasehold interest, and
as such, is bound by a covenant to repair the mortgaged
premises. And for this Williams v. Bosanquet, 1 Bro. & Bing.
238, is relied upon. It is undoubtedly true that that case has
overruled Eaton v. Jaques, 2 Doug. 456, and is to be taken as the
law of England at this day.
Eaton v. Jaques was decided 10th Nbvember, 1783. It proceeded on the'ground that it was not an assignment of all the
mortgagor's estate, title, right, &c.
Williams v. Bosanquet goes upon the g.ound that privity of
estate existed by acceptance of the assignment, which it affirms
to be equal to possession, and privity of contract by the assignment of a contract made with the lessee and his assigns, and
thus all the estate, right, title, &c., of the mortgagee passed by
the assignment.
.4The American doctrine," says XIMr.
Gremleaf, note 1, p.101,
"o the 2d vol. of his edition of Cruise, "as now generally set'lhd, both at law and in equity, is, that as to all the-world except
fin maortgagee the freehold remains jn the mortgagor as it ex-

DECEMBER TERMT,

1853.

587

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

isted prior to the mortgage." Of course he retains all his civil
rights and relations as a freeholder, and may maintain any
action for an injury to his possession or inheritance as before.
And he cites numerous cases in Main', Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and Maryland.
At page 110, note to Tit. 15, Mortgage, ch. 11, § 14, referring to
the cases of Eaton v. Jaques, and Bosanquet v. Williams: "It
is well settled, as a general doctrine, that a mere legal ownership does not make the party liable, in cases like those supposed
in the text, without some evidence of his possession, also, or of
his actual entry." It is clearly settled in the law of shipping,
and he cites nurnerous cases, to which reference is here made,
that fully sustain his proposition. And he proceeds to show
that Villiams v. Bosanquet rests on purely technical grounds.
leference is made to the whole note.
The case cited in that note from 4 Leigh, 69, went upon the
ground that the parties came into equity, seeking to avail themselves of the trust, and the court decided they must take it charged
with the burdens upon it.
In addition to the cases referred to in tnese notes, see the
Maryland cases, viz.
Payment of the mortgage debt re-invests the mortgagor with
his title without release. Paxson's Lessee v. Paul, 3 H. & McH.
400.
The mortgagor's interest is subject to the attachment law of
1795. Campbell v. Morris, 3 II. & McH. 535, 561, 562, 576.
Being condemned and sold under execution, the purchuser
has a right to redeem. Ford et al. v. Philpot, 5 I-L & J. $312,
and see the reasoning of the chancellor in this case. The mortga or is the substantial owner, and, so long as the equity of
redemption lasts, may dispose of the property as he pleases.
Unless there is an agreement to the contrary, the mortgagee
has a right to the possession of the mortgaged property, and
trespass will not lie7 against him for taking it. Jamieson r.
Bruce, 6 G. & J.72.
But the mortgagee has an interest in the subject-matter not
absolute, but only commensurate with the object contemplated
by the mortgage, the security of the debt. Evans v. Merriken,
S G. & J. 39.
The devisees of the mortgagor have a right to call on the executor to redeem out of the surplus.over specific legacies. Gibson v. McCormick, 10 G. & J.66.
The interest of the mortgagee passes to his executor; that of
the mortgagor to the heir. Chase v. Lockerman, 11 G. &
J. 185.
These cases clearly establish the proposition of Lord Mans-

SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

field, in Eaton v. Jaques, that the whole estate, right, and interest, do not pass by the assignment of the lease, by way of mortgage.
They are supposed to be in conflict with Stell v. Carroll, 12
Pet. 205, and Van Ness v. Hyatt, 13 Pet. 294-300.
As to the first, it only affirms the common-law doctrine that
there can be no dower in an equitable estate.
As to the second, it affirms the. common-law doctrine that
legal estates only are subject to execution at law. But the case
referred to at p. 300, as a manuscript case, and which is supposed to be the case of Harris v. Alcock, [0 G. & J. 226, shows
that where there is judgment against a party having an equitable
interest, and execution issuied and returned nulla bona, the judgment creditor may, through a court of equity, reach the equitable interests.
Again. The assignee of a lease by way of mortgage, where
there is a covenant such as exists in this case, cannot be. in, by
privity of estate. Astor v. Hoyt, 5 Wend. 603. His liability
arises solely from privity of estate - not of contract. Walton
v. Cronly, 14 Wend. 63; and see Platt on Coy. 493, 494, and
cases in notes v and t. He is liable, therefore, only for acts
during his possessioh. Platt, 494 and 603, and cases cited.
Here the claim is for the whole period of the lease to the
bringing of the suit. It is a covenant to keep in repair. It
must be to keep it so while in his possession.
The third plea sets up, that the acts of plaintiff prevented or
dispensed with any obligation of the defendants to repair.
As between the Qriginal parties, the duty can only be discharged by a release under seal. The assignee is in a different
position. Platt, 493, 494. He may avoid it by assignment.
Here the assignment is by deed poll. The obligation of the
assignee may be released by parol. A surrender of the premises
without a release would be sufficient. The interference of the
landlord, or any acts of ownership, by which the possession and
enjoyment were prevented or impaired - especially the taking
possession, offering to rent, and proceeding to make' the repairs
and such alterations as the landlord .saw fit-amount to a
waiver.
T/Ird Point. This is an action of covenant. The foundation of such an action is the s.eal of the covenants.
' The action will not lie on a deed poll against the grantee.
Platt on Cov. 10-18, inclusive.
Comyn on Land. and Ten. 273, citing Mills v. Harris, from
Bayley, J., London, October sittings, 1820.
An action on the case by the lessee wilt lie against the assignee., but covenantwill not lie.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

589

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.
Here there was. neither a sealing by the assignees, nor any
possession under the lease; covenant will not lie.
The judgiient of the Circuit Court was therefore right.
.Mr. Jyli, in reply.
1st Point. The cause of action was several, because the interests were several. The interests being several, the covenants
in the lease, it must follow, were several also. If the covenants
were several, and they were broken, the breach and the cause
of action must therefore'be several. It would be a solecism to
say that the cause of action was joint, upon a covenant, when
the interests were several and the covenants several.
The
breach of the covenant and the cause of action must follow the
quality of the covenant. If that be joint the breach of it is
joint; if it be several the breach of it is several.
The lessors were tenants in common of the premises in question. Tenants in common are joint but in one respect. They
have neither the unity of time, nor of title; nor of interest; but
only the unity of possession. They can join therefore in an action only when there has been an injury to their united possession; as in the case of trespass, waste, &c.
The breach of the covenant complained of in the present action, was an injury only to the interests of the several lessors,
and not to their possession; and their interests being several the
covenants and the breach of them must be several. The case
of Bradburne v. Botfield, 14 M. &.
. 574, which is so confidently relied upon by the defence, was decided upon an entirely
different point. In that case the covenant was construed to be
joint, because, as to one of the interests, there were trustees,
and these trustees as well as their cestuis que trust, were parties
to the demise and the covenant. Now if the covenant had been
construed to be several in that case, then these trustees and
their cestuis que trust might have sued for the same breach, and
it would have been impossible to tell for which of them judgment could be rendered. The question was "What was to be
done with the Foleys ?" and if both the trustees and their beneficiaries could sue separately for the same injury, then would
follow the absurdity that "the whole was not equal to all its
parts." And in the conclusion of the opinion delivered, the court
expressly disclaim to decide the question now under examination.
The very point was decided in Wilkinson v. Loyd, 2 lod. Rep.
8 ° . See also notes A. & B. to Eceleston v. Clipsham, 1 Saund.
153; James v. Emory, 8 Taunt. Rep. 244; Scott v. Godwin, 1
Bos. & Pul. 67; 9 A. & E. 222.
2d Point. The authorities already referred to leave no ground
to doubt as to what is the doctrine of the common law on this
50
VOL. XVI.

590

SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. v. Bradley' et al.

point. There can no longei be any question about that. The
only question (if it can be a question at all) is, whether the
common law, or some other law that we know nothing of, is
the law of the District of Columbia. In some of the States this
doctrine of the comfl6n law has been changed by express enactment, and in others the common law has been abrogated by a
gradual course of judicial construction. But in this district there
has been no enactment ont'the subject; nor has there been any
gradual course of judicial construction to undermine and wear
away the settled doctrines of the common law. And this court
in Stelle v. Carroll and Van Ness v. Hyatt, already cited, has
shown its determination to uphold the common law, against the
invasion of new principles and doctrines, which had succeeded
in driving out the common law from some of the States of the
Union. Maryland is one of the States in which the common
law has in this respect been changed by statute, since its cession
to the United States of this portion of the District of Columbia;
and the authorities of that State are therefore not to be considered in this case.
As to the position that an assignee of a lease is not liable
on the covenants to repair, contained in it, that is a new doctrine,
against which it is hardly necessary to refer to authorities.
lhfr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs brought their action of covenant, in the court
above mentioned, against the defendants, to recover of them in
damages the value of repairs made by the plaintiffs upon certain
property in the city of Washington, known as the National
Hotel, which had been on the 17th of April, 1844, leased by the
plkintiffs, together with Roger C. Weightman, Philip Otterback,
William A. Bradley, and Robert Wallach, to Samuel S. Coleman, for the term of five years. This property was owned by
the lessors in shares varying in number as to the several owners,
and by the covenant in the deed of demise, the rent was reserved
and made payable to the owners severally in proportion to their
respective interests, the interests of the plaintiffs only in the
shares owned by them being joint. In addition to the covenant
on the part of the lessee for payment to each of the lessors of
his separate proportion of the rent, there is a covenant by the
lessee for the payment of the taxes and assessments which
might become due upon the premises during the term, and a
further covenant that he would, during the same time, "keep the
said hotel with the messuages and appurtenances in like good
order and condition as when he received the same, and would,
at the expiration of the said term, surrender them in like good
repair." On the 1st of January, 1847, the lessee, Coleman, as-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

591

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

signed all his interest in the lease to Cornelius W. Blackwell,
who entered and took possession of the premises. On the 17th
of February, 1848, Blackwell, by deed poll, conveyed to the defendants, Bradley and M'liddleton, all the goods, chattels, household stuffs, and furniture then upon the premises, together with
the good will of the said hotel and business, and the rest and
residue of the unexpired term and lease of said Blackwell in the
premises - upon trust to permit the said Blackweil to remain
in possession and enjoyment of the property until he should fail
to pay and satisfy certain notes and responsibilities specified in
the instrument; but upon the failure of Blackwell to pay and
satisfy those notes and responsibilities, the trustees were to take
possession of the property conveyed to them, and to make sale
thereof at public auction for the purposes in the deed specified.
Blackwell remained in possession after the execution of the deed
to the defendants, until the 6th of March, 1849, when he abskonded, leaving a portion of the rent of the premises in arrear.
The property having been thus abandoned by the tenant, an
agreement was entered inito between the owners of the property
and the defendants, that 'a distress should not be levied for the
rent in arrear, but that the defendants should sell the effects of
Blackwel left upon the premises, and from the proceeds thereof
should pay the rent up to the 1st day of May, 1849- the defendants refusing to claim or accept any title to, or interest in,
the unexpired portion of the lease, or to take possession of the
demised premises. In this state of things the plaintiffs, being
the largest shareholders in those premises, proceeded to take
possession of and to occupy them, and to put upon them such
repairs as by them were deemed necessary, and have continued
to hold and occupy them up to the institution of this suit. The
action was brought by the plaintiffs alone, and in their own
names, to recover their 'proportion of the damages alleged by
them to have been incurred by the breach of the covenant for
repairs contained in the lease to Coleman, which was assigned
to Blackwell, and by the latter to the defendants by the deedpoll -of February 17th, 1848.
To the declaration of the plaintiffs the defendants pleaded
four separate pleas. To the 3d and 4th of these pleas the defendants demurred, and as it was upon the questions of law
raised by the demurrer to these pleas, that the judgment of the
court was given, we deem it unnecessary to take notice of those
on which issues of fact were taken. The 3d and 4th pleas pre-.
sent substantially the averments that the deed from Blackwell
to the defendants was simply and properly a deed of trust made
for the security of certain debts and liabilities of Blackwell,
therein enumerated; and giving power to the defendants in the

592

SUPREME COURT.
Calvert et al. t. Bradley ot al.

event of the failure on the part of Blackwell to pay and satisfy
those responsibilities, to take possession of the subjects of the
trust and dispose of them for the purposes of the deed. That
this deed was not in law a full assignment af the term of Blackwell in the demised premises, and never was accepted as such,
but on the contrary was always refused by the defendants as
such; and that the plaintiffs, by their own acts, would have
rendered an acceptance and occupation by the defendants, as
assignees of the term, impracticable, if such had been their wish
and intention, inasmuch as the plaintiffs themselves had, upon
the absconding of Blackwell, the assignee of Coleman, entered
upon and occupied the demised premises, and held and occupied
the same up to the institution of this action, and had, during
that occupancy, and of their own will, made such repairs upon
the premises as to the plaintiffs has seemed proper or convenient.
Upon the pleadings in this cause two questions are presented
for consideration; and comprising, as they do, the entire law of
the case, its decision depends necessarily upon the answer to be
given to those questions.
The first is, whether the plaintiffs in error, as parties to the
deed of covenant on which they have declared, call maintain
their action without joining with them as co-plaintiffs the other
covenantees?
The second is, whether the defendants in error, in virtue of
the legal effect and operation of the deed to them from Blackwell, the assignee of Coleman, and without having entered upon
the premises in that deed mentioned, except in the mode and
for the purposes in the 3d and 4th pleas of the defendants set
forth, and admitted by the demurrer, were bound for the fulfilment of all the covenants in the lease to Coleman, as regular
assignees would have been?
The affirmative of both these questions is insisted upon by
the plaintiffs.
The converse as to both is asserted by the defendants, who
contend as to the first, that the covenants for repairs declared
on and of which profert is made, is essentiUy a joint contract,
by and with all the covenantees, and eould not be sued upon by
them severally; and that the demurrer to the 3d and 4th pleas,
reaching back to and affecting the first vice in the pleadings,
shows upon the face of the declaration, and of the instrument
set out in huec verba, a restriction upon the plaintiffs to a joint
interest, or a joint cause of action only with all their associates
in the lease.
2. That tie deed from Blackwell to the defendants, being a
conveyance of a leasehold-interest in the nature of a trust for
the security of a debt, by the terms of which conveyance the

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

593

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

grantor was to remain in possession till default of payment, and
the grantees not having entered into possession of the demised
premises, which were entered upon and held by the pliintiffs
themselves, the defendants could not be bound, under the covenant for repairs, to the premises never in their possession, and
over which they exercised no control.
The second of the questions above mentioned, as presented
by the pleadings, will be first adverted to. This question involves the much conroverted and variously decided doctrine as
to the responsibility of the mortgagee of leasehold property,
pledged as security for a debt, but of which the mortgagee has
never had possession, for the performance of all the covenants
to the fulfilment whereof a regular assignee of the lease would
be bound.
Writh regard to the law of England, .as now settled, there
seems to be no room for doubt that the assignee of a term although by way of mortgage or as a security for the payment of
money, would be liable under all the covenants of the original
lessee. In the case of Eaton v. Jacques, reported in the 2d vol.
of Douglas, p. 456, this subject was treated by Lord Mansueld
with his characteristic clearness and force; andwith the strong support of Justices Willes, Ashurst, and Buller, he decided that the
assignee of a lease by way of mortgage or as a mere security for
money, and who had not possession, is not bound for or by the covenants of the lessee. The language of his lordship in this case is
exceedingly clear "In leases," said he, "the lessee, being a party
to the original contract, continues always liable notwithstanding
any assignment; the assignee is only liable in respect of his possession of the thing. He bears the burden while he enjoys the
benefit, and no longer; and if the whole is not passed, if a day
only is reserved, he is not litible. To do justice, it is necessary
to understand things as they really are, and construe instruments
according to the intent of the parties. What is the effect of this
instrument between the parties? The lessor is a stranger to it.
He shall not be injured, but he is not entitled to any benefit
under it. Can we shut our eyes and say, it is an absolute con.veyance ? It was a mere security, and it was not, nor ever is
meant that possession shall be taken until the default of payment
and the money has been demanded. The. legal forfeiture has
only accrued six months, and if the mortgagee had wanted possession he could not have entered via facti. He must have
brought an ejectment. This was the understanding of the parties, and is not contrary to any rule of law." The same doctrine was sanctioned in the case of Walker v. IReeves, to be found
in a note in Douglas, vol. 2, p. 461. But by the more recent
ease of Williams v. Bosanquet, it has been decided that when a
504*

SUPREME COURT.
Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

party takes an assignment of a lease by way of mortgage as a
security for money lent, the whole interest passes to him, and
he becomes liable on the covenant for the payment of the rent,
though he never occupied or became possessed in fact. This
decision of Williams v. Bosanquet is founded on the interpretation put upon the language of Littleton in the fifty-ninth and
sixty-sixth sections of the treatise on Tenures - in the former of
which that writer remarks, "that it is to be understood that in
a lease for years by deed or without deed, ":here needs no livery
of seizin to be made to the lessee, but he may enter when he
will, by force of the same lease;" and in the latter, "also if a
man letteth land to another for term of years, albeit the lessor
dieth before the lessee entereth into the terements, yet he may
enter into the same after the death of the lessor, because the
lessee by force of the lease hath right presently to have the tenements according to the force of the lease." And the reason,
says Lord Coke, in his commentary upon these sections is, "because the interest of the term doth pass and rest in the lessee
before entry, and therefore the death of the lessor cannot divest
that which was vested before." True it is, he says, "that to
many purposes he is not tenant for years until he enter, as a release to him is not good to increase his estate before entry."
Co. Litt. 46, b. Again it is said, by this commentator, that" a
release which enures by way of enlarging an estate cannot work
without possession; but by this is not to be understood that
the lessee hath but a naked right, for then he could not grant it
over; but seeing he hath enteresse termini before entry, he may
grant it over, albeit for want of actual possession he is not capa.
ble of a release to enlarge his estate." Whatever these positions
and th6 qualifications accompanying them may by different
minds be thought to import, it is mar ifest, from the reasoning and
the references of the court in the case of Williams v.Bosanquet, that from them have been deduced the doctrine ruled in
that case, and which must be regarded as the settled law of the
English courts, with respect to the liabilities of assignees of leasehold estates. But clearly as this doctrine may have been established in England, it is very far from having received the uniform sanction of the several courts of this country, nor are we
aware that it has been announced as the settled law by this
court. Professor Greenleaf, in his edition of Cruise, Title 15,
Mortgage, § 15, 16, p. 111, inclines very decidedly to the doctrine
in Eaton v. Jacques. After citing the cases of Jackson v.
Willard, 4 Johns. 41; of White v. Bond, 16 Mass. 400; Waters
v. Stewart, 1 Caines's Cases, 47; Cushing v. Hurd, 4 Pick. 253,
ruling ~he doctrine that a mortgagee out ol possession has no
interest which can be sold under execution, but that the equity of

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

595

Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

redemption remaining in the mortgagor is real estate, which may
be extended or sold for his debts; and farther, that the mortgagee
derives no profit from the land until actual entry or other exertion
of exclusive ownership, previous to which the mortgagor takes
the rents and profits without liability to account, Mr. Greenleaf
comes to the following conclusion, namely, " On these grounds
it has been held here as the better opinion, that the mortgagee
of a term of years, who has not taken possession, has not all the
legal right, title, and interest of the mortgagor, and therefore is
not to be treated as a complete assignee so as to be chargeable
on the real covenants of the assignor."
In the case of Astor v. Hoyt, reported in the 5th of Wendell,
603, decided after the case of Williams v. Bosanquet, and in which
the latter case was considered and commented upon, the Supreme
Court of New York, upon the principle that the mortgagor is
the owner of the property mortgaged against all the world, subject only to the lien of the mortgagee, declare the law to be,
"that a mortgagee of a term not in possession, cannot be considered as an assignee, but if he takes possession of the mortgaged premises he has the estate, curn onere. In the case of
Walton v. Cronly's Administrator, in the 14th of Wendell,
p. 63, upon the same interpretation of the rights of the mortgagor
which was given in the former case, it was ruled that a mortgagee who has not taken possession of the demised premises, is
not liable for rent, and that the law in this respect is in New
York different from what it is in England. It is contended, on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the doctrine in Eaton v.Jacques,
and in the several decisions from the State courts in conformity
therewith, is inconsistent with That laid down by this court in the
cases of Stelle v.Carroll, in the 12th of Peters, 201, and of Van
Ness v. Hyatt et al. in the 13th of Peters, 294. With regard to
this position it may be remarked, that the questions brought
directly to the view of the court, and regularly and necessarily
passed upon in these cascs, did not relate to the rights and responsibilities of the assignee of a term, or to what it was requis'ite should be done for the completion of the one or the other.
Giving every just latitude to these decisions, all that can be said
to have been ruled by the former is, that by the common law a
wife is not dowable of an equity of redemption, and by the latter, that an equitable interest caimot be levied upon by an execution at law. This court therefore cannot properly be understood as having, in the cases of Stelle v. Carroll and Van Ness v.
Hyatt, established any principle which is conclusive upon the
grounds of defence set up by the third and fourth pleas of the defendant.. Nor do we feel called upon, in the present case,to settle
that principle; for let it be supposed that such a principle has

596

SUPREME COURT.
Calvert et al. v. Bradley et al.

been most explicitly ruled by this court, still that supposition
leaves open the inquiry, how far the establishment of such a
principle can avail the plaintiffs in the relation in which they
stand to the other covenantees in the deed from Coleman. In
other words, whether the covenant for repairs, contained in that
deed- was not essentially a joint covenant; one in which the
interest was joint as to all the grantees, and with respect to
which, therefore, no one of them, or other portion less than the
whole, could maintain an action?
The doctrines upon the subjects of joint and several interests
under a deed, and of the necessity or propriety for conformity
with remedies for enforcing those interests to the nature of the
interests themselves, have been maintained by a course of decision as unbroken and perspicuous, perhaps, as those upon which
any other rule or principle can be shown to rest. They will be
found to be the doctrines of reason and common sense.
Beginning with Windham's case, 3d Reports, part 5th, 6 a, 6 b,
it is said that joint words wvill be taken respectively and severally, 1st. With respect to the several interests of the grantors.
2d. In respect of the several interests of the grantees. 3d. In
respect to, that the grant cannot take effect but at several times.
4th. In respect to the incapacity and impossibility of the grantees
to take jointly. 5th. In respect of the cause cf the grant or ratione
subjecten aterie. The next case which we will notice, is Slingsby's case in the same volume, 18 a, 18 b, decided in the exchequer. In this case it was ruled that a covenant with several el
can qualibet and qztalibet eorint, is a several covenant only
where there are several interests. 'Where the interest is joint the
words curn quolibet et qvalibet eorton are vo' d, and the covenant
is joint. In the case of Eceleston and Wrife v. Clipsham, the law
is stated, that although a covenant be joint and several in the
terms of it, yet if the interest afd cause of action be joint, the
action must be brought by all the covenantees. And on the
other hand, if the interest and cause of action be several, the
action may be brought by one only. 1 Saunders, 153., The
learned annotator upon Sir Edmund Saunders, in his note to
the case of Eceleston v. Clipsham has collected a number of
cases to this point and others which go to show that where there
are several joint covenantees, and one of them shall sue alone
withont averring that'thc others are dead, the defendant may
take advantage of the variance at the trial, and that the principle applicable to such a case is different from that which
prevails where the action is brought against one of several joint
covenantors or obligors who can avail themselves of the irregulaxity by plea in abatement only. The same rule with regard
to the construction of covenants and to the legal rights and

DECEMBER TERM£, 1853.

597

Calvert Ct al. v. Bradley et al.

position of the parties thereto in courts of law may be seen in
the eases of Anderson v. Martindale, 1 East, 497; Withers v.
Bircharn, 3 Barn. & Cress. 255; James v. Emery, 5 Price, 533.
It remains now to be ascertained how far the parties to the
case before us come within the influence of principles so clearly
defined, and so uniformly maintained in the construction of
covenants -nd in settling the legal consequences flowing from
that interpretation.
The instrument on which the plaintiffs
instituted their suit was a lease from the plaintiffs and various
other persons inteiested in different proportions in the property
demised, and by the terms of which lease rent was reserved and
made payable to the several owners of the prerises in the proportion of their respective interests.
So far as the reservation
and payment of rent to the covenantees, according to their
several interests, made a part of the lease, the contract was
several, and each of the covenantees could sue separately for his
portion of the rent expressly reserved to him. But in this same
lea.-e there is a covenant between the proprietors and the lessee,
that the latter shall keep the premises in good and tenantable
repair, and shall return the same to those proprietors in the like
condition, and it is upon this cdvenant or for the breach thereof
that the action of the plaintiffs has been brought. Is this a
joint or several covenant?
It has been contended that it is
not joint, because its stipulations are with the several covenantees jointly and severally. But the answer to this position
is this: Are not all the covenantees interested in the preservation of the property demised, and is any one or a greater portion
of them exclusively and separately interested ill its preservation? And would not the dilapidation or destruction of that
propert y inevitably affect and impair the interests of all, however it might and necessarily would so affect them in unequal
amounts?
It would seem difficult to imagine a condition of parties from
which an instance of joint interests could stand out in more
prominent relief. This conclusion, so obvious upon the authority of reason, is sustained by express adjudications upon covenants e>.enfialy the same with that on which the plaintiffs in
thik case have sued.
The Case of Foley v. Addenbrooke, 4 Adolph & Ell. 197.
The declaral ion in covenant stated, that Foley and Wlhitby had
demised to Addenbrooke lands and iron mines of one undivided
moiety, of which Foley was seised in fee, Addenbrooke covenaning with Foley and Whitby and their heirs to erect and
work lurnaces and to repair the premises and work the mines;
that Foley wits dead, and plaintiff, Foley's heir, and breaches
were assigned as committed since the death of Foley; that

SUPREME

COURT.

Calvert et al. 7Y.Bradley et al.

Addenbrooke, and since his death his executors, had not worked
the mines effectually, nor repaired the premises, nor left them in
repair. To this declaration it was pleaded, that Whitby, one
of the tenants in common, and one of the covenantees, who was
not joined in the action, still survived. This plea was sustained
upon special demurrer, and Lord Denman, in delivering the
opinion of the court, says: 'KIn the presert case the covenants
for breach, of which the action is brought, are such as to give to
the covenantees a joint interest in the performance of them ; and
the terms of the indenture are such that it seems clear that the
covenantees might have maintained a joint action for the breach
of any of them. Upon this point the case of Kitchen v. Buckley, 1 Lev. 109, is a clear authority; and the case of Petrie v.
Bury, 3 Barn. & Cress. 353, shows that if the covenantees
could sue jointly, they are bound to do so."
The case of Bradburne v. Botfield, in the Exchequer, reported
in the 14th of Meeson & W¥elsby, was an action of covenant
upon a lease by seven different lessors jointly, according to their
several rights and interests in certain coal mines, to the defendant, yielding and paying certain rents to the lessors respectively,
and to their respective heirs and assigns, according to their several and respective estates, rights, and interests in the premises;
and the defendant covenanted with all ths above parties and
vith each and every of them, their and each and every of their
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, to repair the premises, and to surrender them in good repair to the lessors, their
heirs and assigns respectively at the end of the term. The declaration then deduced to the plaintiff a title to the moiety of
one of the lessors, and alleged as breaches the non-repair of the
premises and the improler working of the mines. To this
declaration it was pleaded, that one of the original lessors, who
had survived all the other covenantees, was still living. It was
held, upon demurrer, that the covenants for repairs and for working the mines were in their nature joint and not several, and
that the surviving covenantee ought to have brought the action.
Baron Parke, who delivered the opinion of the court, thus speaks:
"We have looked, since the argument, into the lease now set

out on oyer, and into all the authorities cited for the plaintiff,
and are still of opiniQn that he cannot recover upon the covenants stated in the declaration. It is impossible to strike out
the name of any covenantee, and all the covenantees must
therefore necessarily sue upon some covenant; and there appear to us to be no covenants in the lease which are of a joint
natuxe, if those declared upon are not, or which would be in
gross, if the persons entitled to the legal estate-had alone demised; for all relate to and affect the quality of the. subject of
the demise, or to the mode of enjoying of it."

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Early v. Rogers et al.

We regard the cases just cited as directly in point, and as
conclusive against the claim of the plaintiffs to maintain an
action upon the covenant for repairs in the lease to Coleman,
apart from and independently of the other covenantees in that
lease jointly and inseparably interested in that covenant with
the plaintiffs. We therefore approv6 the judgment of the Circuit Cqurt, that the plaintiffs take nothing by their writ and
declaration, but that the defendants recover against them their
costs about their defence sustained, as by the said court was
adjudged; and we order the said judgment of the Circuit Court
to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On ensiderati6n whereof it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause, be and the same is hereby
afflimed, with cost-

H. EARLY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOHN ROGERS,
JUNIOR, AND JOSUPH ROGERS, SURVIVORS, &c. OF ROGERs &
BROTHIERs, DEFMNDANTS.

SAMuL

Where a controverted case wa., by ag-ement of the parties, entered settled, and the
tc-ni of cttl'uent were that the debtor should pay by a limited day, and the creditor r-rccd'to receive a les sum than that for which he had obtained a judgment; and the debtor failed to pay on the day limited, the original judgment
became revived in full force.
The oridinal judgment having omitted to name interest, and this -court having
afirmd the jud-rnent as it stood, it was proper for the court below to issue an execution for the aliotint of the judgment and costs, leaving out interest.
'Where the debtor alleged that process of attqchmnt had been laid in his hands as
garnilice, attaching the debt which lie owed to the creditor in question;-and moved
the court to stay execution until the rights of" the parties could be settled in the
State Court whicih had issued the attachment, and the court refused so to do, this
rcfaal is not the subject of review 1y this court. The motion was addressed to
the dis retion of the court bulow, which will take care that no injustice shall be
done to any party.
This court expre. -es no opinion, at present, upon the two points, namely:
1. Whether an attachment from a State Court can obstruct the collection of a debt
by the process of the courts of the United States, or
2. Whether a writ of error was the proper mode of bringing the present question before this court.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error. from the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia.

