DECEALBER TERI,

1853.

203

Chouteau v. Molony.

IIENRY CHOUTEAU, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR, V. PATRICK MOLONY.

On the 22d of September, 1788, the tribe of Indians called the Foxes, situated on the
west bank of the Misissipi, sold to Julien Dubuque a permit to work at the mine
as long as he should please; and also sold and abandoned to him all the coust and the
contents of the mine discovered by the wife of Peosta, so that no white man or Indian should make any pretension to it without the consent of Dubuque.
On the 22d of October,'1796, Dubuque presented a petition to the Baron de Carondelet for a grant of the land, which he alleged that he had bought from the Fox Indiara, wlio had subsequently assented to the erection of certain monuments for the
pm-pose of designating the boundaries of the land.
Tle governor rcterred the petition to Andrew Todd, an Indian trader, who had received a license for the monopoly of the Indian trade, who reported that as to the
land nothing occurred to him why the governor should not grant it, if he deemed
it advisable to do so, provided Dubuque should be prohibited from trading with the
Indian%, unless with Todd's consent, in writing.
Upon this report the governor made an order, granted as asked, under the restrictions
expressed in the information given by the merchant, Andrew Todd.
This grant was not a complete title, making the land private property, and therefore
itfrom what was conveyed to the United States by the treaty ot Paris of
fecting
a'p-i3,1503.
Thu words of the grant from the Indians do no show any intention to sell more
than a mining privilege; and even if the words were ambiguous, there are no extrinsic circurastanees in the case to justify the belief that they intended to sell the
land.
The governor, in his subsequent grant, intended only to confirm such rights as Dubuque had previously received from the Indians. The usual mode of grunting land
was not purmued. Dubuque obtained no order for a survey from Carondelet, nor
could he have obtained one from his successor, Gayoso.
By the laws of Spain, the Indians had a right of occupancy; but they could not part
with this right except in the mode pointed out by Spanish laws, and these laws and
usmgcs did not sanction such a grant as this from Carondelet to Dubuque.
Moreover. the grant included a large Indian village, which it is unreasonable to suppose
that the Indians intended to sell.

TIns ease was brought up by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa.
i was an action brought by petition, in the nature of an ejectment by Chouteau, a citizen of Missouri, to recover seven undivided eighteenth parts of a large body of land, containing
nearly one hundred and fifty thousand arpents; and including
the whole city of Dubuque. Molony claimed under a patent
from the United States. The documents upon which Chouteau's
claim was founded are set forth in extenso in the opinion of the
court; and as that opinion refers to MIr. Gallatin's report, it may
be proper to give a history of the claim so that his report may
be introduced. A large portion of the argument, in behalf of the
plaintiff in error, consisted of reasons to show that Mr.Gallatin was mistaken. The following is the history of the case,
as given by Mr. Cormick.
History of the Clair. In a case so free from doubt, the queslion arises, why did Congress assume that Dubuque's title was
worthless, and sell the land?

204

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

The answer to this question is, Mr. Gallatin, while Secretary of
the Treasury, became prejudiced against the land titles of Upper
Louisiana, and so much prejudiced against this particular title,
that he construed it with reference, not to the grant itself, but to
his preexisting prejudices; that he made a report adverse to the
claim, and utterly misdescrilied the document upon which that
claim is based; that congressmen, when the question came up
before them, referred, as was natural, to Mr. Gallatin's report, to
see what. it said about the title, and finding it there described
as the grant of a mere personal permissio:a of occupancy, revocable at will, they naturally concluded it was a fraudulent
effort to obtain property, which the claimants knew they had no
right to.
On the 3d of November, 1804, a treaty was made by General
William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Territory, (of
which the present States of Missouri and Iowa were then a part,)
with the Sac and Fox Indians. An addltional article was inserted to prevent the land granted to Dubuque from being considered as receded by the treaty. The Indians then acknowledged the validity of the grant. See p. 22 of Senate Doe. 350
of 1st Sess. 28th Cong.
On the 17th of May, 1805, Julien Dubuque and Auguste
Chouteau, as his assignee of a portion of the land, jointly filed
their claim.
On the 20th of September, 1806, a majority of the Board of
Commissioners, John B. C. Lucas, dis'senting, pronounced the
claim to be a complete Spanish grant, made and completed prior
to the first day of October, 1800.
In 3 Green's Public Lands, 588, will be found the translation
of the title, which seems to have been the translation relied on
by the Board, as well as by Mr. Gallatin. It is in the following
words, namely:
(These documents are inserted, in the opinion of court, with
some change of phraseology. There was nauch controversy, during the argument, as to the proper translation.)
On the 11th of April, 1810, the United S:ates agent laid before
the Board of Commissioners, in pursuance of section 6 of act of
328) atolistle ofd documents,
2d iarch, 1805, (2 Statutes at Large,
mines and
pertaining
which list embraces this claim,
salt springs in the Territory of Louisiana. 3 Green's P. L. 603.
In 1810, tfr. Gallatin, instead of repor ing to Congress the
action of the board relative to the claim, himself made an ex
parts
official report against it. 1 Clark's .Land Laws, 958.
On the 19th of December, 1811, the following entry was
made on the minute's of the Board of Commissioners, namely :
"December 19th, 1811. Present, a full board. On a ques-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

205

Chouteau v. Molony.

tion being put by John B. C. Lucas, commissioner, Clement B.
Penrose and Frederick Bates, commissioners, declined giving
an opinion. It is the opinion of John B. C. Lucas, commissioner, that the claim ought not to be confirmed." 2 Green's
P. L. 5 2.
The claimants were not parties to this last proceeding. It
seems to have originated between the dissenting commissioner
and the Secretary of the Treasury, who were under the impres.
sion that the sixth section of act of 2d March, 1805, which required the government agent "to examine into and investigate
the titles and claims, if any there be, to the lead mines within
the said district, to collect all the evidence within his power,
with respect to the claims and value of the said mines, and to
lay the same before the commissioners, who shall make a special report thereof, with their opinions thereon, to the Secretary
of the Treasury, to be by him laid before Congress," &c.,
thereby authorized the Board, by an ex parte proceeding, to
reverse their own decision made more than five years before.
Dubuque continued in possession of the land till his death, in
1810. :During his life, he had exercised great influence over the.
neighboring Indians. But that influence had been much enhanced by the liberal presents he had made them. He died
insolvent. That portion of the tract which he had not sold to
Auguste Chouteau, was sold after his death, by order of court,
to pay his debts. in the meanwhile the last war with England
was approaching, and English emissaries were on the frontiers,
inciting the savages to hostilities against our people. Our
government was not then, as it now is, sufficiently strong -to
protect the frontiers.
In the latter part of 1832, the claimants thought the time had
come when they might safely attempt the enjoyment of' their
rights, as the assignees of Dubuque, to the profits which might
be realized from the lead mineral contained in the land. They
accordingly employed an agent to lease to miners the right
to dig on the land for lead. On the 5th of January, 1833; the
following order was issued by the Major-General of the United
States army:
(This was an order to remove the settlers by force.) See
p. 28, Sen. Doe. 350, 1st Sess. 28th Cong.
In pursuance of this order, a military detachment was sen+
from Fort Crawford, and the claimants' tenants were driven
off at the point of the bayonet, and their dwellings burnt.
The claimants at that time all lived in the State of Missouri,
mostly at St. Louis. One of them, on his own behalf, and as
agent for the others, went to (Ualena, in Illinois, to institute
legal proceedings. He couid not sue ior the land, because after
VOL. xvI.

18

SUPREME COUPT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

Missouri had come into the Union, as a State, there was no
court which had jurisdiction of a suit brought for the recovery
of the land. The federal government had in the meanwhile
leased much of the land to lead diggers, and a considerable portion of the mineral dug on the land was taken to smelting furnaces at Galena, ,to be converted into lead. But much of the
mineral then smelted at Galena was from land not embraced
in this grant. The agent for the claimants, in order to test the
question of title, brought suit for a lot of mineral, which had
been brought to Galena. But he was not at the trial able to
identify it, and a nonsuit was taken. The agent then came to
Washington, and petitioned for redress during many successive
sessions of Congress. Certain citizens of Kentucky had in the
meanwhile, by intermriage and by inheritance, become interested i the claim, and on their own account presented a memorial in January, 1837. Several memorials were also presented to the executive. Various bills were reported for the
relief of the claimants, some of which passed in one house, and
were never reached in the other, and others were voted down
in tte. house in which they originated.
An act of Congress was passed the 2d of July, 1836, for the
laying off the towns of Fort Madison and Burlington, in the
county of Des Moines, and the towns of Belleview, Dubuque,
and Peru, in the county of Dubuque, Territory of Wisconsin,
and for other purposes. The towns of Dubuque and Peru, the
lots of which were required by this act to be sold, are situated
on the land embraced by the grant on which this suit is based.
What is now the State of Iowa, constituted, on the 2d of July,
1836, a part of the Territory of Wisconsin.
On the 3d of March, 1837, an act, amendatory of the foregoing, was passed. The manner in which the town lots are to
be sold is somewhat varied from the manner specified in act of
2d of July, 1836, 5 Stat. at Large, 178, 179.
(Then followed an enumeration of the reports of committees
in each branch of Congress, and the acts passed, under one of
which MNalony claimed title.)
r. Gallatin's report was a succinct statement of the facts in
the case, upon which he made the -following remarks:
L Governor Harrison's treaty adds no sanction to the claim;
it is only a saving clause in favor of a claim, without deciding
on its merits, a question which indeed he had no authority to
decide.
IL The form of the concession, if it shall be so called, is not
that of a patent, or final grant; and that it was not considered
as such, the commissioners knew, as they had previously received a list procured from the records at New Orleans, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

207

Chouteau v. Molony.

transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury, of all the patents
issued under the French and Spanish governments, in w hich
this was not included, and which also showed the distinction
between concession and patent, or complete title.
IIL The form of the concession is not even that used when
it was intended ultimately to grant the land; for it is then
uniformly accompanied with an order to the proper officer to
survey the land, on which survey being returned the patent
issues.

IV. The governor only grants as is asked; and nothing is
asked but the peaceful possession of a tract of land on which
the Indians had given a personal permission to work the lead
mines as long as he should remain.
Upon the whole, this appears to have been a mere permission
to work certain distant mines without any alienation of, or
intention to alienate the domain. Such permission might be
revoked at will; and how it came to be considered as transferring the fee-simple, or even as an incipient and incomplete
title to the fee-simple, cannot be understood.
It seems, also, that the commissioners ought not to have given
t6 any person certificates of their proceeding, tending to give
a. color of title to claimants. They were by law directed to
transmit to the treasury a transcript of their decisions, in order,
that the same might be laid before Congress for approbation or
rejection.
On the trial of the cause in the District Court, the plaintiff
admitted that the defendant was a purchaser under the govern.
ment of the United States, and that patents had been regularly
issued to him for the land in question.
The defendant demurred, and specified the three following
causes of demurrer, namely:
1. That, admitting all the facts stated in the petition to be
true, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
2. That, as appears by the exhibits to said petition, the plaintiff claims under an unconfirmed Spanish title.
3. That it appears, from the plaintiff's own showing, that he
rests his title on an incomplete Spanish grant, and that defendant is in possession under a complete title from the United
States.
A judgment final was rendered by the court below, in favor
of the defendant on this demurrer. The assignments of error
were

1. The said District Court erred in deciding that the said
petition of the said Henry Chouteau, and the matters therein
contained, were not sufficient in law to maintain the said action
of the said Henry Chouteau.

SUPREM.E COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

2. The said District Court erred in readering judgment in
favor of the said Patrick Molony against te said 'Henry Chouteau.
Upon these points of demurrer the case cameup to this court,
and was argued by Mr. Cornick and Mr. Thlnson, for the plaintiff in error, and by .Mr. -Platt Smith, Mr. T. S. Wilsan, and Mr.
Cushing, (Attorney-General,) for the defendant in error.
The points which were made on behalf of the plaintiff in
error are thus stated by Mr. Cornick.
The record presents but one question, namely: Was the
grant which the Baron de Carondelet made to Julien Dubuque
on the 10th of November, 1796, a complete title?
If it constituted a complete title, the judgment of the court
below is erroneous; if it did not constitute a comulete title,
there is no error in the record.
The decisions of this court which established the doctrine
that a grant of land of specific locality, by the Spanish landgranting officer, vested in the grantee a complete title, are so
numerous and so uniform that it would be considered unnecessary to cite authorities to sustain this grant, but for the fact
that the United States government has, by selling the land, assumed it -o be a part of the public domain. For this reason
many authorities will be cited in support of propositions of law,
which would otherwise be regarded as self-evident. And an
explanation will be submitted of the causes which probably
induced Congress to disregard a grant, the validity of which is
wholly free from doubt the moment it is viewed from the proper
.point of view.
L The Baron de Carondelet had power to make the grant.
That interest which the Governor-General intended to grant,
whether fee-simple or a tenancy at will, whether limited or
unlimited in the 4uration of the estata, was 'the interest
which, by virtue of the grant, vested in Dubuque. See United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; Percheman v. United States,
7 Pet. 51; Delassus v. United States, 9 Pet. 134.
In the United States v. Moole, 12 How. 217, this court recognized Carondelet's power as extending from January 1, 1792,
to the beginning of 1797. It was within this period that this
grant was made.
In Delassus v. United States, 9 Pet. 117, the court say: "The
regulations of Governor O'Reilly were intended for the general
government of subordinate officers, and not to control and limit
the power of the person from whose will they emanated. The
Baron de Carondelet must be supposed to have had ali the
powers which had been vested in Don O'Reilly." In Smith

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

209

Chouteau v. 3Iolony.

v. United States, 4 Pet. 511, the same principle is established.
See the printed record.
In United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 728, it is said that the
actual exercise of the power of granting land, by a colonial
governor, without any evidence of disavowal, revocation, or
denial by the king, and his consequent acquiegcence and presumed ratification are sufficient proof- in the absence of any
to the contrary - (subsequent to the grant) of the royal assent
to the exercise of his prerogative byhis local governors.
According to the principle here established, the King of Spain
must be considered as having acquiesced in, and assented to
the grant by the Baron de Carondelet to Dubuque, unless his
dissent be proved by the defendant.
In United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 729, the court say:
"It is an universal principle, that when power or jurisdiction ip
delegated to any public officer or tribunal, over a subject-matter,
and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, the acts so
done are binding and valid as to the subject-matter; and individual rights will not be disturbed collaterally for any thing
done in the exercise of that discretion, within the authority and
power conferred. The only questions which can arise between
an individual claiming a right under the acts done, and the
public or any one denying its validity, are power in the officer
and fraud in the party. All other questions are settled by the
decision made, or the act done by the tribunal or officer, whether
executive, legislative, judicial, or special, unless ai appeal is
provided for, or other revision, by some appellate or supervisory
tribunal, is prescribed by law."
This court, in Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, say: "Where
the act of an officer, to pass the title to land, according to Spanish law, is done contrary to the written order of the king produced at the trial, without any explanation, it shall be presumed
that the power has not been exceeded; that the act was done
on the motive set out therein, and according to some order
known to the king and his officers, though not to his subjects;
and courts ought to require very full proof that he had transcended his powers, before they so determine it."
IL The description of the land by Dubuque, in his petition,
completely fixed its locality, and dispensed -with the necessity
of a survey.
(The argument upon this point is omitted.)
IIl. The assent of the Baron de Carondelet to the petition
establishes the truth of its statements, and the moment he asseated, the sale by the Indians, to Dubuque, thereby ceased to
be a link in the chain of title.
18*

210

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteau v. Molony.

IV. Our government cannot grant or sell land which does
not belong to it.

But the principal part of the argument of the counsel for the
plaintiff in error was directed to show that Mr. Gallatin had
erred in the report which' he made and the four conclusions to
which he came, which have been already stated in this report.
These errors were said to be the following:
'r. Gallatin'sfirst error. The language near the close of
the report -" Upon the whole, this appeais to have been a mere
permission to -work certain distant mines, without any alienation of, or intention to alienate the domain. Such permission
might be revoked at will; and how it came to be considered as
transferring the fee-simple, or even as an incipient and incomplete title. to the fee-simple, cannot be -understood."
Following what the secretary had already said about Todd's
report--. (" The governor refers the application for information
to A. Todd, who had the monopoly of the Indian. trade on the
Mlississippi. A. To'dd.reports that no objection occurs to him,
if the governor thinks it convenient to gant the application,
provided that Dubuque shall not trade with the Indians without his permission,") - necessarily impressed congressmen,
who relied on Mr. Gallatin's report for their views of the grant,
with the belief, not only that the claim set up by Dubuque and
Chouteau, before the commissioners, was a fraudulent pretence
to what they knew they had no right to, but also that A. Todd
recommended the granting to gDbuque of a mere personal
permission of occupancy. Mir. Gallatin professes to describe
the grant; yet no one from his description could even suspect
that Todd had in his report used the language- "As to the
land for which he asks, nothing occurs to me why it should not
be granted, if' you deem it advisable to do so; with the condition nevertheless that the grantee shall," &c.
Here-we find a most material variance between the grant
itself and Mr. Gallatin's description of it. Congress did really
cause the land, covered by the grant, to be sold; but we here
see very clearly that Congress passed no judgment against the
alidity of the title on which this suit is based, but that it only
decided against the title which Mr. Gallatin's violently excited
prejudices fancied to exist. If a man had been indicted for the
larceny of this document, and it was as much misdescribed in
the bill of indictment as it is in this report of Mr. Gallatin,
surely no court would hesitate to dbcide, on objection properly
made, that the grant to Dubuque, represented by any one of
the translations eyer made of it, could not be given in evidence
in support of the indictment.
Mr.D1
Galiatins seco ul error. In the first sentence of his re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Chouteau v. Molony.

port he speaks of the claim as containing upwards of one hundred and forty thousand acres of land.
Whatever may have been Mlr. Gallatin's opinion of his
knowledge of the law of Spanish grants, it is now very certain
that neither he, nor any other American citizen, understood the
subject at that time. But we must suppose that so able a
Secretary .of the Treasury understood arithmetic. Yet he so
exaggerated the amount embraced by this claim as to demonstrate, that if he knew how to calculate quantities, he was so
prejudiced against the claim that he was unable, in this particular case, to make such calculation. Even if the distance from
the little Makoketa to the Mesquabysnenque, which Dubuque
states to be about seven leagues along the bank, were a straight
line, so as to give a front of exactly seven leagues, so as to
make the claim embrace exactly twenty-one leagues of superficies, there would only be one hundred and twenty-five thousand and sixty acres. But as in fact the river bank curves
there, as it does everywhere else, and curves very much -and
as what Dubuque calls about seven leagues along the bank, is
really less than seven, though upwards of six -the
real quantity embraced by the claim is a little over ninety-seven thousand
acres. Mr.Gallatin committed an error of about forty-seven
thousand acres, in fact. But, when he made his report, he did
not have the data by which accurately to calculate the number
of acres. Yet he then had data enough to show- that he was
exaggerating, at least to the extent of fourteen thousand nine
hundred and sixty acres.
Mr. Gallatibs third error. He contradicts himself in describing the sale by the Indians to Dubuque. In the commencement
of his report, he describes it as a purchase "from the Indians,
of an extent of seven leagues front on the Mississippi, by three
leagues in depth, containing upwards of one hundred and forty
thousand acres." He afterwards speaks of it as a sale of the
"hill and contents of the land (or mine) found by Peosta's wife."
He afterwards speaks of the right acquired by Dubuque as a
"personal permission to work the lead mines as long as he
should remain."
1ilr. Gallatbsfourth error. Remark No. 2 of the report involves the proposition, that concession and patent are two things
entirely distinct. And, at the same time, he uses such language
as shows he considered that patent and final grant were synonymous, and that a grant was not final unless it was evidenced
by a patent.
(The argument upon this head, and also that under the head
of the eighth error, are omitted for want of room, as they were
both very elaborate.)

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

MI7r. Gallatin'sfifth error. In his remark No. 3, he considers
a survey an essential prerequisite to a complete grant. But we
have seen that many decisions of this court have established
that a description which fixes the boundaries, dispenses with
the necessity of a-survey.
He seems to have had a confused idea -that this grant to Dubuque was vicious, because it was not made in accordance with
the regulations of O'Reilly, Gayoso, or Morales. But a very
slight examination of those regulations would have shown him
the impossibility of surveying the land in the manner there required; ad in the wilderness country where Dubuque made his
settlement, there was no neighbor, no syndic, no officer of any
description. He would then have seen that to make an actual
survey, a prerequisite would amount to denying the power to
the Baron de Carondelet to grant the land.
1r. Gallatinr's sixth error. In remark No. 3, he advances the
proposition that, after the grant of an inchoate title, the execution of the order of survey was the only prerequisite to the issuance of a patent. He advances this as a universal proposition.
But in the great majority of cases this is untrue. Observe, for
example, the order of the governor-general in the inchtate grant
to Owen Sullivant. This error of the secretary is material; for
it shows he was extremely ignorant of the laws he usurped the
power to pass judgment on.
Mr. Gallati's seventh error. He adopted as a fulidamental
principle of Spanish law, to ' uide his decision, the erroneous
hypothesis that all grants, whether in the wild Indian country
or not, must completely correspond with the forms usually observed when the land granted was situated in the settled parts
of the province, and that the governor-general had no power to
any other
form.
grant
Mr.by
Gallatih's
eig-hth
error. In remark No. 4, he considers
peaceable possession as synonymous with personal permission
of occupancy, revocable at will.
We have seen that the four translations of the grant heretofore made, differed, in some respects materially, one from another. The translation averred in the record, differs from the
preceding four. Those four all agree in rendering the word
"possession" into the English word "possession," and three of
them render "paisible" into "peaceable," while the remaining
The main difference between
one renders it into "peaceful."
those four translations and the translation averred in the record
is, that the latter represents the words "paysibles possessiont."
by English words, which indicate ownership enjoyed free from
adverse claim.
This new version was made for the following reasons: The

DECEMBER TER3M,

1853.

213

Chouteau v. Molony.

French phrase, "paisible possession," is ani idioihatic expression,
and it would, as used in this petition, raise directly in the mind
of a Frenchman the idea of ownership and quiet enjoyment
free from adverse claim, without any reasoning whatever on
the subject It was attempted, in shaping this new translation,
not only to raise in the mind of the reader the same ideas which
were raised in the mind of the Baron de Carondelet, when he
read the original, but to raise them in the same direct manner.
The most usual signification of the French word "possession"
is enjoyment of a thing in the character of its owner. In the
same way "possesseur" most usually signifies a person enjoying a thing as its owner. In the French language "le,possesseur" is the person who has la possession; just as in English
"possessor" is the person who has the possession.
On the part of the defendant in error, the points were thus
stated by .Ar. Wilson, which were sustained also by Mr. Smith.
The land in controversy is in what was called the Louisiana
territory acquired by the treaty of 1803.
The United States extinguished the Indian tile to it by the
treaty of 1832, made by General Scott and Governor IReynolds.
See Indian Treaties, 7 Stat. at Large, 374.
The sale by the United States, to the defendant, was under
the act of Congress, 9 Stat. at Large, 37.
The plaintiff admits that defendant holds the land by patent
from the United States.
This is the defendant's title.
It is manifest from the plaintiff's petition and exhibits that
he has no title, and
1st. From the permit from the Indians. They did not and
could not sell the land, and they did not profess to do so. It
was but a permit to mine.
2dly. From the permit or license from Carondelet. This permit or license is improperly translated in plaintiff's petition.
The words "paysibles possessions" ard "paysibles possessures"
in the original, which should be translated "peaceable possession," are rendered in the plaintiff's petition "full proprietorship."
The petition of Dubuque is again improperly translated in
the plaintiff's petition, namely, what should be rendered "from
the coast above the little river Maquoquetais to the coast of the
Mesquibenanques," has been rendered "from the margin of the
waters of the Maquotais," &c.
The permit from Carondelet was a mere license to work the
mines, and was not intended by him as any thing more. See
the permit and also the construction put upon it by Albert Gal-

214

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteau v. Molony.

latin, in his report on this claim in Senate Document No. 20,
vol. 2, 28th Cong. 2d Sess.
The United States government took possession of this land
immediately after the Rock Island Treaty. See the letter of
General Macomb in the same document, p. 28.
That the permit from Carondelet was a mere license to work
the mines, is evident from the fact that the petition of Dubuque
is in the precise words required by the ordinances of Spain in
reference to petitions for working the mines. See Rockwell on
Mines, p. 173, §§ 2, 4. "No mines shall be worked without
permission from the crown." If it had been intended as a
grant, the proces verbal and order of survey would have been
issued.
3dly. Carondelet had no legal authority to make such a grant,
or to divest the crown of the title in this summary manner, because (a.) It was in violation of the regulations of O'Reilly. See
the 1st, 2d, 3d, ard 12th articles, in 2 White's Compilation, 228,
et seq.
(b.) There was no compliance with the regulations of Morales.
See those regulations, 2 White's Compilation, 472, 477, 235.
4thly. If Carondelet even had the powe:t to make a grant of
this land, and if the paper is more than a license, it was only
an inchoate and imperfect title, and not such a title as will
avail any thing in a court of law. This is manifest from the
numerous decisions of this court on the, subject of Spanish
claims. In these decisions four great principles or landmarks
are well settled, namely:
First. That there must be a compliance with the ordinances
and regulations of Spain, to sever the land from the public
domain. 2 Howard, 372.
Antoine Soulard was,.at the time, and both before and after,
Surveyor-General of Upper Louisiana. See Amer. St. Papers,
vol. 5, p. 700. Why was no order of survey issued to him?
Second. In order to constitute a valid claim, there must be
clear words of grant. United States v. Perchman, 7 Peters, 81;
,New Orleans v. The United States, 10 Peters, 727; United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691; United States v. King, 3
Howard, 773. There are no words of grant in this case, and
no compliance with the usual and necessary forms.
Third. There must be a definite description of the land granted. United States v. Boisdor4, 11 Howc,rd, 92; Choteau v.
Eckhard, 2 Howart, 372. The description in this case is indefinite and uncertain.
Conclusion. If it should be decided that the papers exhibited
by the plaintiff exhibit a full and perfect title, without any act

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

215

Chouteau v. Molony.

of Congress confirming this grant, or authorizing another tribunal to confirm it, it would be a reversal of all principles established by the previous decisions of this court on this subject.

lJIr. Citshing, (Attorney-General,) after referring to the action
of the executive and legislative departments of the government
upon this subject, laid down the two following proposition-,
namely:
I. That the political power of the government, to which this
court conforms its judgment in such matters, has decided against
the validity of the pretended title in Dubuque.
II. That the decision of the political power of the government was a rightful one, as well on the true tenor of the alleged grant, as upon the collateral facts set forth in the printed
record.
(The discussion under the first head and also the arguments
under many subdivisions of the second head, must be omitted
for want of room.)
IL 'The action of the executive and legislative departments
of the government, in refusing to recognize this claim, and in
disposing of the land as public domain, was right; because the
documents produced by the plaintiff do not show a perfect and
complete title, nor a full property and ownership in Julien
Dubuque.
1. The cession by the Indians, the petition to the Baron de
Carondelet, and the Baron's concession thereupon, must all be
taken together as one instrument, because they are all connected
by reference in the writings themselves; and so they serve to
explain each other. United States v. King, 7 Howard, 833.
The cession by the Foxes to Dubuque appears on the face
of the instrument to be a mere personal permission to occupy
and work at the mine discovered by the woman Peosta, "and
in case he shall find nothing within he shall be free to search
wherever it shall seem good to him2 That which is sold is the
contents of the mine found by the woman Peosta, with the
privilege of searching elsewhere.
There is no quantity, no boundary, no estate of inheritance,
no location of land except the mine found.. It is impossible to
make of this any conveyance of land. It is a personal privilege
to work the mine found, and if that should prove unproductive,
to search at pleasure for another mine.
Independently of the question as to what is-the nature of the
Indian document, it could of course, according to the general
rules establish1ed by all European governments in America, not
convey any ifle of itself. United States v. Clarke, 9 Pelra
168.

216

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

2. The petition to Carondelet alludes to the Indian cession
and D.ubuque's working of the mines, and asks only to be confirmed in the peaceable possession of that which he was in possession of under the permisiion of the Foxes, which is appended
to the petition. No quality or duration of estate other than
that contained in the Indian permission, is asked for. Sensible
of this, the petitioner in this case has endeavored to eke out the
petition by interpolation, and to supply defects by parol testimony, as before remarked.
3. In Carondelet's indorsement of the petition there is no
order of survey, none of the usual words ol a patent or complete
title, no reference to the authority of the king, no grant in his
royal name. It is unlike the complete titles usually granted.
United States v. King, 7 Howard, 852.
To a complete title, to a full property in fee under the Spanish
law, a survey, a formal investiture of possession by the proper
officer, and a title thereupon in form, were indi pensable. Until
then the title was but incipient, inchoate, equitable only, not
full and complete.
An example of a complete Spanish grant is giyen in the case
of Menad's Heirs v. Massey, 8 Howard, 293, 314.
The difference between an incomplete, and a full comple title
is well known. To the former a survey is not a prerequisite; a
description reasonable to a common intent, which may be thereafter perfected by a survey, is sufficient. To the latter a survey
and a formal title thereupon, duly made e.nd duly recorded, are
indispensable. O'Hara v. United States, 15 Peters, 282, 283;
United States v. Forbes, 15 Peters, 173, 185 ; Buyck v. United
States, 15 Peters, 215; United States v. Miranda, 16 Peters,
159,160; United States v. Powers' Heirs, 11 Howard, 577; Heirs
of Vilemont v. United States, 13 Howard, 266; 2 White's Recopilacion, 238, art. 15, 16.
The question here is not whether Dubuque acquired an incipient property, an equitable title, which might have been perfected into a complete title, by a survey and title in form thereupon, but whether the instrument, produced by the plaintiff, is
of itself such a complete Spanish grant of a p~rfect title as
severed an identical tract from the public domain, and conveyed
it to Dubuque, so that nothing passed to the United States.
Such a complete conveyance, such a peifect title, the plaintiff
has alleged, and must prove; such only can sustain his aution:
an incipient interest, a mere equity will not do.
To divest the sovereign of his public domain and convey it
to a subject, certainty, identity, precise locality is essential: If
something yet remains to be done, if a survey be yet necessary
to ascertain and fix the identity of the land, the severance is not

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

217

Chouteau v. N!olony.

complete, the conveyance is not perfect, the prince is not denuded
of his domain, the subject is not completely invested with a
private light; the prince yet holds, and the subject must look to
the prince to do, by his officers, the farther'acts to complete the
severance, and perfect the inchoate private right into a complete
title.
As in our own system land titles are progressive from an incipient, inchoate right, to a perfect title by patent, as when the
purchaser at public sale has paid the price and obtained the
certificate thereof of the receiver and register, or when the preemptioner has proved his settlement, cultivation, building, and
habitation, paid the price, and received the certificate of the
register and receiver, he is yet invested only with an inchoate
title, and must obtain thereon an affirmance of his right and a
also
patent in due form from the General Land Office, -so
under the Spanish dominion of Louisiana, land titles were progressive from an incipient, inchoate right, from a petition admitted
or conceded, an order of survey to fix the identity of the tract
of land, the formal delivery of possession thereof, the return of
the procs verbal and figurative plat, up to the approval thereof
by the governor, or the intendent-geneml, and the issue of the
title in. form thereupom
Upon Dubuque's petition to Carondelet there was no order
of survey, no survey, no severance of a precise quantity by defined limits from the public domain. Being only a permission
to work the mines which he had opened, and not intended as a
grant of the land in fee, the preliminary steps necessary to
obtain such a title were not ordered nor taken.
The king, the. government, the prince, cannot be disseized.
Therefore a formal delivery of possession by a competent officer
was required by the law of Spain.
Until a subject has acquired a legal private right to the land,
his occupancy is not a disseisin of the prince; the occupant is
tenant at xill, his occupancy is not adverse but in subordination
to the public title of the prince.
7. But the words " granted as .asked" (concedido come se
solicita) are relied upon.
The name of an instrument does not change the body and
effect of the writing, no more than the title of a statute can
change the purview and body of the enacttnent. See United
States v. King, 7 Howard, 833.
The word "granted," is not of itself sufficient to make a
complete title an ownership in fee. It may include a mere
privilege to work the mines, or a tenancy at will, or an estate
for a term of years, or for life, or an estate in fee, just as the
words with which it is connected will authohze according to the
T OL. XVI.

D

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteau v. Molony.

requirements of law. "Granted," or "grant," has no such technical meaning and effect as to convey an absolute complete
title infee. It may apply to a personal f2.vor, a mere privilege,
to any thing which is solicited.
The verbal argument, so much elaborated by plaintiff's counsel, has no force.
The petition prays of Carondelet "accorder." This French
word is not a word of title. It means ":o grant, to allow, to
accord, to give, to concede, a§ "accorder vne g-rdce," "accorder
sa fille en mariage." Fleming and Tibbitk, sub voc.
The indorsement of Carondelet is, "ccncedido;" but "concedido" has no force as a word of title. It is to give, grant,
bestow, a loan or gift, or to grant or admit L.proposition. Salva,
Dic. Castel. sub voc.
Even in English the word "granted," has not of itself any
intrinsic efficiency to make a complete title, an ownership in
fee. It may include a mere privilege to work the mines; or a
tenancy at will, or an estate for a term cf years, or for life, or
an estate in fee, just as the words with which it is connected
will authorize, according to the requirements of law. " Granted" or "grant," has no such technical or all sufficient meaning
and effect as to convey an absolute, complete title in fee. It
may apply to a personal favor, a mere privilege, to any thing
which is solicited.
In the seventh section of the act of th3 3d of March, 1807,
(2 Stat. at Large, by Little & B. 441,) we"-have the words "'That the tracts of land thus granted by the commissioners."
Here "granted" is applied to the certificates of the commissioners. But such granting by the commissioners did not invest
the party to whom such a grant was made with a complete
title, but the land was to be surveyed and a patent would issue
thereupon in due form from the General Land Office.
So when Carondelet indorsed the petition of Dubuque, even
if it had contained the interpolated words -" and to grant him
the full proprietorship thereof," the petition and indorsement,
"granted as asked," would have amounted to no .morethan an
incipient, imperfect right, which could have been perfected only
by a survey officially made and returned, and a title in form
issued thereon in the name of the king.
8. The great question in the case is, whether the document,
on which the plaintiff relies, is a complete legal title on which
an action of ejectment can be sustained. This is a question,
first of Spanish law, and secondly of that-of the United States.
O'Reilly, under whom the Spanish power in Louisiana, after
the cession by France to her was secured and established, made
regulations respecting the grant of lands by virtue of the powers

DECEMIBER TERM,

1853.

219

ChoUtCLU v. Molony.

given to him by the king. These regulations are dated at New
1)rleans, the 18th of February, 1770.
The 12th article states "that all grants shall be made in the
name of the king by the governor-geueral of the province."
2 White, 230.
By a communication of the Marquis de Grimaldi to Unzaga,
the successor of O'Reilly, of the 24th of August, 1770, (2 White,
460,) in which he states that O'Reilly had recommended that
the governor alone should be authojized by his Majesty to make
grants, and that orders should be given in conformity with the
instructions drawn up and printed in the distribution of the
royal lands, he says: " The king having examined these dispositions and propositions of the said lieutenant-general, approves
them, and also that it should be you and your successors in that
government only who are to. have the right to distribute (repartir) the royal lands, conforming in all points as long as his
Majesty does not otherwise dispose, to the said instruction, the
date of which is February 18th, of this present year." - This,
be it observed, is the date of O'Reilly's regulations.
The formula observed by the Spanish governors, in making
complete grants, always stated that they were made in the name
of the king, and in virtue of the authority vested in them by the
king.
The regulations of O'Reilly were, it is to be observed, to be
the land law of Louisiana until the king should otherwise dispose. The laws of the Indies had nothing to do with the subject.
The Colncil. of the Indies approved of the regulations of
O'R~eilly. 2 White, 463-4. Unzaga succeede4 O'Reilly; Galvez succeeded him, 779 ; Miro succeeded him, 1786; Carondelet, him, 1791; Gayoso, him, 1796, who made new regulations
in 1797. 2 White, 231.
It was during Gayoso's administration that the granting of
lands was taken away from the governor and vested in the intendant, at the instigation of Morales, who became vested with
power, and issued his regulations in 1799.
The regulations of O'Reilly, approved as they were by the
king, were the regulations in force at the time of the alleged
grant by Carondelet to Dubuque.
The regulations of Hita, made long afterwards, and in Florida,
have nothing to with the case.
But the court has already decided that an order or instrument,
like that in the present case, "granted," &c., is an incomplete
title, and not a perfect grant.
The act of 1824, with respect to land-titles in Missouri, it will
be remembered, applies, and gives the court jurisdiction only in
the cases of incomplete titles.

220

SUPREME

COURT

Chouteau v. Molony.

'Under this act a petition was filed by John Smith, T., claiming
a tract of land under a petition to CarondElet, at the bottom of
which were these words: "New Orleans, 10 February, 1796,
Granted. The Baron de Carondelet."
The court acted on this as an incomplet3 title and confirmed
it. Smith v. United States, 10 Pet. 328.
So it was held in the case of the Florida Land Cases. By the
act of 1828, (4 Stat. at Large, 285) these claims were to be
adjudicated according to the forms, rules, regulations, conditions,
restrictions, and limitations prescribed to ;he distriet' judge, for
claimants in the State of Missouri, by the act of 26th May, 1824.
The Florida courts had, therefore, only jurisdiction in the cases of
incomplete titles. In the case of the United States v. Wiggins,
the alleged grant by Governor Estrado, was, -"
The tract which
the interested party solicits, is granted to her, without prejudice
to a third party, &c." The court took jurisdiction of this as an
incomplete grant, but dismissed the petition on the merits.
14 Pet. 345.
These cases show that the word " Granted" does not make a
complete title, and is not used exclusively in relation to complete
titles to land.
The title is complete or incomplete according to the body of
the writings, whether the word " Granted" be or be not used.
The document relied upon by the plaintiff bears no resemblance to a Spanish complete title, made in pursuance of the
regulations of O'Reilly, approved and ordained by the king as
irrevocable, except by his own order. See the letter of the Marquis of Grimaldi to Unzaga, of 24th August, 1770; 2 White's
Recopilacion, p. 460.
It was 6nly a permit to Dubuque to work the mines, that he
might avoid a violation of the law of Spain, which ordained
,hat no mine shall be worked without permission from the crown.
Rockwell on Spanish Mines, p. 170, 173, c. 5.
Being but a concession to Julien Dubuque to work the mines,
it was revocable at will, and died with him if not previously
revoked.
Had Carondelet intended fo grant a title in fed to such a body
of land and the mines, he would not have neglected his duty so
far as not even to have preserved the evidence thereof in the
public. archives. Neither would Dubuque have neglected the
matter so important to the security of Such an estate. But
viewing the instrument as a personal permrdt to work the mines,
the conduct of Carondelet and Dubuque is consistent with the law.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is necessary to make a statement of the facts of the case

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

221

Chouteau v. 31olony.

from the pleadings, in order that the opinion which we shall give
may be fully understood.
It is a suit for the recovery of land, but not according to the
form of the proceedings in ejectment. It is a petition according
to the course of pleading allowed in the courts of Iowa, (which
has been adopted by the District Court of the United States,)
setting forth in detail the facts upon which the petitioner claims
the ownership of the land.
The petitioner, Henry Chouteau, states that he is the owner
of several tracts of land, and that they are wrongfully withheld
from him by the defendant, Patrick Molony. It is admitted
that Molony purchased the lands from the United States, and
that he has a patent for them. But the validity of the patent
is denied, upon the ground that the land had been granted to
Julien Dubuque by the authorities of Spain, before Louisiana
had been transferred by France to the United States.
Dubuque's claim is said, by the petitioner, to be a purchase
from the Fox Indians of a large tract of land situated in what
is now the Dubuque Land District.
It is described as bordering on the Mississippi River, extending from the Little Makoketa River to the mouth of the Mlusquabinenque Creek, now called Tete des Mforts. The purchase,
it is said, was made at Prairie du Chien, from the chiefs of the
Fox Indians, on the 22d September, 1788. In proof of it, an
instrument in writing, in French, is produced, with a translation
into English.
It is further stated that Dubuque paid the Indians for the
land in goods when the writing was executed. The petitioner
then states, that the chiefs of the Fox Indians, a few days afterwards, assented to the erection of monuments, and that they
were erected at the mouths of the rivers just mentioned, as evidence of the upper and lower boundaries of the tract of land.
It is also said that Dubuque occupied the land from the time
it was sold to him; -that he made improvements on it, cleared
an extensive farm, constructed upon it houses and a horse-mill;
that he cultivated the farm and dug lead ore from the land,
which he smelted in a furnace constructed for that purpose.
This land was in the Spanish province of Louisiana; Dubuque
resided on this land from 1788 to his death in 1810. Upon his
first settlement there, he employed ten white men as laborers,
who removed from Prairie du Chien td enter his service; that
the white inhabitants who resided on the land were almost entirely persons who had been inhabitants of Prairie du Chien before Dubuque made his settlement, and that other persons from
that town entered into his service in the interval between, the
date of his contract with the Indians and the time when, he ap190*

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. M1olony.

plied to the Governor of Louisiana, the Baron de Carondelet, for
the confirmation of the sale of the Indians to him. It also appears that Dubuque, from the time he made his settlement until
the province of Louisiana was transfer-ed to the United States,
did not permit any one to carry on bu, ess 9n the land without
having first obtained his consent, and that he drove forcibly from
it a person named Gu~rien, who came there with goods to trade.
It seems, too, that Dubuque was a man.' of enterprise; that,
during his residence upon this land, he exercised great influence
over the Indians on both sides of the Mississippi River; and
that the Winnebagoes on the east of it, and the Foxes on the
west of it, "were in the habit of consulting -with him upon their
more important concerns.
It will be remembered that Dubuque's settlement on the land
began with the date of his bargain with the Fox Indians, which
Was the 22d of September, 1788. Eight years afterwards, or
to be precise, on the 22d of October, 1796, Dubuque presented
to the Baron de Carondelet, at the city of New Orleans, his
-petition for a grant to him of the land which he alleges he
bought from the Fox Indians, by his contract with them of the
22d of- September, 1788, and their subsequent assent to the
erection of the monuments upon the Ma:ioketa and Tte des
Morts, as designations of the boundary of the land on the Mississippi River. The governor referred his petition to Andrew
Todd, an Indian trader, who had received a liceuse for the
monopoly of that trade, for Todd to give to him information of
the nature of Dubuque's demand. Todd replied, that he had
acted upon the reference of the memorial, saying, that as to the
land for which he asked, nothing occurred to him why it should
not be granted, if you deem it advisable to do so; wdth the condition, ne-erthless, that Dubuque should observe his Majesty's
provisions relating to the trade with the Indians, and that he
should be absolutely prohibited from doing so unless he shall
have Todd's consent in writing.
Upon this answer of Todd, Governor Carondelet makes this
order: Granted as asked, under the restxictions expressed in
the information given by the merchant, Andrew Todd.
The contract with the Indians, Dubuque's petition to the
governor, the reference of it. to Todd, Todd's return of it with
his written opinion, and the governor's final order, are here
annexed.
The exhibit referred to in the petition:, and filed therewith,
and marked A, is in the words and figures following, to wit:
Exhibit A.- COveyanee from Foxeg to Dubuque.
Copie de conseil tenu par Messrs. les Renards, c'est i dire, le

DECE31BER TERM, 1853

223

Chou.teau v. Molony.

chef et le brave de cinque villages avec lrapprobation du reste
de leur gens, expliqu6 par Mr. Quinarqtotaye, deput6 par eux,
en leur presencetet en la notre, nous soussign6s, sgavior, que les
Renards permette a Julien Dubuc, appel4 par eux la petite nuit,
de travailler h la mine jusqu'7 qui lui plaira, des s'en retirer sans
lui specifier aucun terme; de plus, qu'il lui vende et abandonne
toute la c~t6 et contenu de la mine trouve par le femme Peosta,
que sans qu'aucuns blancs ni sauvages, ni puissent pretendre
sans 'le consentment du Sr. Julien Dubuc; et si en cas ne
trouve rien dedans, il sera mitre de cherche ofi bon lIi semblera,
ct de travailler tranquillement, sans qu'aux qu'un he puisse le
nuire, ni portez aucune prejudice dans ses travaux; ainsi nous,
chef et brave, par la voje de tous nos villages, nous sommes
convenu avec Julien Dubuque, lui vendant et livrant de ce jour
d'hui comme il est mentionne6 ci-dessus, en presence de Franois qui nous attende, qui sont les temoins de cette piece, 6 la
Prairie du Chien, en plein conseil le 22 7br., 1788.
BLONDEAU,
ALA x AUSTIN,
marque. •

AUTAQUE.
BAZIL x TE IXN, temoin,
marque.
marque
BLONVEAU X DE QUIMNEAU,
tobague.

JOSEPrH FONTIONY, temoin.

The exhibit referred to in the petition, and filed therewith,
and marked B, is in the words and figures following, to wit:
.ExibitB.

-

A Translationof A.

Copy of the council held by the Foxes, that is to say, of the
branch of five villages, with the approbation of the rest of their
people, explained by Mr. Quinantotaye, deputed by them in
their presence, and in the presence of us, the undersigned, that
is to say, the Foxes, permit Mr. Julien Dubuque, called by them
the Little Cloud, to work at the mine as long as he shall pleas,
and to withdraw from it, without specifying any term to him;
moreover, that they sell and abandon t9 him all the coast and
the conten t s of the mine discovered by the wife of Peosta, so
that no white man or Indian shall make any pretension to it
without the consent of Mr. Julien Dubuque; and in case he
shall find nothing within, he shall be.free to search wherever he
may think proper to do so, and t6 work peaceably without any
one hurting him, or doing him any prejudice in his labors.

SUPREME COURT.

224

Chouteau v. Molony.

Thus we,.chief and braves, by the voice of all our villages, have
agreed with Julien Dubuque, selling and delivering to him this
day, as above mentioned, in presence of the Frenchmen who
attend us, who are witnesses to this writing.
At the Prairie due Chien, in full council, the 22d of SepterfiBLONDEAU,
ber, 1788.

ALA AUSTIN, his x mark,
AUTAQUE.
BAZIL TEnEN, his x
marque

mark,

BLONDEAU DE X QUIRNEAU,
tobague.

JosE

Witnesses.

FoNTIGNY.

The exhibit referred to in the petition, and ified therewith,
and marked H H., is in the words and figures following, to wit:

Exhibit H H.-Petiti n of Dubuc to Carondelet, 4-c.
A son excellence le

BARON DE CARONDELAIS:

Le tres humble suplyent de votres excellence, nomm6 Julien
Dubuque, aiant faites une abbitation sur *Les frontier de votres
gouvernements, au millieux des peuples sauvages, qu'il sont lea
biteurs du pays a achetge une partye de terre de ces indients
avect les mines qu'il quontient, et par sa parsaverances a surmonter tous les optacles tous contenzes que densgerenzes eA
parvenue approi bien des travences A6tre paysibles possesseures
d'unes partye de terre sur la rives occidentalle du Mississypi, a
quil il a donnee le nom des mines d'Espagnes, en memoir du
gouvernements aqui il appartenais. Comme le lieux de l'abitation n'est qu'un point, et les diferentes mines qu'il travalles
sont et parts et plus de trois lieux de distences lea unes des
autres, le tr~s humbles supplyant prit votras excellences de vouilloir bient lui accorder la paysibles possessions des mines et des
terres, qui ai i. dire, depuis les cautes d'Eau aux de la petites
rivier Maquanquitois jusque au quantes de Mlesquabysnanques,
ce 4tu'il formes environt sept lieux sur.la rives occidentalle du
Mississippye, sur trois lieux de profondem'e, que le trs humbles
supliant anzes esperer que vos bont4e vouzdrats bien lui accorder
sa demandes et prit settes m~me bonti qu'il fait le bonneur de
tous de sugaits, de me pardonner mon stille, et de vousloir bient
apronver la pure smplitit~e de mon cceur au defaux de mon
elloquences. Je prie de ciel de tous mon pouvoir possibles qu'il
vous conserves et qu'il vous combless de tons sea bientfait; et
je sui et serez toutes ma vie, de votres excellences le tr~s humbles et tr~s auxbeissents, et tr~s soumis servitteur.

J.DUBUQUE.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

225

Chouteau v. Molony.

Order to Todd.
NUEVA ORLEANS, 22 de October de 1796.
Informe el comerciante Dn. Andres Todd, sobre la naturaleza
EL BARON DE CARONDELET.
de esta demanda.
Information of Todd.
S'oR GoB'oR: Compliendo con el superior decreto de V. S.
en que me manda informar sobre la solicitud del individuo interesado en el antecendente memorial, debo decir, que en quanto
i la tierra que pide, nada se me ofrece, en que V. S. se la conceda, si lo halla por conveniente, con la condicion sin embargo
de observara el concesionario lo prevenido por S. M. acerea de
la treta con los Indios, y que esta se le prohibira absolutamente
-1 menos que notenga mi consentimiento por escrito.
Na. Orleans, 29 de Octubre de 1796. ANDREW TODD.
Order of Carandelet to Dubuc.
NUEVA ORLEANS, de Noviembre d 1796.
Concedido como se solicita baxo las restricciones que el comerciante Dn. Andres Todd expresa en su informe.
EL BARON DE CARONDELET.
Certifcatethat R7 His a true copy of the originalpaper witiidrawn
by plaintiff, by leave of court.
The foregoing two pages have *been prepared by me in pursuance of an order of court to that effect, and is a true copy o
Dubuque's petitin, the interlocutory orders of the Baron de
Carondelet and Andrew Todd, and the final order of the Baron de Carondelet.
Witness my hand, this 9th January, 1852.
T. S. PARViN, Clerk.
The exhibit referred to in the petition, and filed therewith,
and marked C, is in the figures and words following, to wit:
Translation of H H.
To his excellency, the BARON DE CARONDELET:

Your excellency's very humble petitioner, named Julien Dubuque, having made a settlement on the frontiers of your
government, in the midst of the Indian nations, who are the
inhabitants of the country,- has bought a tract of land from
these Indians, with the mines it contains, and by his perseverance has surmounted all the obstacles, as expensive as they
were dangerous, and, after many voyages, has come to be the
peaceable posiessor of a tract of land on the western bank of
the Mississippi, to which [tract] he has given the name of the

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteatu v. Molony.

"MAines of Spain," in memory of the government to which he
belonged. As the place of settlement is but a point, and the
different mines which he works are apart, and at a distance of
more than three leaguzes from each other, the very humble petitioner prays your Excellency to have the goodness to assure him
the quiet enjoyment of the mines and lands, that is to say, from
the margin of the waters of the little river Maquanquitois to the
margin of the Mesquabysnonques, which forms about seven
leagues on the west bank of the Mississippi, by three leagues in
depth, and to grant him the full proprietorship * thereof, which
the very humble petitioner ventures to hope that your goodness
will be pleased to grant him his request. I beseech that same
goodness which makes the happiness of so many subjects, to
pardon me my style, and be pleased to accept the pure simplicity
of my heart in default of my eloquence. I pray Heaven, with
all my power, that it preserve you, and thai; it load you with all
its benefits ; and I am, and shall be all my life, your Excellency's
very humble, and very obedient, and very submissive servant.
J. DUBUQUE.
NEw ORLEANS, October, 22, 1796.
Let information be given by the merchant, Don Andrew Todd,
on the nature of this demand.
THE BARON DE CARONDELET.
SENOR GOVERNOR: In compliance with your superior order,

in which you command me to give information on the solicitation of the individual interested in the foregoing memorial, I
have to say that, as to the land for which he asks, nothing occurs
to me why it should not be granted, if you deem it advisable to
do so; with the condition, nevertheless, that the grantee shall
observe the provisions of his Majesty relating to the trade with
the Indians; and that this be absolutely prohibited to him,
unless he shall have my consent in writing
New Orleans, October 29, 1796.
ANDREW TODD.
NEw ORLEANS, Albvember 10, 1796.
Granted as asked, under the restrictions expressed in the information given by the merchant, Don Ani.rew Todd.
THE BARON DE CARONDELET.
The defendant in this suit demurred, and for causes of demurrer says:
1. Admitting all the facts of the petition to be true, the plain.
tiff is not entitled to recover.

,A"Peaceable possession" is the proper translat on of the original.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

227

Chouteau v. Molony.
2. As it appears by the exhibits to the petition that the plaintiff claims tnder an unconfirmed Spanish title, he has no standing in a court of law.
S. That it appears, from the plaintiff's own showing, that he
rests his title upon an incomplete Spanish grant, and that the.
defendant is in possession under a complete title from the United StatesIt appears, then, that the petitioner claims under the Indian
instrument of writing, termed by him a sale, and in virtue of a
confirmation of it into a grant by the Governor of Louisiana,
the Baron de Carondelet, dated the 10th November, 1796. We
shall consider the case, as it was argued by all of the counsel,
as presenting but one question.
Was the grant which the Baron de Carondelet made to
Julien Dubuque, a complete title, making the land private property, and therefore excepted from what was conveyed to the
United States by the Treaty of Paris of the 30th April, 1803?
Our inquiry begins with the examination of that paper introduced by the petitioner as the Indian contract of sale to Dubuque.
After reciting that the paper Is a copy of the cofincil held by
the Foxes and the braves of the five villages, with the approbation of the rest of their people, these words are found in that
paper: "The Foxes permit Mr. Julien Dubuque, called by them
the Little Cloud, to work at the mine as long as he shall please,
and to witHdraw from it without 'specifying any time to him;
moreover, that they sell and abandon to him all of the coast or
hills and contents of the mine discovered by the wife of Peosta.
so that no white man or Indian shall make any pretension to it
without the consent of Mr. Julien Dubuque; and in case he
shall find nothing within, he shall be free to search wherever he
may think proper to do so, and to work peaceably, without any
one hurting him or doing him any prejudice in his labors."
From these terms it is pl.ain that Dubuque was treating with
the Indian co.uncil for a mine, the mine of Peosta, with all the
coast or hill, and the contents of that mine, with the privilege
to open other mines, protected in doing so from all interferences
in the event that he should not find ore in the Peosta mine.
The words, that they sell and abandon to him all the coast and

the contents of the mine discovered by the wite of Peosta, are
the only words from which it can be implied that they were
selling land. Admitting that they do so, the words "all the
coast" of the mine Peosta cannot be enlarged to mean more
than the land -,hich covered its ramifications and the land contiguous to' them, which was necessary for the operations of the
miners and for their support. We say so because such were

228

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteau v. 1Molony.

the allowances under the mining ordinan.es of Spain. We
shall see hereafter how that was determined by the Spanish
ordinances regulating the mines. But to'make it more certain
that the Indians meant to sell a mine, and that Dubuque was
bargaining for a mine, the contract of sale conveying it to him,
with the extended privilege to open other mines if that bohght
should turn out to be deficient in ore, the council conclude their
paper thus: "We, the chiefs and braves, by the voice of all of
our villages, have agreed with Julien Dubuque, selling and delivering to him this day, as above mentioned, in the presence
of the Frenchmen who attend us, who are witnesses of this
writing." There are no words in this paper, except the wordE
"all the coast" of the mine of Peosta, conveying any othei
land, either as to locality, quantity, or boundary. When it i
remembered, too, that this paper or contract was written by
Frenchmen, and that one of them explained to the Indians what
it meant or what the paper contained, and "hat it was witnessed
by other Frenbihmen, some of whom could read and write, it is
hard for us to suppose that they meant by it to convey to Dubuque the large tract of land which he aj'terwards claimed, or
that they did not honestly, fairly, and fully write only that which
the Indians meant to do. At all events, if the words of the
paper are doubtful as to what the Indians meant to sell, as the
copy of the council is -writtenin a language which they could
neither read nor fully understand, it will be but right to hold it
as an uncertainty, and not tb permit their bargainee, Dubuque,
or his alienees, to give it a fixed meaning in their own favor.
But let it be admitted that the words of the copy of this Indian council are obscure and ambiguous, so as to express its
meaning imperfectly, and that a resort may be made to exterior
circumstances connected with the transaction to ascertain its
intention. There are no such proofs in the case nothing of
the kind to guide us to a different conclusion than that which
the paper expresses. Dubuque, the interested party, is made to
say, in the plaintiff's petition, that a few (lays after the Indian
sale was executed, the chief, in the presence of Dubuque, assented to the erection of monuments at the mouth of the Little
Makoketa, and at the mouth of the Tate des Morts, as evidence
that the former was the upper and the latter the lower end of
the Mississippi River boundary line of the large tract, and that
the monuments were actually erected. 'With the exception of
the erected monuments, the same is repeated in Dubuque's
memorial to Governor Carondelet for a grant; but with this
remarkable addition for the first time, that the tract .from the
points mentioned on the river was to a depth of three leagues.
This depth is not in the copy of the Indian'counciL It was not

DECEMEBER TERM,

1853.

229

Chouteau v. Blolony.

stipulated for by Dubuque, nor in any way mentioned by or to
the chiefs when they assented to the erection of monuments. Itwill be seen at once that it was necessary for him to give depth
to the tract when he applied to the governor for a grant, in
order to give certainty to his previous declaration that he had
bought the land from the Indians. Without having a given
depth, the-tract could not have been surveyed as to quantity or
boundaries. On that account it would, under the Spanish law,
as well as our own, have been void for its uncertainty. Indeed,
we cannot think otherwise than that the statement in the petition in this case is contradictory to Dubuque's petition for a
grant of the land, and that the first must be taken as the fullest
extent, of any arrangement between Dubuque and the Indians
subsequently to their sale to him of the Peosta mine, with a
privilege to search elsewhere if that mine should fail. The
erection of monuments within certain distances upon the river
was consistent with the 'rivqlege to search for other mines. In
the absence of all words from which it can be inferred that a
sale of land was meant, the monuments, as points mentioned
on the river, can have no other reference than to the privilege
tb search for mines. 'Phis, in 'our view, is the sound interpretation of the Indian contract, and the statement made of it in
the petition in this suit.
It would certainly be a novelty, even in the looseness with
which g-rants of land were made in Louisiana, if a grantee or
one claiming under him was permitted by his own declaration
to amend and enlarge a specification defective in the particulars
of quantity and boundaries.
Our interpretation of the paper, given by the Fox Indians to
Dubuque, will be much strengthened, if it needs it, by a brief
statement of what were the rights of the Indians in those lands
and to the mines.
Spain, at all times, or from a very early date, acknowledged
the Indians' right of occupancy in these lands, but at no time
were they permitted to sell them without the consent of the
king. That was given either directly under the king's signmanual, or by confirmation of the governors representing him.
As to the mines, whether they were on public or private lands,
and whether they were of the precious or baser ores, they formed a part of what was'termed the royal patrimony. They were
regulated and worked by ordinances from the king. These
ordinances were very many, differing, and contradictory. It is
very difficult, though aided by the best commentaries upon them,
to determine in all instances how far the older ordinances were
repealed by those subsequently made, or how much of both of
them remained in force. As to the rights of the crown, however,
VOL. XV1.

20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

there can be no uncertainty. By the law of the Partida, law 5,
title 15, Partida 2, Rockwell, 126, the property of the mines
was so vested in the king that they were held not to pass in a
grant of the land,, although not excepted out of the grant; and
though included in it, the grant was valid as to them only
during the life of the king who made it, and required confirmation by his successors.
The law 11, title 28, Partida 3:
" The returns from the port, salt-work3, fisheries, and iron.
works, and from the other metals, belong to the emperors and
kings, and all these things were granted to thei that they
might have wherewith an honorable establishment to defend
their lands and kingdoms, and to carry on war against the enemies of the faith, and that they might have no need to load
their people with great or grievous burdens." Rockwell, 126.
Rockwell also says, by the law 8, title 1, book 6, of the Ordenamiento Real, (we have not seen the original,) copied in lawr 2,
title 13, book 6, Collection of Castile, that all mines of gold,
silver, or any other metal whatsoever, and the produce of the
same, were declared to be the property of the crown, and no
one was to presume to work them except under some especial
license or grant previously obtained, or unless authorized by
immemorial prescription. This rule was afterwards moderated
by law 1, title 13, book 6, Collection of Castile, so far as to permit any person to dig or work mines in his own land or inheritance, or with the permission of the proprietor in that of any
other individual; the miner retaining for himself, after deducting
expenses, one third of the produce, rendering the other two
thirds to the king. Rockwell, 126. Subsequently the profitless
return of the mines in the Spanish dominions induced Philip 2d,
acting with the council and chief accountants of the mines, to
reserve all grants which had been made of them, whether they
were in private or in public ground. The object of this proceeding was to throw open to all of his subjects the right to search
for mines both in public and private grounds, giviig to the
owner of the latter a compensation, for c.amages and a third
part of the produce. Law 4, title 18, book 6, Collection of
Castile, Rockwell, 126. By a second ordinance of Philip, all
persons, natives and foreigners, were permitted to search for
mines. It was declared that the finders of them should have a
right of possession and property to them, with a right to dispose
of them as of any thing of thieir own, provided they complied
with the rules of the ordinance, and paid to the crown the
seignorage required. These privileges were afterwards extended
to the Indians by name, as mnay'be seen by law 1, title 19, book
4, Collection of the Indies. -Rockwell, 129 -387. Such were

DECEMBER TERMT,

1853.

231

Choutcau v. Molony.
the regulations of Spain in respect to the rights of the Indians
in lands and mines before Louisiana became a part of her dominions, from the cession of it by France in 1763.
What were the regulations of France in respect to mines in
her colonies, we need not inquire into, as the transaction ve
have before us happened after France had parted with the province, and after Spain had legislated new ordinances upon the
subject of mines, which were applicable to all of her dominions,
as well those in North as in South America.
We mean the
ordinances entered in the General Land Office of the Indies, at
Madrid, the 25th of May, 1783.
In chapter 5 of these ordinances, the king declares that mines are the property of his
royal crown; that without separating them from his royal patrimony, he grants them to his subjects in property and possession, in such manner that they may sell, exchange, pass by will,
either in the way of inheritance or legacy, or in any other manner to dispose of all their property in them, upon the terms they
themselves possess them, to persons legally capable of acquiring.
The grant depended upon two conditions: that the proportions
of metal reserved were paid into the royal treasury, and that
the mines were worked subject to the ordinances. To all the
subjects of the king's dominions, "both in Spain and the Indies, of whatever condition or rank they may be," were granted
the mines of every species of metals, but foreigners were not
permitted to acquire or work mines as their own property, unless they were naturalized, or did so expressly under a license.
The right of the Indians to work the mines, upon their own account, was at one time questioned. It was determined that they
could do so. Law 14, title 19, book 4, Collection of the Indies,
Rock. 137. And the mines discovered by Indians were declared
to be, in respect to boundaries, on the same footing, without
any distinction, as those worked or discovered by Spaniards.
Besides the other privileges secured by this ordinance to the
owners of mines upon the public lands, they had the right to
use the woods on mountains in the neighborhood of them, to
get timber for their machines, and wood and charcoal for the
reduction of the ores. Rockwell, 82, § 12, c. 13.
Besides
the privileges just stated, they were exempted from a strict compliaijee with the ordinance in respect to the registry of their
mines. Indeed, every indulgence was given to them. Much
care was taken to preserve for them their property in mines,
and to give them the means of working them.
With these
rights and privileges it is much 'more natural to construe the
contract of the Foxes with Dubuque into a salc, and a purchase
of mines, than into a transfer of lands.
We will now consider Dubuque's petition to Governor Ca-

232

SUPREME

COURT.,

Chouteau v. Molony.
rondelet, the xeference of it to Todd for information on the
nature o; the demand; Todd's reply, and the governor's final
order. - Dubuque makes his purchase from the Indians the
foundation of his prayer for a grant, and the inducement for
the governor to give lt. He asks the governor to accord to hin,
the peaceable possession of the mines and lands, which is to
say, from the hills above the little river Me.quanquitois as far as
the hills of Musquabinenque; which forms seven leagues on the
western bank of the Mississippi, by three leagues in depth.
We do not doubt that Dubuque meant to ask for lands as well
'as mines, and that his object was to get a grant for this large
body of land. But the true point here is not what he meant
to aek for, but what he had a right to ask i:or under his contract
with the Indians, and what the governor meant to grant, and
could grait under that contract. Mining was the motive which
induced Dubuque to make his settlement among the Indians.
It had been his pursuit and occupation for eight years before
he petitioned the governor; the governor refi rred the petition
to Andrew Todd for information on the nature of the demand.
Todd replies, "I have to say that, as to the land for which he
asks, nothilng occurs to me why it should not be granted by
your lordship, if you find it convenient, with the condition,
nevertheless, that the concessionario shall observe the provisions
of his majesty as to the trade with the Indians, and that this be
absolutely prohibited to him, unless he have my consent in
writing." The governor's order is granted as asked, or conceded
as petitioned for, under the restrictions which the merchant,
.11r. Andrew Todd, expresses in his report.
We have here, then, three things to note. First, land is described out of the contract of the Indians with Dubuque; next,
that it is to be granted upon a condition; and third, that it is
conceded as asked, under the restrictions expressed in the report
of Todd. " Granted as asked," is the governor's order. It
cannot be said that this is referable alone to the quantity of
land asked for by Dubuque, and not to h.,s statement that ho
had bought that quantity from the Indians, and that its boundaries were. coincident with his description of them. There is
no such description in the Indian sale to Dubuque. It is a
misstatement of a fact. Admitting that the chiefs of the Fox
Indians assented to the erection of monuments at the mouth of
the Little Makoketa and at the mouth of the Te des Morts,
and that it was done to mark a boundary; when it is found
that nothing was said by them or by Dubuque at that time
descriptively of a tract of land which could. be surveyed, the inference is that the monuments were marks within which and
from which Dubuque was permitted to search for mines, and to

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

233

Chouteau v. Molony.

work them in the event that the mine of Peosta did not yield
ore,

It cannot be presumed that the governor had not read the
petition before he gave his order upon Todd's information; or
that when giving, it was not his intention to confer upon Dubuque the benefit of his purchase from the Indians. He referred
the petition to Todd for information. It was a reference out
of the usual course of proceeding when applications were made
for grants of land. Todd had neither agency nor office, or
knowledge in such matters. The officials of the land office
were not called upon. In every other grant made by the Baron
Carondelet, the applications for them were so referred. Notwithstanding the very large grants which were made by him,
under all the circumstances of each case, whether pressing or
otherwise, gratuitous or for a consideration, he scrupulously
adhered to all the forms and the essentials which custom, usage,
and the law had imposed upon the granting of lands. The
cause for his reference of Dubuque's petition to Todd is obvious.
We find it in the petition in this suit. Dubuque had undertaken
to interfere with others who attempted to trade with the Indians. It is said that he had not permitted any one to carry on
that trade on the land from the time he had made his purchase
from the Indians, and that he had driven from it forcibly a .erson who had, without his consent, landed goods upon it with
an intention to sell them to the Indians. This, it appears from
Todd's report, he had no right to do. The Indian trade was
regulated by ordinances from the king. Todd had obtained
the privilege to carry it on, and to exclude others from doing so
without his consent. From his report it may be inferred that
Dubuque had done so, its language being "that this (trade) be
absolutely prohibited to him, unless he shall have my consent
in writing." The governor recognizes Todd's right to give that
consent. His order is, granted as asked, under the restrictions
expressed in the information given by the merchant, Andrew
Todd. This is a very novel condition to be annexed to a grant
of land in full proprietorship, if the governor meant to give
such a grant. Does it not rather imply that the governor meant
to permit him to continue in the quiet enjoyment of the mines,
and to work them, with the use of the lands, as the Indians had
permitted him to do for eight years, notwithstanding what had
been Dubuque's irregular interference and appropriation of the
trade with the Indians. With such a condition itwas revocable
by the governor upon any imputation that he had violated it.
It would not have been right to recall the order without proof
of the transgression of it; but if that could be a subject of inquiry at all, it shows that though Dubuque asked for lands and
20*

234

SUPRE]HE

COURT.

Chouteau v. Molony.

mines, that the governor had not made an unconditional grant
of lands.
It is scarcely possible that such a reference of Dnbuque's
petition would have been made; that the subject of Indian
trade should have been introduced into the affair by Todd; and
that the governor should have recognized it as -a cause for
qualifying the terms in which grants of land were made; and
that every official agency in making grants of land should have
been disregarded, if it had been the intention of the governor
to make to Dubuque a grant of the land as property, without
any reference to his declaration that he had, bought it from the
Indians, and to the fact stated in the petition, that he was then
working the mines "three leagues apart from each other."
The law for granting lands vas, that the grants were to be
made with formality, in the name of the king, by the governorgeneral of the province; that when the order to grant was given,
that a surveyor should be appointed to fIx the boundaries, and
that the order itself should be registered in the land office, with
the memorials and other papers, whatsoever they might be,
which had induced the governor to make the grant. The practice of the governors, including the Baron de Carondelct, corresponded with all of the requirements just mentioned. Nothing
of the kind was done in this case. The whole proceeding was
kept from the proper office in New Orleans, where, by liw and
usage, an entry of it should have been imade. Dubuque did
not ask for a survey; he tdok with him the papers. The first
notice given of the existence of them came from Dubuque himself, after the transfer of Louisiana to the United States, when
the richness of the lead mines on the uppez part of the Mississippi had attracted the attention of the public and of Congress.
Rumors had reached the government at Washington that Dabuque claimed the richest of them, and that speculators were
trying to get from him an interest in them. At that time it
became necessary to explore the upper Mississippi and its
sources, with the view of obtaining general information for
military and legislatiye purposes, and more definite knowledge
of what were the boundaries of Louisiana. Lietitenant, afterwards our distinguished General Pike, was detailed, with a
sufficient exploring force, for that purpose. Among other things
he was charged, when he arrived at what were called the Dubuque mines, to make particular inquiries about them, and into
Dubuque's claim. He had an interview with Dubuque at -his
residence, some six or seven miles from the mines, but did not
nake an inspection of them, as Dubuque could not furnish
him with transportation to their locality, anA he then had been
attacked with feve1r. He proposed however, to Dubuque, seve-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

235

Chouteau v. Molony.

ral questions in wiiting, and we have the paper, with the answers, signed by both of them. They are curious and reserved
upon the part of Dubuque, and may find a place here without
interfering with the part of the argument which we are now
upon: "What is the date of your grant of the mines from the
savages ? Answer. The copy of the grant is in Mr. Soulard's
office at St. Louis. 'What is the date of the confirmation by
the Spamards? The same answer as to query first. What is
the extent of your grant? The copy of the grant is at Mr.
'hat is the extent of the mines?
Soulard's office at St. Louis.
Twenty-eight or twenty-seven leagues long, and from one to
three broad. Lead made per annum? From 20 to 40,000
pounds. The answers to the other questions are equally indefinite, and all were so excepting as to the place where the grant
could be found." 1 Appendix to Pike's Expedition, 5. These
answers, however, were communicated to Mr. Gallatin before
the commissioners for adjusting land claims had made their
report, and they serve to show that when he made his report to
the President upon the Dubuque claim, that he had done so
with his usual care and caution. 'Whatever was then in Mr.
Soulard's office at St. Louis, connected with it, he had obtained.
His report is not liable to the censure which was cast upon it
in the argument; for if it be defective in clerical particulars, his
conclusion is sustained both by knowledge and principle.
We return to the point which we left to give the extract from
Pike. It was, that there -were not upon Dubuque's petition
any of the customary forms, or required proceedings, which had
always been observed by the Spanish governors in making
gra.nts of lands. They were not only omitted by the governor,
but were not asked for by Dubuque; or if he did ask, there was
not a compliance with the request. The papers were kept by
him without any action upon them until after the United States
had acquired Louisiana.
This conduct varies so much from the ordinary action of
persons under like circumstances, that it may very properly be
mentioned with the other incidents of this case, which have led
us to the conclusion that the governor's order was not meant
to concede to him more than the quiet enjoyment and peaceable possession of the mines, and such lands as the mining
ordinances permitted to be used for working them. The objection with us is not that Dubuque had not caused a survey
to be made, but that he had not obtained, that the governor
had not given, an order for such purpose. We think it could
not have been done by Soulard or any other official Spanish
surveyor. No one of them would have ventured to stretch a
chain upon the land with a view of separating it from the

236

SUPREEME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

public domain, without special authority to do so from the
governor. Such an order was the uniforn accompaniment of
a grant, and without it a concession was incomplete: though,
when given, if circumstances such as were mentioned in the
argument of this case interfered with its execution, it did not
lessen the completeness of the title, if the description of the
land was such that it could be carried into a survey. There
ought not to have been in this case, any apprehension of Indian
interference with a survey, after Dubuque's residence of more
than eight years among them, if their understanding had been
for all of that time that they had sold to him the land. His
relations with them are represented to have been friendly and
influential in their more important concerns; and if, as is stated,
he kept all intruders from the land in its wvhole extent, claiming
it as his property, and not permitting any one to come upon it
to trade with the Indians, and keeping th t trade for himselfall of this with the acquiescence of the Indians - it is not probable that fears of their opposition to it. prevented him from
getting an order of survey, or from having run from the monuments- the three lines which would have comprehended his
description of the land. It is certain thc.t he had no order for
a survey. itis equally certain, as it had not been given by
Governor Carondelet, that he could not have obtained it from
his successor, Gayoso de Lemos. It will not do in such cases
to indulge conjecturally, as to the motives of Dubuque for such
conduct, but sometimes historical facts clear up difficulties
which cannot be explained, in any other way. Governor Carondelet's commission had been recalled, and his successor,
Gayoso, appointed, before the former had given his order upon
Dubuque's petition. He was then only holding over until the
arrival of his successor from Natchez. Gayoso lost no time;
perhaps urged to it by very recent larger grants which his predecessor had made, and which were complained of, in announcing that in respect to the quantity to be granted, he would
enforce the regulations of O'Reilly, not only in Opelousas,
Attacapa, and Nachitoches, but throughout the province. From
that moment, Dubuque's claim was, at all events, if he had any
rightful claim f6r land from his Indian contract, reduced to a
league square, unless it could be shown that it had been already
confirmed by Governor Carondelet; and this course was preferred in the assertion of title to it before the tribunals of the
United States.
In our construction of the muniments of title of this case, we
have considered them, as he does, as one instrument, and so
they were treated in the argument - that each might aid to
explain the other, and that the truth might be obtained from

DECEMIBER TE-RM, 1653.

237

Chouteau v. Molony.

the whole of them in regard to this transaction. Our conclusion is, Dubuque's contract with the Fox Indians was a sale to
him of the Peosta mine, with its allowed mining appendages,
with the privilege to search for other mines in the event that ore
was not found in that mine; and that the order of Governor
Carondelet, upon his petition, was not meant to secure to him
the ownership of the lands described in his petition.
The real importance of this case, the interests involved, and
the notoriety which has been given to the Dubuque claim for
more than forty years, in Congress and out of it, do not permit
us to stop this opinion with the conclusion just announced.
Hitherto the case has been considered in connection with the
documents upon which the plaintiff relies, and as if Governor
Carondelet had official authority to make a grant of the land
upon the petition of Dubuque. We Will now present another
view of it. Dubuque prays for a concession of what was then
Indian land, which had been in the occupancy of the Indians
during the whole time of the dominion of Spain in Loisiana,
and which was not yielded by them until it was bought from
them by treaties with the United States. It is a fact in the
case, that the Indian title to the country had not been extinguished by Spain, and that Spain had not the right of occupancy. The Indians had the right to continue it as long as
they pleased, or to sell out parts of it-the
sale being made
conformably to the laws of Spain, and being afterwards confirmed by the king or his representative, the Governor of Louisiana. Without such conformity and confirmation no one
could, lawfully, take possession of lands under an Indian sale.
We know it was frequently done, but always with the expectatioA that the sale would-be confirmed, and that until it was, the
purchaser would have the benefit of the forbearance of the government. We are now speaking of Indian lands, such as
thee were, and not of those portions of land which were assigned
to the Christian Indians for villages and residences, where the
Indian occupancy had been abandoned by them, or"where it
had been yielded to the king by treaty. Such sales did not need
ratification by the governor, if they were passed before the proper Spanish officer, and put upon record.
The Indians within the Spanish dominions, whether christainized or not, were considered in a state of tutelage. In the Recopilacion de las Leges de las Indias, a part of tile official oath
of the Spanish governors was, that they would look to the welfare, augmentation, and preservation of the Indians. Book 5,
c. 2. Again: Indians, although of age, continue to enjoy the
rights ot minors, to avoid contracts or other sales of their property - particularly real -made
without authority of the judi-

238

SUPRE3E COURT.
Chouteau v. AMolony

ciarv or the intervention of their legal protectors. Solerzanos
Politica Indiana, 1, 209, §§ 24, 42. IndiE.ns are considered as
persons under legal disability, and their protectors stand in the
light of guardians. 46, 51. The fiscal in the audiencia were
their protectors, but in some cases they .aad special protectors.
When Indians dispose of their landed property or other thing
of value, the sale is void unless made by the intervention of the
authorities, )r of the protector-general, or person designated for
the purpose. C. 29, 42. Many other citations of a like kind
might be given from the king's ordinances for the protection
of the Iinans. They were protected very much by similar
laws when Louisiana was a French province, excepting in this:
that the power to confirm an Indian sale of land, as to the
whole or a part of it, or to reject it altogether, was exercised by
the French governors of the province.
Nor were these laws of protection disregarded. They were
brought into operation very soon after General O'Reilly took
possession af the province, in 1769. He acted not only upon
Indian sales of land made after the cession of the province by
France, but upon such as had been made before. Considering
himself as representing the king, when called upon to relinquish
the title of the crown in favor of such purchasers, he rejected
them altogether when not made in compliance with the laws for
the proteetion of the Indians, and diminished the quantities of
such sales when the purchasers could show from any cause whatever tdat they ha, an equitable claim upon the Indians for remuneration. The Iist sale of the kind to which his attention was
called was one from Rimeno, the chief of the Attacapas village,
as early as 1760, to Fuselien de la Clare, afterwards claimed by
Morgan & Clark. O'Reilly did not think that the sale had been
completed so as to pass the title to it under the French law,
though it had been executed before the governor. De la Clare
then petitioned for a grant of one league to front upon the Teche,
by a league in depth, baking the sale to him from the Indians,
of two leagues in front, from north to south, limited on the
west by the River Vermilion, and on the east by the River
Teche, the foundation of the equity of his claim for a grant.
Clovernor O'Reilly received the application and granted a league
in front by a league in depth. In the same manner all other
larger purchases from the Indians were afterwards reduced to
one league square. It became the common understanding that
no larger confirmation of an Indian sale of land would be
made, and no one of them was ever confirmed for more, by
either of the Spanish governors of Louisiana, including Salcedo,
the last of'them. This of Dubuque is the only case in which
it is claimed to have been done. In Florida, larger Indian sales

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

239

Chouteau v. Molony.

of land were confirmed, upon the ground that the governors of
that province acted in such a matter upon a different authority
from the king. But both in Florida and Louisiana it was so
well understood that an Indian sale of land, before it could take
effect at all, needed the ratification of the governor, that it was
frequently inserted in the act of sale. See claims of purchasers
of Indian lands by Stephen Lynch, Joseph and John Lyon.
Such had been the law of Louisiana, or rather the administration of it by the governors, for more than eighteen years, when
Dubuque alleges that he bought the land from the Fox Indians.
Such it had been for twenty-six years when he presented his
petition to the Baron Carondelet. It is true that the governors
had the same powers to grant the public lands of the crown,
to which a title and instant possession could be given to the
grantee; but it is also true, in their action upon the sales of Indian lands still in their occupancy, that they were bound by the
same laws, usages, and customs, and by those laws especially
which had been made for the protection of the Indians, and by
the oath which they took to look to the welfare, augmentation,
and preservation of the Indians.
Such are our views of the law relating to the powers of the
governor in respect to sales of land by the Indians. If we
thought then, as we do not, that the order of Governor Carondelet upon the petition of Dubuque was a grant of the ownership of the land, we should be obliged to decide that it was an
unaccountable and capricious exercise of official power, contrary
to the uniform usage of his predecessors in respect to the sales
of Indian lands, and that it could give no property to the grantee. It is not meant, by what has just been said, that the Spanish governors, could not relinquish the interest or title of the
Crown in Indian lands and for more than a mile square; but
when that was done, the grants were made subject to the rights7
of Indian occupancy. They did not take effect until that occupancy had ceased, and whilst it continued it was iiot in the
power of the Spanish governor to authorize any one to interfere
with it.
It has been intimated 1}hat the action of the governors of
Louisiana upon the sales of Indian lands, especially in the reduction of them to a league square, -was the consequence of
O'Reilly's regulation, limiting grants of land in particular districts to a league square. This may have been so as regards
quantity, but the principle upon which they acted upon Indian
sales of land is to be found in those laws of Spain which made
them officially the protectors of the Indians.
But it will be said at this point of the case, as it was said in the
argument, if the governor's order was not a grant for lands, that

240

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Molony.

it gives to Dubuque nothing, as he had already the occupancy
under thd Indian purchase. The error in the statement is, the
assertion that he had the right to occupancy, and in the supposition that the opposers of the grant contend that the governor
meant to give him that right. Not so. The last, we have just
said, the governor could not give, and that the Indian sale could
not give it to a purchaser until the sale had been ratified. But
the privilege to work the mines in lands still in the occupancy
of the Indians, he could give,, because the mines were a part of
the royal patrimony of the crown, and the :ing had directed that
they might be searched for and worked in all of his dominions by
his subjects, both Spaniards and Indians. 'When, then, Dubuque
represented to him that he had bought :mines and lands from
the Fox Indians, and asked for the enjoyment and peaceable
possession of them, and the governor wrote "granted as asked
fbi"" he meant no more than this: as you say that you have
bought the mines, with the permission of the Indians to work
them, you shall also have mine.
The view taken of this case relieves us from the consideration
of several points which were made in the argument of it; particularly from that of the effect of the words "peaceable pospossession,"' found in the petition of Dubuque to Governor Carondelet, to which it was contended his final order had a direct
reference. We admit, with pleasure, that it was shown by a
learned and discriminating appreciation of those words in grants
for land, that they were more frequently than otherwise a grant
of ownership; but they cannot do so in a case where the order
or grant is given with direct reference to a fact in the petition
for it which does not exist, or where a grant is given upon an
Indian sale of land contrary to what we think the laws of Spain
permitted to be done. The order given upon the.petitio of
Dubuque, had it been intended to be a grant of ownership, -would
not have been binding upon the conscience of the king of Spain,
and only such as kre so are conclusive against the United States
under the treaty transferring Louisiana.
Nor is it necessary for us to notice the reference which was
made in the argument to the treaty made by General Harrison
with the Fox Indians, further than to state that it is no more
than a declaration that the Indians, in selling to the United
States their land, did not mean to sell parts of it which they
had sold before to others, It may have had a reference to this
claim of Dubuque, but not having been so expressed, it cannot
be inferred.
We pcnnot leave this case without a reflection occurring from
our investigation of it, and which is not favorable to the statement made by Dubuque that he had bought the land from the
Fox Indians.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

241

Chouteau v. Molony.

Dubuque's mines, as they were called, are on the west bank
of the Mississippi, a little more or less than seventy miles below
Prairie du Chien, where he made his contract with the Indians.
They are so near to the city of Dubuque that they may be said
to be contiguous. In the year 1780 the wife of Peosta, a warrior of the Kettle chief's village, discovered a lead mine on these
lands, and other mines were found soon afterwards. The principal mines are situated upon a tract of one league square, immediately at the Fox village of the Kettle chief, extending westward. This was the seat of the mining operations of Dubuque.
The Kettle chiefs village was on the bank of the Mississippi
River, below the little river Makoketa, and was at the time
when Dubuque settled there, a village of many lodges. Schoolcraft.
If it was not the largest of the Fox or Outagami Indians, it
was not inferior to any other village than that of the Foxes and
Sacs on the bank of the Mississippi River, near Rock Island.
It had been for a long time an Indian village when Dubuque
settled there. It continued as such all the time that Dubuque
resided there until his death; that is, from 1788 to 1810; and
its chief survived Dubuque for ten years. Can it be presumed
that, under the contract with Dubuque, the Indians meant to
sell him that village, and all the lands for miles above and below
it, with all of the mines upon the land directly adjoining it?
And yet such must be the result if that were so; for, carry Dubuque's descript;nu of his purchase into a survey, and it takes
in the Kettle chief's village. We cannot believe that the Indians did make such a sale, or that they were so ignorant of
their topography as not to know that a line extended from the
monuments'on the Makoketa and the Tete des Morts for three
leagues west, with a base equal to the Mississippi boundary,
would not have included their village. We make no other commentary than this - that time, if it does not obliterate the offences and weaknesses 6f men, disposes us to recollect them in
connection with their merits; and if we speak of them at all, to
do so forbearingly.
We will now close the case with an additional remark. This
claim was presented to Congress in the year 1812. It had been
before the commissioners for adjusting land claims in the Territory of Louisiana, as early as 1806. It has been repeatedly before both houses of Congress, but with such differing opinions
concerning it, that no confirmation of it could be obtained, although the commissioners had returned it as a valid claim. It
was 'before the Senate again in 1845. It was then reported
upon, and again in 1846. Doc. March 30, 1846. That is an
able paper; but b :ides conclusions drawn from the decisions
VOL. XVI.

21

242

SUPREME

COURT.

Denise et. al. v. RuggIcs.

of this court which we do not think applicable, and others which
were made without reference to the laws of Spain, which prevailed in Louisiana, we think it remarkable that the report,
though containing frequent allusions to Dubuque's contract with
the Indians, and extracts from it, does not set it out entire as
one of the papers upon which the claim was rested. The petition of Dubuque to the governor, his reference of it to Todd,
Todd's reply, and the governor's order, are the papers upon which
the report was made. The same documents were placed before
the commissioners in 1806, without the Indian contract. See
Public Lands, American State Papers, vol. 3, p. 580. It does not
surprise us that a correct view was not taken of it then, or that
the committee of public land claims in the Senate should have
viewed it dillerently in 1846 from that now taken by this court.
The petitioner in this suit has the merit of having put his case
upon every thing in any way connected with the claim of -Dubuque fairly, fully, and openly. Still if success does not follow
his expectation, he cannot complain of it, for the purchase from
Dubuque was an adventure to buy the half of the land, with a
full knowledge of all of the papers and the circumstances under
which Dubuque claimed.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs.

AUGUSTINE ANNE LOUISE DENISE, HYACINTH ADDA IAYNEAUD
DE PAUCEMONTj COUNTESS DE TOURNON, SERAPHINE CARPENTIER, WIDOW OF OLIVIER Louis MARTIN, CHARLES ALEX-

ANDER

MARTIN, JANE

MVIARARIE

SERJPHINA MARTIN,

AND

JAQUES FRANCOIS, JUSTINIAN FRANCOIS, AND ANTIONE JOSEPH
SERVAIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. BENJAMIN RUGGLES.
*Where a grant issued in 1722, by the French authorities of Louisiana, cannot be
located by metes and bounds, it cannot serve as a title in an action of ejectment;
and it was proper for the Circuit Court to instruct the jury to this effect.

THIs case was brought up by -writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the U.ited States for the Districi of Missouri.

