DECEA11BER TERM1,

1853.

Thorp v. Raymond.
CORNELIUS

. THOrP, PLAINTIFF

IN

ERROR,

V. ARDEL

B.

RAYMOND.
The statute of limitations of New York allows ten Years within which an action'must
be brought by the heirs of a person under disability, after that di ab.hty is removed.
But the rlight of entry would be barred if an adverse possession, includinz those ten
year%, had then continued twenty years; and the right of titl would be barred, if
ihe adverse possession had continued twenty-five years, including those ten years.
Cumulative disabilities are not allowed in the one case or in the other.
Therefore, where a right of entry accrued to a person who was in a state of in.anitv,
tie limitation did not begin to run until the death of that person; but l'egan to
run then, although the heir was under coverture.
THis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
The circumstances of the case are fully stated in the opinion
of the court.

It wasargued by Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Shell, for the defendant.
The points made for the plaintiff in e'ror were the following:
First. The plaintiff having shown a valid legal title in his
ancestor, Nicholas Brouwer, and having proved that the said
Nicholas Brouwer died seized and possessed of the premises in
question, the inheritance therein passed, on his death, to his
granddaughter and sole heir at law, Hannah Brouwer, the
plaintiff's grandmother.
Second. There is no evidence that Pine held adversely to the
heir at law of Nicholas Brouwer, and therefore it must be presurmed that lie held in subordination to the Brouwer title.
2 R. S. 392, § 8.
Third. The adverse possession commenced with Oliver DeLancey, in ViO1, at which time the owner, Hannah Tmner,
was under the disability of coverture as well as of insanity.
These disabilities continued till her death, in 1822, and were
continued in her heir at law, Jemima, by reas-on of her coverture,
until 1832.
The statute provides in substance, (N. Y. R. L. of 1'01, vol. 1,
p. 56*2,) that action may be brought within twenty-five or twenty
years (as the case may be) after descent cast; and that the
time during which the disability of coverture or insanity shall
continue, Aiall form no part of the period of limitation.
In this case, the disability existed when the adverse possession
commenced, (Hannah Turner having the title, and being under
disability from 1749 to 1,22, while the adverse possession commenced in 1801,) and it continued uninterruptedly to exist, in

the persons of her and her daughter, Jemim Thorpe, until the

SUPREME

COURT.

Thorp v. 1a-ymond.

death of the husband of the latter, in 1832. The statute of
limitations, therefore, did not commence -o run against the original and lawful title until the last named year, and consequently
the right of action continued unimpaired until 1852.
The judgment should therefore be set aside, and a new trial
ordered.

Defendant's points. I. The adverse possession by the defendant, and those under whom he claimed from the 1st of May, 1801,
to. the time of the commencement of this suit, in 1850, was perfect, and barred and extinguished the tUtle and right of the
plaintiff. 24 -Wend. 603, 604, 614; 16 Peters, 455; 2 R. L.
N. Y. c. 18.5, p. 18 3 ; 2 R. S. N. Y. p. 22 , § 11.
II. Hannah Turner, being under the disability of mental incapacity from the time the adverse possession commenced, to
wit, 1st of May, 1801, until .her death, in 1822, her heirs at law
had ten years after her death within which to bring their action.
2 R. L. N. Y. c. 185, p. 183, §§ 2, 3.
III. Hannah Turner having died in 1822, Jemima Thorpe,
her heir at law, and the mother of the plaintiff, should have
brought her action within ten years after ier death; as the ten
years, with the time which elapsed after the adverse possession'
commenced exceeded twenty years, which would bar ejeetment,
and exceeded twenty-five years, which would bar a writ of right.
Smith v. Burtis, 9 Johns. 174; Demarest and wife v. Wynkoop,
3 Johns. Ch. R. 129, 13.5; Jackson, ex dem. v. Johnson, 5 Cow.
74. As to the rule in England, under Statute 21 James, c. 16,
Doe, ex dem. v. Jesson, 6 East, R. 80. Also in Pennsylvania,
under Statute 26th March, 178-5, Wendle v. Robertson, 6 Watts's
Rep.
1 IV.486.
The plaintiff, and those under whom he claims, not having brought their action within the time allowed by law, are
barred by the statute from recovering said premises, or any interest therein. 2 R. L. N. Y. c. 185, p. 1S3.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
The plaintiff brought an action of ejectment in the court
below against the defendant to recover the one-twentieth part
of a mill seat and the erections thereon, together with some
eighteen acres of land, situate on the ri'ver Bronx in the town
and county of Westchester in said State; and, on the trial,
gave evidence tending to prove that the premises were owned
in.fee in 1726 by one Nicholas Brouwer, and that he continued
seised of the same as owner down to his death, in 1749; that
his heir at law was a grandchild Hannah, then the wife of Ed-

DECEMBER TER.M1,

1853.

Thorp v. Raymond.

mund Turner; that said Turner died in 1805, leaving his wife
surviving, but who had been for some years previously, and
then was insane, and so continued till her death, in 1822; that
at her death she left, as heirs at law surviving her, several children and grandchildren; that one of her . suiviving children
was Jemima Thorp, the mother of the present plaintiff; who
was married to Peter Thorp when nineteen years of age: the
said Peter died in 1832, and said Jemima, who survived him,
died in 1842, leaving the plaintiff and other children surviving.
The plaintiff, also, proved the defendant in possession of the
premises and rested.
The defendant then proved that, before the year 1801, the
premises in question were in the actual possession of one Oliver
De Lancy claiming as owner, who in the same year by indenture
of lease demised the same to one James Bathgate, for the term
of fourteen years; that the said Bathgate entered into possession, and continued to hold and occupy the premises under this
lease till 1804, when ole David Lydig entered, claiming to be
the owner in fee; that said Batngate altorneyed to, and held and
occupied under him, as tenant, down to 1840, when the defend,
ant succeeded as tenant of the premises under the said Lydig;
that David Lydig died in 1840, leaving Philip, his only child
and heir at law, surviving; and that from the date of the lease
to Bathgate, Ist May I801, down to the commencement of this
suit, the premises had been continually held and possessed by
De Laney and the Lydigs, father and son, by their several
tenants, claiming to be the owners in fee, and exclusive of any
other right or title: and occupied and enjoyed the same in all
respects as such owners.
b~oth parties having rested, the court charged the jury that
Hannah Turner took the title to the premises on the death of
her grandfather, Nicholas Brouwer, in 1749, as his heir at law;
but, that as she was then a feme covert, the statute of litnitations did not begin to run against her till 1805, on the death of
Edmund Turner, ber husband; and as she was also under the
disability of insanity, in 1801, when the adverse possession commenced, the statute did not begin to run against her estate
until her death, this latter disability having continued till then;
and, that her heirs had ten years after tils period to bring the
action. But, that the right of entry would be barred if the adverse po;s.es-ion, including these ten years, had continued
twenty years; and the right of title would also be barrcd if the
adver.:e possession had continued twenty-five year,, including

the.-e tel years. That the ten- years having expired in 1832,
and the action not ha 'ing been brought by the plaintiff till 1850,
it was barred by the statute of limitations in both respects as

250

SUPREME COURT.
Thorp v. Raymond.

an ejeatment, or writ-of right; and that, upon the law of the
case, ethe
defendant was entitled to their verdict.
think
the ruling of *the court'below was right, and that
the judgment should be affirmed.
It is admitted, that, if this suit should te regarded in the light
df an action of ejectment to rebover possession of the premises,
the right of entry would have been barred by the statute of
New York, the twenty years bar having elapsed since the right
accraed before suit brought. 1 R. Laws of 1813, p. 185, § 3.
The right of entry of Hannah Turner accrued in 1 )1, but
at that time she was laboring under the Jisability of coverture,
and also of insanity, which latter survived the former, and continued till her aeath, in 1822. By the saving clause in the third
section of the act, the heirs had ten years from the time of her
death within which to bring the ejectmeat, and no longer, notwithstanding they may have been minors, or were laboring
under other disabilities, as it is admitted, successive or cumnulative disabilities are not allowable under this section. 6 Cow.
74; 3 Johns. Ch.'R. 129, 135. The ten years expired in P 32,
which, with the time that had elapsed after the adverse possession commenced, exceeded the twenty years given by the statute.
The suit was brought in 1850.
But, it is supposed, that the saving clause in the second section of this act, which prescribes a limitation of twenty-five
years as a bar to a writ of right, is different, and allows cumulative disabilities; and as ejectment is a substituted remedy in
the court below for the writ of right, it is claimed the defendant
is bound to make out an adverse possession of twenty-five
years, deducting successive or cumulative disabilities. This,
however, is a mistake. The saving clause in this second section,
though somewhat different in phraseology, has recived the
same construction in the courts of New York as that given to
the third section. 12 Wend. R. 602, 619, 620, 635, 636, 656,
676.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the. Circuit -Court of the United* States for the Southern
District of New York, and was argued by counsel. Oi consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the .ame is hereby affirmed, with costs.

