DECEMBE.R TERM, 1853.

65

Pennington v. Gibson.

in the United States. The defendants are in possession, claiming title from the United States, and with evidences of title
derived from the proper officers of the government. It is not
necessary to inquire whether the title claimed by them is valid
or not. The petitioner, as appears by the case he presents in
his petition, has no title of any description derived from the
constituted authorities of the United States, of which any court
of justice can take cognizance. And the mere possession of
public land, without title, will not enable the party to maintain
a suit against any one who enters on it; and more especially
he cannot maintain it against persons holding possession under
title derived from the proper officers of the government. He
must first show a right in himself, before he can call into question the validity of theirs.
Whatever equity, therefore, the plaintiff may be supposed to
have, it is for the consideration and decision of Congress, and
not for the courts. If he has suffered injury from the mistake
or omission of the public officer, or from his own ignorance of
the law, the power to repair it rests with the political department of the government, and not the judicial. It is expressly
reserved to the former by the act of Congress;
We see no error in the judgment of the Supreme Oourt of
Missouri, and it must be affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Su -eme Court of the- State of Missouri, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court., that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is, hereby
affirmed with costs.

JOSIAS PENNINGTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROi, v. LYiAN GiBsoN,
Whenever the parties to a suit and the subject in controversy between them are within
the regular jurisdiction of a court of equity, the decree of that court is to every
intent as binding as would be the judgment of a court of law.
Whenever, therefore, an action of debt can be maintained upon a~jndgment at law for
a sum of money awarded by such judgment, the like action can be maintained upon
a decree in equity which is for a specific amount i and the records of the two courts
are of equal dignity and binding obligation.
A declaration was sufficient which averred that "at a general term of the Supreme
Court in Equity for the State of New York," &c. &c. Being thus averrtd to be a
court of general jurisdiction, no averment was necessary.that the subject-matter in
question was within its jurisdiction. And the courts of the United States will take
notice of the judicial decjsions in the several States, in the same manner as the
courts of those States.
fi,

SUPREME COURT.
Pennington v. Gibson.

Tris case was brought up by a: writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
The facts of the case are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by ri. &hkley, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Ar. Prick and Lir. Collier, for the defendant in error.
11ir. Schley stated that there were three causes assigned for
the demurrer.to the declaration. They were 1. For that it appears from the declaration, that the cause of
action is an alleged decree of an alleged court of equity, as set
forth in said declaration; whereas, an action at law cannot be
maintained in this court, on such a decree; at least without
averment in pleading, that said decree, within the limits of its
territorial jurisdiction, is of equal efficacy with a judgment at
law.
2. For, even if an action at law can be maintained for the
recovery of the sums of money directed by such alleged decree
to be paid, as stated in said declaration, yet the. form of action
adopted in this case is not the proper form of action for the enforcement of such recovery.
3. For that it does not appear in and by the said declaration,
nor is it therein averred, in any manner, that the said alleged
cojurt of equity had any jurisdiction to pass a decree against
this defendant for payment to the plainf of any of the sums
of moliey in the said declaration mentioned.
After joinder in demurrer, the court gave judgment upon the
demurrer in favor of the plaintiff below, for $6,134.86, and
$3,000 damage's; the damages to be released on payment of
the debt, with interest from 25th Novembar, 1848, and costs of
suit.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error wil insist that said several causes of demurrer were well assigned.
As to the first ground. There is no averment that said " Supreme Court in Equity of the State of New York," is a court
of record. The decree is referred to "as remaining in the office
of the County Clerk of Steuben county." No averment that
such a decree in the State of New York is of equal efficacy
with a judgment at law.
It is conceded that it has been held, in many cases, in this
court, that a decree in Chancery is equally as conclusive as a
judgment in a court of common law. In Hopkins v. Lee, 6
Wheat. 109, the decree was evidenced by the record of the proceedings in Chancery in the Circuit Court for the District of
C61umbia; and being offered i evidence in the same court, the
only question was as to the effect of said decree as evidence.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

67

Pennington v. Gibson.

But Hugh v. Higgs, 8 Wheat. 697, is an express decision on
the very point, and sustains the demurrer. Smith v. Kernochen,
7 How. 217, merely decided the effect, in evidence, of a decree
in Chan6ery, as between the parties. It was not fhe case of
an action at law grounded on a decree. On this point, the following cases will also be relied on: Carpenter v. Thornton, 3
B. & Ald. 52; Houlditch v. Marquis of Donegal, 8 Bligh, N. S.
301 ; and I Stat. at Large, 122, and notes there, will be cited.
On the second point, the following cases will be cited:
Walker v. Witter, 1 Doug. 1; Dupleix v. De Roven, 2 Veto. 540;
Crawford v. Whittall, and Sinclair v. Fraser, Doug. 4.
As to the ground of demurrer thirdly assigned, it will be insisted that the courts of the United States cannot judicially
know the extent or character of the jurisdiction of the said Court
of Equity; and of course cannot know whether it had jurisdiction over the subject-matter, or over the plaintiff in error. There
is no averment in the declaration as to the jurisdiction of said
court; nor is it even averred that said court was holden at a
place within its jurisdiction, or that said decree was pronounced
within it- jurisdiction. It is consistent with all that is averred
in pleading that the decree may be merely void. The'following
cases will be cited: Boswell's Lessee v. Otis, 9 How. 349;
Allen v. Blunt, 1 Blatch. Cir. Court, 480; D'Arcy v. Ketchum,
11 How. 165; Crawford v. Howard, 30 Maine, (17 Shep.) 422;
Burckle v. Eckart, 3 Denio, 279; Cobb v. Haynes, 8 B. Mon.
137; Van Buskirk v. Mulock, 3 Harr. 184; Moravia v. Sloper,
and Herbert v. Cook, Willes, 30, 37; Read v. Pope, 1 Cr. Mee.
& R. 302; S. C. 4. Tyrw. 403. It is not to be intended that, because a court is termed a superior court, that it is a court of
general jurisdiction. It may be an inferior court, and of limited
jurisdiction.
The corinsel for the defendant in error thus stated and argued
the points.
The questions for argument arise uon the demurrer, which
raises substantially three points, namely:
1. That an action at law cannot be maintained in the courts
of the United States, upon the decree of a State court of

equity.

if suc

2. That if such action be maintainable, the declaration must
set forth that the decree, within *the limits of the State in
which it is passed, is of equal efficacy with a judgment at law;
and also that the court had jurisdiction to pass the decree in
question.
3. That the action, if maintainable, must be assumpsit, not
debt.

68

SUPREME COURT.
Pennington v. Gibson.

1st. Under the Constitution of the United States, and the laws
of Congress, the judgments of the courts of each State are to
be regarded in all other States, not as fcreign, but domestic
judgments; and as equally conclusive with domestic judgments.
Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; Hampton v. McConnell, 3
Wheat. 234.
And -where the court has jurisdiction of the parties and the
subject-matter, a decree in chancery is equally conclusive between the parties with a judgment at law. "In this there is,
and ought to be no difference between a verdict and judgment
in a court of common law, and a decree o. a court of equity.
They both stand on the same footing, and may be offered in
evidence under the same limitations; and it would be difficult
to assign a reason why it should be otherwise." Hopkins v.
Lee, 6 Wheat. 113, 114.
In all the States where the question has arisen, (in Kentucky,
Louisiana, Tennessee, South Carolina, Maine, and New York,)
'decrees in Chancery have been held to be within the Constitution and act of Congress; which make them equally with judgments at law, of the same dignity in all other States, as in the
State in which they are pronounced. See Cowen and Hill's
Notes to Phillips's Evidence, Part I. p. 900, and the cases there
cited.
This being so, the money decree of a court of chancery of
competent jurisdiction is in every other State, the final and
conclusive ascertainment of a debt, upon which a legal obligation to pay arises. And there can be no sufficient reason, why
an action of debt should not be maintainel as well on such a
decree, as upon a judgment at law. There may be decrees in
ClIancery, which carinot well form the basi of a suit at law.
Such are decrees for specific performance, or such as contain
multifarious matter, or require acts and co:aditions to be performed by each party. But this objection cannot be made to a
final decree for the payment of a specific sum of money, free
from conditions or qualifications of any kind. A legal obligaa :lecree..
tion to pay is necessarily implied by such
"Every man is bound, and hath virtually agreed to pay such
particular sums of money, as are charged on him by the sentence or assessed by the interpretation of the law. Whatever
the laws order any one to pay, that becomes instantly a debt,
which he hath beforehand contracted to discharge. This implied agreement gives the plaintiff a right to-institute a second
action, founded merely on the ground of contract, to recover
such a sum. So, if he hath obtained judgment, he may bring
an action of debt on this judgment, &c., &c.; and the law -nplies, that by the original contract of society, -the defendant hath

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

69

Pennington v. Gibson.

contracted a debt, and is bound to pak it." 3 Blackstone,
Comm. 160. It is on this ground alone, that "assu m psit" lies
on foreign judgments; and why not on a decree in equity for
the payment of money?
It has been said, that a legal obligation cannot be implied
from a merely equitable obligation to pay; and that an action
at law cannot be maintained upon a decree in equity for the
payment of money founded on equitable considerations only.
Carpenter v. Thornton, 3 Barn. & Ald. 52, (5 E. C. L. R. 225.)
In that case, it appeared from the record, that the bill was filed
for the specific performance of an agreement to purchase; and
the decree was manifestly on the ground of that particular
equity. The chief objection to the suit urged in argument,
was, that it had been brought in England upon a decree of the
High Court of Chancery of England, having, of course, the
power to enforce its own decrees in the territory in which the
suit was brought. , It was determined, under the circumstances
of that case, that the action would not lie.
But in a subsequent case, Henley v. Soper, 8 Barn. & Cress.
16, (15 E. C. L. R. 147,) it was admitted and held that debt
*ould lie on the decree of. a cdlonial court of equity (in Newfoundland) for the payment of a specific balance found to be
due by one partner to another. Lord Tenterden, (by whom
Carpenter v. Thornton was determined,) said, "There is a great
difference between the decree of a colonial court, and a court
of equity in this country. The colonial court cannot enforce
its decrees here : a court of equity in this country, may. In the
latter case, there is no occasion for the interference.0f a court
of law; in the former, there is, to prevent a failure of justice.
The case of Carpenter v. Thornton does not establish the broad
principle for which it was cited," that is, that no action at law
could be maintained on a decree in equity.
In Sadler v. Robins, 1 Campb. 25, it was also held, that an
action at law was maintainable upon the decree of a colonial
court of equity. The amount of the decree in that case was
ihdefinite. But Lord Ellenborough said, "Had the decree been
perfected, I would have given effect to it$ as well as to a judgment at common law. One may be the consideratibn for an
assumpsit equally with the other."
This question, in England, seems to have been settled by the
two cases last referred to. In 7 Wentworth's Pleadings, 95, is
a precedent for an action of debt for a sum of money decreed
by the Lord Chancellor to be paid to the plaintiff; and the form
is attributed to Mr. Tidd. The books of ptecedents all contain
forms of actions upon foreign deprees in equity. The only exception would seem to be the case of an action at law, brought

70

SUPREME

COURT.

Bennington v. Gibson.
in the same territorial jurisdiction, to enforce a decree in equity,
appearing on, its face to be grounded on equitable considerations only. See Carpenter v. Thornton.
It has been repeatedly ruled in this country, that the action
would lie upon a chancery decree ordering the payment of money. Post v. Neafie, 3 Caines, 22; Dubo:'s v. Dubois, 6 Cowen,
496; see also 19 Johnson's R. 166, 577: Evans v. Tatera, 9
Serg. 9 Rawle, 252; Howard v. Howard' 15 Mass. 196; AlcKim v. Odom, 3 Fairfield 94.
In the first case, (Post v. Neafie) Chief Justice Kent dissented
from the opinion of the court; but chiefly on the ground, that
as the Supreme Court of New York, in Hitchcock & Fitch v.
Aicken, (1 Caines, 469,) had determined the judgments of sister
States, to be only prilnd facie evidence, and open to inquiry
upon their merits, to sustain an action at law upon the decree
in equity of another State, would involve the court in the discussion and determination of questions of exclusively equitable
jurisdiction, which a court of law was not competent to pass
upon. The overruling of the case of Hitchcock & Aicken, and
the settlement of the question by this cornt, that a judgment is
conclusive in every other State if a court of the State where it
was rendered would hold it so, has removed, it may fairly be
presumed, the reason of Chancellor Kent's objection t6 the
ruling in Post v. Neafie. See 1 Kent's C. 5th ed. 260, 261.
Note C.
In the case of McKim v. Odom, 3 Fairfield, 94, the whole
subject is most fully and learnedly discussed; and the authority
is worthy of special reference.
To refuse the jurisdiction contended for, it is obvious would,
in this country, amount in many cases to an absolute denial of
justice. In some of the States there is no court of equity, so
called; and if a plaintiff in such States, to enforce a decree in
equity obtained lawfully in another State, may not resort to a
court of law, where the defendant has renioved from and
holds'no property in the State in which tie decree was passed,
but has both" residence and property in the' State in which
he must be sued at law, if at all-theie is, to all practical
intent, a right, for which there is no remedy. In the American
cases cited, the distinction taken in Carpenter v. Thornton, between decrees passed upon legal and equitable considerations,
does hot seem to have been regarded; but the distinction,
even if well founded, cannot apply to this case. For from any
thing that appears to ,the contrary on the record, the obligation of the defendant in equity (plaintiff in error) upon which
the decree was passed, might have been binding in law as well

as in equity.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

71

Pennington v. Gibson.

2d. If the action can be maintained, it is not necessary to set
forth in the declaration, that the decree sued on is of equal
efficacy in the State in which it was passed, with a judgment
at law; or that the court had jurisdiction to pass the decree.
By the act of May, 1790, it is provided, that the judicial proceedings of the Stat6 courts shall have such faith and credit
given to them in every court within the United States, as they
have by law or usage in the courts of the State, from which the
records are or shall be taken. If they are conclusive in the
State where pronounced, they are so everywhere. If open to
examination there, they are so everywhere. A decree in chancery is, from its nature, equally conclusive with a judgment at
law. 6 Wheat. 113, &c. It may not have equal efficacy iirthe
State in which it is passed, with a judgment at law, in respect
to the mode and means of its enforcement: but it is of like
conclusiveness, as "res adjtdieata,"provided the court had jurisdiction of the parties and subject-matter. It is averred by the
declaration in this case, that the decree in question was duly
signed and enrolled, &e.; and as the record of the judicial proceedings of another State, (every presumption being in favor
of the jurisdiction,) it is primnd facie evidence that the court
had jurisdiction over the parties and subject-matter; (see 4
Cowen's R. 294, 296, and 8 Cowen, 311,) and it is conclusive
upon them while not reversed, set aside, &c., unless that evidence be rebutted. But that issue is matter of defence, and
must be so tendered. It is not necessary to aver in pleading,
by the declaration, that there was jurisdiction to pass the decree, in a suit on such decree, any more Than to aver the jurisdiction to render a judgment, in a suit on such judgment: nor
to allege the 'conclusiveness of the one, any more than that of
the other. As the plea to an action of debt upon the judgment
of another State must be " 2n l tiel 'ecord," and not " nil
debel," so the plea to an action on a decree of another State
must be of like import. In either case, of course, a special
plea to the jurisdiction would be good: and' if the conclusiveness of either cause of action is to be called in question, it may,
and must be done as matter of defence. No precedent can be
found of debt on judgments or decrees, where the jurisdiction
is averred in the declaration.
In England, there is a distinction between superior and inferior
couris. In the former every thing is intended to be -within the
jurisdiction; in the latter, every material fact must be alleged
to be within the jurisdiction. It isnecessary, therefore, in a suit
in a superior, upon the judgment of an inferior court, to allege
not merely that the latter had jurisdiction, but that the "original
cause of action arose within the jurisdiction, &c." Read v. Pope,
1 0. Al. & R. 302. (Exchequer.)

72

SUPREME COURT.
lennington v. Gibson.

So, in pleading the judgments of caurts of limited and
special jurisdiction, it may be necessary f state the facts upon
which the jurisdiction is founded; but, with respect to courts of
general jurisdiction, the rule is, that they are presumed to have
jurisdiction until the contrary clearly appears. The want of
jurisdiction must be averred, as matter of defence. "Every
presumption is in favor of the jurisdiction of the court. The
record is prirndfacieevidence of it, and dill be held conclusive,
until clearly and explicitly disproved." 4 Cowen's IRep. 294.
296; Cowen & Hill's Notes, Part II. 905, 906.
We have considered this case on the 'assumption that the
decree sued on was that of a chancery court, exercising general
equity, jurisdiction. But in fact, it was passed by a court exercising no separate equity jurisdiction, but having general jurisdiction over the whole cause of action, whether founded on legal
or equitable considerations. Its decree, so called, was as much
a judgment at law as it was a decree in chancery, to certain
intents and purposes, in the State of New York, and was made
so by the constitution and laws of that State.
The federal courts, supreme and inferior, considering their
relations to the States, are supposed to ha-,e judicial knowledge
of the constitutions, laws, and public usz.ges of all the States.
Whatever question may be as to the propriety of the State courts
taking such judicial notice, there can be none in regard to this
court. See Cowen & Hill's Notes, Part II. pp. 901, 902. The
New Constitution, the Judiciary Act, and Code of Procedure
of the State of New York, may therefore properly be examined,
to ascertain the jurisdiction of the court which passed the dedree on which this action was brought.
The New Constitution of New York. adopted November,
1846, Art. 6, § 3, provides: "There shall be a supreme court,
having general jurisdiction in law and equity." Sect. 6. "The
legislature shall have the same power to alter, and regulate the
proceedings in law and equity, as they have heretofore possessed."
Art. 14, § 8: " The offices of Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, &c.,
are abolished, from .and after the first Monday in July, 1847."
The Judiciary Act, passed after the adoption of the New Constitution, (Laws of 1847, c. 280, § 16,) provides. "The Supreme
Court, organized by this act, shall possess the same powers and
exercise the same jurisdiction, as is now possessed and exercised
by the Supreme Court, and Court of Chancery, &c., and all
laws relating to the present Supreme Cour, and Court of Chancery, and the jurisdiction, powers and duties of said courts, &c.,
shall be applicable to the Supreme Court, organized by this act,
&c., so far as the same can be so applied, and are consistent with
the Constitution, and the provisions of this act.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

73

Pcnnington v. Gibson.

The Code of Procedure, passed April 12, 1848, c. 379, § 62, provides: " The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, as heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this State hereafter but one form of action for the enforcement or protection
of private rights, and the redress or prevention of private
wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.
Se. (32. "The party complaining shall be known as plaintiff,
&c."
See. 119. " The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is
the complaint."
See. 120. "The complaint shall contain, 1. The title of the
cause, &c. 2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, &e. 3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff
supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated."
This act (§ 391,) went into effect July 1, 1848. The decree
of the Supreme Court, in this case, was signed and enrolled
April 00, 1849. At the time of its rendition, the distinction, in
New York, between actions at law and suits in equity was
abolished, and there wa" but one form of action in all civil
cases. The decree, therefore, so called, was of " equal efficacy"
with a judgment at law. It was passed by a court of general
jurisdiction, whose judgments were conclusive in New York;
and moreover, by whatever technical title known, it was a final
judgment for the payment of money, rendered by a court having no separate equity jurisdiction or powers, though properly
exercising complete jurisdiction oveir the parties and subjectmatter. In no other court in New York could it be a matter of
inquiry, whether that judgment was founded upon legal or equitable considerations. How then, in any other State court, or
court of the United States, could it be viewed as a decree in
chancery, founded upon equitable considerations only? What
other action could be maintained in another State for its enforcement, than an action at law, there.being only one form of civil
action, for that purpose, in the State of New York?
3d. Debt is the proper remedy; assumpsit would, not lie, The
latter is maintainable only upon the judgment of a foreign
court, which is not regarded as a record, nor as a specialty, but
only as prinid fade evidence of a simple contract debt; as in
England, upon an Irish judgment, or Scotch decree; or in this
country, before the Revolution, upon judgments of other States.
Chitty's Pleading, vol. 1, p. 106.
But the judgments of other States are not now regarded as
foreign judgments, but as of the same nature and effect as
domestic judgments. The original debtsV therefore thereby
VOL. XVI.

7

74

SUPREME

qOURT.

Pennington v. Gibson.

merged, and the plaintiff must resort to his highest remedy. The
decree is a record, (and there is here the proper averment, prout
patet per cecordum, 4-c.,) and debt or scire facias is the only
remedy on such records.
In the case of Hugh v. Higgs and Wife, 8 Wheat. 697, the
action was "case," to recover money due under the decretal
order of a court of equity. It was concEded by both the counsel, as stated by the court, that the action would not lie for the
money ordered to be paid by the decree; but it was supposed
and so argued, that the record showed that money had been
received by the defendant upon transactions which took place
after the decree, and the right to recover was put in argument
on that ground.
It is quite clear, however, that if assurapsit would lie in this
case, debt also could be maintained; for it lies concurrently
-with assumpsit, upon all foreign judgments, d 3crees of colonial
courts, &c. ; in fact, on all judgments or decree3, upon which assumpsit would lie. Chitty's Pleading, vol. 1, p. 111.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the op:1nion of the court.
The defendant in error, a citizen of the State of New York,
instituted in the Circuit Court an action of debt against the
plaintiff in error, a citizen of the State o:. Maryland, to-recover
ihe amount of a decree, with the costs thereon, which had been
rendered in favor of the defendant against the plaintiff in error
by the Supreme Court in equity in the Stttte of New York. The
averments in the declaration are as follow: That at a general
term of the Supreme Court in Equity of the State of New York,
one of the United States of America, held at the court house
in the village of Cooperstown, in the county of Otsego, in the
State of New York, on the first Monday in November in the
year 1848, present William H. Shankland (and others) Justices,
it was ordered, adjudged and decreed, by 1;he said court, in a ceriain suit therein pending, wherein the said Lyman Gibson was
complainant, and the said Josias Pennington (and others) were
defendants, that the said Lyman Gibson recover against the
said Josias Pennington, and that the said'.osias Pennington pay
to the said Lyman Gibson, the amount; of the consideration
money paid by the said Lyman Gibson -o a certain Samuel
Boyer, as agent and attorney of the said Josias Pennington, as
should appear by the several indorsements upon the contract
mentioned and set forih in the bill of complaint, and produced
and proved as an exhibit in said suit, with interest on the sereTal payments and indorsements respectively, amounting in the
agregate on the 25th day of November, 1848, to the sum of
$ ,473.18, and also that the said Josias Pennington pay to

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

75

Pennington v. Gibson.

the said complainant his costs in said suit, which were taxed
at the sum of $661.68, as by the said decree duly signed and
enrolled at a special term of the Supreme Court in equity aforesaid, held on the 30th day of April in the year 1849, at the village
of Bath, in the county of Steuben, in the State of New York, and
now remaining in the office of the Clerk of Steuben county
aforesaid, will on reference appear.
To the declaration as above stated, the defendant, the now
plaintiff in error, demurred; and upon a joinder in demurrer, the
court overruled the demurrer of the said defendant, and gave
judgment for the plaintiff, the now defendant in error,, for the
debt and costs in the declaration set forth, together with costs
of suit.
The defendant in the Circuit Court assigned for causes of
demurrer the three following:
1. For that it appears from the said declaration that the cause
of action in this case is an alleged decree of an alleged court
of equity, as set forth in the said declaration, whereas-an action at law cannot be maintained in this courton such a decree;
at least without an averment in pleading that said decree within
the limits of its territorial jurisdiction is of equal eficacy with a
judgment at law.
2. For even if an action at law can be maintained for the recovery of the sums of money directed by such alleged decree to
be paid, as stated in said declaration, yet the form of action
adopted in this case is not the proper form of action for the enforcement of such a recovery.
3. For that it does not appear in and by the said declaration,
nor.is it averred in any manner, that the said alleged court of
equity had any jurisdiction to pass a decree against this defendant for payment to the plaintiff of any of the sums of money in
the said declaration mentioned.
In considering these causes of demurrer, the attention is necessarily directed to the ambiguous terms assumed in the first
assignment, by propounding a proposition general or universal
in its character, and afterwards conceding a modification or
change in that proposition inconsistent not merely with its scope
and extent, but with its essential force and operation. For
instance, it is first stated that "the cause of a6tion is an alleged
decree of an alleged court of equity, whereas an action at law
cannot be maintained in this court on such a decree." We can
interpret this proposition to have no other intelligile meaning
than this, and to be comprehended in no sense more restricted
than this, namely, that an action at law cannot be maintained ihL
a court of law when the cause of action shall be a decree of the
court of equity. In other words, that the character of the foun,

76

SU'PREAIE
Pennington v.

COURT.
Gibson.

dation, or cause of action, namely, its being a decree of a court
of equity, must, in every such instance, deprive the court of law
of cognizance of the cause.
The proposition, thus generally
put, is then followed by a qualification in these words, "at
least without an averment in pleading, that the decree within
its territorial jurisdiction is of equal efficacy with a judgment
at law." 'By this language the universality of the previous proposition is modified, o, rather contradicted, for it contains an
obvious concession, that provided a particular efficiency can be
affirmed with regard to it, an action at law may be maintained
even upon a decree of a court of equity.
We will first examine the correctness of the general position,
that an action at law cannot be maintained upon a decree in
equity; and will, in the next place, inquire how far the jurisdiction of the court pronouncing this decree, and ihe efficiency of
its proceedings with reference to the parties before it, may be
inferred or rightfully taken notice of, from i.ts
style or character,
or from proper judicial knowledge of the subject-matter of its
cognizance, independently of a particular special averment.
We are aware that at one period courts of equity were said
not to be courts of record, and their decrees were not allowed to
rank with judgments at law, with respect to conflicting claims
of creditors, or in the administration of estates; but these opinions, the fruits of jealousy in the old common lawyers, would
now hardly be seriously urged, and much less seriously admitted,
after a practice so long and so well settled: as that which confers on courts of equity in cases of difficulty, and intricacy in the
administration of estates, the power of mars:aalling assets, and in
the exercise of that power the right of controlling the order in
which creditors, either legal or equitable, shall be ranked in the
prosecution of their claims. The relative igniity of courts of
equity, and the binding effect of their decrees, when given within
the pale of their regular constitution and jurisdiction, are no
loniger subjects for doubt, or question.
We hold no doctrine to be better settled than this, that whenever the parties to a suit and the subject in controversy between
them are within the regular jurisdiction of a court of equity, the
decree of that court solemnly and finally pronounced, is to every
intent as binding as would be the judgment of a court of law,
upon parties and their interests regularly within its cognizance.
It would follow, therefore, that wherever the latter, received with
regard to its dignity and conclusiveness as a record, would constitute the foundation for proceedings to enforce it, the former
must be held as of equal authority. These are conclusions
which reason and justice and consistency sustain, and an investigation will show them to be supported by express adjudica-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

77

Pennington v. Gibson.

tion. It is true that, owing to the peculiar character of equity
jurisprudence, there are instances of decisions by courts of
equity which can be enforced only by the authority and proceedings of these courts. Such, for example, is the class of
cases for specific performances; or wherever the decision of the
court is to be fulfilled by some personal act of a party) and
not by the mere payment of an ascertained sum of money.
But this arises from the nature of the act decreed to be performed, and from the peculiar or extraordinary power of the
court to enforce it, and has no relation whatsoever to the comparative dignity or authority between judgments at law and
decrees in equity.
We lay it down, therefore, as the general rule, that in every
instance in which an action of debt can be maintained upon a
judgment at law for a sum of money awarded by such judgment, the like action can be maintained upon a decree in equity
which is for an ascertained and specific amount, and nothing
more; and that the record of the proceedings in the one case
must be ranked with aid responded to as of the same dignity
and binding obligation with the record in the other.
The case of Sadler v. Robins, 1 Campbell, 253, was an action
upon a decree of the High Court of Chancery in the Island of
Jamaica, for a sum of money; "first deducting thereout the full
costs of the said defendants expended in the said suit, to be
taxed by one of the masters of the said court; and also deducting thereout all and every other payment which S. & R., or
either of them, might on or before the 1st day of January, 1806,
show to the satisfaction of the said master, they or either of
them had paid, &c:" In this case Lord Ellenborough said,
"had the decree been perfected, I would have given effect to it as
to a judgment at law. The one may be the consideration for
an assumpsit equally with the other. But the law implies a
promise to pay a definite, not an indefinite sum."
The case of Henly v. Soper, 8 Barn. & Cress. 16; of Dubois
v. Dubois, 6 Cowen, 496, and of MeKim v. Odom, 3 Fairfield, 94,
are all expressly to the point, that the action of debt may be
maintained equally upon a decree in chancery as upon a judgment at law. But if this question had been left in doubt by
other tribunals, it must be regarded as settled for itself by this
court, in the explicit language of its decision in the case of
Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, where it i declared as a general
rule, "that a fact which has been directly tried and decided by
a court of competent jurisdiction, cannot be contested again between the same parties, in the same or in any other court. Hence
a verdict and judgment of a court of record, or a decree in
chancery, although not binding on strangers, puts an end to a'
7*

78

SUPREME COURT.
Pennington v. Gibson.

farther controversy concerning the points decided between the
parties to such suit. In this there is, and ought to be no difference between a verdict and judgment in a court at law and
a decree of a court of equity. They both stand upon the same
footing, and may be offered in evidence under the same limitations; and it would be difficult to assign a reason why it should
be otherwise. The rule has found its way into every system of
jurisprudence, not only from its obvious fitness and propriety,
but because, without it, an end could never be put to litigation.
It is therefore not confined in England or in this country to
judgments of the same court, or to the de'cisions of courts of
concurrent jurisdiction; but extends to matters litigated before
competent tribunals in foreign countries." The case of Dubois
v. Dubois, 6 Cowen, was an action of debt upon a decree for a
specific sum,'by a surrogate of one of the counties of the State
of New York. One of the objections in that case was, that
the acti6n of debt could not be maintained; and another that
no jurisdiction was shown by the declaration. The Supreme
Court, in its opinion, say: " The principal question raised is,
whether debt will lie. The general rule is, that this form of
action is proper for any debt of record, or by specialty, or for
any sum certain. It has been decided that debt lies upon a
decree for the payment of money made by a court of chancery
in another State, and no doubt the action will lie upon such a
decree in our domestic courts of equity. The decree of the
.orrogate, unappealed from, is conclusive, and determines forever
the rights of the parties. It may be enforced by imprisonment,
and is certainly evidence of a debt due; whether the surrogate's
court be a court of record need not be decided. It has often
been said, that a court of chancery is not a court of record. It
is sufficient that a decree in either court, unappealed from, is
final -debt will lie." In opposition --o the doctrine we have
laid down, the case of Carpenter v. Thornton, from 3 Barn. &
Aid. 52, has been cited, to show that the action of debt will not
lie upon a decree-of a court of equity. But with respect to the
case of Carpenter v. Thornton it must be remarked, that Lord
Tenterden, who decided that case, has, in the subsequent case
of Henly v. Soper, S Barn. & Cress. 20, explicitly denied that
the former case can be correctly understood as ruling any
such doctrine or principle as that for whicl it has been here adduced. In Henly v. Soper, his lordship says of Carpenter v.
Thornton, "I think it does not establish the broad principle for
which it is cited. It appears by the report that I then expressed
myself with much caution, and I do not find that I ever said
that a decree of a court of equity fixing the balance due on a
partnership account could not be 'enforced in a court of law

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

79

Pennington v. Gibson.
unless the items of the account could be sued for. My judgment proceeded on the particular circumstances of that case;
the bill was for the specific performance of an agreement, which
is a matter entirely of equitable jurisdiction. But it is a general
rule that if a partnership account be settled, and a balance.
struck by due authority, that balance may be recovered in an
action at law." In support of the objection that the action in
this case is founded on a decree in chancery could not be maintained, the counsel for the plaintiff in error has cited the
case of Hugh v. Higgs and Wife, reported in 8 Wheat. 697.
This is a short case, presenting no precise statement of the facts
involved in it, and as far as the facts are disclosed by the report,
they are given in a somewhat confused and ambiguous form.
It is true that the objection to the action, as founded on a decree
in chancery, is said by the court to have been urged in its
broadest extent. But if we look to the decision of this court,
and the reasoning upon which that decision is rested, we find
the objection to the judgment of the Circuit Court, or rather
the principle of that objection, narrowed and brought considera-.
bly within the extent of the objection itself. For this court say
that the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed for
error in the opinion which declares, that the action is maintainable on the decretal order of the Court of Chancery. It might
very well be error to allow the action of debt upon a decretal,
order of the chancery, and yet perfectly regular to sustain such
an action upon the final decree. The former is subiect to revision and modification, the latter is conclusive upon the rights
of the parties. "here is yet another ground on which this case
of Hugh v. Higgs and Wife, so imperfectly stated, might form
an exception to the rule which authorizes actions of debt upon
decrees in equity. In the case last mentioned, the action at law
was brought and the judgment rendered within the regular'
limits of the equity jurisdiction of the court, and to the full
extent of which limits the Court of Equity had the power to enforce its decrees. Under these circumstances it might well be
ruled, that a party having the right to avail himself directly of
the power and process of the court, should not capriciously relinquish that right, and harass his adversary by a new and useless litigation. An exception like this is perfectly consistent
with the rule that where the decree of the Court of Equity
cannot be enforced by its own process, and within the regular
bounds of its jurisdiction, such decree when regular and final,
and when especially it ascertaips and declares the simple pecuniary responsibility of a party, may, and for the purposes of justice must be, the foundation of an action at law against that
party whose responsibility has been thus ascertained. Upon

80

SUPREME COURT.
Pennington v. Gitson.

this principle it is that the courts of law in England, whilst they
have been inclined to restrict the plaintiff to the proper process
of the Court of Equity for the purpose of enforcing the decrees
of the court within the bounds of its jurisdiction, have undevi,atingly maintained the right of action upon decrees pronounced
by the colonial courts. The process of the colonial courts could
not run into the mother country, but this f&ct did not impair the
rights settled by the decrees of those courts or render them less
biliding or final as between the parties. On the contrary, it is
assigned as the special reason why the courts of law should
take cognizance of such causes without which an entire failure
of justice would ensue.
For this rule of decision in the English courts the cases of
Sadler v. Robins, and of Henly v. Soper, may again be recurred
to; and, for its adoption by courts in our own country, may be
cited Post v. Neafie, 3 Caines's Rep. 22, a:ad Dubois v. Dubois,
and McKim v. Odom, already mentioned.
Having disposed of the general proposition in the first assignment of causes of demurrer by the plaintiff in error, we will
next inquire into the force of the condition or modification he
has annexed to it, in the alleged necessity for an express averment in pleading of the efficacy or legal obligation of the decree
within the territorial jurisdiction of the c6urmt by whom the decree has been pronounced.
Of the binding obligation, and conclusiveness of decrees in
equity where the parties and the subject-matter of such decrees- are within the regular cognizance of the court pronouncing them, and of their equality in dignity and authority with
judgments at law, we have already spoken: It remains for us
'only to consider what may be legally intended or concluded
from the pleadings in this cause as to the territorial extent of
jurisdiction in the court whote decree is made the foundation of
this action.
The declaration avers, "That at a general term of the Supreme
Cor.t in equity for the State of New York, one of the United
States of America, held at the village of Cooperstown in the
State of New York, on the 1st Monday in November, in the year
1848, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed, &c., and farther,
that on the 25th of November, 1848, the complainant's costs were
taxed, &c., as by the said decree duly signed and enrolled at a
special term of the said Supreme Court, &c., and now remains
ing in the office, &c., reference being thereto had, will appear."1
It is undeniably true in pleading, that where a suit is instituted in a court of limited and special jurisdiction, it is indispensable to aver that the cause of action arose within such
restricted jurisdiction ; out it is equally true, with regard to

DECEM1BER TERAM, 1853.

81

Pcnnington v. Gibson.

superior courts, or courts of general jurisdiction, that every presumption is in favor of their right to hold pleas, and that if an
exception to their power or jurisdiction is designed, it must be
averred, and shown as matter of defence. Such is the general rule as laid down by Chitty, vol. 1, p. 442. So too in the
case of Shuraway v. Stillman, in 4 Cowen, 296. The Supreme
Court of New York, speaking with reference to a judgment
rendered in another State, says: "every presumption is in favor
of the judgment. The record is prirndfacie evidence of it, and
will be held conclusive until clearly and explicitly disproved."
And in farther affirmation of the doctrine here laid down, we
hold that the Courts of the United States can and should take
notice of the laws and judicial decisions of the several States
of this Union, and that with respect to these, nothing is required to be specially averred in pleading which would not be
so required by the tribunals of those States respectively. In the
case before us the declaration avers that the decree on which
the action is founded was a decree of the Supreme Court in
equity of the State of New York- of a court whose jurisdiction in equity was supreme, not over a section of the State;
but that it was the Supreme Court as to subjects of equity
of the State, that is, of the entire State; and its decrees being
ranked, in our opinion, as equal in dignity and obligation with
judgments at law, its decree in the case before us was of equal
efficacy -with any such judgment throughout its territorial jurisdiction, or, in other words, throughout the extent of the State.
The second and third causes.of demurrer assigned by the
plaintiff in error, are essentially comprised in the first assignment, and are mere subdivisions of that assignment; and in disposing therefore of 'the first, the second and third causes of demurrer are in effect necessarily passed upon. We are of the
opinion that the demurrer of the plaintiff in error was properly'
overruled, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court be, as it
is hereby, affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and interest, until paid,
at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the
courts of the State of Maryland.

