114

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman.v. Smith et al.

tion of the statute. And we have no right to inquire whether
the State court expounded it correctly or not. We are bound
to receive their construction as the true one. And this statute,
as expounded by the court, does not affe-t the rights of the creditors of the bank or the stockholders. The plaintiff does not
claim a right to the money under a contract made by him; but
under the powers and rights vested in him by the statute. And
if the statute clothes him with the power to collect the debts and
deal with the assets of the bank to a certain amount only, and
for certain purposes, we do not see how such a limitation of
his authority interferes in any degree with the obligation of contracts.
The writ of error to this court must ccnsequently be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the "ranscript of the record,
from the High Court of Errors and Appeals of the State of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, dismissed fer the want of jurisdiction.

REUBEN CHAPmAN, GOVERNOR, &C., FOR THE USE OF JOHN B.
LEAVITT AND RUFUS LEAVITT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ALEXANDER SMITH, BOLING HALL, MALCCOLM SMTITH, AND JOHN
G. GRAHAM.
By the laws of Alabama, where property is taken in execution, if thesheriff doas not
make the money, the plaintiff is allo'wed to suggest to the court that the money
might have been made with due diligence, and ther.mpon the court is directed to
frame an issue in order to try the fact.
In a suit upon a sheriff's bond, where the plea was that this procccding had been
resorted to by the plaintiff and a verdict found for the sheriff, a replication to this
plea alleging that the property in question in that tr al was not the same property
mentioned in the breach assigned in the decIaraticn, was a bad replication and
demurrable.
Where the sheriff pleaded that the property which ho had taken in execntion, was
not the property of the defendant, against whom he had process, and the plaintiff
demurred to this plea, the demurrer was properly overruled.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States, for the Middle District of Alabama.
It was a suit upon a sheriff's bond. Alexander Smith was
the sheriff, and the other defendants in error his sureties. The
Leavitts were citizens of New York.

DECEMBER TERMI,

1853.

115

Chapman v. Smith et al.

It was altogether a case of special pleading. There were
fourteen breaches assigned in the declaration, ten pleas, with
replications and demurrers on both sides. There were demurrers
to the brbaches, demurrers to the pleas, and demurrers to the
replications, upon which sometimes one party obtained a judgment, and sometimes the other; and -vhilst all this was going
on between the principals, the sureties kept up an outside war
of their own, by pleading the Statute of Limitations which led
to a succession of other pleadings. The record contained thirtyeight printed pages, which were occupied exclusively with pleas,
replications, demurrers, joinders, and judgments upon them;
and finally the case came up to this court upon two judgments
upon demurrers. In giving a nanative of all this, the controversy between the plaintiffi and the sureties will be detached
from the tangled history, and left out of this report.
The facts of the case, upon -which this system of pleading
arose, were these:
On the 28th of September, 1839, John W. and Rufus Leavitt
obtained a judgment against Jeremiah Al. Frion, in the Circuit
Court of the County of Coosa, Alabama, for $3,472.
On the 17th of the ensuing October, a writ of fieri facias was
issued, and placed, on the 24th, in the hands of Alexander Smith,
the sheriff.
The return day of this writ was the fourth Monday in March,
1840, when the sheriff returned that he had levied, on the 1st
February, 1840, upon dry goods, hardware, carriages, &c.
On some day after this, but when the record did not show,
the time of the*sheriff expired, and on the 12th of September,
1840, the sheriff, by leave of the said Circuit Court, first had
and obtained, altered, or amended his said return on'said writ
by adding thereto the following words and figures, to wit:
"The above goods have been claimed by A. B. Dawson and
Samuel Frion, assignees of J. M. Frion, defendant in execution,
and claim bond given to William J. Campbell, now sheriff, and
my successor in office, September 12, 1840.
"A. SMITH, late Sheriff."
It is now necessary, before the next step in the narrative is
referred to, to mention two statutes of Alabama, which are so
minutely stated in the opinion of the court, that they may be
succinctly mentioned here. One is, that if a person, other than
the debtor, claims the property levied upon, he may make affidavit that he is the owner, and give bond that it shall be forthcoming, whereupon the sheriff shall suspend the sale. The other
is, that the plaintiff in the suit may make a suggestion to the
next court, that the money could have been made by the sheriff
by the exercise of due diligence, whereupon the court shall order

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

an issue to be framed to determine the fact whether or not
due diligence was used. We now proceed with the narrative.
At the April term, 1843, of the Circuit Court for the County
of Coosa, John W. and Rufus Leavitt made a suggestion, in
conformity with the above statute, that the money might have
been made by the sheriff, if he had used due diligence; and
thereupon an issue was made up between them and the sheriflW
who denied the allegation.
At September term, 1847, this issue was tried and resulted in
a verdict by a jury in favor of the sheriff.
In October, 1848, J. W. and R. Leavit:, using the name of
the Governor, to whom the bond was given, brought this suit
against the sheriff and his sureties, upon the official bond, in the
District Court of the United States for the Middle District of
Alabama.
The declaration assigned fourteen breaches.
First. That the Leavitts, at the Fall term of 1839 of the Circuit Court of Coosa County, recovered judgment against one
Frion, for $3,472; that a f.fa. issued thereon, and came to the
hands of the said Smith; that although there were goods, &c.,
of the said Frion, out of which the said judgment might have
been levied, and of which the said Smith had notice, yet he
neglected and refused to levy, &c.
Second. That Smith did seize certain to
goods,
sell. and might have
levied the money by sale, and neglected
Third. That he seized goods which he might have sold, but
did not, and returned the levy on the goods.
Fourth. That he seized, might have sold, but did not;- returned that he had levied. Afterwards, on 1.2th September, 1840,
amended his return by adding that the goods had been claimed,
&c. Averring amended return to be false, because no claim
was made before the return day of the writ.
Fifth. Same as last, except that it aver.:ed that the amended
return was false, because no claim on oath was made.
Sixth. Same as fourth, except averring that no bond was
given by claimants.
Seventh. That the amended return was false, because no
person claimed the property, and made oath, and no person
claimed the same and gave bond according to the statute.
Eighth. Seizure, claim, duty of sheriff to prepare bond, but
did not.
Ninth. Seizure, claim, no bond taken, goods delivered to
claimants and wasted by them.
Tenth. Seizure, claim, no bond taken, goods, delivered to
claimants and by them consumed alid wasted, and lio part of

DECE-MBER TERMI,

1853.

Chapman v. Smith et al.

the goods delivered to the Leavitts, nor any part of the damages
paid to them.
Eleventh. Same, except that it is alleged that Smith suffered
goods to be wasted, &c.
Tivelfth. Same as last.
Tl'tkienth. Seizure, claim, bond, and, by negligence of Smith,
bond lost..
Fozi(teenth. Same as last, except that the bond taken was
not returned.
Te'm, 1850.
The defendants demurred to the
,-'Prig
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, Sth, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th
breaches.
To the 1st, 2d, and 3d breaches, the defendants pleaded
that the said Leavitts, in the Circuit Court of Coosa County,
according to the statute of Alabama, suggested the issuing of
the ft. fa.; that it came to the hands of Smith to be executed;
that he might by due diligence have made the money and did
not; that an issue was made up whether Smith by due diligence
could have made the money, &c.; that the issue was tried and
found for SMith, for whom judgment passed, &c. And the defendants aver, that the writ bf execution mentioned in the
breaches, and that mentioned in the suggestion, were one and
the same; and that the alleged neglects and defaults mentioned
in both, were one and the same, and not different.
The plaintiff filed a joinder in the demurrer to the 4th, 5th,
6th, 7th, Sth, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th breaches.
To the three pleas put in by the defendants to the first, second,
and third breach, the plaintiff put in a replication that the def.ults, in the said pleas mentioned, were not the same defaults
mentioned in the breaches.
The defendants demurred to this replication, and the plaintiff
joined in the demurrers.
At the Fall term of 1850, the court sustained the defendants'
demurrer to the 8th and 13th breaches of the plaintiff, and overruled it as to the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and
14th breaches, and that the defendants have leave to plead to
the last-named breaches.
The demurrer of the defendants to the replication of the
plaintiff to the plea of the defendants to the 1st, 2d, and
.Jd breaches, was sustained. And on motion, the plaintiff
had leave to amend the 8th and 13th breaches of the declaration.
December Term, 1849. The demurrer of the defendants to
some of the breaches, having been overruled, they now filed a.
plea to the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th breaches. They set forth the
suggestion to the court, the issue, trial, and verdict. They aver

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

that upon that trial the truth of the amended return was brought
up, and that the verdict found the amended return to be a true
return; and that-this-is the same as the emended return mentioned in the breaches.
And the defendant also filed pleas to the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th,
and 14th breaches, their demurrers to which had been overruled.
The first plea, called the sixth in number from the beginning, set
forth, that after the levy, the goods were .2laimed by one A. B.
Dawson, and one Samuel Frion, as assignees of J. M. Frion; that
an affidavit was made by Dawson; that :Dawson and Samuel
Frion gave a bond; that the affidavit and bond were daly returned to court; that the suit of the Leavitts against the claimants
was put upon the docket; thatat the Fall term of 1840, the plaintiffs refused farther to prosecute their levy; whereupon the court
ordered the goods to be restored to the claimants.
Seventh plea-to same breaches, same in substance nearly
as preceding.
Bight plea - nearly same.
Ninth. That the property taken in execution was not the property of Jeremiah AL Frion, the defendant in the suit.
Tenth - not guilty of the several breaches.
The plaintiff demurred to the 4th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th
pleas.,
pprie. Term, 1851. The plaintiff's deraurrer to the 4th, 8th,
9th, and 10th pleas was overruled; the demurrer to the 7th plea
was sustained; the demurrer to the 6th plea, as a plea to the
9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches was sustained; the demurrer to said 6th plea as a plea to the 14th breach was overruled.
The plaintiff had leave to reply to the pleas, the demurrer to
which was overruled; and the defendants had leave to amend
the pleas, the demurrer to which was sustained.
i.fay Term, 1851. The defendants filed an amended 7th
plea to the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches in the declaration.
The plea averred that before the return day of the execution,
the goods were claimed by Dawson and Frion, and an affidavit
made by Dawson; that the execution and claim were returned
to the court, and a suit docketed between the Leavitts as plaintiffi, and Dawson and Frion as defendants; that at the Fall term
of 1840, the Leavitts refused to make up an issue; that the
court thereupon ordered the goods to be restored to the claimants; that they were accordingly restored.
The plaintifl demurred to this amended. plea, which demurrer was overruled, and then the plaintifl filad a replication.
The replication averred that after the return day of the writ,
to wit, on the second day of the term, Dawson made his affida-

DECEMBER TERI,

1853.

Chapman v. Smith et al.

vit that the goods were not the property of Jeremiah i. Frion,
but were the property of himself and Samuel Frion; that, on that
day, Dawson and Samuel Frion, together with one Graham,
executed their bond to the plaintiffs in the sum of $3,479,i conditioned to liay all damages that the jury might assess against
the obligors; that they also executed another bond to one ,Villiam J. Campbell for a like sum with a like condition; that before that day Smith had ceased to be sheriff, and that Campbell was the sheriff; that the plaintiffs moved the court to dismis the claim of Dawson and Frion, on the ground of the insufficiency of the claim-bonds, whichi motion was overruled; that
at the Fall term a judgment of nonsuit was rendered against the
plaintifl for declining to make up an issue ; that the judgment
thus rendered against them refened to the claim-bonds above
described and not in any claim-suit commenced by said atlidavit described in the said amended 7th plea of defendant, nor
in any other or different claim-suit; that the affidavit described
in said 7th amended plea was never returned to said court,
either before or after the return of said writ of fierifircias; that
the plaintiff never knew or had any notice until the year 1847,
that said last-inentioned affidavit had been made; that the said
goods levied upon, as aforesaid, were delivered to the said Dawson and Samuel, by Campbell, in obedience to the said last-mentioned judgment or order of said court, without this, that they
were deliveced to them by the said Alexander in obedience to
any other judgment or order of said court; that tile plaintils
prosecuted their writ of error to tie Supreme Court of said State
to reverse said last-mentioned judgment, and That the said judgment was, by said Supreme Court, at January term, 1842, reversed and remanded to said Circuit Court; that at the Fall term
of said Circuit Court for 1842, the said claim put in as aforesaid by said Dawson and Samuel, was, by the consideration and
judgment of said court, dismissed, because of the insufficiency
of the said last-mentioned claim-bonds, tie said Dawson and
Samuel declining and refusing toexecute other claim-bond or
bonds as ley were required to do by the said Circuit Court;
and plaintiff avers that time said last-mentioned judgmentremais
in full force, not reversed, annulled, or set aside in any way.
All which the said plaintiff is ready to virify; wherefore he
prays judgment, and his debt and damages by him sustained,
by reason of the facts set out in said 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th
breaches, to be adjudged to him.
December Termn, 1851. Te defendants demurred to this
replication of the plaitiff to the seventh amended plea.
The court then pronounced its final judgment, as follows:
This day came the parties, by their attorneys, and thereupon

120

SUPREME

COURT.

Chapman v. Smith et at.

came or to be heard the demurrer of the plaintiff to the
amended 7th plea of the defendants to the 9th, 10th, 11th,
and 12th, breaches of the plaintiffs; and, after argument had,
it seems to the court that the said plea is sufficient in law,
&c.; it is therefore -considered by the court that the said demurrer be overruled. And thereupon the plaintiff filed his
replication to the said amended 7th plea, and the defendants
filed their demurrer to the said replication, and, after argument,
it seems to the court that the said replication is insufficient, &c.;
it is therefore considered by the court that the said demurrer be
sustained, and that the said defendants 6o hence without day,
&c., and *recover of the said John W. and Rufus Leavitt, the
persons for whose use this suit is brought, their costs in this behalf expended, for which execution may issue, &c.
The plaintiffs sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court. It came up upon the correctness of the judgment of the court below in sustaining the defe-idant's demurrer
to the replication of the plaintiff to the plea upon the 1st, 2d,
and 3d breaches, and also in sustaining the demurrer of the
defendants to plaintiff's replication to the '7th amended plea.
It was submituted on a printed brief by 1r. Prior, for the
plaintiffs in error, and argued by Mr. Bo dger, for the defendants in error.
ri.Prior. The replication to the plea ].io. 2, to the three first
breaches is good. The matter of the plea is a summary proceeding under a statute. Clay's Digest, 218, § 85.
The jurisdiction in summary proceedings under a statute, in
derogation of the common law, is strictly construed and limited
to cases within the letter of the statute. Smith v. Leavitts, 10
Ala. 92; Leavitt v. Smith, 14 Ala. 2794
The 2d and 3d breaches are for neglecling to sell the goods.
This replication is an answer to the plea as to these breaches,
unless it be held that the jurisdiction of Ihe court, in the summary proceeding set out in the plea, is coextensive with the
common-law jurisdiction, in the present action, po far as the
jurisdiction embraces the matters of these two breaches. For
the summary proceeding to operate as an estoppel, in the present
action, the sibject-matter in the two proceedings must be identical; and this court must take judicial notice of the identity,
notwithstanding their identity is denied by the replication. If
any question can be determined by the court under these
breaches, which could not bave been determined in the summary
proceeding, then the replication is good. The proceeding embraced the neglect to make the money only. Other questions
may be tried- under these breaches. People v: Ten Eyck, 13
Wend. 448; Aireton v. Davis, 9 Bing. 740.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Chapman v. Smith et al.

The 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th breaches are for a false return.
The plea, that the truth of the return had been tried and determined in a summary proceeding is bad. The sheriff's return
can be contradicted by a party to the writ in an action for a
false return, only. 46 Law Library, 283, 327.
The return was competent evidence in the trial of the summary proceeding, and as it could not be contradicted by the
plaintiffs, who were parties to the -writ,it was conclusive of the
facts set out in the return. The return of the claim, on the
trial, was a full protection to the sheriff from the liability created
by the levy. When the claim was made by Dawson, the sheriff
was bound to suspend proceedings on the levy. Clay's Digest,
211, § 52; Ib. 213, § 62; so much of the act of 1812, (Clay's
Digest, § 52,) as requires two bonds, is repealed by the act of
1828, (lb. 213, § 62); Bradford v. Dawson, 2 Ala. 203; Hughes
v. Rhea, 1 Ala. 609.
But these breaches are for a false return, the only proceeding
in which the truth of the return can be tried. The judgment
in the summary proceeding is no bar, therefore, to these breaches,
and the deamurrer to the fourth plea ought to be sustained.
The Sth breach is for neglect to take claim-bond, when
Dawson claimed the goods levied on. The demurrer to this
breach ought to be overruled. The breach is a good one. Lane
v. Harrison, 6 Munf. 57:3;
v. Bevan, 5 B. & C. 284; 4
Tyrw. 272; Clopton v. Hoppin, 6 Ad. & E. 468, (51 E. C. L.)
The 13th breach is for loss of the bond, and the demurrer
ought to be overruled. See above cases.
The 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches are for not taking
claim-bond from Dawson. Clay's Digest, 211, § 52; Ib. 213,
62.
Neither the amended 7th plea, nor the 8th plea, is a good
defence to- these breaches; and the demurrer to the 8th plea
ought to be sustained; and the demurrer of the defendants
to. the replication to the amended 7th plea ought to be
overruled. The demurrer will reach back to the defect in the
plea. The gist of the plea is that the plaintiffs in the claim
suit refused to prosecute their levy, and that the goods were
restored to the claimants by order of the court., This plea does
not however aver that the sheriff took a claim-bond. These
breaches are for not taking a bond. The plea does not answer
the breaches. Unless there was a bond conforming to the requisition of the statute filed, with the execution, and affidavit,
there was no such cause in court as the plaintiffs could be compelled t6 prosecute. Leavitt v. Dawson and Friou, 4 Ala. 335;
Leavitt v. Smith, 7 Ala. 179.
The breach of duty was the neglect to take bond before the
VOL. XVI.

11

122

SUPREM1E COURT.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

rettirn"dav ot the execution. On that day the plaintiff's right
of action, for this breach of-duty, was perfect. How do the matters of this plea bar this right? It may be that the plaintiffs
yefuse'd to prosecute their levy in the clair-suit, because there
was not a good claim-bond. They did refuse for this cause.
Leavitt v. Dawson, 4 Ala. 335. How could the refusal of the
plaintiffs to prosecute a suit which they did not institute, which
they were not' bound to prosecute, which was improperly in
conit, apdirnproperly there by the breach of duty for which the
'sheriff is "nowsued, destroy the plaintill's right to recover for
this act of official misconduct?
Bit. if this plea should be held good. then the replication
avels that the "judgmeht set .out in this plea was rendered
in a claim-suit, commenced after the return day of the execution, arld therefore after plaintiff's right of action against the
sheriff was perfect. 'The replication concludilng with an absque
W-6c, -is a full aiiswer to the plea.
"Thd Sth plea, sets up, by %,vayof estoppel, the judgment in
a summa-ry pr6ceeding. Clv's Digest, 218, § 8.5.
"The neglebt to take a claim-bond before the return day of the
.exdcution;-'wdas a breach of duty for which plaintifll could
ni.ntain alh action; but for this breach of duty, they could not
recover ii this summary procee'ding. Then how can they be
bared by this - plea? Smith'v. Leavitts, IC Ala. 92; 1b. 14 Ala.
279.
The gravamen of these breaches is nct the loss or waste of
the: good-'; hit the neglect to take the bond. The plaintiffs
coufld maintain an action against the she:'iff for the loss, of the
goods by virtue only of the lien created by the execution.
WCthen-the affidavit was made by Dawson, as alleged in these
br&elehe , it was the dufy of the sheriff to suspend proceedings
oii the"levy. .Clay's Digest; 211, § 62, and to prepare a bond for
the claimant to sign; Ib. 213, § 62. Until he prepared and
teiidered the bond, and the claimant refused to execute it, the
.sheriff cobld not sell the goods. The lien of the plaintiffs on the
gods was put'in abeyance at the moment the sheriff's right to
proceed'on the levy-was suspended. Both were suspended by
the claim "of Da-wvon, and could not be revived, except by the
direct withdrawal of the claim by Dawson, or until, by refusing
to execute the bond, he indicated his purpose to abandon the
claim. Until the right of the plaintiffs, to have the goods sold,
was revived by the withdrawal or the abandonment of the claim,
the plainti fs had no such interest in the goods as would entitle
them to maintain an action against the sheri.T for Their loss or
-waste. TL - claim-bond, if one be made, is substituted for the
lien on the goods. If the sheriff neglect to prepare the bond,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

123

Chapmnan v. Smith et al.

thi- does not destroy the right of the claimant to have a stay of
proceedings on the levy. But this neglect is a breach of duty
to the plaintils, for which they may maintain an action. The
loss or waste of the goods is no injury to the plaintiffi when
they haO no right to have them sold, but is an injury to the true
owner, for which they may sue and recover.
Now, as the plaintiff's lien on the goods has been destroyed,
and he has not got a claim-bond as a substitute for the lien, he
has been damaged. The claim -destroyed the lien, nt by act
of the claimant, but by operation of law; Clay's Digest, 211,
5 2; therefore the claimant is not liable for the destruction of
the lien, except upon his bond. If the lien be suspended by
the claim, and no bond be tendered to the claimant by the
sherill; the suspension continues until the return of the execution. The injury to the plaintiff is not the suspension of the
lien, but the neglect to have the bond as a substitute for the
lien.
The demurrer to the 6th plea to 14th breach, ought to be
sustained.
The 9th plea is no answer to any of the breaches; not to
the first three, for the defendant in the execution may have had
other goods than those levied on; not to those for false return,
for the plaintiff had a right to have a true return ; not to those
for neglect to take bond, nor to those for loss of the bond, for it
was the duty of the sheriff to take the bond and to return it to
the court. The neglect to take it, or the loss of it after it was
taken, was a clear breach of duty.
Not guilty - not a good plea in debt.
J1Tr. Badger, after enumerating the breaches assigned in the
declaration, proceeded with his argument.
To the 1st, 2d, and 3d breaches, the defendants pleaded
that the said Leavitts, in the Circuit Court of Coosta County,
according to the statute of Alabama, suggested the issuing of
the ft. fa.; that it came to the hands of Smith to be executed;that he might, by due diligence, have made the money, and did
not, &c.; that an issue was made up whether Smnith, by due
diligence, could have made the money, &c.; that the issue was
tried and found for Smith, for whom judgment passed, &c.
To this plea plaintiff replied that the defaults in the said
plea mentioned were not the same defaults mentioned in the
breaches, to which replication the defendants demurred, and the
court sustained the demurrer.
It is insisted, for the defendants in error, that the -replication
was bad in law, and was therefore properly overruled by the
court.

124

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

The plaintiff ought, if he admitted the identity of the defaults,
to have replied nul tiel record;if he denied that identity, to have
new assigned.
Whenever defendant justifies, or in any manner discharges
himself from liability for d charge or claim of the plaintiffs, it is
the duty of the latter to new assign, if he insists that the matters justified are not the same as those for which he declares.
Nothing can be clearer than this, if the reason for a new assignment be considered. That reason is, that the defendant is supposed to nistake the particular instance set forth by the plaintiff for some other of the same class, and therefore plaintiff
should correct that mistake by averring by a new assignment,
that he proceeds for another demand than that justified, &c., by
the defendant, and this new assignment is in nature of a new
declaration, or, in strictness, a particular expressipn of what the
declaration designed, and which has been misunderstood by defendant. Therefore if the plaintiff, under such circumstances,
do not new assign, and the defendant ia proof supports his
justification of any matter of the same general nature, he is
entitled to a verdict.
See account of the nature, office, and purposes of a new
assignment. I Chitty, 434, et seq. Manner of new assigning,
pdge 439.
Defendant may plead to the newly assigned matter as to the
declaration, page 441.
See, also, Mr. Stephens's account of new assignments. Stephens on P1. Amer. Ed., page 220 to 227, and note 22, page 226.
See, also, James v. Lingham, 35 Eng. C. L. R. 225; 5 Bing.
N. C. 553; Branckner v. Molyneux, 9 Eng. C. L. 615; 1 Man.
& Gran, 710; Moses v. Levy, (in error,) 45 Eng. C. L. 213; 4
Adol. & Ellis, N. S.
In which last case Lord Denman says: "Where the declaration points at one particular transaction, and the plea applies
itself to one particular transaction of the same sport, different
from that intended by the declaration, or where the plea narrows
the declaration contrary to the intention of the declaration, a
new assignment is necessary."
This is exactly our case. To, allow the tmaverse, instead of the
new assignment, would be directly contrary to authority, and
would cause injustice to the defendant by depriving him of his
right to plead anew to the true transaclion intended by the
plaintiff and- mistaken by him.
The replication'that the defaults are not the same, is bad,
No such replication has been sustained by judicial authority in
such a case as ours. Where, indeed, the defendant pleads a
former recovery against him for the same cause of action, there

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

125

Chapman v. Smith et al.

the replication, that it is not for the same cause of action, is
good, and may be used instead of a new assignment; but the
reason is, that the plea admits a liability as to the cause of
action to have once existed, and alleges that it has been satisfied by the recovery, so that, if not so satisfied, it still exists.
See Seddon v. Tutop, 6 T. R. 607; Note 22, page 226; 4th
Amer. Ed. Stephens on P.
The difference between the two classes of cases is this: In
one the defendant avers that there never was a right of action;
in the other he admits a right of action and avers payment, that
is, extinguishment by the judgment. In the former, a new assignment is necessary; in the latter, not. And by this plain
distinction the cases in the books are reconciled.
The defendants demurred to the 8th and 13th breaches,
and their demurrer was sustained.
It was rightly sustained. The 8th breach not showing that
sureties were offered to sheriff, and without that he was not
obliged to prepare a bond. Clay's Dig. page 213,. § 62;
Eiller v. Wood, 24 E. C. L. 464; Mann v. Vick, 1 Hawks's
Rep. 427.
The 13th breach, showing that the amended return stating the taking of the claim-bond was made 20th September,
140I, by Smith, late sheriff, and the condition of the bond sued
on, as set out in the declaration, showing that his office expired
22d February, preceding, and the said return, as set out in the
said breach, showing that the claim-bond was given not to
Smith, but to his successor in office, and, therefore, the cust6dy
of the said bond not belonging to Smith, the averment that by
his.negligence it was lost, is idle, inconsistent, and absu-rd, &c.
To the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th breaches, the defe. idants
pleaded, that the Leavitts instituted proceedings in th- Circuit Court of Coosa County, against Smith, according io the
statute, &c., and an issue was made up and tried, upon which
issue the truth of the amended return was tried, anG the truth
thereof found, and judgment rendered for Smith, &c. The
plaintiff demurred to the said plea, and the court overruled the
demurrer.
It is insisted for defendants in error, that this demurrer was
properly overruled, because the verdict and judgment stated in
the plea, were conclusive of the truth of the antended return
set out in the breaches, the falsehood of which is the gist of
these breaches -conclusive as to Smith, the sheriff, and in this
action whatever concludes the Leavitts as against Smith, concludes the plaintiff as against him and the other defendants,
his sureties. Gardner v. Buckbee, 3 Cowen, 126, and cases
there cited; Leavitts v. Smith, 14 Ala. N. S. 279, 285; David11 0

126

STJ'?REIME COURT.
Chapm~an v. Smith et al.

son v. Stringfellow, 6 Ala. N. S. 34; Smith v. Leavitts, 10 Ala.
N. S. 92, 192; Cummings v. McGehee, 9 Porter, 351.
And because, also, all these breaches show the amended return
:to have been made after the said Smith wvas out of office, and
hence it does not affect either of the pexties in this action.
Evans v. State Bank, 13 Ai& N. S. 787.
The defendants by their 6th plea pleaded to the 9th, 10th,
11th, 12th,. and 14th breaches, that after the seizure of the
goods, a claim -%as interposed, affidavit made, bond given, and
the same returned; that a motion was made to dismiss the
claih for insufficiency of the bond; that mofion was overruled,
and such proceedings had that the court ordered goods, &c., to
be delivered up to the claimants, and they were delivered
accordingly. And the defendants by their 8th plea further
pleaded, as to the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches, that after
the return of the e:ecution, the Leavitts entered a suggestion
according to the statute, that the money might have been made,
&c., issue thereo , verdict for Smith, and judgment averring
the identity of the execution and alleged defaults in the breaches
with those set'out in the suggestion, &c. The defendants, by
their 9th plea, also pleaded severally to all the breaches, that
the goods and chattels levied upon, as stated in the several
breaches, Were not the property of the defendant in the execution, nor subject to be taken for the payment, &c.; and, also by
their 10th plea, that said Smith was not guilty of the several
defaults, &c.; and to these pleas plaintiff demurred.
The defendants, by their 7th plea, pleaded to the 9th, 10th,
11th, and 12th breaches, that the 'execution, with the levy
and interposition of claim was returned, and the claim-suit between the claimants and the said Leavitts was duly entered,
.and'afterwards such proceedings were had that the court order.ed the property levied on to be delivered up to the claimants,
whih was done.
rTo this 7th plea the plaintiff replied: That claim was interposed; affidavit was made, and a bond made payable to the
Leavitts, was made on the 23d March, 1840, being the secon'd
day of terni, to which execution was returnable; that on the
same day another bond was made payable to William J. Campbell; (both bonds are, stated to have been executed by the claimants, but it is not stated by whom either was taken); that
Smith ceased to be sheriff before the 23d1 March, and then parted
with the possession 6f the goods to some one unknown, and
when the affidavit and bond were made, Campbell, the new
sheriff, had possession; that a motion to dismiss the claim was
made for insufficiency of the bonds, was oveiuled, and judgment.afterwards given for returning goods to claimants, at Fall

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

127

Chapman v. Smith et al.

term, 1840, but not in any claim-suit' commenced by the affi.
davit named in the plea. The replication then avers that the
affidavit, mentioned in the plea, -was never returned, and plain.
tiff had 'no notice of its execution until 1847; that the goods
levied on were delivered to claimants by Campbell, with a
formal traverse that they were delivered by Smith in obedience
to any other judgment or order of the court. And the replication alleges that a writ of error was brought to the Supreme
Court of Alabama upon the judgment which, in 1842, was
reversed, and afterwards, in the Circuit Court of Coosa, the
claim was dismissed, &6., and concludes with a verification, &c.
To this replication defendants demurred.
As to the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches, it is insisted, 1st.
That the matter contained in the defendants' 6th plea is a
good bar, for the order of the court directing the surrender of
the goods was one which the law obliged the sheriff to obey,
and must, thei'#fore, protect him in obeying, (cases before cited
from Alabama leports,) and that this matter was also a good
bar to the 14th breach.
2d. That the verdict and judgment in the suit of the Leavitts,
by suggestion, against Smith, set out in the 8th plea, is a
good bar, for the matters which are alleged in those breaches
were proper to be offered, and would have tended to sustain
the suit by suggestion, and therefore the very question here
raised by these breaches has been in that suit decided; and it
being found by the verdict and judgment, that the goods were
not subject to execution, the Leavitts have no interest in the
inquiry, what became of them, &c. Cases before cited, particularly Gardner v. Buckbee, 3 Cowen, and Cummings v. McGehee, 9 Porter.
For these reasons, as well as defects in the breaches themselves, it is insisted that their demurrer to the 6th and 8th pleas'
was properly overruled.
It is further insisted that the 7th plea is a sufficient answer to the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th breaches; the order in the
claim-writ being binding on the sheriff, and the replication
thereto being insufficient, impertinent, and fatally defective.
For, First. The replication neither admits nor denies directly.
the suit alleged in the plea, but is altogether evasive. Secondly.
If replication is to be understood as denying it, it is bad because it can only be put in issue by wdl tiel record; if to admit it, the.- the averments of the other proceedings, in the
replication, are idle and immaterial. Tirdly. The replication
tenders a formal traverse that Smith delivered up the goods to
claip'ants under any other order or judgment of the court than
that a,?t out in the replication, and therefore seems to admit a

128

SUPREME

COURT.

Chapman.v. Smith et al

delivery by him under that order, and that order being a justification, the traverse tenders an immaterial issue. Fourlthly. The
plaintiff ought either to have replied nul tie.? record of the order
alleged in the plea, or admitting the record, have traversed the
delivery under it, if he deemed the latter fact material. .Fifthly.
If goods delivered up under the order of the court, as the replication avers, it is immaterial in this suit by which hands the
delivery was actually made, the plaintiffs charging the defendants on account of the seizure of the goods, and the order
discharging Smithwhether obeyed by himself or his successor.
Sixthly. The reversal of the order set out in the replication is
immaterial, for the reversal cannot by relation make the sheriff
a wrongdoer. Smith v. Leavitts, 10 Ala. 92; Leavitt v. Smith,
14 Ala.. 284.
It is further insisted, that the 9th plea, that the goods levied
upon, &c., were not the property of the defendant in execution,
nor liable to be taken, &c., is a sufficient bar to all thebreaches
except the first.
The seizure under the execution does not conclude the sheriff
as to the property in the goods -it amounts only to affirming
his belief of ownership by the defendant in execution, and casts
the burden of proof on him. He may notwithstanding aver
and show that the goods were not subject to the execution, and
such averment and proof discharges him from liability to the
plaintiffs in execution in respect of such goods. Leavitt v.
Smith, 7 Ala., N. S. 184, 185; lason v. Watts, Ib.703.
This plea being admitted by the demurrer, it is a matter immaterial to the plaintiff whether the goods were kept, or lost,
surrendered to.a claimant with or without a bond, or what became of them. Whoever has or may have a right to call upon
the sheriff by reason of his disposition of tae goods, the plaintiff has none-his whole right and interest therein being
founded upon their supposed liability to the execution.
It.is further insisted that the 10th plea -that Smith was not
guilty of the defaults, &c., is a good answei to all the breaches.
Every breach avers a criminal violation of his duty by the
sheriff, and, if true and sufficiently laid, would sustain an action
on the case against the sheriff. The breaches are exactly equivalent to counts in an action on the case. The action is fohnded
on the bond in order to call on the official sureties to make good
the defaults of the sheriff, and no reason can be supposed why
the legislature should design to require special pleading from
the sureties and deny them the benefit of a general plea, by
which the plaintiff is put to the proof of hds whole allegation,
while such requisition and denial do not apply to an action
against the sheriff for the default. It would. be more reasonable

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

to require such special plea in the latter action, the sheriff being
cognizant of all the facts, than in the former, the sureties having
no such knowledge. The only ground assumed on the other
side is the technical one, that "not guilty" cannot be pleaded
to an action of debt-but the position is not true.
In an action of debt on a recognizance for keeping the peace,
suggesting an assault as the breach, the defendant may plead
not guilty, son assault(demesne, just as in an action of trespass,
for the assault. See form of plea, 7 Wentworth, 401.
So on debt in penal statute, and in debt against executors,
suggesting devastavit. Coppin v. Carter, 1 T. R. 462; Wortley
v. Herpingham, Cro. Eliz. 766; Ch. P1. 3d Amer. Edi 354;
Langley v. Hayes, Mo. 302.
If such a plea is allowed in any action of debt, it should be
in this. In action of debt on penal statute, &c., nil debet is a
general issue, and puts the plaintiff on the proof of his whole
case. If, then, the technical idea, that the plea of not guilty
should not be allowed to an action of debt, does not prevent
allowing the defendant in such action to plead such plea, surelyit should not here, where there is no general issue which will
put the plaintiff to full proof of his case. This is not an action'
strictijuris,like trespass, and should, in the liberty of pleading,
be likened to an action on the case, according to Lord Mansfield's notion of that action. Ch.P1. 357.
It should also be noted that the plaintiff in his first breadh
alleges a judgment and execution thereon, and in every succeeding breach refer - to this one execution and the returns alleged
to have been made thereon, and to the one term to which it was
returnable. Hence it judicially appears that the whole gravamen of all the breaches is one and the same default, and not other
and different defaults; from which it would seem tQ follow that
what is an answer to one breach is an answer to every other."
Usually when the breaches formally refer to "one other execution," or "a certain other judgment," the court is precluded from
connecting one with the other breach, but must consider each as
referring to a separate transaction; but here the plaintiff himself
refers, in each succeeding breach, to the execution mentioned in
the first, and without such reference being had, no valid breach
is assigned, except to the first, and, therefore, by the form of
pleading adopted by the plaintiff, he has not only enabled, but
obliged the court to- consider all the breaches as connected
together, growing out of one official transaction, and substantially as alleging one and the same default.
Upon the whole, it is insisted for the defendant, that, for
the reasons above stated, as well as for other defects in the
breaches assigned, and in the replications of the plaintiff to the

130

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman.v. Smith et al.

defendants' pleas, the judgment for the defendant ought to be
affirmed.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama.
The suit was brought upon an official bond given by Alexander Smith, as sheriff of Coosa county, and his sureties, conditioned that he would well and truly perform all and singular
the duties of his office as required by the laws of the State.
The declaration sets out a judgment, recovered by J. XV. and
B. Leavitt at the Fall term of 1839, in the Circuit Court of the
Second Circuit of the State of Alabama, against Jeremiah I.
Frion, for the sfim of $3,472: also an execution upon the same
issued to the said Smith, as sheriff.
Fourteen breaches of the condition of the bond are assigned,
for the purpose of charging the defendant and his sureties with
the payment of the judgtnent.
In order to understand the purport and legal effect of these
breaches, and the pleadings which follow them, it is proper to
refer to two provisions in the statutes of Alabama that have a
material bearing on the subject. One is, that when the sheriff
shall levy an execution on property claimed by a person not a
party to the execution, such person may make oath that he is
the owner: and thereupon it shall be the duty of the sheriff to
postp-ne the sale until the next term of the court; and such
court shall require the parties concerned to make up an issue,
under such rules as'it may adopt, so as to try the right of property before a jury at the same term; and the sheriff shall make
a return on the execution accordingly, provided the person
claiming such property, or his attorney, shall give a bond to
the sheriff with surety equal to the amount of the execution,
conditioned to pay the plaintiff all damages which the jury on
the trial of the right of property may assess against him, in case
it should appear that such claim was made for the purpose of
delay. Clay's Dig. 211, § 52.
It is further provided, that-it shall be the duty of the sheriff
to return the property levied-on to the person out of whose possession it was taken upon such person entering into a bond
with surety to the plaintiff in the execution in double the
amount of the debt and costs, conditioned for delivery of the
property to the sheriff whenever the claim of property so made
shall be determined by the court. Tb.
It was subsequently provided that one bond might be taken
with a condition embracing substantially the matters contained
in the two'above mentioned. 1b. 213, § 62.

DE CEEMB E R, T E RM.
Chapman v. Smith ct al.

The other provision is, that whenever the sheriff shall fail to
roake the money on the execution on or before the first day of
the term of the court before which the execution is returnable,
the plaintiff or his attorney shall suggest to thb court that the
money could have been made by the sheriff, with due diligence,
and it -hall be the duty of the court forthwith to cauise an issue
to be rads up to try thi- fact; and if it .hall be found by the
jury that the money could have been made with due diligence,
judgment shall be rendered against the sheriff,'and his spreties,
or any or either of them, for the money specified in the execution, together with ten per centun on the amount. lb. 213,

§ 85

There i,, also, a similar provision in the case of the suggestion
of a false return on the execution by the sherif.
lb. 218, § 84:
We have said there are ourteen breaches assigned of the
condition of the bond in question in the declaration.
The first is, that there were' divers goods and chattels, lands
and tenements of Frion, the defendant in ftie execution within
its lifetime, out of which the sheriff could have levied the
amount of the judgment: but that he had neglected to levy and
collect the same.
Second and third, that he had levied upon sufficierit goods
and chattels of the defendant, but had neglected to sell the
same, and collect the arnoumft.
The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh
and twelfth, that the return made upon the execution, namely,
that the goods levied on had been claimed by A. B. Dawson
and Samuel Frion, assignees of J. W%.Frion, defendant in the
execution, and claim-bond given to NV. J. Campbcll, now sheriff,
and rmy successor in office- was false, setting out in various
of thles breaches the grounds of the falsity in the return, namnely,
either that no claim had been made to the property by Daw-son
and Frion, or if made, no affidavit, as required by the statute,
had been furnished to the sheriff, or no bond had been required,
or given; or that the proper affidavit had been made, but no
boid given according to the requirement of the statute.,
The thirteenth and fouteenth breaches admit an affidavit
and bond, according to the statute; but charge that the claimbond was lo.t by the negligence of the sheriff, and was not
returned to the court with the execution at the return of the
writ.
The defendants plead to the first, second, and third breaches,
that at the April term of the court held in and for the county
of Coosa, in 1840, the plaintiffs in the execution suggested to the
court, according to the statute in such cases made and provided, after setting out the execution, and issuing of it to the

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman v. Smith et al.

sheri , and return of it without having levied the money thereon, that the same might have been collected, if due diligence
had been used b the sheriff; that thereupon an issue was
formed upon this suggestion; and, that upon the trial such
pro eedings were had that the jury found -the same in favor of
the efendants. The plea further avers that the alleged neglects, defaults and breaches of duty in,the first, second, and
third breaches assigned, and in said suggestion are the same,
and not different.
To this plea the plaintiffs replied,-that the matters, neglects,
and defaults in the said three breaches assigned in the declararation, were not the same identical matters, neglects, and defaults as in said plea mentioned, and fo:: and in respect to
which the said judgment in said plea mentioned was recovered
in manner and form as set forth.
To this replication there was a demurrer and joinder, and
judgment for the defendants.
The defendants, also, plead to all the breaches severally, except the first, that the goods and chattels levied on as stated in
said breaches at the time of the said levy, and at the time said
execution came to the hands of the said Smith, sheriff, as aforesaid, were not the property of the said Jeremiah Al. Frion, the
defendant in the execution, and were not liable to be taken for
the payment or satisfaction of the said judgment.
There was a demurrer to this plea, and joinder, and judgment
for the defendants.
These two pleas cover all the breaches assigned in the declaration, and if they furnished answers to thera, the judgment for
the defendants in the court below should be sustained.
The first three breaches, as we have seen, -were first that there
were goods of the defendant in the execution, and of which the
sheriff could have levied the money; but that not regarding his
duty, he neglected, and refused so to do. Second and third,
that. he did make a levy upon the goods, but neglected and
refused to sell the same.
The plea sets up that the plaintiffs made . suggestion, under
the statute, to the court, at the return of the execution, that the
sheriff could have collected the money thereon, if he had exercised due diligence in the execution of the writ; and upon this
suggestion or allegation an issue was formed between the
parties and tried by a jury, who found a verdict for the defendants, upon which a judgment was rendered.
The replication to this plea is that the matters, neglects) and
defaults in the said three breaches in the daclaration were nat
the same mattes, neglects, aid defaults in! the said plea mentioned, and in respect to which the judgment was recovered.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

133

Chapman v. Smith et al.
We think the replication is bad, on the ground that it raises an
issue of law, rather than one of fact. The matters in all three
of the breaches were necessarily involved in the question of due
and proper diligence on the part of the sheriff in the execution
of the ft. fa. The omission to levy upon the goods, or to sell
after the levy, fell directly within the issue and inquiry in that
proceeding under the statute; and we are bound to presume
were the subject of examination before the court and jury, and
were passed upon by them. Where the facts in issue appear
upon the record, either expressly or by necessary intendment, it
is not competent to contradict them, as this would be contradicting the record itself. The judgment is conclusive upon
these facts, between the same parties or privies, whenever properly pleaded. If the matters involved in the issue do not ap-

pear upon the record, then it is competent to ascertain them by
proof oliz'nde. 2 Phillips's Ev. 15, 20,21; C. & H. Notes, p. 13;
Note 14; also p. 163-4 and cases.
Here we cannot help seeing, that the matters sought to be
put in issue by the replication are those necessarily involved in
the former trial; and to uphold it would be to permit the same
facts to be agitated over again. Certainly, neglect to levy the
money on the execution out of the defendant's goods withiii the
sheriff's bailiwick, or neglect to sell them, and make the money
after the levy, are facts bearing directly on the former issue;
and one criterion for trying whether the matters or cause of
action be the same as in the former suit, is, that the same evidence will sustain both actions. 2 Phillips's Ev. 16; C. & H.
Notes, p. 19, note 17.
The issue upon the suggestion, that the sheriff could have
levied the money on the execution with the exercise of due diligence, is a very broad one. It is held, by the courts of Alabama,
that the sheriff may discharge himself from responzibility by
showing due diligence; and to enable him to do this nothing
more is necessary than to traverse the facts contained in the
suggestion. But, if the defence consists of new matter or matters of avoidance, he must then plead it. 3 Ala. R. 28.
It is difficult to conceive of a broader issue for the purpose
of charging this officer with neglect or default in the course of
his duty under the execution.
Then, as to the plea that the goods levied on were not the
goods of the defendant in the execution, and not liable to the
satisfaction of the judgment. This the demurrer admits. Of
course, the sheriff had no authority to make the levy, and stood
responsible himself to the owner, as a trespasser, as soon as the
seizure took place. In the face of this admission on the record,
it is impossible to hold him liable for the value of the goods.
VOL. XVI.
12

13.t

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman r. Smith ot al.

The plea answers the material allegation in each of the assignments of breaches, and without which the assignment would be
substantially defective, namely, the seizure of the goods on the
execution. The allegations as to no claim having been made
to the property by third persons, and no aff;davit taken, or bond
given, or if given that it was lost, are matters depending upon
the levy. If that is denied or avoided, the several breaches are
fully answered.
Now, the seizure of the goods of a third person, on the exe.
cution, does not change the title or make them the goods of the
defendant on the execution. The only effect is, if after this the
sheriff returns the execution nulla bona, the burden is thrown
upon him in a suit for a false return to show that the goods
were not the defendant's, and therefore no'; liable to the execution. Magne v. Seymour, 5 Wrend. R. 309; 1 B. & C. 514.
The same principle was held in M1ason et al. v. Watts, 7 Ala.
P. 703. That was a ease arising out of a suggestion against
the sheriff and his sureties, under thv statute to which we have
refened, and in a case wliere the goods had been seized, and a
return upon the execution accordingly. 'The suggestion was
met that the goods were nqt the property of the defendant in
the execution.
The court say, that the sheriff may excuse himself by showing
that the defendant in the execution had no property in the goods
levied upon. That the reason for this is, that the sheriff, by
levying upon the goods of a third person, becomes a trespasser,
and being so, the law doe not impose on him the duty of holding the goods after he has ascertained t1 eir true ownership.
Another observation in that case is applicable here. The court
says it may be, if a loss results to the plaintiff by being cast in
costs, or otherwise, from the neglect of the sheriff to retain the
affidavit of claim, or bond executed by the claimant, he may be
liable in an action on the case, but not for the value of the
property levied on. Although the suit on the bond in this case,
according to the practice in the courts of Alabama, may be
regarded as a substitute for this action, still no such ground or
cause of action is set out in any of the assignments of breaches,
and of course no opportunity given to answer it. We are
satisfied, therefore, that the 'plea is a. ,,"l answer to all the
breaches assigned to which it refers, and has been pleaded.
There are many other pleas, replications, and issues of law
raised upon them, aising out of the useless, number of breaches
assigned in the declaration, and which have very much tangled
and complicated the pleadings in the reeQrd; but we do not
propose to examine or express any opinion upon them, as
upon-the whole record we see a complete defence to all the

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

Stafford ct'al. v. The Union Bank of Louisiana.

causes of action set forth in the declaration, it would be an idle
and profitless waste of time to enter upon their examination,
and, besides, whatever might be our conclusions, they would not
vary the result. Stephens's Pl. 153, 176.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came -on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the District Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same, is hereby affirmed, with costs.

IN THE MATTER OF JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTE
KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS,

v.

THE UNION BANK OF

LOUISIANA.
Where an appeal was taken from a decree in chancery, which decree was made by
the court below during the sitting of this court in term time, the appel'ant is alowed until the ncxt term to file the record ; and a motion to dismiss the appeal,
made at tile
present term. before the case has been regularly entered upon the docket,
cannot be entertained, nor can a motion to award a pcocedendo.
This court, however, having a knowledge of the case, will express its views upon an

important point of practice.
Where the appeal is intended to operate as a ,uperscdeas, the security given in the
appeal bond must 6e equal to the amount of the decree, as it i in the cao of a
jtidgnwnt at common law.
The two fats, namely, first that the receiver appointed by the court below had given
bond to a large amount, and second, that the persons to whom the property had been
hired had given security for its safe keeping and delivery, do not affect the above
result.
The i-curity must, notwithstanding, be equal to the amount of the decree.
A mode of relief suggested.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
. It will be seen, by a reference to 12 How4. 327, that this case
was formerly before this court, and that the decree of the court
below (dismissing the bill filed by the Union Bank) was reversed.
In the execution of the mandate of this court, the District
Court of Texas passed a decree on the 25th of February,'1854,
from which Stafford and wife appealed. Mr. Hale and Mr.
CJoxe, on behalf of the Union Bank, moved to dismiss the appeal:
for the following reasons:-

