DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

275

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

JANE M. CARROLL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. LESSEE OF GEORGE
W.
CARROLL, DE Rosz CARROLL, ROBERT D. CARROLL,
CHARLES W. CARROLL, JOHN AL MARTIN AND A-ERICA HIS
WIFE, AND JOHN FoRD AND MARY HIS WIFE.
By the common law of Maryland, lands of which the testator was not seized at the
time of making his will, could not be devised thereby.
In 18150, the legislature passed the following act:
See. 1. Be it enacted, &c., That every last will and testament executed in due form
of law, after the first day of June next, shall be construed with reference to the real
estate and personal estate comprised in it, to speak and take effect as if it had been
executed on the day of the death of the testator or testatrix, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will.
See. 2. That the provisions of this act shall not apply to any will executed, before
the passage of this act, by any person who may die before the first day of June
next, unless in such will the intention of the testator or testatrix shall appear that
the real and personal estate which he or she may own at his or her death, should
thereby pass.
See. 3. That this law shall take effect on the first day of June next.
In 1837, Michael B. Carroll duly executed his will, making his -'ife Jane, his residuary
legatee and devisee. After the execution of his will, he acquired the lands in controversy, and died in August, 1851.
The lands which he purchased in 1842 d'I not pass to the devisee, but descended to
the heirs.
The cases upon the subject examined.
A distinction is to be made between cases which decide the precise point in question
and those in which an opinion is expressed upon it, incidentally.
Evidence that the name of the tract of land, conveyed by a deed, was the same with
the name given in an early patent; that it had long been held by the persons under
whom the party claimed; and that there was no proof of any adverse claim, was
sufficient to warrant the jury in finding that the land mentioned in the deed was
the same with that mentioned in the patent.
The lessee of the plaintiffs having claimed, in the declaration, a term of fifteen years
in three undivided fourth parts of the laud, and the judgment being that the lessee
Jo recover his term aforesaid yet to come and unexpired, this judgment was
correct.

THIS case came up, by vrit of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Maryland.
It was an action of ejectnent brought by the defendants in
error, as heirs of Michael B. Carroll, to recover three undivided
fourth parts of all of three several tracts or parcels of planfable
land, called, for the first of said three tracts, "Black Walnut
Thicket" and " Content," contiguous to each other, lying and
being in Prince George's county, in the State of Maryland, con.
taining seven hundred acres, more or less; and called, for the
second of said three tracts, "Addition to Brookfield," sittate,
lying, and being in Prince George's county aforesaid, containing
one hundred and fifty acres, more or less; and called, for the
third of said three tracts, "Lot No. 1," being part of a tract of
land called Brookfield, containing four hundred and fifty acres,
more or less.

276

SUPREME

COURT.

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

Carroll made a will in 1837, in which, after some legacies, he
devised all the rest of his property, real, personal, and mixed, to
his wife, Jane ML Carroll.
In 1850, the legislature of Maryland passed a law, which is
recited in the syllabus at the head of this report, and also in the
opinion of the court.
In August,' 1851, Carroll died, upon which the present action
of ejectment was brought by three of the four branches of his
heirs, to recover three undivided fourth parts of the lands mentioned in the beginning of this report. The claim to the two
latter tracts did not appear to have been prosecuted, but the
controversy turned exclusively upon the title of the plaintiffs
below to "Black Walnut Thicket" and " Content."
Upon the trial in the Circuit Court the plaintiffs offered, in
evidence, to support their title:
1. The patent for "Black Walnut Thicket," dated at the
city of St Mary's on the 27th September, 1680, and the patent
for " Content," dated on the 10th of Augus.t, .1753.
2. A deed from W. B. Brooks and others, to Michael B. Carroll, dated on the 29th of January, 1842, which purported to
convey all those tracts, parts of tracts, or parcels of land lying
and being in Prince George's county, called "Black Walnut
Thicket" and" Content," contiguous to Each other, and contained within the following metes and bounds, courses and distances, namely. .....
(these were not idntical with those of
either patent.)
3. The plaintiff then proved possession, by Carroll, of the parcel of land described in the deed to him, from the date of that
deed until his decease; and also proved possession of the same
by those under -whom Carroll claimed from 1809.
The defendant, by her counsel, then prayed the court to instruct the jury that there was no sufficient evidence in the cause
from which the jury could properly find thaft the land embraced
in said deed, from said Walter B. Brooks and others, to said
Michael B. Carroll, offered in evidence by the plaintiffs, is the
same land, or parcel of the same lands, embraced in the said patents or in either of said patents. But the court refused said
prayer, being of opinion that there was evidence in the cause
proper to be left to the jury to determine whether the said land,
mentioned in the deed, was the same, or part of the same, granted. by the said patents. To which opinion of the court, and to
the refusal of said court to grant the aforesaid prayer of the said
defendant, the said defendant, by her counsel, prayed leave to
except, and that the court would sign and seal this first bill of
exceptions, according to the form of the statute in such case

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

277

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

made and provided; and which is accordingly done this fourth
day of December, 1852R. B. TANEY, [SEAL.J
JOHN GLENN.

[SEAL.J

Defendant's second exception. The defendant then offered
in evidence the last will and testament of Michael B. Carroll,
dated on The 10th of September, 1837, by which, as has been
before mentioned, he made his wife, Jane, his residuary devisee.
Thereupon, upon the prayer of the plaintiff, the court gave the
following instruction to the jury.
If the jury find that the plaintiff, and those under whom lie
claims, have possessed and held the land called Black Walnut
Thicket and Content, described in the deed from Walter B.
Brooke and others, to Michael B. Carroll, dated
29, 1842,
and that the said Michael B. Carroll died seized thereof August
30, 1851, and the lessors of the plaintiffs are his heirs at law, and
that the said land is the same, or part of the same land mentioned in the patents for Black Walnut Thicket and Content,
offered in evidence by the plaintiffs, then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the land mentioned in the said deed, and that
the same did not pass to the defendant by the said will of Michael B. Carroll.
To the giving of which said instruction the defendant, by her
counsel, prayed leave to except, and that the court would sign
and seal this second bill of exceptions, according to the form of
the statute in such case made and provided; and which is accordingly done this fourth day of December, 1852.
R. B.

TANEY,

[SEAL.]

JOHN GLENN.

[SEAL.]

Upon this instruction the jury found the following verdict.
Verdict. Who being impanelled and sworn to say the truth
in the premises, upon their oath do say, the defendant is guilty
of the trespass and ejectment in the declaration mentioned upon
the tracts of the land therein stat6d, called Black Walnut Thicket and Content, in manner and form as the said lessee, John
Doe, complains against her, and which is contained within the
metes and bounds, courses and distances, set out and described
in the paper hereto annexed, and made for that purpose a part of
this verdict, being a deed from Walter B. Brooke, of Prince
George's county, and State of Maryland, Alexander Middleton
and Elizabeth A. Middleton, his wife, of Charles county, and
said State, to Michael B. Carrol, dated the 29th January, eighteen hundred and forty-two; and they assess the damages of said
John Doe, lessee, by occasion of the trespass and ejectment
aforesaid at one dollar; and as to the other trespasses and ejectVOL.

XVI.

24

278

SUPREME

COURT.

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll ct al.

ment upon the other tracts or parcels of land in said declaration,
also mentioned, they find that the said defendant'is not guilty.
(Then followed the deed.)
Upon which verdict the court entered the following
J.udgment. Therefore it is considered by the court here, that
the said lessee, as aforesaid, do recover aga:.nst the said Jane Al.
Carroll his term aforesaid yet to come and unexpired, of and in
the said tracts of land called "Black Walnut Thicket" and
" Content," with the appurtenances in the district aforesaid,
wherein the said Jane M. Carroll is, by the jurors above, found to
be guilty of the trespass and ejectment aforesaid; and the sum
of one dollar his damages by the said jurork, in manner aforesaid
by the court
assessed; and also the sum of
now here adjudged unto the said lessee for his costs and charges
by him about his suit in this behalf expended, and that he have
thereof his execution, &c.
The case was argued by Mr. Schey and Mr. Alexander, for
the plaintiff in error, and by _Hr. Nelson and Mr. Johnson, for the
defendants in error.
Before stating the points made by the counselfor the plaintiff inerror, it is proper to mention that at December term, 1853,
of the Court of Appeals of Maryland, a case came before that
court, where a bill was filed by the executors of Mrs. Carroll,
(who died in 1853,) against the administrators de bonis non of
Mr. Carroll and his heirs at law. The question was whether an
injunction ought to be granted to prevent the sale of the negroes
of Michael B. Carroll, which sale had been ordered by the Orphans' Court of Prince George's county. In the opinion given
by the Court of Appeals, in that case, it was held that the will of
Mr. Carroll fell within the provisions of the act of the legislature of Maryland, and consequently that the land was devised
to his wife.
The points on behalf of the plaintiff in error, in this court, upon
the construction of the statute, were,
1. That (apart from the controlling effect of the decision of
the Court of Appeals of Maryland upon the said act, and in relation to this very will) the said act, upon its true construction,
does include the said after-acquired land.
2. That whatever might be the decision of this court, if the
question were undecided, yet the decision of the highest tribunal
in Maryland, upon a statute of that State, will be respected by
this court as a true and binding construction thereof.
On the 1st point, the following authorities were cited:
Broom's Legal Maxims, 246; Fowler v. Chatterton, 19 Eng. C.
L. Rep. 75; Culleyv. Doe dem. Taylerson, e;9 Ib.307; Freeman
v. Moyes, 28 lb. 103; Angell v. Angell, 58 Ib.328; )Brooks v.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

279

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

Bockett, lb. 855; 64 lb. 121 ; Cushing v. Aylwin, "12 Metcalf,
169; Pray v. Waterston, lb. 262; Tuck & Magrudur v. Carroll,
MS. Court of Appeals of Maryland, at December term, 1853.
On the 2d point: Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291; and succeeding
cases to the same point.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error also referred to the following error.
The plaintiff below only claimed three undivided parts of the
land described in the declaration. By inadvertence the court's
instruction asserted, upon the hypothesis of the prayer, the
plaintiff's right of recovery of the entirety, and the verdict and
judgment were conformable to the instruction.
The points on behalf of the defendant in error, were:
First. That the prayer of plaintiffs in error itself conceded
that there was evidence from which the jury might find, as they
did fid, that the lands were the same as were included in the
patents, and that it should therefore have been rejected, because
where there is any evidence the jury is to decide on its sufficiency and not the court.
Second. That the evidence before the jury not only tended to
establish the facts, but was conclusive.
Third. That the will of Michael B. Carroll did not embrace
the lands recovered, because they were acquired after its date;
that this was the settled law of Maryland at that date, and was,
at the time of his death, also the law as far as wills executed at
such a thae, when the testator died when this testator died such a will not being included within the act of Maryland of
1849, c. 229, passed the 22d of February, 1850.
Before that statute, after-acquired real estate did not pass.
Kemp's Executors v. McPherson, 7 Harr. & Johns. 320.
Statutes are not to be construed to have a retrospective operation. Prince v. United States, 2 Gallis. 204; United States
v. Schooner Pegg, 1 Cranch, 103; Butler v. Boarman, 1 H. &
McI. 371.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action of ejectment was brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Maryland, to recover
three undivided fourth parts of three tracts of land lying in
Prince George's county, in that State. Both parties claimed
under Michael B. Carroll; the plaintiffs as heirs at law, the
defendant as devisee. It appeared at the trial, in the court.
below, which was had at the November term, 1852, that on the
10th day of September, 1837, Michael B. Carroll duly executed
his last will, the material parts of which are as follows:

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al

To my dear wife, Jane, I give and bec ueathe all my slaves,
and do request that none of them may 'e sold or disposed of
for the payment of my debts, but that provision shall be made
for discharging the same out of the other personal property and
effects which I shall leave at the time of my death.
All the rest and residue of my property, both real, personal,
and mixed, I give, devise, and bequeathe to my said wife, Jane,
who I do hereby constitute and appoint sole executrix of this
my last will and testament, enjoining it upon her nevertheless
to consult and advise with the said John B. Brooke, as occasion
may require, respecting the settlement of estate, and make him
a reasonable compensation for the same out of the funds hereinbefore bequeathed to her; and I do hereby revoke and annul
all former wills by me heretofore made, declaring this, and none
other, to be my last will and testament.
It further appeared, that after the execution of this will,
Michael B. Carroll acquired other lands, and the plaintiffs, as
heirs at law, claimed to recover three undivided fourth parts
thereof as undevised land. The defendant insisted that these,
together with all the other lands of the testator, passed to her
under the residuary clause of the will. She admitted that, by
the common law of Maryland, lands of which the testator wvas
not seized at the time of making his will, could not be devised
thereby, but insisted that an act passed by the legislature of
Maryland, on the 2.2d day of Febpary, 1850,. so operated as to
cause this will to devise the lands to her. That act is as follows:
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembry of Maryland, That every last will and testament, executed in due form
of law, after the first day of June next, shall be construed with
reference to the real estate and personal estate comprised in it,
to speak and take effect as if it had been executed on the day
of the death of the testator or testatrix, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will.
Section 2. And be it enacted, That the provisions of this
act shall not apply to any will executed ,beore the passage of
this act, by any person who may die before the first day of
June next, unless in such will the intention of the testator or
testatrix shall appear that the real and personal estate which
he or she may own at his or her death, shotdd thereby pass.
Section 3. And be it enacted, That this.law shall take effect
on the first day of June next.
It is argued by the counsel for the devisee that the first section of this act was intended to prescribe a new rule of construction of wills, and to fix the time wh,'n the courts should
begin to apply that rule; that new rule being, that wills of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

realty should be deemed to speak at the time of the death of
the testator; and the time when the courts should begin so to
construe them, being the second day of June, 1850; and that
the law should be so read as to mean that, after the first day
of June, 1850, wills should be deemed to speak as ifexecuted
on the day of the testator's death, unless a contrary intention
should appear.
To this construction there are insuperable objections. It
would change the legal operation not only of existing wvills,
but of those which had already taken effect by the death of
testators. It would make the same will, if offered in evidence
on the 2d day of June, operative to pass after-acquired lands to
a devisee, though if offered in evidence on the next preceding
day it would be inoperative for that ptlrp6se. The object of
the whole law concerning wills, is to enable the owners of property reasonably to control its disposition at their decease. To
cause their real intentions and wishes to be so expressed, and
their expression to be so preserved and manifested that they
can be ascertained and carried into effect, are the chief purposes
of legislation on this subject. So to interpret an act concerning wills as to cause those instruments to operate without
regard to the intent of the testator, having one effect to-day
and another to-morrow, would not only be arbitrary and a violation of the principles of natural justice, but in conflict with
what must be presumed to have been the leading purpose of
the legislature in passing the law, the better to give eflect to
the intent of the testator. To induce the court to believe the
legislature intended to make this law retroactive upon a will
then in existence, and cause it to pass after-acquired lands
without any evidence that the testator desired or believed that
it would do so, and to fix a particular day,.before which the
will should not so operate, and on and after which it should so
operate, such intention of the legislature must be expressed with
irresistible clearness. Battle v. Speight, 9 Ired. 28S. It is very
far from being so expressed in the first section of this act. On
the ccntrary, its natural and obvious meaning is, that wills
executed after the first day of June, 1850, are the only subjects
of its provisions.
The words "after the first day of June next" refer to and
qualify the words "executed in due form of law," which they
follow, just as in the same section the words "on the day of the
death of the testator" refer to and qualify the word "executed."
In the forme*r case they indicate the time -when the will shall
be deemed to-have been executed; in the latter, the period of
time when it was actually executed.
In our opinion, the first section of this law is free from ambi24*

282

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

guity, and applies only to wills executed after the first day of
June, 1850 ; and, as this will was executed before that day, it is
not within this section.
Nor is it within the second section of -the act; because that
applies only to cases in which the testator having executed his
will before the passage of the act, might die before the first
day of June then next, and this testator survived till after that
day.
It has been supposed however, that although the first section
of this act is free from ambiguity standing by itself, and ought
to be so construed as to apply only to Wills executed after the
first day of June, 1850, yet that the second section shows that
wills executed before that day were intended to be included in
'the first section. The argument is that the second section
excepts out of the operation of the first section certain wills
executed before the first day of June, 1850. and thus proves that
the first section embraces wills executed before that day. This
argument requires a careful examination. To appreciate it,
we must see clearly what are the nature and objects, as well as
the form of the two enactments. The first prescribes a new
iole of construction of wills. They are to be deemed to speak
as of the time of the death of the testator; but power is reserved
to him to set aside this rule by manifesting in his will an intention not to have it applied. The real su.stance and effect of
the second section is to enable certain testators to pass their
after-acquired lands by expressing an intention to pass them.
By force of the first section, the law prescribes a rule of contstruction, which a testator may set aside. By force of the
second section, a testator may manifest an intention to have his
will speak as of the time of his decease, and so adopt that rule
of construction. It thus appears that the office of the second
section is not to take certain cases out of th operation of the
first section, but to prescribe another and substantially different
rule of law for those cases. It is true, negative language is
used, which leaves the law open to the suggestion that the provision of the act would have applied to such wills if the negative
words had not been used.
But it must be remembered that this is only an inference, the
strength of which mtist depend upon the subject-matter of the
provisions and the language employed in making them.
If every part of the law can have its natiaral meaning and appropriate effect by construing this second section as an additional enactment, and if to construe it as an exception would
affix to the first section a me6.ning which would be inconsistent
with the great and leading purpose of the legislature, and at the
same time be arbitrary and unjust; and if when viewed as an

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

283

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

exception, the cases can, on no just principle, be distinguished
from those left unexcepted, then manifestly it should not be
construed as an exception, but as a substantive enactment,
prescribing for the paiticular cases a new rule of law not provided for in the first section. We have already pointed out the
consequence of holding the first section applicable to all wills.
In addition to this it is worth while to inquire if the second section was designed to except certain cases out of the first section,
what those cases were, and how they are so distinguished from
the cases left unexcepted as to be proper subjects of exception.
The proposition is, that the first section includes all wills whenever executed, and the second excepts only wills executed before
the passage of the act by persons dying after the passage of the
act, and before the first day of June, 18,51. Can any reason be
imagined why a will executed before the passage of the act
should be within +he first section if the testator died the day before the passage of the act, and out of it if he died the day after
its passage? If there is any distinction between the two- cases,
it would seem the first case had the stronger claim to exemption
from the effect of the new rule.
Nor do we perceive any difficulty in so construing the two
sections as to allow to each its appropriate effect, while neither
of them violates any principle of natural right; the effect of the
flrst section being to prescribe a new rule of interpretation for
wills executed after the first of June, and the effect of the second
being, to enable testators who had executed their wills before
the passage of the act, and who might die before the first day
of June, to pass after-acquired lands if they manifested an intertion so to do. Cases- of testators who should execute wills
after the passage of the act and before the first day of June, or
who should die after that day, having previous to that day executed their wills, are left unprovided for, either because it was
thought that they would have sufficient time to conform their
wills to this change of the law, or because their cases escaped
the attention of the legislature, as happened in Barnitz's Lessee
v. Carey, 7 Cranch, 468; and Blougher v. Brewer's Lessee, 14
Peters, 178.
We have been referred to two decisions in the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts, in which a retroactive effect vas allowed to
a statute of that state upon existing wills. They are Cushing
v. Aylwin, 12 Met. 169; Pray v. Waterston, 12 Met. 262. But
an examination of those cases will show that the interpretation
put by that court on that statute was attended with none of
the difficulties which beset the construction- of the statute of
Maryland contended for by the counsel for the devisee. The
law of MIassachusetts did not enact a new rule of construction.

284

SUPREME COURT.
Chrroll v. Lessee of Carroll et al.

It simply enabled, testators to devise after-acquired lands by
plainly and manifestly declaring an intention to do so. The
law could only operate in furtherance of the intention of the
testator, and could never defeat that inter..t by applying to wills
an arbitrary rule of construction.
This distinction was pointed out by this court in Smith et aL
v. Edrington, 8 Cranch, 66, in reference to a similar statute in
Virginia; respecting which Mr. Justise Washington said, "the
law creates no new or different rule of construction, but merely
gave a power to the testator to devise lands which he might
possess or be entitled to at the time of his death, if it should be
his pleasure to do so." Moreover the language of the act of
Massachusetts was broad, and general enough to include in
its terms all wills which should take effe-t after the law went
into operation. There was therefore nothing in the words, or
the subject-matter of the act, to lead the court to a more restricted construction. Still that court thought the retroactive
effect of even such a law required some notice, and they vindicate the departure from an important :?rinciple in that case
with some effort; and the reluctance with which it should be
departed from, is well expressed by the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, in Battle v. Speight, 9 lied. 288, in construing a similar statute of that State.
We have also been referred to a manuscript opinion of the
Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland upon the effect of this
will. It appears that in November last -the executors of Mrs.
Carroll, the devisee, who is -deceased, filed their bill in the Circuit Court of Prince George's County, piaying that the administrators, de bonis no of Michael B. Carroll might be enjoined
from making sale of his negro slaves. The heirs at law and
the administrators de bonis non of Michael B. Carroll were made
parties. The Circuit Court refused the injunction, the complainants appealed, the Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of
the Circuit Court, and dismissed the bill. The grounds upon
which the court -rested its decree wilfbe3t appear from the following extracts from the opinion:
"The bill is filed by the executors of rs Carroll against the
administrators de bonis.von of Mr. Carroll and his heirs at law.
The gravamen of it is, that he spebifically bequeathed his negroes
to his wife, and desired they should not be sold, and that his
debts should be paid out of his other e3t. .te; that she manumitted them, and that there is other-personal and real estate
enough to pay the debts due by his estate. Injunction is asked
'
to preN ent the sale of the negroes under an order of the Orphans
is
about
is
alleged,
it
which,
County,
Court of Prince George's
to be done. It is also claimed in the-bill, that at the time of

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

285

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll 6t al.
the will of Mrs. Carroll sie must be considered as -holding the
negroes as legatee, and vot as executrix, the time specified by
law for winding up the estate of her husband having elapsed.
"This last ground cannot avail. There is no allegation in
the bill that a final account had been settled by her, and the
bill shows that a large amount of dfbts remained tinpaid, and
that the creditors of the estate of her husband had commenced
proceedings to secure their panent, which proceedings are still
pending. In this claim of th6 bill we suppose but little confidence was, or is reposed by those who framed it; at all events,
there is nothing in it. There is nothing in the facts of the case
to justify the presumption that there had been a final settlement
and all his debts paid off;
of the estate of Michael B. Carr, ll,
the truth is, the bill directly contradicts the facts out of which
such a presumption could arise.
"It is contended, on the part of the complainants, that the real
estate and personal property, other thani the negroes of Mlichael
B. Carroll, ought to be applied to the payment of his- debts
before the negroes are resorted to. This may or not be so; and
in regard to it we pass no opinion, because the question is not
before us in this case. This is not a bill filed on behalf of the
negroes, but by the executors of MAIrs. Carroll, and they must
occupy the same position in regard to the creditors of Michael
B. Carroll, who are represented by the administrators de bonis
non, as she would have done had the bill been flied by her instead
of by them. And if she were the party complainant, how
would the case stand ? Why, thus: Michael B. Carroll died
in debt, leaving a will by which his real and personal estate is
specifically devised and bequeathed to his wife. His creditors
wol6ld have the right to proceed against his entire estate for
payment; first, however, against the personal as the primary
fund. Their rights could not be affected by any thing he might
request in his wvill; their claims would attach to his entire estate.
He did not manumit his slaves; and, moreover, this is not the
case of contribution and marshalling of assets between different
devisees and legatees, because here MVr. Carroll was specitc
devisee and legatee, and residuary devisee and legatee; she, in
fact, with but' trifling exception, took under the will the whole
estate. Had she, immediately on obtaining letters of administration, manumitted the negroes, it could not be pretended such
manumission could ha e affected the rights of the creditors of
her testator; and it must be obvious, if she could not do it by
her act as executrix, that she could not accomplish it by her

will.
"For these reasons we affirm the order &f the Circuit Court
refusing the injunction."

286

SUPREME
Carroll v. Lessee

COURT.
of Carroll et al.

It is apparent that the question whether some of the lands
of the testator were undevised could not enter into or affect the
decision of this case. The negroes not being parties, no question could arise whether they were entitled to have the debts
paid out of the land of the testator, and the court declares the
question is not before them. As between Mrs. Carroll, the
executrix of her husband's will or her representatives and the
creditors of her husband, the right of the latter was complete to
resort to the personal property, including the negroes, and it
was theiefore wholly immaterial who owned the land. The
only prayer in the bill was that the creditors through the administrators, might be restrained from making their debts out of the
negroes. The only question in the case was whether they could
bIe so restrained. And when it was decided that their legal
right was, to have all the personalty, including the negroes, applied to their debts, it was immaterial what other rights they or
others might have.
We do not consider, therefore, that a comparison of the titles
-of the heirs at law and the devisee of Michael B. Carroll to his
lands was brought into judgment by this injunction bill.
If the Court of Appeals had found it necessary to construe
e statute of that State in order to decide upon the rights of
,parties subject to its judicial control, such a decision, deliberately
made, migh t have been taken by this court as a basis on which
to rest our judgment. But it must be remembered that we are
bound to decide a question of local law, upon which the rights
of parties depend, as well as every other question, as we find it
ought to be decided. In making the examination preparatory
to this finding, this court has followed two rules, one of which
belongs to -the common law, and the other is a part of our
peculiar judicial system. The first is the maxim of the common law, stare decisis. The second grows oat of the thirty-fourth
section of the Judiciary Act, (1 Statutes at Large, 92,) which
makes the laws of the several States the rules of decision in
trials at the common law; and inasmuch as the States have
committed to their respective judiciaries the power to construe
and fix the meaning of the statutes passed by their legislatures,
this court has taken such constructions as part of the law of the
State, and has administered the law as thus construed. But
* this rule has grown up and been held with constant reference to
the other rule, stare decisis; and it is only so far and in such
cases as this latter rule can operate, that the other has any
effect..
If the construction put by the court of a State upon one of
its statutes was not a matter in judgment, if it might have been
decided either way without affecting anyf right brought into

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

287

Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll .ct al.

question, then, according to the principles of the common law,
an opinion on such a question is not a decision. To make it
so, there must have been an application of the judicial mind to
the precise question necessary to be determined to fix the rights
of the parties and decide to whom the property in contestation
belongs.
And therefore this court and other courts organized under the
common law, has never held itself bound by any part of an
opinion, in any case, which was not needful to the ascertainment of the right or title in question between the parties. In
399, this court was
Statesome
of Virginia,
Cohenspressed
v. The with
much
portion 6ofWheat.
its opinion in the case of
Justice
Marshall said,
MIarbury
v. Madison.
And
Ir. Chiefthat
"It
is a maxim
not to be
disregarded
general
expressions
in connection with the case in
taken
be
to
are
opinion
every
in
If they go beyond the case
which those expressions are used.
they may be respected, but ought not to control the judgment
reason
of this maxim
obvious.
Thepoint
question
atually before
in a subsequent
suit is
when
the very
is presented.
The
the court is investigated with care, and considered in its full
extent; other principles which may serve to illustrate it are considered in their relation to the case decided, but their possible
bearing on all other cases is seldom completely investigated."
The cases of Ex parte Christy, how.
3
292, and Jenness etal.
v.
Peck,
7
How.
612,
are
an
illustration
the rule
that
opinion given l're or elsewhere cinnot beofrelied
any
on as
a binding authority, unless the case called for its expression.
Its
weight of reason must depend on what it contains.
Witht othe vies
wc
annot rehe
opinion of
the
Court
of Appeals as an authority on which we have a right to rest
our.judgment.
We have already stated the reasons which have
brought us to a different construction of the statute; reasons
which do not seem to us to be shaken by the opinion tof
he
Court of Appeals.
Our conclusion is that the will of Michael B. Carroll was not
within the statute, and the lands in question were consequently
undevised.
One other exception was taken at the trial, respecting which
it is only necessary to say that we think the identity of name
of the two tracts of land in the same county, taken in connection with the long possession of those under whom the plaintiffs
claimed, and the absence of all evidence of any adverse claim.
or outstanding title, was sufficient to warrant the jury in finding
that the land was embraced in the patents from the State.
We are also of opinion that the judgment is correct in form,
being for the term which the declaration alleges was created by

288

SUPREME

COUR:T.

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

the plaintiffs as owners of three undivided fourth parts of the
land.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is tffirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to.be heard on the transcript of the record

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIA

A.

SIITH AND OTHERS, vi. LERO.
OTHERS.

SWORMSTEDT AND

In 1844, the Methodist Episcopal Church of the United States, at a General Conference, passed sundry resolutions providing for a distiret, ecclesiastical organization
in the slaveholding States,.in case the annual conferences of those States should
deem the measure expedient.
In 1845, these conferences did deem it expedient and organized a separate ecclcsiastical community, under the appellation of the lethodst Episcopal Church South.
At this time there existed property, known as the Book Concern, belonging to the
General Church, which was the result of the labors and accumulation of all the
ministers.
Commissioners appointed by the Methodist Episcopal Church South, may file a bill
in chancery, in behalf of themselves and those whom they represent, against the
trustees of the Book Concern, for a division of the property.
The rule is well established that where the parties interested are numerous, and the
suit is for an object common to them all, some of the body may maintain a bill on
behalf of themselves and of the others; and a bill may also be maintained against
a portion of a numerous body of defendants, representing a common interest.
The Methodist Church was divided. It was not a case cf the secession of a part from
the the main body. Neither division lost its interest in the common property.
The General Conference, of 1844, had the legitimate power thus to divide the church.
In 1808, the General Conference was made a. representative body, with six restrictive articles upon its powers. But none of these articles deprived it of the power
of dividing the church.
The sixth restrictive article provided that the General Conference should not approprate the profits of the Book Concern to any other purpose than for the benefit of the
travelling ministers, their widows, &c.-; and one of the resolutions of 1844 recommended to all the annual conferences to authorize a change in the sixth restrictive
article. This was not imposed as a condition of separation, but merely a plan to
enable the General Conference itself to carry out its purposes.
The separation of the church into two parts being legally accomplished, a division of
the joint property by a court of equity follows, as a matter of course.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit, Court of the United
States for the"District of Ohio, which dismissed the bill.

The bill was originally filed in the names of Henry B. Bascom,

