610

SUPREME COURT.
Early v. Doe.

WILLIAM EARLY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN DOE, ON THE

DEMISE OF RHODA E. Honirs.
Where thelanguage of the statute was "That public notice of the time and place of
the sale of real property for taxes due to the corporation of the city of Washington shall he given by advertlsement in~erted in scme newspaper publikh(d in
said city, once in each week for at least twelve successi7e weeks," it nu~t be advertised for twelve full weeks, or eighty four (lays.
Therefore, where property was sold after being advertised for only eighty-two days,
the sale was illegal, and conveyed no title.

THIS case came up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and
for the county of Washington.
It was an ejeetment broughtby Rhoda E. Homans, to recover
that part of lot number four, in square number seven hundred
and thirty, in the city of Washington ;, beginning for the same
at a point on the line of A street south, at the distance of thirtytwo feet from the north-east corner of said &quare; and running
thence due west with the line of said street, fifty feet and five
inches; thence due south, fifty feet; thence due east, fifty feet
and five inches; thence fifty feet to the place of beginning; and
also into three messuages or tenements with the appurtenances
situated thereon, in the county above named.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff showed title in herself, and the
defendant made title under a tax sale, when the j'ry, under the
instructions of the court, found a verdict for the plaintiff The
following bill of exceptioni explains the case.

Defendant's bill of exceptions.
At the trial of the above cause, after the plaintiff's lessor had
shown a legal title in herself, a devisee of El. Homans, who died
in August, 1850, to the fifty feet five inches of ground fronting
on A street by fifty feet deep, a part of lot 4, in square No. 730,
in Washington city, with the houses thereon, being the premises
described in the declaation; entitling her, as admitted primd
facie, to recover the same as such 'devisee, and that the defendant held possession thereof atthe commencement of this action. The defendant thereupon, to maintein the issue on his
part, offered evidence of a tax title from the corporation of the
city of Washington, ti sustain which, and to show that the requirements of the act of 26th May, 18"24, had been complied
With, proved the notice of the time and place of the tax sale to

DECEMBER

TERM,

611

1853.

Early v. Doe.
have been given by the city collector, by advertisement in the
Natifonal Intelligencer, in the following words:COLLECTOR'S OFfiCE, CITY HALL,
August 25th, 1848.
" On Wednesday, the 15th day of November next, the annexed list of property will be sold by public auction, at the City
Hall in the City Hall in the city of Washington, to satisfy the
corporation of said city for taxes due thereon as stated, unless
the said taxes be previously paid to the collector, with such
expenses and fees as may have accrued at the time of payment." And amongst other property so advertised was the
following:

Asssed to.

No. of Lot.

0

Taxes.

7A Pt. 4, fronting 50 ft. 5 in., and Daniel Homans. 1845. 1846. 1847. $29.82
9.94, 9.94, 9.94.
impronvement on A street, and
50 ft. deep, lying next to the
castemn 32 it. of said lot.
And the
days:
Saturday,
"
"
Thursday,
"t
Saturday,
i

insertion of said advertisement was on the following
26th Aug., 1848.
"
2d Sept.,
"
"
9th
"
"
14th
(1
41
21st

Saturday, 14th Oct., 1848.
"
"
21st
"
"
"
28th
"
Nov.
4th
"
1
cc
11th
(

"
.30th
7th Oct.,

Wednesday 15th

"
"

"

"

And that on such last day above mentioned, the said sale
took place and the defendant became the purchaser of said
premises for $55. Whereupon the plaintiff prayed the opinion
and instruction of the court to the jury, "that the said sale was
invalid and of no effect, and passed no title to the defendant in
the premises in question; because a period of twelve full and
couiplete weeks had not intervened betwemen the 26th August,
the time of the first advertised notice of said sale, and the
15th No.vember, 1848, the day or time of said sale, but a period
of eleven weeks and four days only;" wvhich opinion and direetion the court gave as prayed for by the plaintiff, to which
opinion and direction of the court to the jury, the defendant by
his counsel, prayed leave to except, and that the court wvould
sign and seal these his bill of exceptions, according to the form

612

SUPREME

COURT.

Early v. Doe.
of the statute in such cases made and provided, which is accordingly done this 17th day of May, 1853.
JAS. S. MORsELL, [SEAL.]
JAS. DUNLoP,
[SEA L.j
Clerk.
SMITH,
Test: JNo. A.
Upon this exception the case came up to this court and was
argued by Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and by 31r.
Redin and 31-r. Woodward, for the defendant in error.
111r. Lawrence.
The only question in this case is, whether the words of the
act of 26th May, (4 Stat. at Large, 75,) "inserted in some
newspaper published in said city, once in each week for at least
twelve successive weeks," are to be understood as requiring the
full period of eighty-four days between the first and last advertisement, or as" requiring an insertion once hi each of twelve
successive weeks.
A week is a definite period of time, beginning on Sunday
and ending on Saturday, (4 Pet. 361); and. insertions of notice
on Monday and the Saturday week following, were held to fulfil the requirement of "one in each week," although thirteen
days intervened between the two.
It is maintained, for the plaintiff in error, that if there are
twelve insertions of the notice in any part of each of twelve
successive weeks, that is suflicient.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended that the
notice was insufficient.
The last charter of the city of the 17 l MhBay, 1848, mLkes no
change in the period of notice and the manner of giving it; they
are still regulated by the act of 26th May, 1824.
The words of the second section of that -act are, "that public
notice of the time and place of the sale of all real property for
taxes due the corporation of the city of -Washington, shall be
given in all cases hereafter by advertisement, inserted in some
newspaper, published in said city, once in each week, for at
least twelve successive weeks; in which advertisement shall be
stated the number of the lot," &c.
The facts. The first insertion was on Saturday, the 26th
August, 1848; the last, on Wednesday, the 15th November, the
day of the sale, being a period of eighty-two days only, including
both days, namely, the day on which the notice first appeared,
and the day of sale.
The eleventh week ended, either on Friday, the 10th of November, or on Saturday, the 11th, according as the week is made
to commence on the day on -%'hich the notice first appears, or
on the first succeeding Sunday thereafter; 'The twelfth week

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

613

Early v. Doe.

could not expire until Friday the 17th, or Saturday the 18th
November, and the earliest day on which the sale could have
been made was one of those days. It was made on the previous
Wednesday, the 15th November, before the twelve weeks had
expired.
By the charter of 1812, it was .directed that the notice should
"be givenr by advertising, at least six months, where the property belongs to persons residing out of the United Stztes;
three months, where it belongs to persons residing in the United
States, but out of the District of Columbia; and six weeks,
where it belongs to persons residing within the district."
The charter of 1820, superadded to the period of notice, the
further requisition of weekly insertions of the advertisement,
"once a week, for at least six months, three months, or six
weeks according to the residence of the owner. Section 12.
The act of 1824 changed the period of notice from months to
weeks, but retained the further requirement of weekly insertions,
"once in each week, for at least twelve successive weeks."
There are, then, two requirements, as to notice, by the act of
1824: 1st, twelve weeks notice; and, 2d, the insertion of the
addvertisement once in each of those twelve weeks.
The full period of twelve weeks' notice must be given. In
Rionkendorff v. Taylor, 4 Peters, 361, the court say: "A week
is a definite period of time, commencing on Sunday, and ending
on Saturday;" and, being thus composed of seven days, twelve
weeks cannot consist of less than eighty-four days. And that.
case sanctions the idea, that the whole period of twelve weeks
should elapse before the sale. Whether the week be made to
commence on the day on which the notice is first published, and
to end on the seventh day thereafter; or to begin on the Sunday
following the first day of the notice, and end on the succeeding
Saturday, is immaterial in this case; the result- not twelve
weeks' notice -is the same on either mode of computation.
The first insertion was on Saturday, the 26th August. If the
week commenced on that day and ended on the following Friday, there are but eighty-two days, including both day of notice
and day of sale. If it began on Sunday, the 27th, and ended
on the Succeeding Saturday, there would, be but eighty-one
days, including both. And, if the true rule be to include the
day on which the notice first appears, and to exclude the day of
sale, there would still be but the same eighty-one days;-eleven
weeks and four days.
The expression in the act of 1824 is: "once in each week,
for at least twelve successive weeks," niot merely once in each
week, but once in each week "for" twelve weeks during or
through that certain space of time; and not merely for twelve
VOL. XVI.

52

014

SUPR ME GOUR T.
Early v. Doe.

weeks, but for "at least" twelve successive weeks, not less
than that whole period.
The notice, according to Ronkendorff v.Taylor, may be inserted' on any iay in each of those twelve weeks, on the last
day of the eleventh week and the first day of the twelfth week.
But that rule was not meant, as the corporation officers seem
to have supposed, to authorize the collecto: to abridge The period
of notice; to insert one advertisement in each of the first eleven
weeks and a twelfth on the fourth day after the end of the
eleventh week, and to sell on that day and before the twelfth
week had fully expired. The corporation by-law" followed the
words of the act of Congress. The collector has no dispensing
power.
All the analogies require the full term. As the familiar instance of six months' notice to quit or four months' notice of
publication against non-residents under our acts of assembly:
four or six whole months, less will not do. In all judicial sales,
.either by sheriff or trustee, the period of notice is usually prescribed, and the fall term must be given. And as t9 these tax
sales. '-The fourth point in Pratt and the Corporation, 8 Wheat.
681, as seen in the record, was whether sufficient notice had been
given. After the first insertion of the advertisement, the amount
of the taxes was changed without any change in the day of
sale, so that the full period of notice
bad.was :aot given after such
change. The sale was adjudged
So in Pope & Hamner v. Headen, 5 Ale. R. 433. The law
required "ninety days' notice" of the sale, to be published in
some newspaper. The advertisemnent was dated the 1st of
November, 1839, and was then handed, to the publisher of the
newspaper, was inserted therein weekly froW the 6th of November, which was the first day of publication, until the 29th
of January, 1840, and the sale took place ona the 3d of February,
1840. Between the date of the advertisement and the day of
sale there were more than ninety days; but between the first
day of the publication and the day of sale there were but eightynine days, excluding, as the court did there, the first, and including the 'last day. The date of the advertisement and the
handing of it to the publisher within time were considered by
the court; but the sale was held to be clearly void.
In our case, countipg from the date of the advertisement, the
25th of August instead of the 26th, the day 'of its publication,
and even including the day of its date, and also the day of sale,
there are not eighty-four daysi but eighty-three (.nly.
See also Lyon et al. v. Hunt et al. 11 Ala. R. 295, for a ft.
,collection of the cases.
It is not enough to give twelve or more inrertions of the ad-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

615

Early v. Doe.

vertisement. It may be continued twice or thrice a week, or
even daily. In the early charcters the corporation began simply
with the period of notice: six weeks, three months, six months.
Weekly insertions were first supradded by the charter of 1820,
and have been continued by the act of 1824. But the law is
not satisfied by a compliance with that requisite merely. Each
requirement of the law must be observed. Here both, namely,
"twelve weeks at least," and weeldy insertions, are essential to
the validity of th&'sale. The non-observance of either destroys
it, as much so as the omission of both.
Neither of these requirements can, as to the other, be deemed
the primary requisite. If either could be so considered, it would
be the period of notice rather than the number of insertions.
It is purely a matter of positiye law. The rules are arbitrary;
eleven weeks and four days niight have afiswered just as well
as twelve weeks; but the statute says twelve weeks, meaning
twelve full or whole weeks. The language is clear and express;
there is no room for construction or discretion. In 8 Wheat.
687, Judge Johnson asks: "what have we to do with such inquiries in cases of positive enactment?"
The act means that notire of the sale shall be given by publication for at least twelve weeks prior to the day of sale, which
notice shall also be published once in 'each of those twelve
weeks. The object in naming the period of notice was to give
the owner time for paying the taxes; and, in requiring weekly
insertions, to afford him a better opportuiity of seeing" the advertisement of sale.
These sales are nowhere regarded with favor, but are everywhere tested by the strictest rules. They are penal, lead to forfeiture of estate, and whatever is prescribed to give them validity
must, and ought to be, observed, and has always beeg required.
4 Wheat. 77; 6 Wheat. 119; 6 Peters, 328; 9 Hew. 248.
It is idle for the officer or collector of the corporation to be
speculating and refining in this way. Why not give" the legal
notice? Where is the inconvenience in giving three. or four
or waiting a few days longer for the taxes?
more
days'
They
willnotice,
not be lost by the avoidance of the sale. The corporation has the power to re-assess the taxes on the same property. Act of 1824, ยง. 3.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an ejectment suit for part of lot No. 4, in square$
No. 730, in the city of Washington.
Tile only question raised by counsel in the argument of the
case here, is, whether, where property has been assessed for
taxes, it can be considered as having been regularly advertised

SUPREIE COU]ET.
Early v. Doe.

and regularly sold, if it shall be sold before twelve full weeks
(Qr eighty-four days) have passed from the date of the first advertisement. Eighty-four days advertisement were not given
when the property in dispute in this case was sold. Upon the
trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in that court prayed its
instruction to the jury in these words: "PThat the said sale wa5
invalid and of no effect, and passed no title to the defendant in
the premises in question; because.a period of twelve full weeks
had not intervened between the 26th of August, the time of the
first advertised notice of sale, and the 15th of November, 1,48,
the day or time of sale, but a period of eleven weeks and four
days only." The court gave the instruction accordingly. The
defendant's counsel excepted to the same. The court, upon his
prayer, allowed it, and the case is regularly here by writ of error.
It appears that the notice for sale of the property in dispute
was inserted in the National Intelligencer twelve times in successive weeks, the first insertion being on Sturday, the 26th
of August, and the last on the 15th of November, the day of
sale. Including the 26th of August as one of the days of the
notice, and the 15th of November necessarily as another, we
find that the notice was given only for eighty-two days. The
language of the statute regulating the notice to be given is in
these words: " That public notice of the time and place of the
sale of all real property for taxes due the corporation of the city
of Washington, shall be given hereafter, by advertisement, inserted in some newspaper published in said city, once in each
week, for at least twelye successive weeks." Now, the first
week following the date of the advertiseraent expired with the
next Friday, the tenth of November, and, if the computation is
carried out, it will be found that the twelfth week expired on
the 17th of November. But the sale was made two days before, on the 15th of November, the last insertion of the notice
being on the day of sale.
So there were eleven insertions of the notice in the newspaper
in different weeks (making, with the first, twelve) after the expiration of the week from the first insertion, and the point to be
settled is, whether the statute mealis that twelve insertions in
successive weeks is sufficient notice, without respect to the
number of days in twelve weeks. We do not doubt if the sta.
tate had been "once in each week for twelve successive weeks,"
a previous notice of the particular-day of sale ha!ving been given
to the owner of the property, that it might very well be concluded, that twelve notices in different successive weeks, though
the last insertion of the notice for sale w9Ls on the day of sale,
was sufficient. But when the legislator has used the words, for
at least twelve successive weeks, we cannot doubt that the

DECEM] BER TERM1, 1853.

617

Early v. Doe.

words, at least as they would do in common parlance, mean a
duration of the time that there is in twelve successive weeks or
eighty-four days. Every statute must be construed from the
words in it, and that construction is to be preferred which gives
to all of them an operative meaning. Our construction of the
statute under review gives to every word its meaning. The
other leaves out of consideration the words "for at least, which
mean a space of time comprehended within twelve successive
weeks or eighty-four days. The preposition, for, means of itself
duration when it is put in connection with time, and as all of
us use it in that way, in our every-day conversation, it cannot
be presumed that the legislator, in making this statute, did not
mean to use it in the same way. Twelve successive weeks is
as definite a designation of time, according to our division tf
it, as can be made. When we say that any thing may be done
in twelve weeks, or that it shall not be done for twelve weeks,
after the happening of a fact which is to precede it, we mean
that it may be done in twelve weeks or eighty-four days, or, as
the case may be, that it shall not be done before. The notice
for sale, in this instance, was the fact which was to precede the
time for sale, and that is neither qualified nor hi any way lessmed by the words "once a week," which precede in this statute those which follow them, "for at least twelve successive
weeks." We think that the court did not err in refusing to give
to the jury the instruction which was asked by the defendant
upon the trial of this case.
The construction of the statute will be recognized to be in
harmony with that policy of the law which experience has established to protect the ownerships of property from divestiture
by statutory sales, where there has not been a substantial compliance with the -law, by which a public officer is empowered
to sell it.
Property is liable to be sold on account of an undischarged
obligation of the owner of it to the public or to his creditors.
But it can only be done in either v.ise where there has been a
substantial compliance with the prerequisites of the sale, as
those are fixed by law. Any assumption by the officer appointed to make the sale, or disregard of them, the law discointenances. He mdy not db any thing of himself, and must do
all as he is directed by the law under which he acts. He may
not, by any misconstruction of it, anticipate the time for sale
within which the owner of the property may prevent a sale of
it, by paying-the demand against him, and the expenses which
may have been incurred from his not having done so before.
This the law always presumes that the owner may do, until a
sale has been made. He may arrest the uplifted hammer of
. 52 o

618

SUPREME COURT.
Early v. Doe.

the auctioneer-when the cry for sale is made, if it be done before
a bonfde bid has been made. The authority of the officer to
sell is, as it was in this case, "unless the taxes be previously
paid to the collector, with such expenses as may have accrued
at the time of payment" There is a difference, it is true, in the
strictness required in a tax sale, and that of a sale made under
judgment and-execution, but in both, the same rule applies as
to the full notice of time which the law rEquires to be given for
the sale. "In deciding upon tax land titles great strictness has
always been observed. The collector's pi:oceedings are closely
scanned. The purchaser is bound to inquire whether he has
done so or not. He buys at his peril, and cannot sustain his
title without showing the authority of -:he collector and the
regularity of his proceedings."
This court said, in Williams v. Peyton, 4 Wheat. 77, that
the authority given to a collector to sell land for the non-payment of the direct tax, "is a naked power not coupled with an
interest." In all such cases the law requires that every prerequisite to the exercise of that power must precede its exercise,
that the agent must pursue the power or bis act will not be sustained by it. Again, in Ronkendorff's Cse, 4 Peters, 349, this
court repeated that in an ex parte proceeding, as a sale of lands
for taxes, under a special -authority, great strictness is required.
An individual cannot be divested of his property against his
consent, until every substantial requisite of the law has been
complied with. The proof of the regularity of the collector's
proceedings devolves upon the person who claims under the collector's sale. At an earlier day, the court decided, in Stead's
Executors v. Course, 4 Cranch, 403: A collector selling lands
for taxes, must act in conformity with the law from which his
power is derived; and the purchaser is bound to inquire whether
he has so acted. It is incumbent upon the vendee to prove the
authority to sell. See also McClung v. Ross, 5 Wheaton, 116;
Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheaton, 119. The decisions madc
by this court are full as to the circumstances under which tax
titles may be set aside.' We recommend also the perusal of the
case of Lyon et al. v. Burt et al., in 11 Akabania Reports, cited
by the counsel for the defendant in error; and to all of the cases
cited in the opinion of Chief Justice Collier. It is not necessary
for us to extend this opinion farther in citing cases upon tax
sales. So far as we know, the law upon the subject is the same
throughout the United States, and where 'differences exist they
have occurred from a different phraseology in statutes, and not
from any discordance in the views of judges n respect to the
common law to be applied in tax sales.,
$ee 4 Granch, 403; 9 Cranch, 64; 1 Scam. 335; 1 Bibb, 295;

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Cervantes v. The -United States.

5 Mass. Rep. 403; 4 Dec. & BaL 363; 3 Ohio Reports, 232; 2
Ohio, 378; 3 Yeates, 284; 2 Yeates, 100; 13 Sergeant &
Rawle, 208; 4 Dec. & Bal. 386; 5 Wheat. 116; 6 Wheat. 119;
1 Yeates, 300; 3 Monroe, 271; 1 Tyler's Rep. 295; 14 Mass. 177;
8 Wheaton, 681; 15 Mass. 144; Greenleaf's Rep. 339; Taylor's
North Carolina Rep. 480; 3 Hawks's Rep. 283; 1 Gilm. 26; 10
Wend. 346; 18 Johns. Rep. 441; 5 Alabama, 433. I have not
the reports of the Supreme Court of Georgia at hand to cite
from them any cases of tax sales, if any have been decided by
it, but I know that the decisions of the courts in that State are
the same as those stated in this opinion and in the cases cited.
We affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

CRUZ

CERVANTES, APPELLANT, v.

TnE

UNITED STATES.

Upon an appeal from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, where it did not appear, from the proceedings, whether the land,
claimed was within the Northern or Southern District, this court will reverse the
judgment of the District Court and remand the case for the purpgse of making its

jurisdiction apparent, (if it should have any,) and of correcting any other matter
of form or substance which may be necessary.

THis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Northern California.
In February, 1852, Cervantes filed before the board of commissioners to ascertain and settle the private land claims in
California, the following claim:
Cruz Cervantes, a citizen of said State, gives notice that he
claims, by virtue of a grant from the Mexican nation, a tract of
land situated in the county of Santa Clara, in said State, and
known by the name of San Joaquin or Rosa Morada, with tb.
boundaries described in the grant thereof, to wit: on one side
the arroyo of San Felipe; on the second side, the hills or moun-

