SUPREME

COURT.

Piquignot v. The Pennsylvania Railroad Co.

tice should be uniform, it is proper to say, that we consider the
decision of the Circuit Court allowing those costs to be taxed
after the receipt of the mandate from this court, to have been
correct, and conformable to the general practice of the courts.
The costs are perhaps never in fact taxed until after the judgment is rendered; and in many cases, cannot be taxed until
afterwards. And where this is the case the amount ascertained
is usually, under the direction of the court, entered nune pro tune
as a part of the original judgment. And this mode of proceeding is necessary for the purposes of justice, in order to afford the
necessary time to examine and decide upon the several items of
costs, to which the successful party is lawfully entitled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged,b this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

PIERRE CLAUDE PIO.UIGNOT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
SYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.

TrHE PEN.

Under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, this court cannot
reverse the judgment of the court below, for error in ruling any plea in abatement,
other than a plea to the jurisdiction of the court.
In Pennsylvania it is not usual to make a record of the judgment in any legal form.
But there is no necessity that the courts of the United States should follow such
careless precedents.
Where a suit was brought in which the plaintiff was described a; a citizen of France,
against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, without any averment that the defendants were a corporation under the laws of Pennsylvania, or that the place of
business of the corporation was there, or that its corporators. managers, or directors were citizens of Pennsylvania, the absence of such an averment was fatal
to the jurisdiction of the court,

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted, upon printed arguments, by Hr. Kennedy
and 31r. Alden, for the plaintiff in error, and Hr. Snowden, for
the defendants in error. But as the point of jurisdiction was
not mentioned in the arguments, which were directed exclusively to other points, it is not thought necessary to give them.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

Piquignot v. The Pennsylvania Railroad Co.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The caption of this suit, and the declaration, describe the
plaintiff as a citizen of France, but contain no averment as to
the citizenship of, the defendant. Nor does it state whether
"The Pennsylvania Railroad Company" is a corporation or a
private association, or the name of all individual. The declaration avers that the defendants are transporters of emigrants for
hire, and undertook to convey the plaintiff and his wile from
Philadelphia to Pittsburg, but did it in such a negligent and
careless manner that his wife was frozen to death on her passage.
The defendant pleaded in abatement, another action pending
for the same cause of action between the. tame parties, in the
District Court of Alleghany county. To this plea the plaintiff
demurred; and the court gave "judgment upon the demurrer
in favor of the defendants." Whereupon the plaintiff brought
this writ of error.
The question raised by the plea in abatement, in this case, is
one of considerable importance, and on which there is some
conflict of opinion and decision, but the judgment of the court
below on the plea is not subject to our revision on a wvrit of
error.
The twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, which defines
what decrees or judgments in civil actions may be made the
subjects of appeals or writ of error, provides, "that there shall
be no reversal on such writ of error, for error in ruling any plea,
in abatement other titan a plea to the jurisdiction of the court."
The question of jurisdiction has not been made the subject
of plea or exception, nor is it necessary, where it is patent on
the face of the record. The judgment of the court, so far as the
record is concerned, does not distinctly show wvhether the court
quashed the writ on the plea in abatement, or dismissed the
suit for want of jurisdiction, as it might well have (lone. In
Pennsylvania, it is not usual to make a record of the judgment
in legal form. The word "judgment" for the party in whose
favor it is, being the usual minute made by the clerk, from which
a formal record of judgment may be made, but seldom or ever
is made. It stands as a symbol to represent what the judgment
ought to be, and therefore can never be erroneous. But there
is no necessity that the courts of the United 8tates should follow
such careless precedents.
On a demurrer the court will look to the first error in pleading, and if the declaration does not show that the court has
jurisdiction of the parties, it may dismiss the cause on that
ground. In this case the declaration states the plaintiff to be a
citizen of France, but gives no character as to the citizenship
of the defendant. The name is most probably not intended to

106

SUPREME

COtUlT.

Robertson v. Coulter et al.

designatc' an individual; if not, the record does not state that it
is a corporation incorporated by the laws of Pennsylvania, or
having its place of business there, or that its corporators, managers, or directors are citizens of Pennsylvania, nor can the want
of such averment be supplied by inference from the name. It
is true, the act 'of Congress describes the jurisdiction of the
court to be "where an alien is a party," without describing the
character of the other party; and the pleader may have been
led into the error by looking no farther. But the constitution
which is the superior law, defines the jurisdiction to be, "between citizens of a state, and foreign stc.tes, citizens, or subjects;" and, although it has been decided, (lason v. The
Blaileau, 2 Cranch, 264,) that. the courts of the United States
will entertain jurisdiction where all the parties are aliens if none
of them object to it, yet it does not appear in this case that the
defendant is an alien.
It follows, therefore, that whatever construction be put on
this record, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the Uaited States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM ROEBRTSON, TRUSTEE OF THE COXmMERCIAL Bm.ix
OF NATCHEZ, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. ]HENRY R. COULTER,
AND JAMES RICHARDS, EXECUTORS OF JOSEPH COLLINS, DE,
CEASED.

In the State of Arississippi, a judgment of forfeiture was rendered against the Commercial Bank of Natekez, and a trustee appointed to take charge of all promissory
notes in possession of the bank.
The trustee brought an action upon one of these promissory notes.
The defendant pleaded that-the plaintiff, as trustee, had clUeeted and received of the
debts, effects, and property of the bank, an amount of money sufficient to pay the
debts of the bank, andall costs, charges, and expenses. incident to the performance
of the trust.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred.
The action was brought in a State Court. and the highest court of the State overruled the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant.
This court has no jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary, Act to

