106

SUPREME

COtUlT.

Robertson v. Coulter et al.

designatc' an individual; if not, the record does not state that it
is a corporation incorporated by the laws of Pennsylvania, or
having its place of business there, or that its corporators, managers, or directors are citizens of Pennsylvania, nor can the want
of such averment be supplied by inference from the name. It
is true, the act 'of Congress describes the jurisdiction of the
court to be "where an alien is a party," without describing the
character of the other party; and the pleader may have been
led into the error by looking no farther. But the constitution
which is the superior law, defines the jurisdiction to be, "between citizens of a state, and foreign stc.tes, citizens, or subjects;" and, although it has been decided, (lason v. The
Blaileau, 2 Cranch, 264,) that. the courts of the United States
will entertain jurisdiction where all the parties are aliens if none
of them object to it, yet it does not appear in this case that the
defendant is an alien.
It follows, therefore, that whatever construction be put on
this record, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the Uaited States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM ROEBRTSON, TRUSTEE OF THE COXmMERCIAL Bm.ix
OF NATCHEZ, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. ]HENRY R. COULTER,
AND JAMES RICHARDS, EXECUTORS OF JOSEPH COLLINS, DE,
CEASED.

In the State of Arississippi, a judgment of forfeiture was rendered against the Commercial Bank of Natekez, and a trustee appointed to take charge of all promissory
notes in possession of the bank.
The trustee brought an action upon one of these promissory notes.
The defendant pleaded that-the plaintiff, as trustee, had clUeeted and received of the
debts, effects, and property of the bank, an amount of money sufficient to pay the
debts of the bank, andall costs, charges, and expenses. incident to the performance
of the trust.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred.
The action was brought in a State Court. and the highest court of the State overruled the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant.
This court has no jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary, Act to

DECEMBER TER3M,

1853.

107

Robertson v. Coulter et al.

review this decision.

The question was merely one of construction of a statute

of thu State, as to the extent of the powers of the trustee under the statute.

Tnis case was brought up from the High Court of Errors
and Appeals of the State of Mississippi i by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court
Mr. Lawrence, for the defendants in error, moved to dismiss
the writ for want of jurisdiction, inasmuch as there does not
appear to have been drawn in question any treaty or law of
the United States, and the State law, (the validity of which
was affirmed by the court below,) was in no respect repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
This motion was argued by Mt. Lawrence, in support of it,
and by Mr. Porter and Mr. Wharton, against it.
141r. Lawrence. The act of 1843, of the Mississippi legislature prescribing the mode of proceeding against delinquent
banks, (Hutch. Code, 329,) had provided that an information in
the nature of a quo warranto might be filed against banks suspected of having violated their charter, and upon trial and pr6of
a judgment of forfeiture should be pronounced; upon which
judgment of forfeiture it was made the duty of the court to
appoint a trustee to take charge of the books and assets, and to
collect all debts due such banks, and to apply the same to the
payment of the debts of such banks in such manner as should
thereafter be directed by law.
Under this act, judgment of forfeiture had been obtained
agufinst the Commercial Bank of Natchez in the Adams County
Court, the plaintiff in this suit had been appointed the trustee,
all the debts of the bank had been paid, and all costs and
charges incident to the trust, discharged when the present suit
was instituted. The pleas which the defendant put in, raised
the question as to the extent and nature of the trust created by
the act of 1843: whether, on the one hand, the trustee was a
mere officer of the court which appointed him for the simple
purpose of receiving and collecting the assets of the bank for
the purpose of paying the debts of the bank; or whether, on the
other hand, he was constituted a full and complete representative of the bank for the benefit of stockholders as well as of
debtors of the bank. The highest court of Mississippi have
decided that the intention of the legislature, in the act of 1843,
was simply to constitute an officer to collect the debts due to
the bank for the sole purpose of paying the debts due from the
bank, and that when that object was accomplished the trust
was extinct, leaving the stockholders where the common law
left them upon the dissolution of a corporation.

SUPREIE COURT.
Robertson v. Coulter ct al.

It is difficult to see, from this simple staten'ient of the case,
what possible ground there is for the jurisdiction of this court.
It is nothing more than the exposition, by the highest judicial
legislative act of that
tribunal of a State, of the meaning of EL
State. It is not contended that the act of 1843, itself is invalid,
for the plaintiff derives all his authority from that act. It is
not pretended that the act of 1843, as construed by the court,
takes away any right secured by any previous act of the legislature. All that is maintained is, that because the Court of Appeals have not thought that the act of 1843 gives to Mr. Robertson, as trustee, quite as extensive powers as he supposes that
act to give him, therefore this construction of the act has taken
from him a right which his own construction had invested him
with, and consequently this court has jurisdiction to overrule
that construction.
It -,illbe seen, therefore, upon the face of the record, that the
high court of Mississippi was employed in ascertaining what
were the powers of a trustee under the act of 1843, what was
the nature and extent of the trust, and whether, under that
act, the trust was limited to preservation of the rights of the
creditors of the bank. And the court decided that the act of
1843 saved from the common-law consequences of forfeiture,
the debts due to the bank for the benefit of the creditors of the
bank, and for no other purpose; that upon the true construction of the act of 1843, the trust being a limited official trust,
was discharged and extinguished when the object for which it
was created was attained; -that the trustee had no power remaining after the trust was discharged. All of which was the
mere construction of a legislative act by the judicial tribunals
of a State, which construction this court have no more jurisdictiori to inquire into and reverse upon this writ of error, than
they would have to reverse the judgment of the Queen's Bench
upon the construction of an act of parliament.
As however a very metaphysical argument has been incorpo.
rated into the record under the form of ii petition, it is proper
to examine its soundness, so far as it may touch the jurisdiction
of this court.
The substance of that argument is, that by the common law
debts to and from a bank were not extinguished by its dissolution, but only that they could not be enforced because there
was no longer a party in existence for or against whom to enforce them. -That the moment a representative of the bank is
created by law, those debts are revived or continued in full
vigor. From which two premises the conclusion is leaped to,,
that the law which takes away from such representative a right
to collect for the benefit of all persons concerned in the bank,
would be unconstitutional and void.

DECE.MBER TERM, 1853.

109

Robertson v. Coulter et al.

Now we deny both thc premises in this argument, and yet
say that if they were admitted the conclusion would not follow;
because where the creation and limitation of rights are both derived from and contained within the same legislative act, no
zuch constitutional question can arise. If the rights were created by one' act, and the limitation or restriction were made by
another and subsequent one, then there might arise a question
as to the validity of such subsequent act. And such was the
very predicament in the Commercial Bank v. Chambers, 8 S.
& M . 1. In that case the court decided that under the act
of 1843, the trust was for the benefit of creditors, and that the
trustee being invested with the power to sue and collect for the
benefit of creditors, who had an interest in the fund, that this
right became vested by the act of 1843, and that the subsequent act of 1846, taking away the right to sue for and collect
for the benefit of creditor-s was so far void. But in this case
the whole matter is contained in the same law. And the discussion below, and the decision of the court, was to determine
the result of that whole law.
But it will be perceived that the argument of Mr. Yerger assumes what the whole current of decisions, and especially those
of Mississippi, contradict, namely, that the dissolution of a corporation does not extinguish the debts due to and from it. See
the eases cited in the decision of the court, 2 Cushman, 321.
But especially will it be seen, that the argument assumes that
which was the question under discussion in the court below. It
is a pure petitio principil. Mr. Yerger takes for granted that
the trustee appointed by the court, under the act of 1843, was
a full and complete representative, for all purposes, and for the
benefit of all, of the extinct corporation. Now, that was thp
very question in the court below; and, sd far from agreeing with
the view of Mr. Yerger, the court below decided, as the court
bad decided in 8 S. & M. 1, that the trustee was not, upon
the true construction of that act, a full representative of the
bank, but was an official trustee to carry out the object of the
act, namely, the payment of the creditors of the bank. And this
court in effect decided
374. the same thing in the case of Peale v.
Phipps, 14 How.
As to that part of the argument which seems to deny the
competency of the legislature to preserve so much of the effects
of a dissolved bank from the effects of forfeiture as may pay
the debts of the bank, leaving the interests of the stockholders
to their fate at common law, I shall say but a word. If the
legislature should deem it a matter of sound policy and justice,
to preserve from destruction the debts~ue to creditors who.were
innocent of any of the acts which called for a forfeiture of the
VOL 9 XVI.

10

SUPREBIE COURT.
Robertson v.

Coulter -t al.

charter, and at the same time to leave just where they were
those persons who had abused their trust, and made it necessary
for the judicial tribunals to declare that trust at an end, certainly
it would be within the legislative power to do so. The interests of stockholders are distinct from those of creditors. The
policy of making a distinction between them in the conservative
intervention of the legislature is very apparent. It is then a
simple question of construction whether or not in fact the legislature has so done.
Mr. Porterand Mr. Wharton, against the in'otion.
It will be observed that the plea does not question the right
of the plaintiff to bring the suit. It expressly sets forth that
after his appointment, "and after the commenedment of this suit,
he, the said plaintiff; collected and received" "a large amount
of money sufficient to pay," &c. Stated in other words, the
defendants' position is, that the plaintiff had a clear title to the
notes and a perfect right to bring the suit, but that afterwards,
because other debtors 'paid their debts, .it became unnecessary
and consequently unlawful to prosecute the action.
Let it be observed that this plea strikes directly at the rights
df the stockholders. If,as alleged, the debts of the bank are
paid, these are the only parties to be affected by the decision of
the court on the plea. The property of this large class of
claimants, who are distributed as we may suppose over the
whole Union, is thus left in the possession of those most expert
in obtaining this property on solemn contracts to pay it back,
made with the authorized -agents of the stockholders. It is,
therefore, respectfully urged that the decision of the Court of
Appeals affects the rightsof the stockholders.
The plaintiff contends that the construction given by. the
latter court to the statute of 1843, impairs the obligation of the
contract entered into by the drawer of these notes. This court
will, it.is true, adopt the construction given to the statute by
the Court of Appeals, but if that construction impair the obli.
gation of a contract, this court will certainly reverse the decision
of the inferior court. The authorities on this point are so nu.
merous as to require no citation.
On a motion'like the present,.to dismiss the writ for want of
juisdiction, we suppose it sufficient to show that the case presentb a fair legal question on the constitutionality of the Mississippi la*. The notion can be applicable only where there
is a clear, absolute want of jurisdiction. If the question were
to some ektolit doubtful, it should stand over.Lintil the ease came
up regularly for argument. But we maintain that this court
has jurisdiction.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

111

Robertson v. Coulter et al.
If the title to the debt passed to the plaintiff, it would be a
violation of the constitutional provision respecting the obligation of contracts, to allow the defendant to avoid his obligation
on the ground assumed by him and sustained by the Court of
Appeals, namely, that since the institution of the suit, the plaintiff had collected so large an amount of money as to render it
unnecessary to collect this money from the defendant. Such a
plea admits the contract. It admits that the plaintiff had once
a right to sue upon it and to collect the debt secured by it. The
fact relied on is alleged to have arisen, not only after the contract had been made, but after the action upon it had been commenced. The obstacle thus interposed is that theplaintiff, as
trustee, does not need the money for certain indicated purposes.
The decision of the Court of Appeals is then made discharging
the defendant from liability on the note. If there was any contract whatever, (which the plea admits) is not this impairing its
obligation I Is it noL destroying the contra t altogether?
Can it be doubted that the title to the d&bt did pass to the
plaintiff? If it had been intended to extinguish it, this would
have been done. The death of the corporation did not extinguish the debt morally, and the statute in terms does not do so,
but merely removes a legal difficulty by designating the person
who is to sue for it
The very same statute which destroyed
the bank, preserved the debt alive, vested the ownership of it
in the plaintiff, and, by implication, required him to sue for it.
He was fully authorized to recover it; when recovered, he was
directed to apply it in a particular manner-to do a future act
which in no way concerns the defendant, f6r the recovery discharges him. It seems clear, therefore, that the debt did remain,
and did pass to the plaintiff. If it remained at all, it remained
as a unit. It could not remain for the half, and not for the
whole. There is no instance of a contract being thus cut into"
pieces by legisladve action. If recoverable at all, the whole is
recoverable. If the contract stood, the amount of money which
it .ecured must be determined by the contract, and not by the
caprice, dishonesty, or energy of every other man in the come
niunity who had made similar contracts. It would be as reasonable to prescribe that a debt should remain, but that the
amount of it should depend on the state of the weather at some
future time, and that, too, *ithout naming a time.
In the defendant's brief it is suggested that the plaintiff cannot question the validity of the act of 1843, because he derives
his authority from it, Certainly he cannot, and his position
does not require that he should. That act empowers him to
collect the debts due to the bank, and to apply the same to the
payment of the debts of the bank. The act does not declare

SUPREME COURT.
Robertson v. Coulter et al.

that after this point has been attained, he shall have no power
to collect, or that he shall then begin to pay.back -to the debtors,
sums previously. received. If we are right in supposing the
contyact an entirety, and the debt a unit, the very power to collect any amount entitles him to collect the whole. For the
surplus, he would be liable as any other trustee, to the parties
having rightful claims upon it.
These parties are the stockholders. This construction commends itself to our sense of justice. It, was the duty of the
legislature, when that body forfeited the charter of the bank, to
protect the property in which individuals were interested. The
rights of the State were satisfied by the divestiture of the chartered privileges of the bank. The presumption is, that the
legislature intended to do what was right, by protecting private
property, and not to inflict needless and wanton injury on individual rights. The construction contended for by the defendants
and adopted by the Court of Appeals is, that this debt, and all
others similarly situated, are absolutely forfeited, and that the
stockholders, on whose behalf the contracts were made, shall
suffer the loss. Against so unjust a result, every fair presumption should be made.
It will be seen, by reference to the arguments which acdompany the record, that the points here taken were made in the
court below. It was there argued that so much of the act of
1843 as prevented a recovery for the benefit of stockholders, and
restricted it to the benefit of the credito:'s was void. We beg
leave to refer to those arguments, and tc make them a part of
this brief.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by writ of error directed to the High
Court of Errors and Appeals bf the State of Mississippi, under the
25th section of the act of 1789 ; upon the ground that a law of
that State, under which this decision was made, impairs the obligation of contracts.
It is an action of assumpsit. The plahatiff declares on a promissory note made by Collins, in his lifetime, to the Commercial
Bank of Natchez. The declaration avers that after the execution of the note, and before the commencement of this suit, a judgmenat of forfeiture was rendered against the bank on the 12th of
December, 1845, according to a statute of the State in such case
made and provided; and that the plaintiff was appointed by the
court trustee, and as such took possession of this note; and that
by means thereof and by force of the statute of thp State, Collins became liable to pay him the money.
The defendants pleaded that the plaintff, as trustee, had col-

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

113

Robertson v. Coulter et al.

lected and received of the debts, effects, and property of the bank,
an amount of money sufficient to pay the debts of the bank, and
all costs, charges, and expenses incident to the performance of
the trust. To this plea the plaintiff demurred.
The Court of Appeals overruled the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant, upon the ground that the plea was a full
and complete bar to the enforcement of the right set out in the
declaration. And this judgment is now brought here for revision
by writ of error.
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction. And in the argument of this motion, a question has
been raised whether, by the common law, the debts due to a bank
at the time of the forfeiture of its charter would not be extinguished, upon the dissolution of the corporation, and the creditors without remedy. And cases have been referred to in the
Mississippi Reports, in which it has been decided that by the
common law (previous to any State legislation on the subject)
upon the dissolution of a banking corporation, its real estate reverted to the grantor, and its personal property belonged to the
State; that the debts due to it were extinguished, and the creditors without remedy against the assets or any of them which
belonged to the bank at the time of the forfeiture.
But this question is not before us upon this writ of error, and
we express no opinion upon .t. The suit is not. brought by a
creditor of the bank, seeking to recover a debt due to him by the
corporation at the time of its dissolution. But it is brought by
a trustee appoil.Led by a court of the State, under the authority
of a statute of the State; and the question before the State court,
which the pleadings presented, was whether the trustee was
authorized, by the law under which he was appointed, to collect
more money from the debtors of the corporation than was neces
sary to pay its debts, and the expenses of the trust.
Now, in authorizing the appointment of a trustee where a
banking corporation was dissolved, the State had undoubtedly
a right to restrict his power within such limits as it thought proper. And the trustee could exercise no power over the assets
or credits of the bank beyond that which the law authorized.
The Court of Appeals, it appears, decided that the statute did not
authorize him to collect more than was sufficient to pay the debts
of the corporation and the costs and charges of the trust. And,
as the demurrer to the plea admitted that he had collected enough
for that purpose, the court held that he could not maintain a suit
against the defendants to recover more.
The question therefore presented to the State court was
merely as to the powers of a trustee, appointed by virtue of a
statute of Mississippi. His powers depended upon the construc10 i

114

SUPREME COURT.
Chapman.v. Smith et al.

tion of the statute. And we have no right to inquire whether
the State court expounded it correctly or not. We are bound
to receive their construction as the true one. And this statute,
as expounded by the court, does not affe-t the rights of the creditors of the bank or the stockholders. The plaintiff does not
claim a right to the money under a contract made by him; but
under the powers and rights vested in him by the statute. And
if the statute clothes him with the power to collect the debts and
deal with the assets of the bank to a certain amount only, and
for certain purposes, we do not see how such a limitation of
his authority interferes in any degree with the obligation of contracts.
The writ of error to this court must ccnsequently be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the "ranscript of the record,
from the High Court of Errors and Appeals of the State of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, dismissed fer the want of jurisdiction.

REUBEN CHAPmAN, GOVERNOR, &C., FOR THE USE OF JOHN B.
LEAVITT AND RUFUS LEAVITT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ALEXANDER SMITH, BOLING HALL, MALCCOLM SMTITH, AND JOHN
G. GRAHAM.
By the laws of Alabama, where property is taken in execution, if thesheriff doas not
make the money, the plaintiff is allo'wed to suggest to the court that the money
might have been made with due diligence, and ther.mpon the court is directed to
frame an issue in order to try the fact.
In a suit upon a sheriff's bond, where the plea was that this procccding had been
resorted to by the plaintiff and a verdict found for the sheriff, a replication to this
plea alleging that the property in question in that tr al was not the same property
mentioned in the breach assigned in the decIaraticn, was a bad replication and
demurrable.
Where the sheriff pleaded that the property which ho had taken in execntion, was
not the property of the defendant, against whom he had process, and the plaintiff
demurred to this plea, the demurrer was properly overruled.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States, for the Middle District of Alabama.
It was a suit upon a sheriff's bond. Alexander Smith was
the sheriff, and the other defendants in error his sureties. The
Leavitts were citizens of New York.

