288

SUPREME

COUR:T.

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

the plaintiffs as owners of three undivided fourth parts of the
land.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is tffirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to.be heard on the transcript of the record

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIA

A.

SIITH AND OTHERS, vi. LERO.
OTHERS.

SWORMSTEDT AND

In 1844, the Methodist Episcopal Church of the United States, at a General Conference, passed sundry resolutions providing for a distiret, ecclesiastical organization
in the slaveholding States,.in case the annual conferences of those States should
deem the measure expedient.
In 1845, these conferences did deem it expedient and organized a separate ecclcsiastical community, under the appellation of the lethodst Episcopal Church South.
At this time there existed property, known as the Book Concern, belonging to the
General Church, which was the result of the labors and accumulation of all the
ministers.
Commissioners appointed by the Methodist Episcopal Church South, may file a bill
in chancery, in behalf of themselves and those whom they represent, against the
trustees of the Book Concern, for a division of the property.
The rule is well established that where the parties interested are numerous, and the
suit is for an object common to them all, some of the body may maintain a bill on
behalf of themselves and of the others; and a bill may also be maintained against
a portion of a numerous body of defendants, representing a common interest.
The Methodist Church was divided. It was not a case cf the secession of a part from
the the main body. Neither division lost its interest in the common property.
The General Conference, of 1844, had the legitimate power thus to divide the church.
In 1808, the General Conference was made a. representative body, with six restrictive articles upon its powers. But none of these articles deprived it of the power
of dividing the church.
The sixth restrictive article provided that the General Conference should not approprate the profits of the Book Concern to any other purpose than for the benefit of the
travelling ministers, their widows, &c.-; and one of the resolutions of 1844 recommended to all the annual conferences to authorize a change in the sixth restrictive
article. This was not imposed as a condition of separation, but merely a plan to
enable the General Conference itself to carry out its purposes.
The separation of the church into two parts being legally accomplished, a division of
the joint property by a court of equity follows, as a matter of course.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit, Court of the United
States for the"District of Ohio, which dismissed the bill.

The bill was originally filed in the names of Henry B. Bascom,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

289

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

a citizen of Lexington, in the State of Kentucky; Alexander
L. P. Green, a citizen of Nashville, in the State of Tennessee;
Charles B. Parsons, a citizen of Louisville, in the State of Kentucky; John Kelly, a citizen of Wilson county, in the State of
Tennessee; James W. Allen, a citizen of Limestone county, in
the State of Alabama; and John Tevis, a citizen of Shelby
county, in the State of KentuckyAgainst Leroy Swormstedt and John H. Power, agents of the
"Book Concern" at Cincinnati, and James B. Finley, all of
whom are citizens of the State of Ohio; and George Peck and
Nathan Bangs, who are citizens of the State of New York; who
are made defendants to this bill.
Bascom, Green, and Parsons were commissioners appointed
by the Methodist Episcopal Church South, to demand and sue
for the proportion belonging to it of certain property, and especially of a fund called the "Book Concern." Bascom having
died whilst the suit was pending, William A. Smith, a citizen
of Virginia, was substituted in his place. The-other plaintiffs
were supernumerary and superannuated preachers, belonging to
the travelling connection of tne said church south.; and all the
plaintiffs were citizens of other States than Ohio, and sued not
only for themselves but also in behalf of all the preachers in the
travelling connection of the church south, amounting to about
fifteen hundred.
The defendants were Swormstedt and Power, agents of the
Book Concern at Cincinnati, and Findley, all fravelling preachers of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and citizens of Ohio i
and the Methodist Book Concern a body politic, incoi-porated by
an act of the General Assembly of Ohio, and having its principal
office at Cincinnati, in that State.
The nature of the dispute and the circumstances of the case
are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 141r. Stanberry, for the appellants, and by
31r. Badger and Xr. Ewing, for the appellees.
The following extract from the brief of Mr. Stanberryexplains
the points which he made.
We claim, in the first place, that the division of the church
was a valid act, and thereby the original church was divided into
two churches equally. legitimate, and that the members and beneficiaries in each have equal rights to their distributive share
of all the property and funds.
Secondly. That if there was no valid division of the original
church, but only a separation of the southern portipn from the
original church, yet, under the circumstances in which it was
VOL. XVI

25

290

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

made, the beneficiaries of this charity have not lost that characby adhering to the church south, because the separation was
authorized by the highest official and legislative authority of the
church, and the beneficiaries living in the south had no choice
or alternative but adherence to that church or the total loss of
all church membership and privileges.
We will discuss these propositions in the order in which they
are stated, and as they are elaborated under the following points:
The plaintiffs' points. 1. Prior to 1844 the Methodist Episcopat Church in the United States was one church in doctrine and
organization. It was one in doctrine as a Methodist Church,
and one in organization as the Methodist Church in the United
States, 'with jurisdiction coextensive with the territorial limits of
the United States.
2. At the present time there is no such church de facto as to
unity of organization, as the Methodist Episcopal Church of
1844. There is no longer one Methodist Episcopal Church with
territorial jurisdiction coextensive with the United States, but
there are two churches instead, divided in e-rritorial jurisdiction
by a fixed line, each existing by an independent organization,
exclusive of the Qther.
3. This dissolution of the unity of oiganization not only
exists de facto but de jure; not by unauthorized secession of a
part from the original body, but by a valid division of the original body into two parts equally legitimate, which division was
authorized by competent authority, in the plan of 1844, and has
since been consummated in accordance with its provisions.
4. The Book Concern is a charitable fund connected with the
Methodist Episcopal Church, the capital being devoted to the
publication and dissemination of religious books and papers,
and the profits to the support of the travelling, supernumerary,
superannuated, and deficient preachers of the church, and the
wives, widows, children, and orphans of travelling preachers.
5. This fund was founded by the travelling preachers, and
chiefly accumulated by their labor. It never belonged to the
church in absolute right, but was simply intrusted to its management.
6. Before the diision of the church the founders and the
beneficiaries of this fund were scattered over its entire territory,
as then constituted, and equally labored in its accumulation,
and were equally entitled to its dividends, without reference to
particular territorial location.7. The lawful division of the church, territorially, into two
distinct churches, did not destroy this charity or affect the right
of the beneficiaries, but it necessarily required a change of
management, which, before the division, was by means of a

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

291

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

General Conference, having jurisdiction over all classes of the
beneficiaries, wherever located, through the agency of annual
conferences within the jurisdiction and subject to the control of
the General Conference.
8. After such division, in the due administration of this
charity, and as near as may be to its original foundation, each
of the churches becomes the proper manager of so much of the
fund as is to be distributed to the beneficiaries within its exclusive jurisdiction, through th agency of its own annual conferences.
9. That the division to be made of the capital and profits of
this fund to each church should be made on the basis of the
number of travelling preachers in 1844, each church to have the
same proportion of the entire fund as the number of travelling
preachers within its bounds, bore to the .vhole number then
within the entire territory of the church prior to the division.
10. That the refasal of the annual conferences to agree to the
amicable division of the fund, as proposed in the plan of 1844,
and the continued refusal of the authorities of the northern
church to recognize the church south, or the beneficiaries within
its jurisdiction, as entitled to tile management or bny distributive share of the fund, make a case for.the interposition of a
court of equity.
11. If the division of the church was not a constitutional act,
the beneficiaries within the jurisdiction of the church south, and
who are now united to that chUtrcli, have not forfeited their right
to this charity.
12. The bill presents the proper parties and the proper case
for fhe interference of this court, in order to the due administration of this charity, to meet the exigency arising out of the division of the church, whether the division was constitutional or
not.

(Mr. Stanberry's argument, both in the opening and in the
reply, was very elaborate upon all these points, and therefore
cannot be reported for want of room. His view of the contingent nature of the resolutions of 1.844, was as follows:)
I will here close the argument upon this question of the power
of division, having shown its existence in every aspect - having
shown it upon the true character of all Methodist organizition,
upon the usage of the church through all its history, and, finally,
upon the express provisions and limitations embodied in the
written articles.
If. this ground is maintained, the division of the common
charitable iund is a necessary result. If the church organization
is divided, the temporalities of the church must also be divided,
for the right of each of the ivisions, stands upon the same

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Swormstedt ot al.

ground - one claims it precisely in the same character with the
other.
Various objections are stated in the answer, and in the resolutions of the conference of the church north, in 1848, to the
present validity of the plan of division. They say, as it passed
tht General Conference, it was not absolute, but contingent in
many particulars. That it was passed to meet the contingency
of a future ascertained necessity for division, and that no such
necessity was found to exist; that it was made to depend, in
all its parts, upon the concurrence.of all the annual conferences
in the proposed change of the sixth restrictive rule, and no such
concurrence was given; and, finally, that it depended upon the
due observance by the church south, and c.11 its societies and
members, of the jurisdictional line of division, which line was
afterwards, as they say, invaded and disregarded by some of
the southern preachers and members.
None of these positions need be argued, except only the matter of the non-concurrence of the annual conferences in the proposed change of the sixth rule.
That part of the plan of separation which respects this matter
has nothing to do with the other parts of the plan, or with the
taking effect of the plan as a whole. The principal thing, the
division, was not in any way referred to the northern annual
conferences. That was a matter exclusively between the General Conference and the southern annual conferences, in which
the northern conferences had no voice. In order to provide for
the contingency of division - seeing that the division of the
fund must follow- and to avoid any doub';, the General Conference asks the annual conferences for express authority, not
merely to divide the fund according to the division of the church
organization, but for general authority to dispose of the entire
fund for such purposes in general, as two thirds, of the General
Conference might determine upon.
This general authority, which would sanction a total misapplication of the fund, the annual conferences refused to give.
Now, the plan in no way provides that the- southern conferences should not have any of this fund, except by the consent
of the annual conferences; but, in the exercise of its own discretion, by its own authority, and as its own act, the General
Conference chose to ask the innual conferences so to modify
the restrictive rule. The annual conferences refused, and that
leaves the matter at large, as a question to 7be settled upon the
rights of the parties consequent on the division. If after the
division the south had no right to any part of this fund -if
it
had forfeited its right by the new organization * if the benefi.
ciaries at the south had thereby lost their character as benefi.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Smith ct al. v. Swormstedt et al.

ciaries, then, -indeed, there would be some ground for putting
us to show a new title by the consent, of the annual conferences,
or something else. But the ground on which -we stand is, that
we have never for a moment lost our character as beneficiaries;
that our title is equal to that of the north; and that the refusal
of the annual conferences is the common case of a refusal to
perform a. duty which drives the injured party into a court of
justice.
The points made by the counsel for the appellees, were the
following:
1. The first point was in answer to the one raised by Mr.
Stanberry, namely, that the church was dissolved and destroyed
by the action of the General Conference of 1844, and that two
new churches have arisen out'of its ruins.
In answer to the first two propositions of the complainants,
involving this point, the defendants insist1st. That prior to 1844 the Methodist Episcopal Church wds
the only religious denomination bearing that name, and it was
one in organization, discipline, and doctrine. A large part, but
hot the whole territory of thd United States, w s contained
within its organization -it
did not extend to the United States'
possessions on the Pacific; it did embrace Texas, then a foreign
country; it had been extended, but it did not then extend to
the Canadas; its boundaries had been variable, and its identity
or unity, its organization or existefice, had no necessary dependence upon territorial limits.
2d. From 1844 to the present time, the same Methodist Episcopal Church has continued to exist identical in name, organization, discipline, and doctrine, and under a regular succession
of the same officers: some conferences in the slaveholding
States have withdrawn from it; it has lost and gained individual members; and the United States possessions on the
Pacific have been received into its comiection; but these changes
have not affected its organization or destioyed its identity.
2. With respect to the property called the "Book Concern,"
(after examining the constitution of this fund, the counsel came
to the following conclusions:)
I take it then as clear, by proof and by concession, that a
Methodist Episcopal Church, having a regular and well known
organization, existed prior to 1844, and that the property now in
controversy was held by trustees, in trust for the church so
organized, and for certain specified beneficiaries in it, and that
it was only through connection with the church, in and through
its organization, in a mode pointed out by its organic law,
25 0

294

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Swormsted

et al.

that any individual was or could be entitled to any portion of
the fund.
I hold it equally clear, and of like necessity it must be conceded; that if the Methodist Episcopal Church of 1844 still
exists, and retains its identity, the trustees still hold the property
in trust for it only, and that it is by connection with it as an
organized body, and by and through it alone, that any individual
is now entitled as a beneficiary, unless indeed the church has
by compact, or some equivalent act, qualified the condition of
the trust, and changed its direction; and that no individual
members of the church, or any section of it, large or small,
could by mere secession entitle himself or themselves to any
portion of the trust fund, separate from and independent of the
organized, still gubsisting church.
3. Then, to entitle these complainants to recover, they must
establish as facts:
1st. That the Methodist Episcopal Church, as it existed in
and prior to 1844, was destroyed by the acts of the General
Conference of 1844- or by the act of the Louisville Convention of 1845, in the exercise of power cc'nferred on it by the
(eneral Conference -and thenceforth ceased to exist as an
organized body- that out of a portion of its severed elements
a new church was formed, composed in part of individuals
who, under the former organization, were, beneficiaries of the
fund, and that thus the expressed object of the charity, as also
its means of administration, having failed, there being now no
Methodist Episcopal Church to administer the charity, and no
travelling preachers, &c., of the Methodist Episcopal Church to
receive and enjoy it, a court of equity will apply the charity,
not according to its terms, which is no longer possible, but cy.
p.res, as nearly as possible according to its original object, and,
to this end, divide the fund pro ratd between the fragments of
the defunct church.
2d. Or that if the Methodist Episcopal Church of 1844 still
exists, some' act by the General Conference of that year has
changed, in part, the direction of the fund and the medium of
its administration.
(After discussing these propositions, the counsel came to the
following conclusions:)
We find, then, on examining the bill and the book of Doctrine
and Discipline, which is filed with and made part of it,
1st. That the General Conference is not., since 1808, an original body possessed of inherent powers: but representative
merely, having no other powers than those conferred on it by
the constitution which created it.
2d. That the general grant ot powers to this conference

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

295

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

extends only to the making rules and regulations for the Mlethodist Episcopal Church, not to the division, disslution, or destruction of the church.
3d. That the restrictive articles forbid, by clear implication,
the division or destruction of the organized Methodist Episcopal Church.
4th. That under the sixth restrictive article the General Conference cannot "appropriate the produce of the Book Concern,
nor of the Charter Fund, to any purpose other than for the
benefit of the travelling, supernumerary, superannuated, and
wvorn-out preachers" of the Methodist Episcopal Church, within
its organization, " their wives, widows, and children ;" nor can
that conference by any act so involve the fund or place it in such
situation that a court of equity can apply it to objects, or in a
manner forbidden by the declaration of trust and tife constitution of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
4. We will now proceed to show that the General Conference
never assumed the power of destroying the organization of the
,Methodist Episcopal Church, or of severing or dissolving it, but
as often as they have spoken distinctly upon the subject, have
disclaimed the power, and that they did not, in the case at bar,
exercise or attempt to exercise it.
(The argument upon this point was very extensive, involving
an examination of the Canada case, and of the records of the
conferences, concluding as follows:)
It is, then, so far as the thirteen southern and south-vestem
conferences are concerned, a case of voluntary withdrawal from
the Methodist Episcopal Chuch as organized, and the formation
of a new and separate organization ; and I have already shown,
that if the withdrawal be small or great, of one or many, the voluntary abandonment of the organized church is also the voluntary surrender of all the temporal privilegbs and immunities belonging to that organization. And it is very clear that this trustfund, which was intrusted in its administration to the annual
conferences of this organization, ,cannot be transferred by a
court of equity to a conference which has ceased to belong to
that organization, any more than to one vhich never had belonged
to it. The southern conferences, now the Methodist Episcopal
Church South, cannot, therefore,: sustain their bill on the ground
of former connection with the Methodist Episcopal Church, and
of their present separate existence; and I have already shown
that they cannot sustain it on the ground of contract. It is
equally clear that they cannot sustain it on the gound that the
General Conference of 1844 had caused the southern conferences
to believe that the Book Concern would be divided, andinduced
them to act according to that belief. This point, however good

SUPREME

COURT

Smith ct al. v. Swormstedt et al.

in law, fails as a matter of fact. There was no disguise, no concealment, no misrepresentation on the part of the General Conference, but the most open candor and directness; and the conferences south were fully advised- indeed, they advised themselves - that, in case of separation, a share of the Book Concern
depended on the votes of the annual conferences, and they agreed
that it (lid and should depend upon such vote. The church
soath, therefore, in its new organization, has no standing in
court. The only remaining question which goes to the legal
merits of the case is :
5.Do the individuals who join in this bill show any right to
a distributive share of this fund ?
'They show that they "are preachers- Kelley and Allen are
supernumerary, and Tevis superannuated preachers- of the
Methodist Episcopal Church South, and that as such they have
a personal interest in the real estate, personal property, debts,
and funds now holden by the Methodist Episcopal Church
through said defendants, as agents and trustees appointed by
the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church."
So much for themselves.
As to those whom they choose to represent, they say, "That
there are about fifteen hundred preachers belonging to the travelling connection of the Methodist Episcopal Church South,
each of whom has a direct personal interest in the same right as
your complainants to the said property," &c.
They say they are members of the chvxch south, preachers
belonging to the travelling connection of that church, and on
that ground, and that alone, they set up this claim. They do
not aver that they, or any one of them, or any one for whom
they appear, ever belonged to the Methodist Episcopal Church,
and acquired rights in its connection; but they simply claim
that, by virtue of their connection with the Methodist Episcopal
Church South, they are entitled to a dist:ibutive share of the
property of the Methodist Episcopal Chureb. The case is certainly no better by making these persons complainants. If the,
church south be not entitled, as an organized body, on some
ground shown in the bill, these persons are not entitled because
they are members, of its organization.
The case made by complainants' counsel for wvidows and orphans of travelling preachers of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
who became entitled by the services of their husbands and fathers, but who, since their death, have by the mere force of circumstances been withdrawn from the Methodist Episcopal
Church,' and attached to the church south, if available at all,
goes too far, entitles them to more than it has even contended
that they have a claim to. If their relation tc the Methodist Epis-

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

297

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

copal Church be not so sundered as to exonerate that church from
their support, it is bound to support them out of whatsoever fund
may be in its power, in common with the rest of its widows and
orphans. They are not entitled to a support out of the charterfund and the prbduce of the Book Concern, but out of the funds
of the various annual conferences of the Methodist Episicopal
Church into which the produce of the Book Concern enters,
and of which it forms a part merely, and, indeed, but a small
part. If entitled to any thing from the Methodist Episcopal
Church since they ceased to belong to it, it is to their support,
in whole or in part, according to their necessities, not to a distributive share of the produce of the Book Concern.
The separation of those who have passively suffered by the
secession of so large a portion of the Iethodist Episcopal Church
from its ancient organization, is greatly to be commiserated and
regretted, and the Methodist Episcopal Church is ready and anxious, in any possible mode, to reach and relieve them, for she
still recognizes them as members. But she cannot, consistently
with her disciplipe, deliver any part of her funds to another
church, alien in organization, though the same in failli, to be
administered among them. Nor can their necessities or their
rights, if rights indeed they have, bring in and entitle ninetyfive who voluntarily seceded, and who were active in secession,
to come in and share in the funds of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, with the five who were withdrawn from it by the mere
force of circumstances. But those who were passive in the separation, those who did not withdraw, but who were withdrawn
from the Methodist Episcopal Church, are not before the court.
The only individualsJaere who claim as pdrties for themgelves,
and those standing .Ii a like situation, claim merely by virtue of
their connection with the church south, and do not profess to
have ever been members of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
This, it appears to me, is the truth and reason of this branch
of the case ; and if so, no equitable right arises in their behalf.
And this fund is not now wasted or scattered to the winds. It
is still applied strictly according to the terms and intent of the
trust, in the very way in which the written declaration of the
trust, known and understood by all, directs it. Unhappily, some
who enjoyed the berefit of the fund are withdrawn from the
sphere of its application; others, perhaps, equally worthy and
equally necessitous, are brought within it. This case does not
come within the principle of any of the cases cited by counsel
on the other side, if the Methodist Episcopal Church has not
been destroyed. If it has, I-admit the application of the cases.
For while that church exists it is a trustee, in, its various organism, to administer the charity, and the beneliciaries described
by the declaratio.n bf trust are to be found within its bosom. The

SUPREME

COUPT.

Smith ct al. v. Swormsted

et al.

trustee, the charity, the beneficiaries, have not failed, but merely
certain individuals have ceased to be beneficiaries.
6. Certain it is, that this separation took place either by secession or by contract, the General Conference offering terms
of separation, and the southern conferences acceding to them.
If the latter be the case, the condition precedent to the distribution of the charter-fund and Book Ccncern was also agreed
upon; namely, the consent of the annual conferences.
If the southern conferences seceded wvithout a contract, the
legal consequences of simple secession follow. Those I have
considered.
If with a contract, that contract is the law of the secession.
And-all that a court of equity, can do is to compel the parties
to carry out the contract in good faith.
7. The blame of the separation is cast by complainants on the
Methodist -Episcopal Church. It is contended, that the secession
of the southern conferences was not only justified, but compelled,
by the continued agitation of the slavery questi)n in the north.
ern annual conferences, and also in the General Conference
itself. And more especially, say they, it was tompelled by the
illegal and oppressive acts of the General Conference of 1844,
in the cases of Harding and Bishop Andrew. These matters of
complaint I will now consider. And,
1st. The'agitation of the slavery quest.on in the Methodist
Episcopal Church.
(The argument upon this branch of the subject is omitted.)
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Ohio.
The bill is filed by the complainants, fbr themselves, and in
behalf of the travelling and worn out preachers in connection
with the society of the Methodist Episcopal Church South in
the United States, against the defendants, to recover their share
of a fund called the Book Concern, at the city of Cincinnati,
consisting of houses, machinery, printing-presses, book-bindery,
books, &c., claimed to be of the value of some two hundred
thousand dollars.
The bill charges that, at and before the year 1844, there
existed in the United States a voluntary a.sociation unincorporated, known as the Methodist Episcopal Church, composed of
seven bishops, four thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight
preachers belonging to the travelling connection, and in bishops,
ministers, and members about one million one hundred and nine
thousand nine hundred and sixty, united, and bound together
in one organized body by certain doctrines of faith and morals,
and by certain rules of government and discipline.

DE

EBIBER TERMI, 1853.

299

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.
That the government of the church was vested in one body
called the General Conference, and in certain sub6rdinate bodies
called annual conferences, and in bishops, travelling ministers,
and preachers.
The bill refers to a printed volume, entitled "The Doctrines,
and Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church," as containing the constitution, organization, form of government, and
rules of discipline, as well as the doctrines of faith of the'association.
The complainants further charge, that differences and disagreements had sprung up in the church between What was
called the northern ahd southern members, in respect to the administration of the government with reference to the ownership
of slaves by the ministers of the church, of such a character and
attended with such consequences as threatened greatly to impair its usefulness, as well as permanently to disturb its harmony; and it became and was a question of grave and serious
importance whether a separation ought not to take place, according to some geographical boundary to be agreed upon, so
as that the, Methodist Episcopal Church should thereafter constitute two separate and distinct organizations. And that, accordingly, at a session of the General Conference held in the
city of New York in May, 1844, a resolution was passed by a
majority of over three fourths of the body, by Which it was determined, that, if the annual conferences of the slaveholding
States should find it necessary to unite in a distinct ecclesiastical
connection, the following rule should be observed with regard
to the northern boundary of such connection
ll the societies,
stations, and conferences adhering to the church in the south,
by a vote of a majority of the members, should remain under
the pastoral care of the southern church; and all adhering to
the church north, by a like vote, should remain under the pastoral care of that church. This plan of separation contains
eleven other resolutions relating principally to the mode and
terms of the division of the common property of the association
between the two divisions, in case the separation contemplated
should take place; and w1hic, in effect, provide for a pro ratd
division, taking the number of the travelling preachers in the
church north and south Es the basis ur on which to make the
partition.
The complainants further charge that, in pursuance of the
above resolutions, the annual conferences in the slaveholding
States met, and resolved in favor of a distinct and independent
organization, and erected themselves into a separate ecclesiastical connection, under the provisional plan of separation based
upon the discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and to

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al: v. Swormstedt et al.

be known as the, Methodist Episcopal Church South. And
they insist that, by virtue of these proceedings, this church, as it
had existed in the United States previous to the year 1844, became and was divided into two separate churches, with distinct
and independent powers, and authority composed of the several
annual conferences, stations, and societies, lying north and
south of the aforesaid line of division. And, also, that by force
of the same proceedings, the division of the church south became and was entitled to its proportion of the common property
real and personal of the Methodist Episcopal Church, which
belonged to it at the time the separation -took place; that the
property and funds of the church had been obtained by volun.
tary contributions, to which the members of the church .south
had contributed more than their full share, and which, down to
the time of the separation, belonged in common to the Methodist
E piscopal Church, as then organized.
The complainants charge, that they axe members of the
church south, and preachers, some of them supernumerary, and
some superannuated preachers, and belonged to the travelling
connection of said church; and that, as such, have a personal
interest in the property, real and personal, held by the church
north, and in the hands of the defendants; and, further, that
there are about fifteen hundred preachers belonging to the travelling connection of the church south, each of whom has a
direct and personal interest in the same -right with the complainants in the said property, the largi number of whom make
it inconvenient and impracticable to bring them all before the
court as complainants.
They also charge, that the defendants are members of the
Methodist Episcopal Church North; and that each, as such, has
a personal interest in the property; and further, that two of
them have the custody and control of the fund in question; and
that, in addition to these defendants, there are nearly thirtyeight hundred, preachers belonging to the travelling connection
of the church north, each of whom has an interest in the fund
in the same right, so that it is impossible, in view of sustaining
a just decision in the matter, to make them all parties to the
bill.
The complainants also aver, that this bd is brought by the
authority, and under the direction of the general and annual
conferences of the church south, and for the benefit of the
same, and for themselves, and all the preachers in the travelling
connection, and all other ministers and persons having an interest in the property.
. The defendants, in their answer, admit most of the facts
charged in the bill,- as it respects the organization, governmenti

DECEMBER TER-M,

1853.

301

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

discipline, and faith of the Methodist Episcopal Church as it
existed at and previous to the year 1844. They admit the passage of the resolutions, called the plan of separation, at the session of the General Conference of that year, by the majority
stated; but deny that the resolutions' were duly and legally
passed; and also deny that the General Conference possessed
the competent power to pass them, and submit that they were
therefore null and void. They also submit that, if the General
Conference possessed the power, the separation contemplated
was made dependent upon certain conditions, and among others
a change of the sixth restrictive article in the constitution of the
church, by a vote of the annual conferences, which vote the
said conferences refused.
The defendants admit the erection of the church south into
a distinct ecclesiastical organization; but deny, that this was
done agreeably to the plan of separation. They deny that the
Iethodist Episcopal Church, as it existed in 1844, or at any
time, has been divided into two distinct and separate ecclesiastical organizations; and submit that the separation and
voluntary withdrawal from this church of a portion of the
bishops, ministers, and members, and organization into a church
south, was an unauthorized separation; and that they have
thereby renounced and forfeited all clain, either in law or equity,
to any portion of the property in question. The defendants"
admit that the Book Concern at Cincinnati, with all the houses,
lots, printing-presses, &c., is now and always has been beneficially the property of the preachers belonging to the travelling
connection of the Methodist Episcopal Church; but insist that,
if such preachers do not, during life, continue in such travelling
connection, and in the communion, and subject to the governrnent of the church, they forfeit for themselves and their families all ownership ill, or claim to the said Book Concern, and
the produce thereof; they admit that the Book Concern was
originally commenced and established by the travelling preachers of this church, upon their owen capital, with the design in
the first place of circulating religious knowledge, and that, at
the General Conference of 179G, it was determined that the
profits derived from the sale of books should hi future be devoted wholly to the relief of travelling preachers, supernumerary
and worn out preachers, and the widows and orphans of such
preachers - and the defendants submit that the Methodist
Episcopal Church South is not entitled at law or in equity to
have a division of the property cf the Book Concern, or the
produce, or to any portion thereof; and that the ministers,
preachers, or members, in connection with such church are not
entitled to any portion of the same; and further, that being no
VOL. XVI.

26

SUPRE-IE COURl.T.
Smith et al. v. Swormstedt Ct al.

longer travelling preachers belonging to the Methodist Episcopal Church, they are not so entitled, without a change of the
sixth restrictive article of the constitution of 1808, provided
for in the plan of separation, as'a condition of the partition of
said fund.
The proofs in the case consist chiefly of the proceedings of
the General Conference of 1844, relating to the separation of the
church and of the proceedings of the southern conferences, in
pursuance of which a distinct and separate ecclesiastical organization south -took place.
There is no material controversy between the parties, as it
respects the facts. The main difference lies in the interpretation and effect to be given to the acts and proceedings of these
several bodies and authorities of the church. Our opinion will
be founded almost wholly upon facts alleged in the bill, and
admitted in the answer.
An objection was taken, on the argunment, to the bill for
want of proper parties to maintain the suit. We think the
objection not well founded.
The rule is well established, that where the parties interested
are numerous, and the suit is for an object common to them all,
some of the body may maintain a bill on behalf of themselves
and of the others; and a bill may also be maintained against a
portion of a numerous body of defendants, representing a common interest. Story's Eq. Pl. §§ 97, 98, 99, 103, 107, 110, 111,
116, 120; 2 .Mitf. P1. (Jer. Ed.) 167, 2 Paige R. 19; 4 Mylne
& Cr. 134, 619; 2 De Gex & Smale, 102, :[22.
Mr. Justice Story, in his valuable treatise on Equity Pleadings, after discussing this subject with his usual research and
fulness, arranges the exceptions to the general rule, as follows:
1. Where the question is ofie of a common or general interest,
and one or more sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
2. Where the parties form a voluntary associat;on for public or
private purposes, and those who sue or defend may fairly be
presumed to represent the rights and interests of the whole;
and 3. Where the parties are very numerous, and though they
have or may have separate and distinct interests, yet it is impracticable to bring them all before the court.
In this latter class, though the rights of' the several persons
may be separate and distinct, yet there must be a common
interest or a common right, which the bill seeks to establish or
enforce. As an illustration, bills have been permitted to be
brought by the lord of a manor against some of the tenants,
and vice versa, by some of the tenants in behalf of themselves
and the other tenants, to establish some right - such as suit to
a mill, or right of common, or to cut turf. So by a parson of a

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

303

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt ct al.

parish against some of the parishioners to establish a general
right to tithes - or conversely, by some of the parishioners in
behalf of all to establish a parochial modus.
In all cases where exceptions to the general rule are allowed,
and a few are permitted to sue and defend on behalf of the
many, by representation, care must be taken that persons are
brought on the record fairly representing the interest or right
involved, so that it may be fully and honestly tried.
Where the parties interested in the suit are numerous, their
rights and liabilities are so subject to change and fluctuation
by death or otherwise, that it would not be possible, without
very great inconvenience, to make all of them parties, and
would oftentimes prevent the prosecution of the suit to a hearing. For convenience, therefore, and to prevent a failure of
justice, a court of equity permits a portion of the parties in
interest to represent the entire body, and the decree binds all
of them the same as if all were before the court. The legal
and equitable rights and liabilities of all being before the court
by representation, and esp':cially where the subject-matter of
the suit is common to all, there can be very little danger but
that the interest of all will be properly protected and maintained.
The case in hand illustrates the propriety and fitness of the
rule. There are somne fifteen hundred persons represented by
the complainants, and over double that number by the defendants. It is manifest that to require all the parties to be brought
upon the record, as is required in a suit at law, would amount
to a denial of justice. The right might be defeated by objections to parties, from the difficulty of ascertaining them, or if
ascertained, from the changes constantly occurring by death or
otherwise.
As it respects the persons into whose hands the fund in question should be delivered for the purpose of distribution among
the beneficiaries, in case of a division of it, we shall recur to
the subject in another part of this opinion.
We will now proceed to an examination of the merits of the
case.

The Book Concern, the property in question, is a part of a
fund which had its origin at a very early day, from the voluntary contributions of the travelling preachers in the connection
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. The establishment was
at first small; but at present, is one of very large capital, and
of extensive operations, producing great profits. In 1796, the
travelling preachers in General Conference assembled, determined that these profits should be thereafter devoted to the
relief of the travelling preachers, and their families ; and, accord-

304

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et a]. v. Sworrnstedt et al.

ingly resolved, that the produce of the sale of the books, after
the debts were paid, and sufficient capital provided for carrying
on the business, should be applied for thE relief of distressed
travelling preachers, for the families of travelling preachers, and
for supernumerary and worn out preachers, and the widows and
orphans of preachers.
The establishment was placed under the care and superintendence of the General Conference, the highest authority in
the church, which was composed of the travelling preachers;
and it has grown up to its present magnitude, its capital
amounting to nearly a million of dollars, from the economy
and skill with which the concern has been managed, and from
the labors and fidelity of the travelling preachers, who have
always had the charge of the circulation and sale of the books
in the Methodist connection throughout the United States,
The
accounting to the proper authorities for the proceeds.
agents who have the immediate charge cf the establishment
make up a yearly account of the profits, arid transmit the ,ame
to the several annual conferences, each, an amount, in proportion to the number of travelling preachers, their widows and
orphans comprehended within it, which bodies distribute the
fund to the beneficiaries individually, agreeably to the design
These several annual conferences
of the original founders.
are composed of the travelling preachers residing or located
within certain districts assigned to them3 and comprehended,
in the aggregate, the entire body in connection with the MethoThe fund has 'een thus faithfully
dist Episcopal Church.
administered since its foundation down to 1846, when the portion belonging to the complainants in this suit, and those they
represent, was withheld, embracing some thirteen of the annual
conferences.
In the year 1844 the travelling preachers in General Conference assembled, for causes which it is not irmportant particularly
to refer to, agreed upon a plan for a division of the Methodist
Episcopal Church in case the annual conferences in the slaveholding States sho.d deem it necessary; and to the erection of
two separate and distinct ecclesiastical organizations. And, according to this plan, it was agreed that all the societies, stations,
and conferences adhering to the church south, by a-majority of
their respective members, should remain under the pastoral care
of that church; and all of these several bodies adhering, by a
majority of its members, to the church north, should remain under
the pastoral care of that church; and, further, that the ministers,
local and travelling, should, as they might prefer, attach themselves, without blame, to the church north or south. It was
also agreed that the common property of the church, including

DECEIBER TERM,

1853.

305

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt etal.

this Book Concern, that belonged specially to the body of travelling preachers, should, in case the separation took place, be
divided between the two churches in proportion to the number
of travelling preachers falling within the respective divisions.
This was in 1844. In the following year the southern annual
conferences met in convention, in pursuance of the plan of separation, and determined upon a division, and resolved that the
annual conferences should be constituted into a separate ecclesiastical connection, and based upon the discipline of the Methodist-Episcopal Church, comprehending the doctrines and entire
moral, ecclesiastical, and economical rules and regulations of
said discipline, except only so far as verbal alterations might be
necessary; and to be known by the nanie. of the Methodist
Episcopal Church South.
The division of the church, as originally constituted, thus became complete; and from this time two separate and distindt
organizations have taken the place of the one previously existing.
The Methodist Episcopal Church having been thus divided,
with the authority and according to-the plan of the General Conference, it is claimed, on the part of the complainants, who represent the travelling preachers in the church south, that they
are entitled to their share of the capital stock and profits of this
Book Concern; and that the withholding of it from them is a
violation of the fundamental law prescribed by the founders,
and consequently of the trust upon which it was placed in the
hands of the defendants.
The principal answer set up to this claim is, that, according
to the original constitution and appropriation of the fund, the
beneficiaries must be travelling preachers, or the widows and
orphans of travelling preachers, in connection with the Methodist
Episcopal Church, as organized and established in the United
States at the time of the foundation of the fund; and that, as
the complainants, and those they represent, are not shown to be
travelling preachers in that connection, but travelling preachers
in connection with a different ecclesiastical organization, they
have forfeited their right, and are no longer within the description of its beneficiaries.
This argument, we apprehend, if it proves any thing, proves
too much; for if sound, the necessary consequence is that the
beneficiaries connected with the church north, as well as south,
hdve forfeited their right to the fund. It can no more be affirmed,
either in point of fact or of law, that they are travelling preachers
in connection with the Methodist Church as originally constituted, since the division, than of those in connection with the
church south. Their organization covers but about hdlf of the
26*

SUPREME

COURT.

Smith. et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

territory embraced within that of the former church; and includes within it but a little over two thirds of the travelling
preachers. Their general conference is not the general conference of the old church, nor does it represent the interest or
possess, territorially, the authority of the same; nor are they the
body under whose care this fund was placed by its founders.
It may be admitted that, within the restricted limits, the organization and authority are the same as the former church. But
the same is equally true in respect to the organizatioA of -the
church south.
Assuming therefore that this argument is well founded, the
consequence is that all the beneficiaries of the fund, whether in
the southern or northern division, are deprived of any right to
a distribution, not being in a condition to bring themselves
within the description of persons for whosa benefit it was established: in which event the foundation of the fund would become broken up, and the capital revert to the original proprietors, a result that would differ very little in its effect from that
sought to be produced by the complainants in their bill.
It is insisted, however, that the General Conference of 1844
possessed no power to divide the Methodist Episcopal Church
as then organized, or to consent to such division; and hence,
-that the organization of the church south was without authority, and the travelling preachers within it separated from an
ecclesiastical connection which is essential to enable them to
participate as beneficiaries. Even if this were admitted, we
do not perceive that it would change the relative position and
rights of the travelling preachers within the divisions north and
south, from that which we have just endeavored to explain.
If the division under the direction of the General Conference
has been made without the proper authority, and for that reason
the travelling preachers within the southern division are wrongfully separated from their connection wth the church, and
thereby have lost the character of beneficiaries, those within
the northern division are equally wrongfully separated from
that connection, as both divisions have been brought into ex-'
istence by the same authority. The same consequence would
follow in respect to them, that is imputable to the travelling
preachers in the other division, and hence each would be obliged
to fall back upon their rights as original proprietors of the fund,
But we do not agree that this division was made without the
proper authority. On the contrary, we entertain no doubt but
that the General Conference of 18,44 was competent to make
it; and that each division of the church, under the separate
.organization, is just as legitimate, and can claim as high a
sanction, ecclesiastical and temporal, as the Iethodist Episcopal

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

307

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt Ct al.

Church first founded in the United States. The same authority which founded that church in 1784 has divided it, and established two separate and independent organizations occupying
the place of the old one.
In 1784, when this church was first established, and down till
1808, the General Conference was composed of all the travelling
preachers in that connection. This body of preachers founded
it by organizing its government, ecclesiastical and temporal,
established its doctrines and discipline, appointed its superintendents or bishops, its ministers and preachers, and other subordinate authorities to administer its polity, and promulgate
its doctrines and teachings throughout the land.
It cannot therefore bie denied, indeed, it has scarcely been
denied that this body, while composed of all the travelling
preachers, possessed the power to divide it and authorize the
organization and establishment of the two separate independent
churches. The power must necessarily be regarded as inherent
in the General Conference. As they might have constructed
two ecclesiastical organizations over the territory of the United
States originally, if deemed expedient, in the place of one, so
they might, at any subsequertt period, the power remaining
unchanged.
But, it is insisted, that this power has been taken away or
given up, by the action of the General Conference of 1808. In
that year the constitution of this body was changeqd so as to be
composed, thereafter, by travelling preachers, to be elected by the
annual conferences, in the ratio of one for every five members.
This has been altered from time to time, so that, in 1844, the
representation was one for every twenty-one members. At the
time of this change, and as part of it, certain limitations were
imposed upon the powers of this General Conference, called the
six restrictive articles - 1. That they should not alter or ehange
the articles of religion, or establish any new standard of doctrine. 2. Nor allow of more than one representative fon every
fourteen members of the annual conferences, nor less than one
for every thirty. 3. Nor alter the government so as to do away
with episcopacy, or destroy the plan of itinerant superintendencies. 4. Nor change the rules of the united societies. 5.
Nor deprive the ministers or preachers of trial by a committee,
and of appeal: nor members before the society, or lay committee, and appeal. And 6. Nor appropriate the proceeds of the
Book Concern, nor the charter-fund, to any purpose other than
for the benefit of the travelling, supernumerary, superannuated,
and worn out preachers, their wives, widows, and children. Subject to these restrictions, the delegated conference possessed the
same powers as when composed of the entire body of preachers.

308

SUPRE31E COURT.
SmitWI et al. V. Swormstedt Ct al.

And it will be seen that these relate only to the doctrine of the
church, its-representation in the General Conference, the episcopacy, discipline of its preachers, and members, the Book Concern, and charter-fund. In all other respects, and in every thing
else that concerns the welfare of the chmcch, the General Conference represents the sovereign power the same as before.
This is the view taken by the General Conference itself, as
exemplified by the usage and practice of that body. In 1820
they set off to the British Conference of Wesleyan Methodists
the several circuits and societies in Lower Canada. And in 1828
they separated the Annual Conference of Upper Canada from
their jurisdiction, and erectea the same into a distinct and independent church. These instances, togeiier with the present
division, in 1844, furnish evidence of the opinions of the eminent
and experienced men of this church in these several conferences,
of the power claimed, which, if the question was otherwise
doubtful, should be regarded as decisive in favpr of it. We
will arid, that all the northern bishops, five in number, in coun,il in July, 1845, acting under the plan of separation, regarded
,t as of binding obligation, and conformed their action accord-ngly.
It has also been urged on the part of the defendants that the
livision of the church, according to the plan of the separation,
was made to depend not only upon the determination of the
southern annual conferences, but also upon the consent of the
annual conferences north, as well as south, to a change of the
sixth restrictive article, and as this was refused, the division
which took place was unauthorized. But this is a misapprehension. The change of this article was not made a condition
of the division. That depended alone upon the decision of the
southern conferences.
The division of the Methodist Episcopal Church having thus
taken place, in pu-rsuanc6 of the proper authority, it carried
with it, as mattet of law, a division of -the common property
belonging to the ecclesiastical organization, and especially of
the property in this Book Concern, wlich belonged to the
travelling preachers. It would be strange if it could be otherwise, as it respects the Book Concern, inasmuch as the division
of the association was effected under the authority of a body of
preachers who were themselves the proprietors and founders
of the fund.
It has been argued, however, that, according to the plan of
separation, the division of the property in this Book Concern
was made to depend upon the vote of the annual conferences
to change the sixth restrictive a-ticle, and that whatever might
be the legal effect of the division of the church upon the com-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

309

Smith Ct al. v. Swormstedt etal.

mon property otherwise, this stipulation controls it and prevents
a division till the consent is obtained.
We do not so understand the plan of separation. It admits
the right of the church south to its share of the common property, in case of a separation, and provides for a partition of it
among the two divisions, upon just and equitable principles;
but, regarding the sixth restrictive article as a limitation upon
the power of the 'General Conference, as it respected a division
of the property in the Book Concern, provision is made to obtain a removal of it. The removal of this limitation is not a
condition to the right of the church south to its share of the
property, but is a step taken in order to enable the General
Conference to complete the partition of the property.
We will simply add, that as a division of the common property followed, as matter of law, a division of the church organization, nothing short of an agreement or stipulation of the
church south to give up their share of it, could preclude the
assertion of their right; and, it is quite clear, no such agreement or stipulation is to be found in the plan of separation.
The contrary intent is manifest fiom a perusal of it.
\Without pursuing the case further, our conclusion is, that the
complainants and those they represent, are entitled. to their
share of the property in this Book Concern. And the proper
decree will be entered to carry this decision into effect.
The complainants represent, not only all the beneficiaries in
the division of the church south, but also the General Conference and the annual conferences of the same. The share therefore of this Book Concern belonging to the beneficiaries in that
church, and which its authorities are entitled to the safekeeping and charge of, for their benefit, may be properly paid
over to the complainants as the authorized agents for this purpose.
We shall accordingly direct a decree to be entered reversing
the decree of the court bielow, and remanding the proceedings to
that court, directing a decree to be ,vntered for the complainants
against the defendants; and a reference of the case to a master
to tale dn account of the property belonging to the Book Con('_rn, and report to the court its cash value, and to ascertain the
portion belonging to the complainants, vhich portion shall bear
to the -whole amount of the fund thq proportion that "he travelling preachers in the division of the church south bore to the
travelling preachers in the church north, at the time of the
division of said church. And on the coming in of the report,
and confirmation of the same, a decree shall be entered in favor
of the complainants for that amount.

SUPREME

COURT.

Smith et al. v. Swormstodt et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is ordered, adjudgcd, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed and annulled. And this court doth further
find, adjudge, and decree:
1. That, under the resolutions of the General Conference of
the Methodist Episcopal Church, holden at the city of New
York, according to the usage and discipline of said church,
passed on the eighth day of Jilne, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and fortyfour, (in the pleadings mentioned,) it was, among other things; and in virtue of the power
of the said General Conference, well agreed and determined by
the Methodist Episcopal Church in the United States of America, as then existing, that, in case the annual conferences in
the slaveholding States should find it nezessary to unite in a
distinct ecclesiastical connection, the ministers, local and travelling, of every grade and office, in the Methodist Episcopal
Church, might attach themselves to suca new ecclesiastical
connection, without blame.
2. That the said annual conferences in the slaveholding
States did find and determine that it was right, expedient, and
necessary to erect the annual conferences last aforesaid into a
distinct ecclesiastical connection, based upon the discipline of
the Methodist Episcopal Church aforesaid, comprehending the
doctrines and entire moral and ecclesiastical rules and regulations of the said discipline, (except only in so far as verbal
alterations might be necessary to, or for a distinct organization,)
which new ecclesiastical connection was to be known by the
name and style of the Methodist Episcopal Church Souath; and
that the Methodist EpiscQpal Church South was duly organized
under said resolutions of the said General Conference, and the
said decision of said annual conferences last aforesaid, in a
convention thereof held at Louisville, in the State of Kentucky,
in the month of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and forty-five.
3. That, by force of the said resolutions of June the eighth,
eighteen hundred and forty-four, and of the authority and power
of the said General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
Church as then existing, by which the same were adopted, and
by virtue of the said finding and determination of the said annual conferences in the slaveholding States therein mentioned,
and by virtue of the organization of suca conferences into a

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

311

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

distinct ecclesiastical connection as last aforesaid: the religious
association known as the Methodist Episcopal Church in the
-nited States of America as then existing, was divided into
two associations, or distinct Methodist.Episcopal-Churches, as
in the bill of complaint is alleged.
4. That the property denoininated the Methodist Book Concern at Cincinnati, in the pleadings mentioned, was, at the time
of said division, and immediately before, a fund subject to-the
following use -that is to say, that the profits arising therefrom,
after retaining a sufficient capital. to carry on the bu'siness thereof, were to be regularly applied towards the support of the deficient travelling, supernumerary, superannuated, and worn out
preachers of the Methodist Episcopal Church, their wives,
widows, and children, according to the rules and discipline of
said church; and that the said fund and property are held under
the act of incorporation in the said answer mentioned, by the
said defendants, Leroy Swormstedt and John H. Power, as
agents of said Book Concern, and in trust for the purposes
thereof.
5. That, in virtue of the said division of said Methodist Episcopal Church in the United States, the deficient, travelling,
superrumerary, superannuated, and worn out preachers, their
wives, widows, and children comprehended in, or in connection
with, the Methodist Episcopal Church South, were, are, and
continue to be beneficiaries of the said Book Concern to the
same exteni, and as fully as if the said division had not taken
place, and in the same manner and degree as persons of the
same description who are comprehended in, or in connection
with, the other association, denominated since the division of
the Methodist Episcopal Church; and that as well the principal
as the profits of said Book Concern, since said division, should
of right be administered and managed by the respective general
and annual conferences of the said two associations and
churches, under the separate organizations thereof, and according to the shares or proportions of the same as hereinafter mentioned, and in conformity with the'rules and discipline of said
respective associations, so as to carry out the purposes and
trusts aforesaid.
6. That so much of the capital and property of said Book
Concern at Cincinnati, wherever situate, and so much of the
produce and profits thereof as may not have been heretofore
accounted for to said church south, in the New York case
hereinafter mentioned, or otherwise, shall be paid to said
church south, according to the rate and proportions following,
that is to say, in respect to the capital, such share or part, as.
corresponds with the proportion which the number of the travel-

SUPREME

COURT.

Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al.

ling preachers in the annual conferences which formed themselves. into the Methodist Episcopal Church South, bore to the
number of all the travelling preachers of the Methodist Episcopal Church before The division thereof, which numbers shall be
fixed and ascertained as they are shown by the minutes of the
several annual conferences next preceding the said division
and new organization in the month of May, A. D. eighteen
hundred and forty-five.
And in respect to the produce or profits, such share or part
as the number of annual conferences which formed themselves
into the Methodist Episcopal Church Soiith bore, at the time
of said division, in May, A. D. 1845, to the whole number of
annual conferences then being in the Methodist Episcopal
Church, excluding the Liberia Conference: so that the division
or apportionment of said produce and profits shall be had by
conferences, and not by numbers of the travelling preachers.
7. That said payment of capital and profits, according to the
ratios of apportionment so declared, shall be made and paid to
the said Smith, Parsons, and Green, as commissioners aforesaid, or their successors, on behalf of said church south and the
beneficiaries therein, or to such other person or persons as may
be thereto authorized by the General Conference of said church
south,,the same to be subsequently managed and administered
so as to carry out the trusts and uses afore said, according to the
discipline of said church south, and the regulations of the
General Conference thereof.
8. And in order more fully to carry out the matters hereinbefore settled and adjudged, it is further ordered and decreed, that
this cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court for further
procebdings -that is to say,
That the same be referred to a master to take and state an
account as follows:
(1.) Of the amount and value of the said Book Concern at
Cincinnati, on the first day of May, 1845, and of what specific
property and effects (according to a general description or
classification thereof) the same then consisied, whether composed
of real or personal estate, and of whatever nature or description
the same may have been; and a similar account as of the date
or time when the said master shall take this account.
(2.) Of the produce and profits of said Book Concern, from
the time of the General Conference of May, 1844, as reported
thereto, (if so reported,) up to the time of the said division in
May, 184.5, and from the last-mentioned date down to the time
of making up his report: specifying how much of said profits
and produce have been transferred to said Book Concern, at
New York, and accounted for to said church south in the

DECEM.BER TERM, 1853.

313

'Smith et al. v. Swormstedt ct al.

settlement of the case there; and how much remains to be accounted for to said church south on the basis settled by this
decree.
And in taking said accounts, and in the execution of said
reference, the said defendants shall produce, on oath, all deeds,
accounts, books of account, instruments, reports, letters, and
copies of letters, memoranda, documents, and writings, whatever
pertinent to said reference, in their possession or control, and
the said defendants may be examined, on oath, on the said
reference; and each party may produce evidence before the
master, and have process to compel the attendance of witnesses.

And the said master is further directed, in respect to any annual profits of sajd concern, not heretofore accounted for to said
church south, to allow to said church south interest at the
rate of 6 per cent. upon such unpaid balances from the date at
which the same ought to have been paid.
And in respect to all the costs in this case, including the
costs of the reference, and all other costs from the commencement of the case until its conclusion, and in respect to the fees
of counsel and solicitors therein, of both parties, so far as the
same may be reasonable, and in respect of just and necessary
expenses, as well of plaintiffs as of defendants in conducting
the suit, the same ought to be paid out of said Book Concern,
and a common charge thereon, before apportionment and division, and the master is accordingly directed to allow and pay
the same to the respective parties entitled thereto, and then to
apportion the residue according to the principles fixed in this
decree.
And the master is further directed to return his report to the
said Circuit Court with all convenient despatch, which court
shall then proceed to enforce the payment of whatever sum or
sums may be found due to said church south, on the confirmation of the master's report, in such instalments as may be by
said court adjudged reasonable, each party having due opportunity of excepting tc the master's report; and all questions
arising upon said report, and not settled by this decree, may be
moved before said Circuit Court, to which court either party
shall be at liberty to apply on the footing of this decree.

VOL. XVI.

