DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

513

Irwin v. The United States.

beyond the boundary line, settled by the survey of the United
States under the first section of the 'act of 1812.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
remanded.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on -the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis-

trict of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court with

directions.to award a venire facias de novo.

JAMES IRWIN, APPELLANT, v. THE UNITED

'TATES.

On 6th November, 186, W. F. Hamilton, William V. Robinson, and wife, by dged,
conveyed to the United States " the right and privilege to use, divert, and carry away
from the fountain spring, by which the woollen factory of the said Hamilton & Robinson is now supplied, so much water as will pass through a pipe or tube of equal
diameter with one that shall convey the water from the said spring, upon the same
level therewith, to the factory of the said gr.ntors, and to proceed from a eommoq
cistern or head to be erected by the said United States, and to convey and conduct
the same, by tubes or pipes, through the premises of the said grantors in a direct
line. &c. &c.
The distance to which the United States wished to carry their share of the water
being much greater than that of the other party, it was necessary, according to the
principlei of hydraulics, to lay down pipes of a larger bore than those of the other
party, in order to obtain one half of the water.
The grantors were present when the pipes were laid down in this way, and made no
objection. It will not do for an assignee, whose deed recognizes the title of the
United States to one half of the water, now to disturb the arrangement.
Under the circumstances, the construction to be given to the deed is, that the United
States purehased'a right to one half of the water, and had a right to lay down such
pipes as were necessary to secure that object.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
The facts were these:
On 6th November, 1836, W. F. Hamilton, William V. Robinson, and dre, by deed, conveyed to the United States "the right
and privilege to use, divert, and carry away from the fountain
spring by which the woollen factory of the said Hamilton &
Robinson is now supplied, so much water as will pass through

514

SUPRE31E

COURT.

Irwin v. The United States.

a pipe or tube of equal diameter with one that shall convey the
water from the said spring, upon the same level therewith, to
the factory of the said grantors, and to prc ceed from a common
cistern or head to be erected by the said 'United States, and to
convey and conduct the same, by tubes or pipes, through the
premises of the said grantors in a direct line, or as nearly as
practicable thereto; and the privilege of entering upon the premises of the said grantors for laying, and -when necessary altering, the said pipes, or repairing them; -also the privilege of
erecting and repairing the said cistern or xeservoir, or other
erection as may be deemed necessary for preserving the said
water for the use aforesaid, and all other rights and privileges
and assigns."
in common with said grantors, their heirs
The United States proceeded to lay down the pipes in the
manner described in the following testimony, which was given
by Mr. Bates.
Giles S. Bates being produced on part of complainant, and
sworn, says: I was employed at the United States arsenal, at
Lawrenceville, Alleghany county, Pennsylvania, for about sixteen years; I ceased to be employed there about the last of
June, 1852. I know the spring from which the arsenal is supplied with water, on the land of Samuel H. Kellar; it is the
same spring from which Mr. James Irwin's factory is supplied;
the distance from the spring to the reservoir of the arsenal is
five hundred and forty-seven yards or thereabouts; the ground
is somewhat- broken or uneven. There are three ravines; the
first ravine, from summit to summit, is about two hundred feet
wide, and from twenty-five to thirty feet deep; the second is.
about one hundred feet wide and about ifteen feet deep; the
third is about fifty feet wide and from eight to ten feet deep,
that is the width and depth at the point where the United States
pipes pass; the pipes follow the inequaLties of the ground;
they are about three feet below the surface of the ground, from
that to four feet; the pipe from the spring to the reservoir is
two-and-a-half bore pipe; the copper pipe connecting the iron
pipe with the cistern is two inches and live eighths, and about
one foot long; the hole through the body of the cistern is one
inch in diameter; the copper pipe is bolted to the cistern by a
flange; the hole through which the water passes to supply iAfr.
Irwin's works is the same size as the one through which it passes
to supply the arsenal, and the two holes are on the same level.
I was in the employment of the United States when the pipes
referred to for the supply of the arsenal were laid; I was present
most of the time while they were laying them; they are the
same pipes which are now in use; they have been in use since
1837. I saw Mr. William V. Robinson present on two occasions

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

515

Irwin v. The United States.

when the pipes were being laid; he was present with Colonel
Baker; I heard him express no dissatisfaction; they appeared
to have a perfect understanding in the arrangement, and that
arrangement is the one now in use. I was and am still'under
the impression that the copper pipe was an inch one originally,
but I am not positive; with that exception the arrangement is
now as it was then. I do not know of any change in the size
of the pipe since; some pipes were put down to secure the airvalve, but no alteration in the size of the pipe; any deposits in
the pipes collect in the ravines, and when the air gets into the
pipes from the cistern it has to be drawn out at these air-valves
in order to fill the pipes; the amount of water discharged at the
reservoir would fill a three-quarter inch pipe. I have had partial
charge for some time of the work; have been frequently at the
spring; assisted to clear the pipes of air and to fill them. The
ground where the United States pipe crosses from the ground
of ir. Irwin is about fifteen feet higher than where the pipe
discharges its contents at Mr. Irwin's factory; the ground ihrough
which the pipe passes from the spring to lMr. Irwin's factory is
a regular slope. The distance from the spring to where the
United States pipe passes from! MIr. Irwin's land is greater.than
from the spring to Mr. Irwin's factory; it is hardly one third of
the distance to the reservoir; the body or rim of the cistern
through which the inch hole passes, is about seven eighths thick.
Question. 'When the United States arsenal and Mr. Irwin's
factory are both in operation, what is the relative amount of
water drawn off by the pipes of each?
I believe the amount to be about equal.
Gross examined. I do not know that the ravines spoken of
would make any difference in the flow of the water, provided
there was a sufficient head at the spring to exclude the air from
the pipe; if air was admitted into the pipe, I am of opinion
that the water would still continue to flow, but to a limited extent.
We can see the water flowing from"the United States pipe
into the reservoir. 'When the reservoir was first established, the
pipe discharged about four feet from the bottom of the reservoir,
and I have frequently seen the water discharging into the reseroir from the pipe. That mode of discharging was discontinued
between seven and eight years ago. It discharged through a
brass cock, two-inch bore. The United States used the water
for ornamental purposes on the parade at intervals for a number
of years, when the supply of water would permit. The centres
of the holes in the cistern from which the water is taken to the
reservoir and to Mr. Irwin's factory, are on the same level, -and
the centres of the pipes are on the same level, but'thie difference

. 516

SUPREME

COURT.

Irwin v. The United States.

in the diameter of the pipes throws the United States pipe
about three fourths of an inch below Mr. Irwin's pipe. The
diameter of Mr. Irwin's pipe is an inch boe, I should judge.
Direct. I think the deposit of sediment in the pipe in the
ravines would obstruct the water, unless there was a sufficient
draft in the pipe to draw it out. I know that sediment has collected in the pipe in the bottom of the large ravine. The sediment was a kind of sand, oxide of iron, and of a muddy nature.
Cross examined. I only know of sediment having collected
in the pipe once so as to require opening luring the time I was
at the arsenal. The air-valves spoken of were constructed to
insure a continuous flow of water, and in order-to draw off the
foul air and allow the water to flow; and they answered the
purpose of their construction. The discharge of the water into
the reservoir from the two-inch cock is from a half to three
quarters of an inch. If the pipe used by the United States had
been of lead instead of iron, the obstruction from sediment
would probably not have been as great. There is quite a sediment comes from the water of this spring. We used it in our
boilers at the public works, and found it quite objectionable
from the accumulation of sediment -of fine sand. We have
been compelled to clean out the reservoir from sediment, but I
cannot say whether it has been necessary to clean out the cistern at the spring or not.
Direct.- The flow of water mentioned as coming from the
brass cock at the reservoir was the entire supply received from
G. S. BATES.
the spring.
On the 13th of January, 1842, Robinson and Hamilton conveyed their interest to James Caldwell, whose interest was
conveyed by the sheriff to William Black, in December, 1843.
On the 30th of January, 1848, Black conveyed to Irwin (the
appellant) by deed, reciting all the mes ae conveyances, and
among them the deed from William F. Hamilton and William V
Robinson and wife, "to the United States of America, for privilege of one half the spring, &c., dated 23th November, A. D.
1836, and recorded in Book C, ad p. 480."
On the 16th of January, 1852, the said James Irwin (now
appellant) gave the notice to Major Bell, of the Alleghany arsenal, alleging that the government have in use a pipe to convey
the water from the spring to the arsenal, "which is over four
times the capacity of that contracted for." . .. "That unless
some satisfactory proposition be made by the government
within thirty days, I will cut off the pipe referred to."
Instead of a proposition to purchase, the United States exhibited their bill, and obtained an injunction.

DECEMBER TERM, 18.3.

517

Irwin-v. The United States.

The bill sets forth the agreement, &c.
And claims that after the parties have respectively drawn off
their several shares, by holes or tubes inserted in said vessej, of
equal diameter and on the same level, they may then carry
away the water by a pipe or pipes of such size and diameter as
they may respectively think proper to adopt.
It-further charges that the defendant, at the time of his purchase, knew the extent of the complainants' right, under their
said deed, and was well aware that it conferred on them a right
to one half of the water of the said spring.
The answer admits the agreement, and asserts that although
the complainants were permitted by the said Hamilton & Robinson to lay down their pipes of a dimension far. exceeding
those which had been at any time used to convey the said water
to their factory, the same was. permitted because the said grantors were not carrying on business at the said factory, or using
the said water for the purposes thereof, and with the understanding that the license thus temporarily accorded should not be
taken to operate in any way to the enlargement of the rights of
the complainants, or to the prejudice of those of the grantors;
that the defendant was not advised, at the time of his purchase,
of the dimensions of the complainants' pipes, or that they were
exceeding their rightsf- and had no means of ascertaining the
same, but was induced to suppose, from the dimensions of the
venit or orifice, that the pipes which were concealed from view
were entirely correspondent therewith:
And further, that the recital in defendant's deed is not to be
taken either as an interpretation of the original grant, or the
admission of a right, on the part of complainants, to one
half of the water, or as operating, or intended to operate, as an
enlargement of the grant, because no part of the said water was
used by the party under whom he claims, and the said conveyance is set forth merely as a part of the chain of title, and with
express reference to the deed itself. and the record thereof, for
the details, both of which manifestly show that the same was a
misdescription or a mistake of the scrivener in the recital thereof,
and no way affecting the conveyance to the defendant, which
is of the whole interest of the grantor:
And further, that although his immediate grantor may have
labored under such an impression, neither he nor the defendant,
who is his assignee, is to be concluded or affected by any mistake in regard to his rights in a conveyance to which the complainants were neither parties or privies.
The answer further admits that the complainants did enter
and construct a common vessel or reservoir, as alleged -that
the same was pierced with two circular holes, of equal diameter
VOL. xvI
44

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. The United States.

and elevation, for the use of the respective parties, and that the
complainants did proceed to lay through the premises of the
grantors a pipe for the conveyance of the water from one of the

said hbles or orifices.
It denies, however, that the said cistern was pierced at any
time with any tubes whatever, or that complainants laid down,
through the premises of the grantors, an:y pipes or tubes of a
dimension corresponding with either of the said holes or orifices,
or of equal diameter with the tubes or pipes which were used
for supplying the works or factory of the grantors; but avers to
the contrary, that although the pipe or tube which was then
used and continued to be used, for the purpose of supplying the
factory of the grantors, has at no time e:ceeded the diameter
of one inch, and has conformed precisely to the position and
level of one of the said holes or orifices, the said complainants
have laid down and are now using, throug a the premises of the
defendant, a tube of the diameter of two and a half inches,
with a capacity more than six times that of the tube used by
the defendant, and not conforming in its lEvel or elevation with
either of the orifices aforesaid, but affixed to the exterior circumference or rim of the said cistern in such manner as to
extend below the said orifice, and to increase the weight or head
of water about seven eighths of an inch over and above that
of the defendant.
The above are the material facts of the answer.
To this answer a general replication was filed, and the cause
sent to an examiner; and on the" 19th of November, 1852, the
cause came on to be heard on bill, answer, exhibits, replication,

and testimony, and was argued by counsel, and upon consideration thereof, the court awarded a perpetual injunction against
the defendant, as prayed, with costs.
Whereupon the defendant entered this appeal from the said
lecree.

It was argued by .1T1h Wylie and 1r. Ritchie, upon a brief
prepared by Mr. Irwin, for the appellant, and by .Mr. Cushing,
(Attorney-General,) for tht 'United States.
The following extracts from the brief filed by the counsel for
the appellant, will show their views;
The learned judge who decided the case below was of opinion
that the words of the deed imported a conveyance of one half
of the water.

It is most certain, however -and so much is admitted by the
learned judge himself-that there is notlin 6- in the terms of the
deed, or, to use his own language, " inso many words," to convey such an interest.

DECEMBER. TERM, 1853.

519

Irwin v. The United States.

It is not less certain that if such was the intent of the parties,
it might have been precisely indicated by the obvious, easy, and
familiar form of expression which the occasion would naturally
and almost necessarily have suggested.
And the presumption is, that it would have been so indicated,
instead of either resorting to a standard which was erroneous,
or clouding the meaning with a periphrasis.
It is a part of the case, however, that a tube or pipe leading
to the arsenal of the complainants, of equal diameter with that
used to convey the water to the factory of the grantors, will not
deliver more than a fractional part of the water conveyed by
the latter; and that this is the result of a law of hydraulics
which every man, and certainly every agent of the government, is bound to know.
It is also to be taken as a part of the case that the localities
of the several properties, and the distance to which the water
was to be 'conveyed or at all events to the premises of the
grantee, were well understood by the parties, and of course a
plea of ignorance of the facts would be as unavailable to the
complainants, as the more discreditable plea of ignorance of a
natural law.
It is incontrovertible, therefore, that if only a fractional part
of the water delivered to the grantors could be conveyed by the
means agreed on, to the premises of the grantees, then it was
just that portion, and no more, that was intended to be conveyed
to the complainants.
Nor is it any answer to say that the grant would be rendered
illusory, and the object of the grantee defeated thereby. There
is nothing in the deed to indicate either the quantity of water
required, or the purpose for which it was destined, and although
it might be convenient or even necessary for the government to
enlarge the supply, this court can make no new contract for the
parties by the substitution of terms which they have not thought
proper to use. There Is no ambiguity in the language, and in
such case it is a maxim of the law that no construction can be
inado against the words. And yet it is by such a process of
change and substitution that it is now sought to escape from
the consequences of what is considered a hard bargain for the
government.
The effect moreover of the departure on the part of the complainants, from the terms'of the contract, and the simple and
easy rule which it prescribes, is to produce irregularity in the
flow, and to render every thing uncertain. No witness, examined by the government, has undertaken to speak with any
degree of precision in regard to the comparative quantities of
water drawn thr6ugh the two pipes. They suppose them to be

520

SUPREM1E COURT.
Irwin v. The United States.

"near about equal," but they admit that "the flow of water
through the complainants' pipe is much greater at some times
than at others, and that this does occur frequently ;" and that
"at times the complainants' pipe draws more water than that
of the defendaiit, and at times -it loses, so that the quantity
drawn by both pipes is near about equal."
The facts of irregularity and occasional advantage are thus
admitted, ini connection with the liability to abuse, and the impossibility of precise measurement, and of course of detection or
correction - an objection which led the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania to hold, in the case cited from Wharton, that a
circular aperture could not be substituted for a square.
It-is sufficient, however, for our case - even though the court
were right in their-construction of the deed -that the arrange.
ment was such as to deprive us of our share of the water at any
time. We are entitled to it at all times. We arb not to be put
off with a mere average-

principle which would authorize

the government to take the whole of the water for one half the
year, provided it allowed us the whole for the other.
But there is another violation of the contract- supposing
even the construction of the court to be the correct one -in the
position of the copper adjutage, as well as in the level and inclination of the distributing pipes. The deed provides that the
complainants' pipe shall be upon the same level with thal which
shall convey the water to the factory of the grantors. The copper adjutage is however~seven eighths of an inch below, while
the point of discharge is lower by at least sixty- perhrps one
hundred feet - thus conferring the twofold advantage of a
greater head and a more rapid chute.
Supposing however that the water was, by the terms of the
contract, to be gauged by equal orifices, it has been settled, as
already shown, by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the
case of the Schuylkill Navigation Company v. Mloore, that n.o
artificial contrivance can be resorted to, for the purpose of increasing the volume of discharge at the point of delivery.
It remains, then, only to consider the supplementary reasons
by which it is sought to supply any possible insufficiency in the
terms of the contract. They are
1st. The construction supposed to have been given to it.by
the parties themselves, as shown by the assertion of a larger
right in the laying of the present pipes with the knowledge and
without any objection on the part of one of the grantors; and
2d. The recital in the deed of William Black to the de,
fendant.
I pass over the suggestion in regard to the rule that the "words
are to be taken most strongly against the grantor," which is

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

521

Irwin v. The 'United States.

hinted at as a possible though unnecessary resort in the present
case. That rule, which is one of great rigor, applies only to
cases of ambiguity in the words, or where the exposition is necessary to give them effect, and is only to be resorted to when
all other rules of exposition fail. 2 Kents Com. 556. And it is
now superseded by the more reasonable practice of giving to
the language its just sense, 'and searching for its precise meaning. Ibid.
To the argument, however, drawn from the fact that the present pipes were laid without objection, I reply
1st. That there is no ambiguity which would authorize an
appeal to the acts of the parties themselves for the purpose of
giving a construction to their contract. In the case even of a
patent ambiguity the deed must speak for itself. It is not pretended that there is any which is latent, and which parol evidence might therefore raise and remove.
2d. That the evidence shows that the factory never went into
operation after the purchase by the United States, and no inference is therefore to be drawn to the prejudice of the defendant
from the acquiescence of the grantors. If such inference might
thus be drawn, then by the same process the rights of the
grantors might be taken as altogether abdicated by mere nonuser, and a mere temporary parol license without consideration,
be regarded as an absolute conveyance of the entire fee.
3d. That the right, being an incorporeal one, could only pass
by grant or prescription, which presupposes it. Callen v. Hocker.
1 Rawle, 108.
4th. That the evidence shows further that the copper pipe
was a one-inch .bore originally; while, on the other hand, there
is no evidence that either the grantors or their assigns were ever
advised of the change.
Then as to the recital in the deed, the answer is,
1st. That the conveyance is of the whole interest held by
Black, which was the entire estate of the original grantors; and
the recital is not even a descriptioll of the property intended to
be conveyed, but a mere enumeration of sundry deeds with a
reference, for their contents, to the records themselves, which
exhibit a clear case of mistake.
2d. That if the said Black was even mistaken as to the extent
of his right, it was entirely "res inter alias acta," and cannot
either compromise that right or enlarge the terms of a grant
made to a third person, between whom and the immediate
grantor of the defendant there was no priority whatever. And
3d. That the inference that the defendant knew that he was
buying only one half of the water right, is entirely gratuitous,
neither warranted by any evidence in the cause nor by any just
44 *

522

SUPREME

COUBIT.

Irwin v. The United States.

view of the law. The conveyance was cf the whole estate of
the grantors, &c., and there is no lawyer who would not have
advised him that it would paso, notwithstanding a mistake in
his references or a misdescription of any of his deeds.
Mr.Citshing, (Attorney-General,) contended that, the title
deed to the United States shovs they are entitled to the use
of one half of the water; the title paper of the appellant, Irwin,
shows the same; the proof shows that the pipes of the United
States and of the lappellant convey an equal quantity of water,
and that the threat of the appellant to cut away the pipe was
without any just cause, designed, as the bill charges, to compel
the UJnited States to purchase of the said Intvin the residue of
the water at an exorbitant price.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the. court.
The appellant, James Irwin, was respo-ident below to a bill
filed by the United States, in the nature of a I ill " qia timet,"
in which Irwin was charged with threatening t. cut off certain
pipes conveying water to the United States Ai6enal, near Pittsburg. The whole merits of the 'case are involved in the construction to be put on a certain deed under which the United
States claimed to have a right to "one half of the water" delivered from a certain spring or reservoir. The parties both claim
under William F. Hamilton and W. V. Robinson, who conveyed
to the United States "the right and privilege-to use, divert, and
carry away from the fountain spring, &c., by which the woollen
factory of grantors is now supplied, so much water as wAll pass
through a pipe or tube of equal diameter, with one that shall
convey the water from the said spring, :.pon the same level
therewith to the factory of said grantors, and to proceed from a
common cistern or head to be erected by the said United States,
and to convey and conduct the same through the premises of
the said grantors, &e."
This grant to the United States was made in November,
1836, for the consideration of $2,500. Without stating, in so
many words, that the water from the common cistern is to be
divided equally, or each to have one half, this deed points out
a mode of equal distribution at the cistern. The water is to be
delivered to each by a pipe or t'uhe of equal diameter at the
same level. The mode of conducting it by either party to the
place of its use is not prescribed. Each might have had his
share delivered into a tank or cistern of his own placed along
side of the common cistern, which would have been probably
the best plan. The United States were permitted to conduct
their share of the water through the lands of the grantors "by

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Irwin v. The United States.

tubes or pipes" without any restriction as to the size of them.
The distance from the common cistern to the arsenal of the
United State., where their share of the water was to be conducted,
is four times as great as that to the grantors' premises. Owing
to friction, and other causes, explained by the witnesses, it was
proved that the flow of water in equal tubes is in the inverse
ratio of the squares of the distances. Hence an orifice or tube
capable of receiving and passing equal quantities at the fountainhead, if continued of the same size to the place of delivery,
would have distributed to the United States about one sixteenth
and to the vendors fifteen sixteenths. In fact, from the unevenness of the ground over which the water must necessarily flow
to the arsenal, and the quantity of deposit made in its course,
such a construction of the contract would leave the United
States very frequently, if not always, without any water at all.
The grantors in the deed had no intention of overreaching
the grantees, by taking advantage of their want of knowledge of
the science of hydraulics, or claiming a construction of their
deed which would give their grantees nothing, and thus allow
the grantors to again extort from the necessities of the government a double price.
Robinson, one of the grantors, was examined by the appellant as a witness, and swore that one half the water was sold,
and one half reserved, "that such was the agreement." This
was the practical (and only reasonable) construction put on the
grant by both parties at the time itwas made; and, accordingly
the officers of the United States proceeded to make a common
cistern, and to ascertain the size of two tubes sufficient to convey the whole water held in common, and distribute it equally
the vendors to convey their share in pipes of any
-leaving
size they saw fit, they used pipes to convey the water to the
arsenal of such size as was deemed necessary from the distance
and nature of the ground. The vendors looked on, assisted and
acquiesced in all that wvias done. If the deed were ambiguous,
and capable of a construction, which would permit one party
to overreach and defraud the other; if there were no such rule
of law as that which gives a construction to a deed most favorable to the grantee; yet we have here a practical construction by
the vendor and vendee made on the ground, and acquiesced in
for sixteen years. The appellant's deed from an assignee of the
original vendors, carefully refers to this sale to the United
States, as a sale "of one half of the water." We are of opinion,
therefore, that a reasonable construction of the deed to the United States, having reference to the principles of hydraulics, necessarily requires that each party should have half the water,
and conduct it in sach pipes as they see fit and proper: and

SUPREME

COURT.

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

also, that assuming the deed to be capable of the construction
contended for, the parties to it have construed it honestly and
correctly; and that this practical construction having been acquiesced in by all parties interested for sixteen years, is conclusive. The appellant, whose deed purports to convey to him but
one half the water, cannot now claim to put a new construction
on the grant to the appellees which would give them nothing
for the large consideration paid, and the appellant all for nothing. However plausible and astute the reasoning may be, on
which such a claim is founded, it does not recommend itself on
the ground of justice or equity.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, witb
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said -Circuit Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby afflimed.

TIMOTHY

FANNING,

APPELLANT, V. CHARLES
CHARLES BOGG.

GREGOIRE AND

In 1838, the Ldgislature of the Territory of Iowa authorized Fanning, his heirs and
assigns, to establish and keep a ferry aqross the Mlissi.;sippi river, at the town of
Dubuque, for the term of twenty years ; and enacted further, that no court or board
of county commissioners should authorize any person to keep a ferry within the
limits of the town of Dubuque.
In 1840, Fanning was authorized to keep a horse ferry-boat instead of a steamboat.
In 1847, the General Assembly of the State of Iowa passed an act to incorporate the
city of Dubuque, the fifteenth section of which enacted that ther city council
shall have power to license and establish ferries across the Mississippi river, from
said city to the opposite shore, and to fix the rates of the same.
In 1851, the mayor of Dubuque, acting by the authority of the city council, granted
a license to G1regoire (whose agent Bogg was) to keel) a ferry for six years from
the 1st of April, 1852, upon certain payments and conditions.
The right granted to Fanning was not exclusive of such it license as this. The prohibition to license another ferry did not extend to the legislature, nor to the city
council, to whom the legislature had delegated its power.
Nor was it necessary for the city council to act by an ordiniance in the case. Corporations can make contracts through their agents without the formalities which
the old rules of law required.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa.

