SUPREME

COURT.

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

also, that assuming the deed to be capable of the construction
contended for, the parties to it have construed it honestly and
correctly; and that this practical construction having been acquiesced in by all parties interested for sixteen years, is conclusive. The appellant, whose deed purports to convey to him but
one half the water, cannot now claim to put a new construction
on the grant to the appellees which would give them nothing
for the large consideration paid, and the appellant all for nothing. However plausible and astute the reasoning may be, on
which such a claim is founded, it does not recommend itself on
the ground of justice or equity.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, witb
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said -Circuit Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby afflimed.

TIMOTHY

FANNING,

APPELLANT, V. CHARLES
CHARLES BOGG.

GREGOIRE AND

In 1838, the Ldgislature of the Territory of Iowa authorized Fanning, his heirs and
assigns, to establish and keep a ferry aqross the Mlissi.;sippi river, at the town of
Dubuque, for the term of twenty years ; and enacted further, that no court or board
of county commissioners should authorize any person to keep a ferry within the
limits of the town of Dubuque.
In 1840, Fanning was authorized to keep a horse ferry-boat instead of a steamboat.
In 1847, the General Assembly of the State of Iowa passed an act to incorporate the
city of Dubuque, the fifteenth section of which enacted that ther city council
shall have power to license and establish ferries across the Mississippi river, from
said city to the opposite shore, and to fix the rates of the same.
In 1851, the mayor of Dubuque, acting by the authority of the city council, granted
a license to G1regoire (whose agent Bogg was) to keel) a ferry for six years from
the 1st of April, 1852, upon certain payments and conditions.
The right granted to Fanning was not exclusive of such it license as this. The prohibition to license another ferry did not extend to the legislature, nor to the city
council, to whom the legislature had delegated its power.
Nor was it necessary for the city council to act by an ordiniance in the case. Corporations can make contracts through their agents without the formalities which
the old rules of law required.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

525

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

It originated in the State Court, called the District Court of
the County of Dubuque, and was transferred to the District
Court of the United States, at the instance of Gregoire and
Bogg, the.defendants. Gregoire was a citizen and resident of
Missouri, and Bogg of Illinois.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The District Court dismissed the petition of Fanning, with
costs, upon the ground that his ferry franchise was not exclusive, whereupon he appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Wilson, for the appellant, and by ir.
Platt Smith, for the appellees.
The points made by 31r. Wilson were the following.
The act of the Legislature of Iowa, entitled" An act to authorize Timothy Fanning to establish and keep a ferry across the
Mississippi river at the town of Dubuque,'! approved December 14th, 1838, gave said Fanning an exclusive right as against
any other ferry not established by a direct act of the legislature.
See that act in vol. 1st of Iowa Statutes, pages 205 and 206.
By the word "court," in the first line of the 2d section of
said act, is meant, Webster's definition of the word, "any juris.
diction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical." See Webster's Dictionary, definition of "court."
It did not mean a judicial tribunal. The legislature uses
the word as defined by Webster. See Iowa Laws, vol. 1st,
p. 208-9, where it is applied to a tribunal which could have no
judicial power. See Act of Congress organizing Iowa, published in the same book, p. 34, ยง 9.
The authority, by virtue of which the defendants claim the
right to carry on a ferry at the same place where Fannings
ferry is established, is derived from a contract between the
mayor and aldermen of the city of Dubuque, of the one part?
and A. L. Gregoire, of the other; the city authorities claim to
derive this power from ihe 15th section of an act of the Legislature of Iowa, to incorporate and establish the city of Dubuque, approved February 24, 1847.
If Fanning's charter was not exclusive, as contended for, and
if the city authorities could establish and license another, they
can only do so in the manner prescribed by. the act creating the
I
city, to wit, by ordinance. See ยง 15 of said city charter.
Sec. 20 of said city charter provides that every ordinance of
said city, before it shall be of any force or validity, or in any
manner binding on the inhabitants thereof, or others, shall bd
signed by the mayor and published in one or moie newspapers
in said city, at least six days.
The ferry of defendants was established by contract, and not
by ordifance.

526

SUPREME

COURT.

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

"A corporation can act only in the manner prescribed by the
act creating it." Chief J. Marshall, in HE ad & Amory v. Prov.
Ins. Co. 2 Cranch, 127, (1 Cond. 371); 4 Wheaton, 518, (4 Cond.
528); 12 Wheaton 64; 4 Peters, 152; 8 Wheaton, 338; 2
Scammon, 187.
The act of City Council of Dubuque establishing the ferry,
which the defendants claim to carry on, was null and void, and
confers upon them no ferry franchise, and the plaintiff's right to
maintain this action follows, as a matter of course.
"The owner of an old established ferry has a right of action
against him who, in his neighborhood, keeps a free ferry, or a
ferry-not authorized by the proper tribunal, whereby an injury
accrues to the owner of the established ferry." .Long v. Beard
3 Murph. 57.
MV~r. Srith divided his argument into the two following heads.
1. That the Legislature of Iowa had no right to grant such
an exclusive right as the one contended for. The argument
upon this head is omited for want of room.
2. But admit the power of the legislature to confine the
travelling public to horse-boat accommodation, still the words
of the act do not give an exclusive right; there are no words of
exclusion expressed, and nne should be implied. The act by
express terms prohibits courts and boards of commissioners
from granting other ferry rights, expressio unius est exclusio
alterius. The legislature were not excluded from giving the
city of Dubuque a right to license another ferry.
It is a well-settled principle of law that in construing government grants, the courts will construe them most strongly against
the grantee, and in favor of the grantor; that if the terms of the
grant are ambiguous, or admit of different meanings, that
meaning which is most favorable to the government will be
adopted, and no right or privilege will be deemed to be surrendered by implication. 2 Blackstone's Com. 347; 1 Kent's
Com. 460.
This proposition is sustained by numerous and well-adjudged
cases. In the case of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge
et al. 11 Peters, 420, Ch. J. Taney says: "The rule of construction
in such cases. is well settled, both in England and by the decisions of our own tribunals. In 2 Barn. & Adol. 793, (22 Eng.
Common Law, 185,) in the case of the Proprietors of the Stourbridge Canal v. Wheely and others, the court says, "The canal
having been made under an act of parliament, the rights of the
plaintiffs are derived entirely from that act. This, like many
other cases, is a bargain between a company of adventurers and
the public, the terms of which are expressed in the statute; and

DECEMBER

TERM1,

1853.

527

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

the rule of construction in all such cases is now fully established
to be this: that any ambiguity in the terms qf the contract
must operate against the adventurers, and in favor of the public,
and the plaintiffs can claim nothing that is not clearly given
them by the act." And the doctrine thus laid down is abundantly sustained by the authorities referred to in this decision.
But we are not now left to determine for the first time the rule
by which public grants are to be construed in this country.
The subject has already been considered in this court, and the
rule of construction, above stated, fully established. In the case
of the United States v. Aredondo, 6 Peters, 691, the leading
cases upon this subject are collected together by the learned
judge who delivered the opinion of the court, and the principle
recognized, that in grants by the public nothing passes by implication."
" When a corporation alleges that a State has surrendered
for seventy years its power of improvement and public accommodation, in a great and important line of travel, the community have a right to insist ' that its abandonment ought not to
be presumed in. a case in which the deliberate purpose of the
State to abandon it does not appear.' The continued existence
of a government would be of no great value, if, by implications
and presumptions, it was disarmed of the powers necessary to
accomplish the ends of its creation; and the functions it was
designed to perform transferred to the hands of privileged corporations. The rule of construction announced by the court
in 4 Peters, 514, was not confined to the taxing power; nor is it
so limited in the opinion delivered. On the contrary, it was
distinctly placed on the ground that the interests of the community were concerned in preserving undiminished the power
then in question; and whenever any power of the State is said
to be surrendered or diminished, whether it be the taxing poweror any other affecting the public interest, the same principle applies, and the rule of construction must be the same. No one
will question that the interests of the great body of the people
of the State would, in this instance, be affected by the surrender
of this line of travel to a single corporation, with the right to
exact toll and exclude competition for seventy years. While the

rights of private property are safely guarded, we must not forget that the community also have rights, and that the happiness
and well being of every citizen depend on their faithfufl preservation."
In the case of the Mohawk Bridge Co. v. The Utica and

Schenectady Railroad Co. 6 Paige's Ch. R, 554, it is held that
"the grant to a corporation of the right to erect a toll bridge
across a river, without any restriction as t
he rightof the

528

SUPREIE

COURT.

Fanning v. Gregoire et i1.

legislature to grant a similar privilege to others, does not deprive
a future legislature of the power to authorize the erection of
another toll bridge across the same river so near to the first as
to divert a part of the travel which would have crossed the river
on the first bridge if the last had not been erected."
" Grants of exclusive privileges, being in derogation of public
rights belonging to the State, or to its citizens generally, must
be construed strictly, and with reference to the intent and particular objects of the grant."
In the case of Barrett v. Stockton REilway Co. 40 Eng.
Com. Law, 208, the court held that, "'Where the language of an
act of parliament, obtained by a company for imposing a rate
of toll upon the public, is ambiguous, or will admit of different
meanings, that construction is to be adopted which is most favorable to the public." And the court refer to the general principle laid down by Lord Ellenborough, in his judgment in Gildart v. Gladstone, 11 East, 675, (an action for Liverpool dock
dues,) who there says, -" If the words would fairly admit of
different meanings, it would be right to adopt that which is
more favorable to the interest of the public and against that of
the company; because the company, in bargaining with the
public, ought to take care to express distinctly what payments
they are to receive, and because the public ought not to be
charged unless it be clear that it was so intended." In the case
of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal v. Hustler, 1 B. & C. 424, (8
Eng. Com. Law, 118,) the court say, "Those who seek to impose
a burden upon the public should take care that their claim rests
upon plain and unambiguous language." All these eases are
decided on the principle that government grants are construed
strictly against the grantee, and in favor of the grantor.
In the case of Dyer v. Tuscaloosa Bridge Co. 2 Alab. R. 305,
the court hold, that a grant of a ferry over a public watercourse,
and for the convenience of the community, is not such an exclusive grant as necessarily implies that the government will not
directly or indirectly interfere with it by the creation of a rival
franchise or otherwise.
See also the case of the Cayuga Bridge Co. v. Magee, 2
Paige's Ch. R. 119, where it is laid down, " that acts in derogation of common right, must be construed strictly against the
grantee, according to the principles of the common law."
But there is another ground on which this case might be rested with safety. It is a well-settled principle of law that statutes
in&pari materia are to be construed together; that the different
statutes are to be construed as.one; that they must be viewed
together in all their parts; and if, by any fair construction, the
whole can stand together, it is the duty of the court to put that

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

construction upon them. United States v. Freeman, 3 Howard,
564. In which case the court say, "The correct rule of interpretation is, that if divers statutes relate to the same thing, they
ought all to be taken into consideration in construing any one
of them, and it is an established rule of law, that all acts in par!
rzateria are to be taken together, as if they were one law.
Doug. 30; 2 Term Rep. 387, 586; Maule & Selw. 210. If a thing
contained in a subsequent statute, be within the reason of a
former statute., it shall be taken to be within the meaning of
that statute; Lord Raym. 1028; and if it can be gathered from
a subsequent statute in pari materia,what meaning the legislature attached to the words of a former statute, they will amount
to a legislative declaration of its meaning, and will govern the
construction of the first statute. Morris v. Mellin, 6 Barn. &
Cress. 454; 7 Barn. & Cress. 99."
This mode of construing statutes is so old and well settled as
to make the citation of further authorities unnecessary. It is
very obvious, -byapplying these principles to the present case,
that courts and boards of county commissioners were enumerated as the tribunals prohibited from granting ferry rights. The
legislature reserved the right of granting the like franchise to
any other person whenever the public good required it. In pursuance of this reserved right the legislature delegated the power
of licensing ferries to the city council. The council, by this act,
were made the proper judges of the necessity of other ferries,
and in fact were constituted the guardians of the public interest
in this respect, and when the city council have exercised this
power and granted a license, no tribunal is authorized to revise
or annul their proceedings on the ground that no necessity existed for another ferry. This court has no more power to inquire
into and revise the action of the city council, in this respect, thadn
it has to declare war or. issue a proclamation for the conquesf
of Cuba or Canada. The power of granting franchises is a
political and police regulation, resting exclusively with the legislature. The legislature is the judge of the number of ferries
required for public accommodation, and the city council, when
acting under a delegated authority from the legislature, possess
the same power, which is not examinable by any other department of the government except to ascertain whether the power
has been properly delegated. See Salem & Hamburg Turnpike Co. v. Lyme, 18 Conn. R. 456.
The omission of the word exclusive, which word the legislature well nderstood and freely used in various other charters
granted at the same term of the legislature, is a very significant
circumstance in this case.
In the case of Harrison v. The State, 9 Missouri, 526, where
VOL. XVI.

45

SUPREME COURT.
Fannin g v. Gregoire et al.

in the repeal of one city charter and the ac.option of another, in
a provision with regard to ferry charters the word 11exclusive, "
which was employed in the first one, was dropped in the second.
The court say that "according to. the charter of 1839 the city
authorities were invested with exclusive power within the city
to license and regulate the keeping of ferries; but in the charter
of 1843, which was in force when this inlictment was found,
the word "exclusive" is omitted, with the design, as we must
presume, of leaving this subject upon the same basis with the
other subjects of city taxation.
" The question whether a law be void for its repugnancy to
the constitution is a question which ought seldom, if ever, to
be decided in the affirmative in a doubtful case. The opposition between the constitution and the law should be such that
the judge feels a clear and strong conviction of their incompatibility with each other." Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 131;
2 Cond. Rep. 317.
"If any act of Congress or of the legislature of a State violates the constitutional provisions, it is unquestionably void; if,
on the other hand, the legislature of the Union or the legislature
of any member of the Union, shall pass a law within the general scope of their constitutional power, the court cannot pronounce it to be void merely because it is in their judgment
contrary to the principles of natural justice. If the legislature
pursue the authority delegated to them, their acts are valid; if
they transgress the boundaries of that authority, their acts are
invalid." Iredell, J., in Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386; 1 Cond.
Rep. U. S. 184 n.
But these different rules of construction all point one way.
They all require the court to construe the charter favorably to
the public and strictly against the grantee. Nothing can be
taken by implication or construction.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the District of Iowa.
The plaintiff filed his petition in the District Court of the
county -of Dubuque, stating that by an act of the legislative
assembly of the Territory of Iowa, approved the 14th of December, 1838, he was authorized to establish and keep a ferry
across the Mississippi, at the town of Dubuque, and depart from
and land at any place on the public landir.g of said town for
the term of twenty years from the passage of said act; and that
the act provided that no court or board of county commissioners should authorize any other person to keep a ferry within
the limits of the town; that the petitioner was required, within

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

531

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

two years from the passage of the act, to use for said ferry a
good and sufficient steam ferry-boat; that a sufficient number
of flat-boats were also iequired to be kept, with a competent
number of hands to work them, so as to convey across the
river Mississippi persons and property as might be required;
that a horse ferry-boat, by an amendatory act, was substituted
for a steam ftrry-boat.
And the plaintiff avers, that the above acts of the legislature
conferred on him the exclusive privilege of ferrying across the
river at the above place during the twenty years named in the
act. And he avers that in all things he has complied with the
requirements of the above acts, and that in doing so,* he has
incurred great expense; that at the commencement his ferry
yielded little or no profit; but he persevered in keeping it up,
hoping to be remunerated for his expense in'its future profits.
He represents that the defendants, confederating with others
to defraud him of his ferry right, have placed upon the ferry at
the town of Dubuque a steam ferry-boat for the transportation
of passengers, &c., and charges them for such transportation,
&c., and claim that they havp a right to do so, although the
twenty years of the plaintiff's grant have not yet expired. He
therefore prays for an injunction, &c.
At the appearance term of said court the defendants represented that one of them was a citizen of the State of Missouri,
and the other a citizen of the State of Illinois; that the matter
in controversy exceeds five hundred dollars, and they pray that
the said action may be removed to the next District Court of
the United States, to be held in the northern division of the
district of the State of Iowa, and gave the security required by
law; and the cause was removed to the District Court.
The defendants, in their answer, admit that the plaintiff has a
charter to ferry across the river Mississippi at Dubuque, but
they deny that it secures to him an exclusive right. And they
say that their steam ferry-boat was put on and is run by them
in accordance with a contract made with the city of Dubuque,
authorizing the running of said boat for six years, from the first
day of April, 1852; and they say that in running said boat
they do not interfere with the right of the plaintiff other than
such interference as is necessarily the result of a fair competition.
And the defendants say that the city of Dubuque entered
into said contract with the said Gregoire by virtue of the power
vested in the council by the fifteenth section of an act to incorporate and establish the city of Dubuque, of the 24th of February, 1847.
The act granting the ferry right to the plaintiff bears date
the 14th of December, 1838. The first section provides, "that

532

SUPREME COURT.
Fanning v. Grcgoire et al.

Timothy Fanning, his heirs and assigns, be and they are hereby
authorized, to establish and keep a ferry across the Mississippi
river, at the town of Dubuque, in the county of Dubuque, and
to depart from, and land at any place on the public landing of
said town, which was set apart for public purposes by act of
Congress approved the 3d of July, 1836, for the term of twenty
years from the passage of the act.
The second section declared, "that no corrt or board of county
commissioners shall authorize any person (-nless as herein provided for by this act) to keep a ferry within the limits of the
town of Dubuque. The conditions annexed were, that Fanning, his heirs and assigns, should, within two years from the
passage of the .act, procure a sufficient steam ferry-bbat, and
shall keep flat-boats and a sufficient number of hands for the
accommodation of the public. On failure -to do so, proof being
made to the satisfaction of the county commissioner or the
county court, the charter should be declared to ie, void.
By the act of July 24th, 1840, a horse-boat was substituted
lbr the steam ferry-boat.
The right of the defendants arises under a contract made between the city of Dubuque and Charles GCregoire, the 11th of
November, 1851; in which it was agreed by the corporation of
1he city, "in consideration of the covenants and stipulations
hereinafter enumerated, have granted a license to Gregoire to
keep a ferry across the Mississippi river, opposite the city of
Dubuque, for six years from the first day of April next; it being
-understood that the city grant all the right it has and no more,
vith the privilege to land at any point opposite the city that he
may choose.
Grcoire agreed to pay the city the sum of one hundred dollars aiinually, and to provide for said ferry a good and substantial steam ferry-boat, of sufficient capacity and dimensions to
accommodate the travelling community, and to keep the same
in good repair. And if the city should wish to grant the said
franchise to any railroad before the expiration of the lease, they
reserved the power to do so.
By the fifteenth section of the act incorporating the city,
power is given to the city council to license and establish ferries
across the Mississippi river, from the city of Dubuque to the
opposite shore, to fix the rates of the same, and to impose reasonable fines and penalties for the violation of such laws and
ordinances. This act was approved the 24th of February,
1847.
It is objected by the plaintiff's counsel, that the license set up
by the defendants cannot avail them, as there is no ordinance
of the council granting a ferry license to them, and that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

533

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

council can only act under their corporate powers in that
way.
That the council have legislative powers in regard to the
police of the city is admitted, but it does not follow that a contract may not be made under their sanction by the mayor, as
was done in this case. The contract was in writing, and contained stipulations in regard to the public accommodation, which
were important. The old rule was, that a corporation can make
no contract which shall bind it except under its seal. That
doctrine has long since been overruled, and it is- now fully
established, that the agents of a corporation may bind it by
parol.
A license having been given, which, according to its terms
must be considered binding on the corporation, it is unnecessary
to look into the acts of the council regulating ferries, as they
are not important, as regards the question of power. If the
form of the license had been laid down in the city charter, or
the mode of granting it, a conformity to such a regulation
would be required, but no such provision is found in the charter.
Regaulations are made by ordinances, but as to them, beyond
the granting of a license in this case, we need not inquire.
The principal question in the case is, whether the right granted
to Fanning is exclusive.
The language used in the territorial act, it is argued, would
seem to authorize an inference, that the right was intended to
be exclusive. The right was given for twenty years to Fanning
and his heirs, subject to the conditions expressed. An ordinary
license is not granted to a man and his heirs. But it is said the
beginning of the second section is somewhat explicit on this
point. It provides, "that no court or board of county commissioners, shall authorize any other person (unless as hereinafter
provided for by this act) to keep a ferry within the limits df the
town of Dubuque."
The condition provided for, in the act above referred to, is
any neglect on the part of Fanning or his heirs, which shall
incur a forfeiture of his right. The prohibition on the court
and the board of county commissioners to grant a license for
another ferry, it is urged, would seem to show an intent to make
the grant exclusive. And that the reason for -this might be
found in the alleged fact, that when the ferry was first established,
a considerable expenditure was required, and little or no profit
was realized for some years. But all the judges present except
one held that the grant was not intended to be exclusive. in
their opinion this view is sustained by the consideration that
although the county court aria cof.nty commissioners were prohibited from granting another license at Dubuque, yet this
415 *

534

SUPREME

COURT.

Fanning v. Gregoire et al.

prohibition did not apply to the legislature; and as it had the
power to authorize another ferry, the general authority to the
council to "license and establish ferries across the -Mississippi
-iver at the city," enabled the corporation, in the exercise of its
liscretion, to grant a license, as the legislature might have
done.
This power was clearly given to the city, and it may be exercised, unless the grant of Fanning be exclusive.
The board of commissioners has been established, and the
legislature has substituted in its place, for the purpose of licensin- ferries at Dubuque, the city council, and it is contended that
this change of the power ought not to affect -therights of the
plaintiff. The restriction on the commissioners of the county does
not apply, in terms, to the city council; e.nd the court think it
cannot be made to apply by implication. The license to Gregoire
was granted thirteen years after the grant to the plaintiff. And
it may well be presumed, from the increase of the city at Dubuque, and the great increase of the line of trade through it,
that additional ferry privileges were wanted. Of this the granting power was the proper judge.
The exclusive right set up must be clearly expressed or necessarily inferred, and the court think, that neither the one nor the
other is found in the grant of the plaintifT nor in the circumstances connected with it.
The argument that the free navigation of the Mississippi river,
guaranteed by the ordinance of 1787, or any right which may
be supposed to arise from the exercise of the commercial p6 wer
of Congress, does not apply in this case. Neither of these
interfere with the police power of the States, in granting ferry
licenses. When navigabLe rivers, within the commercial power
of the Union, may be obstructed, one or both of these powers
may be invoked.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

