DECEMBER

TERM3,

1843.

451

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et. al.

constitution of the State which had been practised on by all the
branches of its government, and acquiesced in by the people for
many years, when the contract in question was made, I fully
concur in the views of the eldef Justice, as expressed in his

opinion.
1r.Justice NELSON concurs with Mr. Justice CURTIS.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the State of Ohio, for Hamilton county, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is now here order'ed, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of
Ohio, in this cause as remitted to the District Court of the
State of Ohio for Hamilton county, and contained ii the
transcript of the record filed in this cause, be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs, and interest at the same rate per
annum that similar judgments or decrees. bear in the courts of
the State of Ohio.

Louis

D. GA-MACHE,

GUARDIAN, WILSON

AND

SAMIUEL

PRI'sI,

AND IxEoNonrE GAMACHE, BY
Louis Pi.uhii, JOHN CAVENDEN,

A B3Y P. TRUE,

PIQUIGNOT, AND

PLAINTIrFS IN EnRoR, V. FRANCOIS X.
THE INHABITANTS Or THE TOWN or CARON-

DELET.
In 1812, Congre-s pa-cd an aet (2 Stat. at L. 748) entitled "An act making further
provi~ion for ettling the claimi to land in the territory of MIissouri." It contirraed the titles to town or village lots, out lot,, &c.. in sbveral towns and villages,
and amongst them the town of Carondelet, where they had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the twentieth day of December, 1803.
In 1824, Congre~cs passed another act, (4 Stat. at L. 65,) supplementary to tbe above,
the irmt section of which made it the duty of the individual owner' or claimants,
whose lots were contirmed by the act of 1812, to proceed within 1s months to designate their lots by proving cultivation, boundaries, &c., before the recorder of lana
titles. The third section made it the duty of this officer to issue a certificate of
confirmation for each claim confirmed, and furnish the surveyor-general with a list
of the lots so confirmed.
This list was furnished in 1827.

SUPREME

COURT.

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.
Aftezvards, in 1839, another recorder gave a certificate of confirmation; an extract
from the registry showing that this second recorder entered the certificate in 1839;
and an extract from tb additional list of claims, wh.cli addition was that of a
single claim, being the same as above.
These three papers were not admissible as evidence in at ejcctment brought by the
owner, of this claim. The time had elapsed within which the recorder could confirm a claim.

Tis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of 1Iissouri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act.
It was ati action in the nature of an ejectment brought by
the plaintiffs in error, for the recovery of a tract of land described
in the declaration as survey No. 120 of the oat lots and common
field lots of the village of Carondelet.
The substance of the two acts of Congress of 1812 and 1824
is given in the caption of this report, and need not be repeated.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff offered the three following pieces
of evidence, all of which were rejected by tLe court. There was
much other evidence offered both by the plaintiffs and defendants; but as the opinion of this court turned chiefly upon the
propriety of this rejection, the other pieces of evidence, and instructions of the court founded thereon, will be omitted. It
will be perceived that each one of the three purports to derive
its efficacy from the certificate of Mr. Conway, in 1839.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence the following certificate
of confirmation of the recorder of land titles of Missouri, as follows, to wit: (Indorsed on the outside "Jno. Bte. Gamache,
sen., 6 by 40 arpens, field of Carondelet. Fees $1, paid.")
John Baptiste Dc Gamache, seii., or his leg'al -representatives,
claims an out lot, adjoining the village of Carondelet, containing
six arpens in front by forty in depth, bounded, northerly, by the
common fields; eastwardly, by the Mississippi River (leaving a
tow between it and the river); south, by alt out lot claimed by
the legal representatives of Gabriel Constant, (lalmond,) sen.,
an[d] west by the land formerly the property of Antoine Richl.
John Baptiste Maurice Chatillon, being duly sworn, says he
knows the land claimed, and that he is about sixty-six years of
age, and that he was born in Kaskaskia, and A. D. seventeen
hundred and eighty-eight he removed. frorr. Ste. Genevieve to
Carondelet, where he has resided ev'er since; that A. D. seventeen hundred and ninety-seven or ninety-eiglit he was employed
by John Baptiste Gamache, sen., to fence in a field which said
Gamache had been clearing, and working For about two years
within this field lot; and he, this respondent, says, he did fence
in about three arpens of this land, and did build a cabin on the
same at this time; and this deponent further says that Gamache
did cultivate this same field for five or six years until his death ;

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

453,.

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

and this deponent further says he always understood this land
was owned by said John Baptiste Gamache.
his

JoHN

BAPTISTE

AURICE

Sworn to before me, July 6th, 1825.
THEzo)oRE HUNT,

Translated to witness.

M

CHATILLON.

mark.

Recorder L. T.

J. V. GARNIER.
RECORDER'S OFFice,

Louis, AMissouri, 22d January,1839.
I certify the foregoing within to be truly copied from book
No. 2, page 46,of the minutes of the proceedings of the recorder
of land title in the State of Mlizsouri, under the act of Congress
of the 2(ith May, 1824, entitled "An act supplementary of an
act passed on the 13th day pf June, 1812," entitled "An act
making further provisions for settling the claims to land in the
ten'itory of Missouri," all of record in this office, and confirmed
by the act of 13th June, 1812, above cited.
F. R. CONWAY,
U. S. Recorder of Land Titles in the State of &Iissouri.
To DA-NIEL DuNKLIN, Esq.,
U. S. Surveyor of Public Lands, St. Louis, Mo.
ST.

Together with a certified extract from the registry of certificates from the office of the recorder of land titles as follows, to
%vit:
Registry of Certificates of coiifrnationon town lots, out lots, and
coin moa field lots, issued by the Recorder of Land Titles.'
In who,,x
nanie
h'ued.

Date.

Situation.

Remarks.

The following claim
was omnhtd 6y Mr.

Hunt, late ieco der,in
furnishing the list of

claims proven up befole him to wit:
John Baptistc de 6th July, Carondclet
Bounded north by the
Garna(he.
1825.
fields. common fields, eastwardly
by the Missisijpi, (leaving
a tow [path] between
Qu"
by anit and
the rhier,) south
lot claimed by the legal'
representatives of Gabriel
Constant, (lalmond,) ten.,
and westwardl y
the land
formerly the propqrty of
Antoine Rheil.

Quantity.

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

The above claim entered by me in the- book, 12th March,
1839, having this day furnished the surveyor-general with a
description thereof.
F. R. CONWAY,
Recorder.
RecoRanER's OFFICE,

ST. Louis, J'anuary 23d, 1851.
The above is correctly copied from the registry on file in this
ADOLPH RENARD,
office.
U. S. Recorder of Land Titles h t/e State of lllissouri.
And also a certified extract from the list of claims proved before the recorder of land titles, under the act of 261li of May,
1824, (in which is contained the Gamache claim to which particular reference was made at this stage of the case,) transmittdd by the recorder of land titles to the surveyor-general of the
United States in Illinois and Missouri, certified from the office
of the surveyor-general as follows, to wit:
(This was a list of cases transmitted by Ir. Hunt to the
surveyor-general, as a supplemental repcrt. The cases bear
various dates, the last being 12th April, 1830. They were. 16
in number. Then came the following, transmitted by Mr. Conway, accompanied by a certificate by him, dated 12th March,
1839, stating that it had been omitted to be furnished by his
predecessor, Mr. Hunt.)
No. 37-

ot in list.
John Baptiste de Gamache, senior, or his legal representatives,
claim an out lot adjoining the village of Carondelet, containing
six arpens in front by forty in depth, bounled northerly by the
common, eastwardly by the Mississippi, (leaving a tow between
it and the river,) south by an out lot claimed by the legal representatives of Gabriel Constant, (Lalamand) senior, and west by
the land formerly the property of Antoine :Rheil.
John Baptiste Maurice Chatillon, being duly sworn, says he
knows the lahd claimed, and that he is abcut sixty-six years of
age, and that he was born in Kaskaskia, and A. D. 1788, he removed from St. Genevieve to Carondelet, where he has resided
ever since; that A. D. seventeen hundred ninety-seven or ninety
(8) eight he was employed by John Baptiste Gamache, senior,
said Gamache had been clearing
to fence in a field -which
and working in for about two years within this field lot-and
he, this deponent, says he did fence about three arpens of this
land, and baild a cabin on the same, at this time. And this
deponent further says, that Gamache did cultivate this same
field for five or six year3 until' his death. And this deponent

DECEMBER TERAI, 1853.
Gamache Ct al. v. Piquignot et al.

further says, he always understood this land was owned by said
John Baptiste Gamache.
(Signed)

his
JOHN BAPTISTE MAURICE M CHATILLON.

mark.

Sworn to before me, July 6th, 1825.
(Signed)
THEODORE HUNT, Ree'r L. T.
Translated to witness by J. V. Gamier.
The plaintiff also offered in evidence a certified extract from
Hunt's minutes, containing the entry of Gamache's claim, with
a description of the lot; and also the evidence therein recorded,
but the court refused to receive it; and also testimony to prove
the inhabitation and cultivation of the lot prior to December,
1803, and until his death in 1805. There was also much other
evidence which need not be stated iii this report.
The defendants offered evidence
1. To show a title under the act of Congress, of 1812, as
commons of Carondelet.
2. An adverse possession for twenty years.
3. Rebutting evidence.
After the evidence was closed various instructions were asked
for both, by the counsel for plaintiff and defendant, some of
each of which were given and some refused by the court, as the
verdict was for the defendants, and the case was brought up by
ihe plaintiffs, only those instructions and refusals to which they
excepted, will be here'stated.
Instructions for plaintiffs 'cfnlsed. 3. The jury are instructed
that, as against such a claim and cultivation, or possession, as
that mentioned in said second instructions, no adverse user as
commons as a ground of title, under the- act of Congress of
13th June, 1812, can prevail, unless such user existed in fact by
an actual occupation and use as commons of the same ground,
visible and continued, notorious, hostile, and exclusive, [and
then] only to the extent that such actual occupation and use as
commons existed in fact, and to .the exclusion of such claim
and cultivation, or possession; by Gamache, of the same land
as an out lot, or cultivated field lot, of the village, prior to the
20th day of December, 1803; provided the jury also believe,
from the evidence, that the tract of land in-the declaration described was claimed and inhabited, cultivated or possessed, by
John B. Ganmache, senior, prior to the 20th day of December,
1803, as an out lot or cultivated field lot of said village, with
such a cultivation or possession as that mentioned in the said
second instructions for the plaintiffs.
4. If the jury b~elieve, from the evidence, that the claim of the
village of Carondelet to commons, prior to the 20tli day of De-

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

cember, 1803, was bounded north (in part) [by] the cultivated
lands -of the village, and that, prior to said date, the lot of land
in said declaration described as having been claimed by Gamache was one of the cultivated lands of the village, then there is
no conflict of title in this case, and the defendants have shown
no title to the land in controversy.
5. The jury are instructed that, on the evidence given in this
case, the statute of limitations is no bar to this action, unless
they shall believe, from the evidence, that the town of Carondelet, or those holding under said town, have had an adverse
possession in fact of the land in controversy in this case by an
actual occupation on the ground, visible and continued, notorious,-hostile, and exclusive, for at least twenty years next preceding the commencement of this suit.
7. The jury are instructed that the survey No. 120, and the
plats and field notes thereof given in evidence by the plaintiffs,
axe evidence of the true location, extent, and boundary of the
out lot of the village of Carondelet, claimed under John B.
Gamache, senior, by his legal representatives.
8. The certified extract from the minutes of Recorder Hunt,
taken under the act of Congress of 26th of May, 1824, [is] evidence that the tract of land therein me--itioned and described
was claimed and inhabited, cultivated or possessed, by John B.
Gamache, senior, prior to the 20th day o. December, 1803, and
evidence that the same was confirmed to John B. Gamache,
senior, or his legal representatives, by the act of Congress of
13th June, 1812.
9. The certified extract from [the] registry of certificates from
the recorder's office, offered in evidence [by the plaintifi , is evidence] that the out lot therein mentioned was confirmed to
John 3. Gamache, senior, or his legal representatives, by the act
of 13th June, 1812.
10. The certified extract from the list of claims transmitted
by the recorder of land titles to the surveyor-general, and certified from the office of the surveyor-general, relating to the claims
of the legal representatives of John B. Gramache, senior, is evidence of said claim and the extent and boundary thereof, and
that the same was confirmed by the act of Congress of 13th
June, 1812.
11. The certificate of confirmation of the recorder of land
titles in Missouri, given in evidence by the plaintiffs, shows a
prinidfacie title from the United States, in the legal representatives of John B. Gamache, senior, to the land therein described,
To which decision of the court, refusing said instructions,
the plaintiffi by their counsel excepted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

The defendants then asked the following instructions, which
xvere given by the court, as follows, to wit:
Instractions given to defendants. 5. If the jury find that the
land spoken of by the witnesses as actually cultivated and possessed by Gamache did not embrace the land now in dispute,
they ought to find for the defendants.
17. The survey No. 120, read by the plaintiffs, is no evidence
of title, nor of the extent and boundaries of Gamache's claim.
18. The testimony taken before Hunt, and read in evidence
by the plaintiff, is, not to be regarded by the jury in the present
case, the defendant insisting that the claim had been abandoned.
To the giving of which insb'uctions the [plaintiffs] by their
counsel excepted.
The verdict being for the defendants, the case was carried by
the plaintiffs to the Supreme Court of MIissouri, where the
judgment of the court below was affirmed. It was then
brought to this court by the plaintiffs, by a writ of error, issued
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued by 3Ir. .olmes, for the plaintiffs in error, and
1I1tr. Picot, for the defendants.
Only those points will bd noted which are connected with
the decision of the court. The counsel for the plaintiffs in error
made the following:
III. The certificate of the recorder of land titles, offered in
evidence in this case, dated the 22d of January, 1839, was competent and admissible evidence of the facts necessary to give
title under and by virtue of the act of 13th June, 1812, and
showed a prnd facie title in the legal representatives of Gamache, of the date of that act, to the lot therein described.
Macklot v. Dubreuil, 9 Mo. 489, a certificate issued in 1842 held
"good, and evidence of title; Boyce v. Papin, 11 Mo. 16; Hunter
v. Hemphill, 6 Mo. 106; and Sarpy v. Papin, 7 lo. 503, one in
possession, merely, not showing a title, cannot question the certificate, or survey; Soulard v. Allen, (Sup. Court of Mo., Oct.
term, 1853,) a certificate issued by Conway, since 1839, held
good. The objection of the Supreme Court of Alissouri to this
case of Camache v. Piquignot is based on the omission of
this claim in the first list sent to the surveyor-general. No
limit of time was fixed by the terms, or spirit of the act, within
which the certificate must be issued, after proof made within
the eighteen months prpscribed, or when the power of the
recorder to issue it was to cease.
IV. The certified extract from the registry of certificates was
competent evidence, that th certificate, authorized by the act
VOL. XVI.

39

458

SUPREME COU:RT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

of 26th May, 1824, had been duly issued by the recorder of
land titles, for the claim therein mentioned and described, and
that the same had been confirmed by the act of 13th June,
1812. McGill v. Somers, 15 Mo. 80; Biehler v. Coonce, 9 M1o.
351, an extract from this same registry of certificates held admissible evidence; Roussin v. Parks, 8 Bl'o. 544.
V. The certified extract from the surveyor-general's list of
claims proved was competent evidence that this claim had been
officially reported to him by the recorder of land titles, as a
claim that had been duly proved before him within the eighteen
months, and that the surveyor-general hid authority by law to
survey it, as such. McGill v. Somers, and other cases cited:
the act of Congress of the 29th April, 1816, 3 Stat. at Large,
324, authorized the survey to be made.
VI. The certified extract from the books of Hunt's minutes of
testimony, was competent and admissible evidence, for the purpose of showing, that whatever title the government had in this
out lot, at the date of the act of 13th of June, 1812, as between
the government and the claimants, had passed to the claimants;
a matter in which the defendants, as third persons, had no interest and no concern, at least until they should show some prior
or superior title to this land. McGill v. Somers, 15 Mo. R.
80-86, extracts from these same "recorder's (Hunt's) minutes,"
and from the surviyor-generaPs list, held admissible evidence
as good as the certificate itself. Biehler v. Coonce, 9 Mo. .351;
Roussin v. Parks, 8 Mo. 544.
1. On the same principle as a deed that constitutes a link in
a plaintiff's chain of title, and to which the defendant may be
no party nor privy; and
2. On the principle of a deposition taken to perpetuate testimony, the goverilment and the claimants being the only parties
concerned in the effect of it, and both being present at the taking of it, by authority of the act of Cong.-ess.
3. Like a deposition, it is evidence tending to prove the existence of the fact8 prior to 1803, necessazy to bring this out lot
within the operation qf the act of 1812, as a grant of title.
4. The Supreme. Court of Missouri, (Gamble, J., delivering the
opinion of the court in this case,) affected to treat this testimony
of witnesses as if it had been sonie mere volunteer "affidavits" ol
the parties themselves, made extrajudicially, and without author
ity of law. In McGill v. Somers, the same judge (delivering the
opinion of the court) held an extract from these same "minutes,"
to be evidence as good as the certificate. " In Soulard v. Allen,
October term, 1853, Scott, J., delivering the opinion of the court,
(Gamble, J., not sitting,) held a certificate of Conway (recorder)
issued upon these." minutes" of testimony to be good evidence.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

459

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

All the certificates that have been issued by Hunt or Conway,
since the eighteen months expired, were necessarily based on
these -' minites" of the proof made. Memory of three large
volumes of proof was out of the question ; and the surveyorgeneral s list was not a record of the recorder's office, otherwise
than as Hunt's books of minutes were the original from which
that list was drawn off as an abstract, in 1827.
5. Nothing had been done by alty officer of the government
at the date of the taking of this testimony, in relation to the
claim of commons, that recogni7ed any-rght or title of the inhabitants of the town of Carondelet to the land included in this
outlet as commons.
The survey of the commons, No. 3102, and the outline survey
of the common field, No. 3103, were made in 1834.
VIL The fact that this claim had been omitted in the first
list furnished by recorder Hunt to the surveyor-general, and
that it was not reported till the 12th of March, 1839, has no legal effect whatever on the title or any right of the claimant under
the act of the 26th of lay, 1824, nor upon the validity or admissibility of the above documents as evidence; for,
1. The entry of the claim in the books of Hunt's minutes as
a claim proved and the certificate issued upon it, as such, are
the proper legal evidence of the decision of the recorder of land
titles upon the sufficiency of the proof made. Macklot v. Dubreuil, 9 Mo. 490: the recorder passed upon the facts referred to
him when he issued the certificate; the point was made in Mr.
Gamble's brief, that the recorder had no authority to issue a
certificate in 1842, but it was not specially noticed- in the opinion of the court, which held the certificate good.
2. The powers conferred and the duties imposed by the act
were conferred and imposed on the recorder of land titles, (a
perpetual officer,) and not upon Theodore Hunt, merely; he
was expressly required, by the third section of the act, to issue
such a certificate, and no limit of time was fixed by the act
within which he was to make his decision on the proof taken
w,.ithin the eighteen months, or report the claims to the surveyor,
or issue the certificate, nor in which his power to do so was to
cease, otherwise than by a complete performance of the duties
imposed on him. Act of the 26th of May, 1824,4 Stat. at Large,
65.
3. The zecond clause of the third section of that act, requir.
ing a list of claims proved to be furnished the surveyor-gene.
ral, was merely directory, and imposed a ministerial duty only
on the recorder of land titles, touching the internal administration of the land-office, and it was not intended by the act to
be a condition precedent to the issuing of a certificate, nor even

460

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignct et al.

to the right of the claimant to have a survey made of his claim,
according to law, as a confirmed lot. Lutle v. State of Arkansas, 9 How. 314- 333. Perry v. O'Hanulon, 11 Mo. 589-595:
parties are not to be prejudiced by delays and omissions of
merely ministerial officers and government agents. Taylor v.
Brown, 5 Cranch, 234: a law requiring an officer to record surveys within two months, and return a list, is merely directory,
and the validity of the survey is not affected, if not done. In
point by principle and analogy.
4. The certificate containing an accurate description of the
lot, so that any surveyor could find it, was all the evidence of
title the claimants needed; and no public survey was necessary
for them, though a convenience to them, as well as to the government.
Ott v. Soulard, 9 Mo. 603-4, where the calls are ascertained
by the grant, the construction is then matter of law for the
court. Menard's Heirs v. Massey, 8 How. 293, as to certainty
of description, "Id certum est," &c. Smith v. U. States, 10
Pet. 338: a grant is good if capable of definite location by its
description, without a survey. Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 How.
344: an act gives title, if the land can be identified as confirmed
without resort to a survey. United States v. Lawton, 5 How.
10: the identity of the land granted may be established by the
face of the grant, or by survey.
The proof made ascertains, (for the certificate,) designates,
and proves the tract, which was granted by the act of 1812.
5. The list of claims proved was not required to be sent to
the surveyor-general for the purpose of being the only and
conclusive evidence for or against the claimants, nor was it
made so by the terms or nature of the act, either of the fact
that a claim had been proved and a certificate issued, or of the
recorder's decision on the proof; nor was it of any importance to the claimant whether the claim., were all reported at
once or not; but the first list was -sufficient information and
good evidence for the surveyor-general of what it contained,
and the supplemenitary lists were likewise good evidence, and
sufficient'to authorize a survey to be made of the claims reported, when reported.
6. No limit of time was fixed within which, if claims proved
were not reported, they should never be reported at all. One
object of the act was to get information for the surveyor-general, and obviously, the sooner he got it, and the whole of it,
the better.
7. When the first list had been furnished to the surveyorgeneral, nearly two years after the expiration of the 18 months
prescribed for the taking of the proof, (then supposed by the

DE(EAIBER

TERM,

1853.

461

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

recorder to contain all,) and when, by supplementary lists, the
omissions had been supplied, and the errors corrected, the act
of Congress had then only, and not before, been fully and substantially complied with, in this repect.
8. Any merely extra-legal inference to be drawn from the
fact of the omission is rebutted by the fact, that there were
other omissions and errors, certified by Hunt himself to have
been errors in transcribing the former list from the books in his
office, (Hunt's minutes,) and conclusively rebutted, by the fact
that a certificate was issued; for if the recorder's opinion had
been against the claim, at first, the issuing of a certificate
shows that he had changed that opinion, and was satisfied with
the proof.
9. The omission and delay have prejudiced nobody. The
lot has not been set apart for schools, as a vacant lot, nor
would it have been included in the survey of the commons, by
Brown, if the commons belonging to the village had been iurveyed according to their claim and confirmation, as directed
by the 2d section of the act of 26th May, 1824, nor if he had consulted the records of the recorder's office, and the proof there
made of this claim, as he ought to have done.
This out lot was surveyed by Brown, at the same time, and
under the same instructions, as the other town lots, out lots,
and common fields of Carondelet, (in 1839.) Brown might as
well have included other common fields as this one in his survey of commons, in 1834. Many of them were never proved
before the recorder.
The counsel for the defendant in error made (amongst others)
the.following points: I. The list returned by recorder Hunt, (certified to include
a description of all the lots proved up before him,) which does
not include a description of the Gamache claim, is conclusive
against the plaintiffs. 3d sec. act of May 26, 1824, Statutes
at Large, vol. 4, p. 66.
1. Whether, if the plaintiffs had a certificate of confirmation
issued by Hunt for their claim, they could dispute the correctness of the list need not be inquired into, seeing that the plaintiffs have no such certificate.
The statute, however, designated two distinct matters of evidence which it would seem were both required to be possessed
by a party claiming the benefits of the law. First, the certificate. This was intrusted to the claimant, whose claim was
confirmed, and the plaintiffs should either have produced the
certificate, or at least shown that it was issued. Second,
the list. This was retained by the government as the record
of what was cpnfirmed ; and the plaintiffs should have shown
39 *

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

that it included their claim. In this case it appears, affirmatively, that no such certificate was ever issued, and that neither
the list nor the copy thereof embraces this claim.
2. It is not necessary, for the disposal of this case, to inquire
into the validity of the acts of recorder Hunt in making supplemental and explanatory returns to the surveyor, subsequent
to his return of the list required by law, seeing that the plaintiffs' claim is not included in any such re-:urn. Whether such
acts were valid or not, they are cumulative evidence against the
claim of plaintiffs. They go to show, that even after reviewing*
and revising his decisions, the recorder persevered in his rejection of the claim of Gamache's representatives.
3. The recorder expressly certified that the list contains all
the lots confirmed by him. Courts cannot look behind that
list. Similar lists have always been considered as binding on
the ministerial departments of the government.
4. In the list are included numerous c'aims, proved before,
and certified by the recorder as confirmed, and which were embraced within the limits of the claim. He must necessarily
have decided against the Gamache claim in deciding in favor
of the adversary claims.
The recorder acted in a judicial capacity in the execution
of the extraordinary duties imposed on him by the act of 1824,
and his decisions are res adjudicater.
IL The certificate of confirmation issued by recorder Conway in 1839, is merely void.
1. It is void on its face.
2. It is void for want of jurisdiction. The general powers
of the recorder, as denoted by his title, are purely clerical, and
are set forth in the law creating the office. See sections 3 and
4 of act of March 2, 1805, Statutes at Large, vol. 2, p. 326.
The powers given to the recorder by the act of 1824, were
extraordinary and judicial. Upon their execution the office
as to such exiraordinary powers became fuintus officio. The
powers, if not exhausted, ceased by limitation. First, eighteen
months from the passage of the act, the power to receive claims
and evidence, expressly ended by the terms of the first section.
The second section, although confined to regulating the duties
of the surveyor, looks to a prompt determination of the duties
of the recorder. How could the surveyor, immediately after the
expiration of the eighteen months, designate the vacant lots,
(namely those not certified and listed by the recorder as confirmed) unless the recorder had previously performed those
duties ?
The third section contemplates the issuing of the recorder's
certificates within the eighteen months. After providing for

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

them, it proceeds to require, further, that so soon as the said
term shall have expired, the recorder shall furnish the surveyor
with a list of the lots so proved. The list was designed to em.
brace the certified lots only. The act contemplates the impossibility of the recorder preserving in his breast during a term of
near eighteen months, the remembrance of many hundreds of
decisions, and p6ints out the certificates, or registry thereof, as
the record which he shall preserve of the lots "so proved," and
from which he is to compile his list, The maidng and transmitting the list was the final act. That done, the powers conferred by the law ceased.
Secondly. Although the office and general powers of the
recorder are perpetual, yet special and temporary powers given
for a particular purpose, will not endure forever.
Granting that the powers conferred by the act of 1824, were
not simply conferred on Hunt, the recorder for the time being,
but on his office; yet to have authorized Conway, or any successor, to have issued a certificate of confirmatiori, such successor
should have succeeded to the office during the prescribed term of
eighteen months, and the proof must have been made before him.
3. The head of the land department on the appeal of the
plaintiffs, has decided that the proceedings of Conway were of
no avail under the law.
III. The abstract from the registry of confirmations issued by
Conway, is void.
The certificate itself being a "mere nullity" as declared by
the Supreme Couit of Missouri, the fact that it was issued, and
when, is of no importance. Its only use in the case is to show
affirmatively, what might otherwise appear only negatively, that
recorder Hunt issued no certificateof confirmation.
IV. The extracts from Hunt's minutes are not evidence.
1. Hunt was not a commissioner to take testimony, and the
affidavits were received without notice, the co-defendant in this
suit being then in the actual possession of the land.
2. The act required no recorded or -ritten .proof before the
recorder, and the circumstance that affidavits were taken by
Hunt, touching the Gamache claim, is no evidence that he considered it as proved to have been inhabited, cultivated or possessed, prior to the 20th December, 1803, and that the land
claimed was an out lot.
3. On the contrary, the circumstance that the claim was not
entered in his list, is decisive to show that he was not satisfied
with the pr-of.
V. The return of the description of the Gamache claim to
the surveyor, by Conway, in 1839, was merely null, and afforded
no evidence of title whatever.

464

SUPREMIE

COUIT.

Gamache et al. v. riquignot et al.

The abuses to which such a practice will lead are manifest.
If Hunt's list may be altered after twelve years have elapsed,
alterations may be made at any distance of time; if future
recorders may supply fancied omissions, they may strike out
such claims as they may regard as erroneously entered; if they
can thus deal with the list of Hunt, they can do the same with
Bates's confirmations, and the numerous land titles depending
on the action of the recorders of former days, will lie at the
mercy of officers, selected not for their capacity to judge of the
proofs of titles, but for their fidelity in taking care of books and
papers.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought here by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Missouri, and presents questions alleged to be cognizable in this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The plaintiffs claimed a tract of land of six arpents in front, and
forty back, lying adjoining to the village of Carondelet, in Missouri. It -was claimed as "an out lot" which had been confirmed by the act of Congress of June 13th, :1812, to John B. Gamache, the ancestor of the plaintiffs.
In support of this position there was offered, in evidence, certain documents issued from the office of the recorder of land
titles. The first was a paper -laimed to be a certificate of confirmation issued by Conway, the recorder of land titles, dated
22d January, 1839, under the act of Congress of the 26th May,
1824. The second was an extract from the registry kept by the
recorder of certificates, issued by him under the act of 1824, by
which it appears that Conway entered the certificate of, Gamache's representatives on that register on the 12th March, 1839,
and furnished on that day to the surveyor-general a description
of the land. The third was an extract from the additional list
of claims furnished by the recorder to the surveyor-general on
the 12th March, 1839, which addition was of the Gamache
claim alone. There were other documents showing that Hunt,
who was the recorder of land titles, who acted under the act of
1824 in taking proof of claims, and who filed with the surveyor
the list of claims proved before him, had filed one or two supplemental or explanatory lists after the first.
The court below rejected the evidence offered.
A survey of the claim of Gamache wa3 made by a deputy
surveyor under instructions from the surveyor-general, and the
survey being returned to the office by the deputy and a plat
made, the word "approved" was written upon it and signed by
the then surveyor-general, but it never was recorded. It appeared, in evidence, that the practice of the surveyor's office,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

465

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot 6t al.

when a deputy surveyor made return of a survey which he had
been instructed to make, was, to have the survey examined, to
see the manner in which the deputy had, ollowed the instructions
given, and if he had followed them, his work was approved, and
the approval evidenced by such writing as had been made in
this case, which was intended to authorize the payment of the
deputy for his work; and that subsequently the survey was
more carefully examined, and if found to be a proper survey in
all respects it was recorded in the books of the office, which was
the evidence that it was finally adopted and approved, and that
by the practice of the office certified copies of surveys were not
given out until they were thus finally approved and recorded.
Conway, who had been surveyor-general as well as recorder,
testified that he would regard the survey of the Gamache claim
as an approved survey, and would record it as such if he were
in the office.
It appeared, in evidence, that the present surveyor-general
refused to record it as an approved survey, or to certify it to the
recorder as a survey of land for which a certificate of confirmation is to issue, and that in that refusal he is sustained by the
department at Washington.
After the evidence was closed, the court, by an instruction,
declared that the survey was not evidence of title, nor of the
boundaries and extent of Gamache's claim.
A certified copy of the affidavits made before recorder Hunt,
when he was
'%ing proof under the act of 1824, was in evidence, but an instruction given to the jury substantially exclude&
them from consideration.
On this state of facts the Supreme Court of Missouri held,
among other things, as follows:
"In the present case we have a recorder of land titles, fourteen years from the passage of this act, attempting to give the
evidence of title, by issuing a certificate of confirmation, and
certifying the claim to the surveyor-general as one confirmed
by the act of 1812. If the government of the United States
has confirmed the title set up by the plaintiffs by that act of
Congress, then the party, as has been held in this court, does
not lose his land by the failure to procure the evidence provided
for by the act of 1824; and under these decisions the plaintiffs
in this case, after the evidence was rejected, which they claimed
was rightly issued under the last-mentioned act, proceeded to
prove the cultivation and possession of their ancestor, Gamache,
and cliimed that the title was confirmed by the act of 1812."
"If the evidence of title, purporting to be issued under the act
of 1824, appeared undisputed by the United States, and acknowledged and treated by the government as effectual, then it may

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

be that a person who was a mere stranger to the title would
not be allowed to dispute the correctness of the conduct' of the
officers in their attempt to carry out the law. But when we
find that the government itself, in its own officers, arrests the
progress of the title, and the whole relianc3 of the party'in this
case is upon the acts of the recorder, the correctness of which is
denied by the government, we will examine his acts and give
them effect only so far as they conform to the law."
"That the recorder, under the act of 1824, was required to
act in a quasi judicial character, is perfectly manifest, although
there was no mode provided by the law for the expression of an
opinion against the sufficieney 'of the evidence given before
him. If a claim was, in his judgment, confirmed by the act of
1812, he issued to the party a certificate of confirmation, and
included the lot in the descriptive list which he was required to,
furnish the surveyor-gen eral. If there we.s a failure to prove
the inhabitation, cultivation, or possession to his satisfaction, he
simply omitted to include the claim iii his list, and he issued no
certificate."
"The acts required to be done when a claim was confirmed,
were to be done immediately after the expiration of the time
limited for taking the proof; and when we see, from the evidence offered by the plaintiff, that the recorder filed his list of
confirmations with the surveyor in October, 1827, near twelve
years before Conway, his successor, returned the present claim
to that office, we cannot avoid the conclusion that this latter
act was not within the scope allowed for such proceeding by the
act of Congress. It is not necessary to maintain that if Hunt,
the recorder Who took the proof, had died before he acted upon
the claims, his successor could not act upon them; but when
he did act, and made out and furnished to the surveyor the list
required by law, the conclusion is on& which the law draws,
that clairhs not within that list are claims not proved to his
satisfaction."
The claim of Gamache was anxiously prosecuted before the
department of public lands at Washington during the pendency
of this suit, and was there decided-by the commissioner in conformity to the decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri; and
which decision was confirmed by the Secretary of the Interior
in September last. The reasons for this decision are here given
in the language of the commissioner in reply to the plaintiffs'
counsel, prosecutiuig the claim.
"The surveyor-general at St. Louis having declined to approve the survey as made by Brown for Gamache, and to certify
the same to the recorder - You apply to this office to give
orders to surveyor-general Clark, "requiring him to return the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

survey of the tract of six by forty arpens in the name of John
B. Gamache, sr., or his legal representatives, to the recorder of
land titles, and that the recorder be directed to issue to 'you' a
certificate of confirmation in the usual form, that 'you' may
have the evidence of your title in the usual form for the purpose
of prosecuting your rights in the courts having competent jurisdiction."
"In behalf of the representatives of Gamache it is maintained
that they are confirmed by the act of 13th June, 1812.
" The, first section of the supplemental act of 26th of May,
1824, made it the duty of the individual owners or claimants
whose lots were confirmed by the act of 1812 on the ground of
inhabitation, cultivation, or possession prior to the 20th of December, 1803, 'to proceed within eighteen months after the
passage of the act of 1824,' to designate their said lots by
proving before the recorder of land titles for said State and territory the fact of such inhabitation, cultivation, or possession,
and the boundaries and extent of each claim, so as to enable
the surveyor-general to distinguish the private from the vacant
lots appertaining to the said towns and villages."
"The third section of the said act of 1824 made it the duty
of the recorder to issue a certificate of confirmation for each
claim cbnfirmed, but further declares as follows:
"And so soon as the said term shall have expired, he shall
furnish the surveyor-general with a list of the lots so proved
to have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, to serve as his
gu;de in distinguishing them from the vacant lots to be set apart
as above described, and shall transmit a copy of such list to the
commissioner of the general land-office."
"A report or list, purporting to contain all the claims proved
up under the said act of 1824, was accordingly returned to this
office in 1827, but that list does not embrace this particular
claim of Gamache for 6 X 40 arpens within the limits of the
Carondelet Commons.
We have no power to look behind that list in order to determine what has or has not been confirmed any more than we
could look behind the face of a report of a board of commissioners or of the recorder, which had been confirmed by a law
of Congress, and take cognizance of a case not embraced by
such report, even if. satisfied that it had been omitted by the
reporting officer through inadvertence. This is a well-settled
principle. See instructions to register and receiver, 13th April,
1835. 2 part Birchard's Comp. printed laws, instructions and
opinions, page 757, &c.
"As the 3d section of tha act of 26th of May, 1824, then expressly declares that the list to be furnished by the recorder

468

SUPREME COURT.
Gamache et al. v. Piquignot et al.

'shall serve as a guideI to the surveyor-general in the execution of the duties devolved on him by the act, and as it is not
shown that the claim in question is embraced by that list,
neither that officer, nor this office, has the power to treat the
claim in question as confirmed and entitled to an approved survey, and, consequently, in my opinion, the commissioner has
not the legal ability to comply with your applidation in the
premises."
With the correctness of these decisions of the Supreme Court
of Missouri and the department of public lands we entirely
concur. Nor will we add any views of our own in support of
the State decision, for the reason that the questions here presented are peculiarly local, being limited to the city of St. Louis
and a few villages in the State of Missouri, the public at large
having no concern witb any question presented in this cause.
And after due consideration we here take occasion to say, that
although it is in the power of this court, and made its duty, to
review all cases coming here from State courts of last resort,
in which was drawn in question and construed prejudicial to a
party's claim, the Constitution, or a law of the United States, or
an authority exercised under them, still, in this pgculiarly local
class of cases asserting titles to town and -village lots, confirmed
by the act of 1812, we feel exceedingly indisposed to disturb
the State decisions. So far the ability and soundness thiy
manifest have commanded our entire con 3urrence and respect,
and are likely to do so in future. It is proper further to remark
that the jury was instructed, at the request; of the plaintiffs, that
inhabitation and cultivation of a part of the lot, claiming the
whole, would be good for the whole within the meaning of the
act of 1812.
The jury was also instructed, at the defendant's request,
"that if the land spoken of by the witnesses as actually cultivated and possessed by Gamache, did n~t embrace the land
now in dispute, they ought to find for the defendants."
In regard to these instructions the State court held that:
"The first instruction given for the defen lant, if it stood alone,
would be so entirely errcineous as to require a reversal of the
judgment. That the jury should be requi:ed to find for the defendant, if the cultivation by the elder Gamache was not a cultivation of the precise piece of ground in controversy, would
have been so gross a mistake, that neith3r the court nor the
counsel asking the instruction could be supposed to have fallen
into it. Accordingly, when we examine the second instruction
given for the plaintiff, we find the court telling the jury that
the cultivation of a part of a tract, under claim of the whole,
was, under the act of 1812, a cultivation of the whole tract;

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

469

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

and, in looking into the case, we see that the controversy was
whether this cultivation of Gamache was not on an entirely different tract from that now claimed to include the premises in
dispute. "We are satisfied that the jury must have understood
the question to be, whether the cultivation of Gamache, spoken
of by the witnesses, was at any place upon the tract to which
his heirs now claim title, or at some place upon an entirely different tract. In this view of the question submitted to the jury,
there would be no propriety in reversing the judgment for the
instruction given for the defendant."
The instruetions asked by the plaintiffs, which were refused
by the court, all refer to the proceedings in the recorder's office,
the effect of which has been considered. On the whole it is
ordered that the judgment be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record, from the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court, in this cause, be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

THE STEAMBOAT NEW WORLD, EDWARD MINTURN, WILLIAM
iM.ENZIE, AND WILLIAM H. WEBB, CLAIMANTS AND APPEL-

LANTS, v. FREDERICK

G. KING.

Mhere a libl was filed, claiming compen'sation for injuries sustained by a passenger
in a steamboat, proceeding from Sacramento to San Francisco, in Caliiornia, the
case is within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The circumstance that the passenger was a "steamboat man," and as such carried
gratuitously, does not deprive him of the right of redress enjoyed by other passengers. It was the custom to carry such persons free.
The master had power to bind the boat by giving such a free passage.
The principle asserted in 14 How. 486, reaffirmed, namely, that "when carriers undertake to convey persons by the agency of steam, public policy and safety raquire
that they should be held to the greatest'possible care and diligence.
The theory and cases examined relative to the three degrees of negligence, namely,
slight, ordinary, and gross.
Skill fs required for the proper management of the boilers and machinery of a steamboat; and the failre to exert that skill, either because it is not possessed, or from
inattention, is gross negligence.
The 13th section of the act of Congress, passed on !he 7th of July, 1838, (5 Stat. at
Large, 306,) makes the injurious escapeof steam primdfadeevidence of negligence;
and the owners of the boat, in order to escape from .responsibility, must prove that
there was no negligence.
VOL. XVI.
40

