DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

was therefore, in our opinion, rightly refused by the court, and
we shall direct its judgment in the suit to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideratiori whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

htIo, PLAINTHE PsQUA BRANCH OF THE STATE BANK OF
TIFF IN -ERROR, V. JACOB KNooP, TiMASUIER OF MTA.DI
COUNTY.
In 1845, the Legislature of Ohio passed a general banking law, the fifty-ninth section
of which required the officers to make semi-annual dividends, and the sixtieth
required them to set off six per cent. of such dividends for the use of the State,
whic Itsum or amount so set off should be in lieu of all taxes to which the company,
or the stockholders therein, would otherwise be subject.
This was a contract fixing the amount of taxation, and not a law prescribing a rule
of taxation until changed by the legislature.
In 185 1,an act was passed entitled, "An act to tax bank, and bank and other stocks,
the same as prolerty is now taxable by the laws of this State." The operation of
this law being to increase the tax, the banks were not bound to pay that increase.
A municipal corporation. in whieh is vested some portion of the administration of the
government, may be changed at the will of the legislature. But a bank, where the
stork is owned by individuals, is a private corporation. Its charter is a legislative
coutract, and cannot be changed without its assent.
The preceding casc upon this 'subject, examined, and the case of the Providence
Batik. v. Billing, 4 Petcrs, 561, explained.

Tuns case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Ohio,
by a writ of error, issued under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act.
*In the record there was the following certificate from the Supreme Court of Ohio, which explains the nature of the case:
And thereupon, on motion of the defendant, it is hereby certified by the court, and ordered to be made a part of the record
herein, that in the above entitled cause the petitioner claimed
to collect, and prayed the aid of the court to enforce the payment of, the tax in the petition mentioned, under an act of the
General Assembly of the, State of Ohio, passed March 21st,
1851, entitled "An act to tax banks, and bank and other stocks,

370

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

the same as -other property is now taxable by the laws of this
State," a certified copy of which is filed as an exhibit in this
The said defendant, by way of defence to
cause, marked "A."
the prayer of said petitioner, &c., set up an act, entitled "An
act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio, and other banking
companies," enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio, February 24th, 1845, a certified copy of which is filed as
an exhibit in this cause, marked "B3 ;" under which act the defendants organized, and became and was a branch of the State
Bank of Ohio, exercising the franchises of such bank prior to
and ever since the year 1847; and that the defendant claimed
that, by virtue of the operation of said act last mentioned, the
State of Ohio had entered into a binding contract and obligation, whereby the State of Ohio had agreed and bound herself
not to impose any tax upon the defendant, and not to require
the defendant to pay any tax for the year 1851, other or greater
than six per cent. on its dividends or profits, as provided by the
sixtieth section of the said act of February 24th, 1845S. And
it is further certified, that there was drawn in question in said
cause the v.alidity of the said statute of the State of Ohio,
passed March 21st, 1851, herein before mentioned, the said defendant claiming that it was a violation of the said alleged
agreement and contract between the State of Ohio and the said
defendant, and on that account repugnant to the Consitution
of the United States, and void; but the court here held and decided: 1st. That the sixtieth section of said act of February
24th, 1845, to incorpora:e the State Bank of Ohio, and other
banking companies, contains no pledge or contract on the part
of the State not to alter or change the mcde or amount of taxation therein specified; but the taxing power of the General
Assembly of the State of Ohio over the property of companies
formed under that act is the same as over the property of individuals. And, 2d. That whether the franqhises of such companies may be revoked, changed, or modified, or not, the act of
MIarch 21st, 1851, upon any construction, does not impair any
right secured to them by the act of 1845, and is a constitutional
and valid law. And it is further certified, that the decision of
the question as to the validity of the said statute of 1851, was
necessary to the decision of said cause, and the decision in the
premises was in favor of the validity of said statute. The
court do further certify, that this court is the highest court of
law and equity of the State of Ohio in waich a decion of this
suit could be held. And it is ordered, that said exhibits A and
B be made parts of the complete record i. this cause.
The contents of 'exhibits A and B are .tated in the opinion
of the court.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

371

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

The case was argued by Xr. Stanberry and .11. Vetiton, for
the plaintiff in error, and by lr-. Spalding and l1.r. Pugh, for
the defendant in error.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error were
the following:
1st. That the Piqua branch of the State Bank of Ohio is a
private corporation.
The principle governing this point D, that if the whole interest of a corporation do not belong to the public, it is a private
corporation. Angell & Ames on Corporations, §§ 31 to 36 inclusive; Daitlnouth College v.Woodward, 4 Wheat. 636; Baily
v. Mayor of New York, 3 Hill, 531; Bank United States v.
Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 907; Miners' Bank v.
United States, I Greene, 553; Bonaparte v. Camden & Amboy
R. R. Co. 1 Bald. 222.
2d. The act of the 24th of February, A. D. 1845, providing
for the cr'eation of this private corporation, became, by its acceptance, a contract between the State and the corporators,
which contract is entitled to the protection of that clause of the
Constitution of the .United States which prohibits the States
from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Angell & Ames on Corp. §§ 31, 469, 767; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 636; Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court,
3 flow. 145; West River Bridge v. Dix, 6 How. 531; Planters'
Bank of MIississippi v. Sharp, 6 How. 326-7, East Hartford v.
Hartford Bridge Company, 17 Conn. 93; New Jersey. v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 88; Terrett v.
Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Town of Pawlett v. Clarke, 9 Cranch,
2"32; Wales v. Stetson, 2 Mass. 143; Enfield Toll Bridge v.
Conni. River Co. 7 Conn. R. 53; McLoren v. Pennington, 1
Paige, Ci. R. 107; 2 Kent's Com. 305, 306; Greene v. Biddle,
8 Wheat. 1; University of Maryland v. Villiams, 9 Gill. &
Johns. 402; Bayne v.Baldwin, 3 Sinedes & Marsh. (Iiss.) R.
661; Aberdeen Academy 1. IMayor of Aberdeen, 13 Smedes &
Marish. R. 645; Young v. t-Ianison, 6 Georgia R. 130; Coles v.
Madi-on county, Breese (Ill.) Rep. 120; Bush v. Shipman, 4
Sean. (I1.) R. 190; The People v. Mar.hall, 1 Gilnan (Ill.) R.
672; State t,.
Hayward, 3 Richardson (S. C.) R. 389; Baily v.
Railroad Co. 4 Harrington (Del.) R. 389;. LeClercq v.Galtipolis, 7 Ohio, 217; State v. Comi'l Bank of Cincinnati, 7 Ohio,
125; State v.Wash. Soc. Library, 9 Ohio, 96; Michigan Bank
z. Ha-tings, 1 Doug. (Mich.) R. 22.5; Bank of Pennsylvania v.
Commonwealth, 19 Pennsylvania Rep. 151; Hardy v.vValtham,
9 Pick. 108.
3d. The right of a State to tax the property of a private cor-

372

SUPREME COURT.
Stato Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

poration (such as a bank) or to tax any specified property of
private persons may, by legislative contract, be wholly relinquished, commuted, or limited to an ag:eed amount, and no
State law can impair the validity of such contract.
Angell & Ames on Corp. §§ 469-472 inclusive; Gordon v.
Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133; Gordon's Ex'rs v. Baltimore,
5 Gill, 231; Bank of Cape Fear v. Edwards, 5 Iredell, 516;
Bank of Cape Fear v. Deming, 7 Iredell, 516; Union Bank of
Tennessee v. State, 9 Yerger, 490; State of New Jersey v. Bury,
2 Harris,84; Gordon v. State, 1 Zabriskie, 527; Johnson v.
Commonwealth, 7 Dana, 342; Bank 6f Illinois v. The People,
4 Scam. 304; Williams v. Union Bank of Tennessee, 2 .Hump.
339; _Atwater v. Woodbridge, 6 Conn. 223; Osborne v. Humphrey, 7 Conn. 335; East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Company, 17 Conn. 93; State v. Com'l Bank of Cincinnati, 7 Ohio
Rep. 125.
In the absence of adjudicated cases to establish the right of
the legislature of a State thus to relinquish,. commute, or limit
the amount of taxation, it might and ought to be inferred from
the uniformity and extent of its exercise by the States from
their earliest history to the present time.
In the case of Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 318, the
court say, "that a uniform course of action involving the right
to the exercise of an important power by the State governments
for half a century, and this almost without question, is no unsatisfactory evidence that the power is rightly exercised. Cin.,
Wil. & Zanesville R. R.' Co. v. Com'rs.* Clinton Co. 21 Ohio
Rep. 96.
In accomplishing the lawful purposes of legislation, the choice
of means adapted to the end must be left Exclusively to the discretion of the legislature, provided the means used are not prohibited by the Constitution. Cin., Wil. & Zanesville R. R. Co.
v. Com'rs. Clinton Co., 21' Ohio Rep. 95.
4th. The plaintiff in error claims that by the sixtieth section
of the act of 24th of February, 1845, the State, by contract, (and
not by legislative command) fixed and agreed upon the tine,
manner, and amount of taxation to be imposed upon and paid
by said bank, which contract is mutually binding on the parties,
and cannot be changed or abrogated by either -without the consent of the other.
This last proposition involves an into pretation of so much
of said law as relates to the subject of taxation in two aspects:
1. Whether the sixtieth section be a contract on the subject
of taxation, as claimed by the plaintiff in error, or a law dictating and commanding the amount of taxation, as claimed by the
defendant in error.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

373

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

2. If it be a contract, whether it was temporary and depending on the will of the legislature, or permanent, and to remain
in force during the term of the charter.
The court lay down the doctrine in Charles River Bridge v.
'Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. &10, that in the construction of statutes
creating corporations, the rules of the common law must govern
in this cou.ntry; and in the same opinion, at page 548, the court
say, that the rules of construing a statute which surrenders tht
taxing power, are the same as those that apply to any othei
affecting the public interest.
In the case of the Sutton Hospital, Lord Coke lays down the
rule of the common law in the construction of charters in the
following terms, namely, "That the best exposition of the
King's chdrter is upon the consideration of the whole charter to
expound the charter by the charter itself, every material part
thereof being explained according to the true and genuine sense,
which is the best method." The rule of interpretation is laid
down by the Supreme Court in Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 649.
Also, by Judge Story, in his dissenting
opinion, at page 600. Also, in case of Richmond Railroad Co.
v. Louisa Railroad Company, 13 How. 81.
Where a right is not given in express words by the charter, it
may be deduced by.interpretation, if it is clearly inferrible from
some of its provisions. Stourbridge Canal v. Wheely, 2 Barn.
& Adol. 792; Union Bank of Tennessee v. The State, 9 Yerg..
495.
In adopting the rule of expounding the charter by the charter
itself, the court is referred to all that part of the act of incorporation which is subsequent to the forty-fifth section.
In construing statutes making grants for private enterprise, it
is a settled principle,
1st. That all grants for purposes of this sort are to be construed as contracts between the government and the grantee,
and not as mere laws. 11 Pet. 660. Judge Story's 'npinion.
2d. That they are to receive a reasonable construction. And
if from -the express words of the act, or just and plain inference
from the terms used, the intent can be satisfactorily made out,
it is to prevail and be carried into effect. But if the language
be ambiguous, or the intent cannot be satisfactorily made out
from the terms used, then the act is to be taken most strongly
against the grantee and most beneficially to the public. 11 Pet.

600.
The following points made on behalf of the defendant in error,
are copied from the brief of Mr. Spalding.
The first section of -the "act to tax banks, and bank and other
VOL. XVI.

32

374

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. KT1eop.

stocks, the same as other property is now taxable by the laws of
this State," passed Mirch 21, 1851, reads as follows:
" That it shall be the duty of the president and cashier of each
and every banking institution incorporated by the laws of this
State, and having-the right to issue bills or notes for circulation,
at the time for listing personal property under the laws of this
State, to list the capial stock of such banking institution, under
oath, at its true value in money, and return -the same, with the
amdunt of surplu and contingent fund belonging to such banking institution, to the assessor of the township or ward in which
such banking institution is located; and the amount so returned
shall be placed on th4 grand duplicate of the proper county,-(and
upon the city duplicate for city taxes, in cases where such city
tax does not go upon the grand duplicate, but is collected by the
city officers,) and taxed for the same purposes and to the same
extent that personal property is or may be required to be taxed
in the place where such bank is located; and such tax shall be
collected and paid over in the same manner that taxes on other
personal property are required by law to be collected and paid
over: Provided, however, that the capita] stock of any bank
shall not be returned or taxed for -a less amount than its capital
stock paid in."
The single question presented in this case is the following:
Has the L3gislature of Ohio, in the enactment last recited,
impaired the obligation of a contract, within the meaning of the
prohibition contained in the tenth section of the first article of
the Constitution of the United States?
I maintain that it has not; arid, in support of my position,
respectfully advance, for the consideration of the court, the following propositions:
1st. The act of ,he General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
entitled "An act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio, and
other banking companies," passed February 24, 185, is not a
contract in the sense in which that term is used in the Constitution.
It is a system of rules and regulations prescribed by the lawmaking power in the State for the government of all the citizen.
of Ohio who may choose, within certain limits, to embark in
the business of banking. It is as mandatoy in its character az
any law upon the statute. book, and some of its mandatc are
enforced under the severest penalties known to the law. See
§ 67.
It is susceptible of amendment, and it has been amended,
without objection, in its most important featufes. 46 Ohio
Laws, 92; 48 Ib. 35. At the time of its enactment, February 24,
1845, there wds a general law in force in Ohio, providing that

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

375

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

all subsequent corporations, whether possessing banking powers
or not, were to hold their charters subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature, Ohio
Laws, vol. 40, p. 70. The Bank of Toledo v. The City of Toledo,
1 Ohio State Reports, 622, 696.
2J. "With the sole exeep:ion of duties on imports and ey
ports, the individual States possess an independent and uncontrollable authority to raise their own revenues for the ,upply of
their own wants; and any attempt on the part of the national
government to abridge them in the exercise of it would be a violent a.sumption of power unwarranted by any article or clause
of iLs Contitution." Alexander Hamilton, No. 32, Federalist,
p. 140.
'3d. The taxing power is of such vital importance, and is so
eseiitially necessary to the very existence of a State government,
that its relinquishment cannot be made the subject-matter of a
binding contract between the legislature and individuals or corporations. It is a prerogative of sovereignty that must of necessity always be exerted according to present exigencies, and consequently must of necessity continue to be held by each succeeding legislature, undiminished and unimpaired. The Meehames and Traders Bank v. Henry Debolt, 1 Ohio Szate Rep.
591; Brewster v. Hough, 10 New Hamp. Rep. 138; The Providence Bank v. B.lings, 4 Pet. 514; The Proprietors of the
Charles River Bridge r. The Proprietors of the Varren Bridge,
11 Pet. Rep. 420, and cases therein cited; The West River
Bridge Company v. Dix, 6 How. Rep. 507; The Richmond
Railroad Company v. The Louisa Railroad Company, 13 Howard, 71.
4th. The si:tieth section of the "Act to incorporate the State
Bank of Ohio, and other banldng companies," passed February
24, 1845,provides only a measure of taxation for the time being,
and does not relinquish the right to increase thearate as the luture exigencies of the State may require. Debolt v. The Ohio
Life insurance and Trust Company, I Ohio State Rep. 576 ; 10
Penn. State Rep. 442; 10 New Hamp. Rep. 1 S; 13 How.
Rep. 71; 9 Georgia Rep. 517; 2 Barn. & Adol. 793; 3 Pet.
Rep. 289; 1b. 168, 314; 11 lb. 544.
bth. The Supreme Court of Ohio has done nothing more
than give a construction to a statute law of the State, (the act
of 11,46,) thai is, to say the least, somewhat ambiguous.
Dy this construction, the act of March 21, 1651, does no violence to the Constitution of the United States. This court is in
the habit of adopting the interpretation given by the State courts
to the statutes of their own State. Surely it will not, in thi,
instance, undertake to give a construction counter to that of the

376

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

State c r, when that counter construction will bring subsequent legislation of the State into conflict with the Federal Constitution. 10 Wheat. 159; 11 lb. 361; 4 Pet. 137; 6 1b. 291;
16 lb. 18; 7 How. 40, 219, 818; 13 lb. 27:. ; 14 Ib.78, 79.
Upon the 3d point the counsel cited these further authorities:
16 Pet. 281; 8 How. 584; 10 1b. 402; 4 Comst6ck, 423; 2 Denio, 474; 5 Cow. 538; 7 lb. 585; 1 El, & Black. 858.
And read the following extract from-Local Laws of Ohio, vol.
43, p. 51:
An act to incorporate the Milan and Richland Plank Road
Company, passed January 31, 1845:
SE.c. 9. " That in consideration of the expenses which said
company will necessarily incur in constructing said road, with
the appurtenances thereof, and in keeping the same in repair, the
said road and its appurtenances, together with all tolls and pro-fits arising therefrom, are hereby vested in said corporation, and
the same shall be forever exempt from any tax, imposition, or
assessment whatever."
An act to incorporate the Huron Plank Road Company, passed
February 19, 1845. Local Laws, vol. 43d, pp. 111, 114. The
ninth section is copied exactly from the ninth section of the AliIan and -Richland charter.
On the 4th point: 8 How. 581 ; 9 Tb. 185; 19 Ohio Re.p. 110;
I Ohio State Rep. 313; 4 Wheat. 235; 4. Cranch, 397; 7 How.
279; 10 lb. 396.
On the 5th point: 5 How. 342.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio.
The proceeding was instituted to reverse a decree of that
court, entered in behalf of Jacob Knoop, tTeasurer, against the
Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohic, for a tax of twcx, e
hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-three cents, assessed
against the said branch bank for the year 1851.
By the act of 1845, under which this bank was incorporated,
any number of individuals, not less than file, were authorized
to form banking associations to carry on the business of banking in the State of Ohio, at a place designated; the aggregate
amount of capital stock in all the companies not to exceed six
millions one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
In the fifty-first section it is provided that every banking.
company authorized under the act to carry on the business of
banking, whether as a branch of the State Bank of Ohio, or as
an independent banking association, "shall be held and adjudged
to be a body corporate, with succession, until the 1st of May,

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

377

Statc Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

1866; and thereafter until its affairs shall be closed." It was
made subject to the rdstrictions of the act,
The fifty-ninth section requires "the directors of each baniking company, semiannually, on the first Mondays of Mlay and
November, to declare a dividend of so much of ihe net profits
of the company as they shall judge expedient.; and on each
dividend day the cashier shall make out and verify by oath, a
full, clear, and accurate statement of the condition of the conpany as it shall be on that day, after declaring the dividend, and
similar statements shall also be made oin the first Mondays of
February and August in each year." This statement is required
to be transmitted to the auditor of State.
The sixtieth section provides that each bankilbg company
under the act, or accepting thereof, and complying with its provisions, shall, semiannually, on the days designated for declaring dividends, set off to the State six per cent. on the profits,
deducting therefrom the expenses and ascertained losses of the
company for the six months next preceding, which sum or
hmount so"set off shall be in lieu of all toxc5 to which the company, or the stockholders therein, would otherwise be subject.
The sum so set off to be paid to the treasurer, on the order of
thc auditor of State.
The Piqua Branch Bank was organized in ihe year 1847, under the above act; and still continues to carry on the business
of banking, and continued to set off and pay the semiannual
amount as required; and on the first londays of May and November, in 1851, there was set off to the State six per cent. of
the profits, deducting expenses and ascertained losses for the
six months next. preceding each of those days, and the cashier
did, within ten days thereafter, inform the auditor of 'State of
the amount so set off on the 15th of November, 1851,.the same
amounting to $862.50;' which sum was paid to the treasurer of
State, on the order of the auditor; which payment the bank
claims was in lieu of all taxes to which the company or its
.-tockholders were subject for the year 1851.
On the 21st of March, 1851, an act was passed entitled "An
act to tax banks and bank and other stocks, the same as property Is now taxable by the laws of the State."
This act provides that the capital stoclC of every banking
company incorporated by the laws of the State, and having the
right to issue bills or notes for circulation, shall be listed at its
true value in money, with the amount of the surplus and contingent fund belonging to such bank ; and that the amount of
such capital stock, surplus, and contingent fund, should be
taxed for the same purposes and to the same extent that personal property was or might be required to be taxed in the place
'1

-

SUPREME COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

-where such bank is located; and that such tax should be collected .and paid over in the same manner that taxes on other
personal property are required by law to be collected and paid
over.
In pursuance of this act there was assessed, for the year 1851,
)nthe capital stock, contingent and surplus fund of the Piqua
Bank, a tax. amounting to the sum of twelve hundred and sixtyAx dollars*and sixty-three cents. The bank refused to pay this
:ax on the ground that it was in violation of its charter. Suit
was brought by the State against the bank for this tax. The
defence set up by the bank was, that the- tax imposed was in
violation of its charter, which fixed the rate of taxation at six
per cent. on its dividends, deducting expenses and losses; but
the Supreme Court of the State sustained the act of 1851,
against the provision of the charter by which, it is insisted, the
contract in the charter was impaired.
NWe will fi-st consider whether the specific mode of taxation,
provided in the sixtieth section of the charter, is a contract.
The operative words are, that the bank shall, "semiannually
on the days designated in the fifty-ninth section for declaring
dividends, set off to the State six per cert. on the profits, deducting therefrom the expenses and ascertained losses of the
company for the six months next preceding, which sum or
amount so set off shall be in lieu of all tf xes to which such
company, or the stoekholders thereof, on account of stock owned
therein, would otherwise be subject."
This sentence is so explicit, that it would seem to be susceptible of but one construction. There is not one word of doubtful meaning when taken singly, or as it stands connected with
the sentence in which it is used. Nothing is left to inference.
The time, the dinount to be set off, the means of ascertaining
it, to whom it is to be paid, and the object of the payment, are so
clearly stated, that no one who reads the provision can fail to understand it. The payment was to be in ier, of all taxes to which
,the company or stockholders would otherwise be subject. This
is the full measure of taxation on the bank. It is in the place
of any other tax which, had it not been for this stipulation,
might have been imposed on the company or stockholders.
This construction, I can say, was given -to the act by the executive autforities of Ohio, by those who were interested in the
bank, and generally by the public, from the time the bdnk was
organized down to the tax law of 1851.
in the case of Debolt v. The Ohio Insurance and Trust Company, 1 Ohio Rep. 563, new series, the Supreme Court, in considering the 60th section now before us, Eay: "It must be admitted the section contains no language i.mporting a surrender

DE-EMBER TERM, 1853.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

of the right to alter the taxation prescribed, unless it is to be
inferred from the words, ' shall be in lieu of all taxes to which.
such compafiy, or the stockholders thereof, on account of stock
owned therein, -would otherwise be subject;' and it is frankly
conceded that if these words had occurred in a general law they
would not be open to such a construction. If the lilace where
they are found is important,'we have already seen this law is
general in many of its provisions, and upon a general subject.
Why may not this be classed~with these provisions, especially
in view of the fact, that in its nature it properly belongs there?
We think it should be regarded as a law prescribing a rule of
taxation, until changed, and not a contract stipulating against
any change: a legislative command and not a legislative compact with these institutions." ' And the court further say, "the
taxes required by this act are to be in lieu of other taxes -'that
is, to take the place of other taxes. What other taxes? The
answer is, such as the banks or the stockholders ' would otherwise be subject to pay. The taxes to which they would be
otherwise subject were prescribed by existing laws, and this, in
effect, operated as a repeal of them, so far as these institutions
were concerned.'"
With great respect, it may be suggested there was no general
tax law existing, as supposed by the court, under which the
banks chartered by the act of 1845 could have been taxed, and
on which the above provision could, "in effect, operate to repeal.
The general tax law of the 12th of March, 1831, which raised
the tax to fiVe per cent. on dividends, and which operated on
all the banks of Ohio, except the "Commercial Bank of Cincinnati," was repealed by the small note act of 1836, and that
could operate only on banks doing business at the time of its
passage.
The act of the 13th of March, 1838, repealed the act of 1836,
so far "as it restricts or prohibits the issuing and circulation of
small bills." The act of 1836 authorized the treasurer of State
to draw upon the banks for the amount of twenty per cent. upon
their dividends, as their proportion of the State tax; and provided that if any bank should relinquish its charter privilege of
issuing bills of less denomination than three and five dollars, thL
tax should be reduced to five per cent. upon its dividends. As
the prohibition of circulating small notes was repealed, the tax
necessarily fell. Neither the twenty nor the five per cent. could
be exacted. The five per cent. was a compromise for the twenty;
as the twenty was repealed by the repeal of the prohibition of
small notes, neither the one nor the other could be collected.
But if this were not so, the Bank Act of 1842, which imposed

880

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

a tax of one half per cent. on the capital stock of the bank, repealed, by its repugnancy, any part of the act of 1836 which,
by construction or otherwise, could be considered in force. And
the act of 1842 was repealed by the act of 145. There is a
general act in Ohio declaring that the repeal of an act shall not
revive any act which had -been previously repealed. Swan's
Stat. 59.
If this statement be correct, as it is believed to be, the legislature could not have intended, by the special provision in the
sixtieth section, to exempt the bank from tax by the existing
law, as no such law existed, but to exempt'from the operation
of tax laws subsequently passed. This is the clear and fair import of the compact, which we think would not be rendered
doubtful if a tax law had existed at the time the act of 1845
-was passed.
The 60th section is not found in a general law, as is intimated by the Supreme Court of the State. The act of 1845 is
general only in the sense, that all banking associations were
permitted to organize under it; but the act is as special to each
bank as if no other institution were incorporated by it. We
suppose this cannot be controverted by a:.iy one. This view is
so clear in itself that no illustration can make it clearer.
Every valuable privilege given by the charter, and which conduced to an acceptance of it and an organization under it, is a
contract which cannot be changed by the legislature, where the
power to do so is not reserved in the charter. The rate of discount, the duration of the chatter, the sp3cific tax agreed to be
paid, and other provisions essentially connected with the fraylchise, and necessary to the business of the bank, cannot, without
its consent, become a subject for legislative action.
A municipal corporation, in which is vested some portion of
the administration of the government, may be changed at the
will of the legislature. Such is a public corporation, used for
public purposes. But a bank, where the stock is owned by individuals, is a private corporation. This was not denied or
questioned by the counsel in argument, although it has been
controverted in this case elsewhere. But this court and the
c6urts of the different States, not excepting the Supreme Court
of Ohio, have so universally held that banks, where the stock is
owned by individuals, are private corpcrations, that no legal
fact is susceptible of less doubt. Mr. Justice Story, in his learned and able remarks in the Dartmouth College case, says: "A
bank created by the government for its own uses, where the
stock is exclusively owned by the government is, in the strictest
sense, a public corpor ation."
"But a bank whose stock is owned by private persons is a

DECEMBER TERM1, 1853.

381

State Bank of Ohio v. Kndop.

private corporation, although it is erected by the government,
and its objects and operations partake of a public nature. The
same doctrifie, he says, may be affirmed of insurance, canal,
bridge, and turnpike companies. There can be no doubt that
these definitions are sound, and are sustained by the settled
principles of law."
It by no means follows that because the action of a corporation may be beneficial to the-public, therefore it is a public corporation. This may be said of.all corporations whose objects
afe the administration of charities. But these are not public,
though incorporated by the legislature, unless their funds, belong
to the government. Where the property of a corporation is
private it gives the same character to the institution, and to this
there is no exception. Men who are engaged in banking understand the .distinction above stated, and also that privileges
granted in private corporations are not a legislative command,
but a legislative contract, not liable to be changed.
This fact is showh by the following circumstances: "An act
to regulate banking in Ohio," passed the 7th of March, 1842.
The 1st section provided. "that all companies or associations
of persons desiring to engage in and carry on the business of
banking within this State, which may hereafter be incorporated,
shall be subject to the rules, regulations, limitations, conditions,
and provisions contained in this act, and such other acts to regulate banking as are now in force, or may hereafter be enacted,
in this State."
The 20th section of that act provided that a tax of one halfper cent. per annum on its capital should be paid, and such
other tax upon its capital or circulation as the general assembly
may hereafter impose. An amendment to this act was passed
the 21st February, 1843; but the act and the amendment remained a dead letter upon the statute book. No stock was subscribed under them, and they were both repealed by the act of
1845, under which nearly three fourths of the banks in Ohio
were organized. This act .contained the express stipulation that
"six per cent. on the dividends, after deducting expenses and
losses, should be paid in lieu of all taxes."
This compact was accepted, arid on the faith of it fifty banks
were organized, which are still in operation. Up to the year
1851, I believe, the banks, the profession, and the bench, considered this as a contract, and binding upon the State and the
banks. For more than thirty-five years this mode of taxing the
dividends of banks had been sanctioned in the State of Ohio.
With few exceptions the banks were so taxed, where any tax
on'them was imposed. In the case of the State of Ohio v. The
Commercial Bank of Cincinnati, 10 Ohio Rep. 535, the Supreme

382

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Kaoop.

Court of Ohio say, we take it to be well s3ttled, that the charter
of a private corporation is in the nature of a contract between
the S.ate and the corporation. Had there ever been any doubts
upon this subject, those doubts must have been removed by the
decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case
of Woodward v. Dartmouth College. And the court remark,
"the general assembly say to such persons as may take the
stock, you may enjoy the privileges of banking, if you will consent to pay to the State of Ohio, for this privilege, four per cent.
on your dividends, as they shall from time to time be made.
The charter is. accepted, the stock is subscribed, and the corporation pays, or is willing to pay, the consideration stipulated, to
wit, the four per cent." And the court say, "here is a contract,
specific in its terms, and easy to be understood." "A contract
between the State and individuals is as obligatory as any other
contract. Until a State is lost to all sense of justice and propriety, she will scrupulously abide by her contracts more scrupulously than she will exact their fulfilraent -by the opposite
contracting party."
This opinion commends itself to the judgment, both on account of its sound constitutional views and its elevated morality. It was pronounced at December terin, 1835. That decision
was calcula:ed to give confidence to thcse who were desirous
to make investments in banking operations, or otherwise, in the
State of Ohio.
Ten years after this opinion, and after an ineffectual attempt
had been made by the act of 1842, and its amendment in 1843,
to organize banks in Ohio, without a compact as to taxation,
the act of 1845 was passed, containing a coinpact-much more
specific than that which had Oeen sustained by the Supreme
Cotirt of the State. Under such circumstances, can the intentions of the Legislature of Ohio, in passing the act of 1845, be
*doubted, or the inducements of the stockholders to vest their
money under it. Could either have supposed that the 60th section proposed a temporary taxation? Such a supposition does
great injustice to the legislature of 1845. It is against the clear
language of the section, which must ever shield them from the
imputation of having acted inconsiderately or in bad faith.
They passed .the' charter of 1845, which they knew would be
accepted, as it removed the objections to the act of 1842.
Can the compact in the 60th section be "regarded as a law
prescribing a rule of taxation until changed, and not a contract
stipulating against any change; a legislative command, and not
a legislative compact with these institutions?" We cannot but
treat with great respect the language of the highest judicial tribunal of a State, and we would say, that in our opinion it does

DECEM[BER

TERMI,

1853.

383

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

not import to be a legislative command nor a rule of taxation
until changed, but a contract stipulating against any change,
from the nature of .the language used and the circumstances
under which it was adopted. According to our views, no other
construction can be given to the contract, than that the tax of
six per cent. on the dividends is in lieu of all subsequent taxes
which might otherwise be imposed; in other words, taxes to
which the company or the stockholders would have been liable,
had the specific tax on the dividends on the terms stated not
been enacted.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State, it is said,
the 60th section, in effect, repealed the existing law under which
the bank would have been taxed, and that this is the obvious
application of the language used; and they add, "that the General Assembly intended only this, and did not intend it to operate
upon the sovereign power of the State, or to tie ilp the hands
of their successors, we feel fully assured. To suppose the contrary would be to impeach them of gross violation of public
duty, if not usurpation of authority."
So far as regards the effect of the 60th section to repeal existing laws, if no such laws existed, it would follow that no.such
eflgct was produced, and we may presume that this was in the
knowledge of the legislature of 1845; and in saying that the
compact was intended to run with the charter, we only impute
to the legislature a full knowledge of their own powers, and the
highest regard '- the public interest. The idea that a State, by
exempting from taxation certain property, parts with a portion
of its sovereiguty, is of modern growth; and so is the argument
that if a State may part with this in one instance it may in

every other, so a to divest itself of the sovereign power of taxation. Such an argument would he as strong and as conclusive

against the exercise of the taxing power. For if the legislature
may
a tax
upon property,
theymay
maybeabsorb
entire
propower
said oftheevery
The same
tax-payer.
of the
perty levy
where there is*an exercise of judgment.
The Legislature of Ohio passes a statute oe limitatons, to all
civil and criminal actions. Is there no danger that in-the exercise of this power it may not be abused? Suppose a year a
month, a week, or a day should be fixed as the time within
which all actions shall be brought on existing demands; and if

not so brought, the remedy should be barred. This is a supposition more probable under circumstances of great embarrass
ment; when the voice of the debtor is always potent, than that
slature
wil inconsiderately exempt property from taxlthe legi
Under a statute of limitation, as supposed, the remedy of the

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

creditor would be cut off, unless the courts should decide that a
limitation to bar the right must be reasnable, but this power
could not be exercised under any constitutional provision. It
could'rest only on the great and immutable principles of justice,
unless the time was so short as manifestly to have been intended
to impair or destroy the contract. To carry on a government, a
more practical view of public duties must be taken.
When the State of Ohio was admitted into the Union by the
act of the 30th of April, 1802, it was admitted under a compact
that " the lands within the State sold by Congress shall remain
exempt from iy tax laid by or under the authority of the State,
county, township, or any other purpose whatwhether for
ever, for the term of five years from and e.fter the day of sale."
And yet by the same law the State "was admitted into the
Union upon the same footing with the original States in all
respects whatever."
Now, if this new doctrine of sovereigntr be correct, Ohio was
not admitted into the Union on the footing of the other sovereign States. Whatever may be considered of such a compact
now, it was not held to be objectionabla at the time it was
made.
The assumption that a State, in exempting certain property
from taxation, relinquishes a part of its sovereign power, is unfounded. The taxing power may select its objects of taxation;
and this is generally regulated by the anount necessary to answer the purposes of the State. Now the exemption of property
from taxation is a question of policy and not of power. A
sound currency should be a desirable object to every government; and this in our country is secured generally through the
instrumentality of a well-regulated system of banking. To
establish such institutions as shall meet the public wants and
secure the public confidence, inducements must be held out to
capitalists to invest their funds. They must know the rate
of interest to be charged by the bank, the time the charter
shall run, the liabilities of the company, the rate of taxation,
and other privileges necessary to -asuccessful banking operation.
These privileges are proffered by the State, accepted by the
stockholders, and in consideration funds are invested in the
bank. Here is a contract by the State and the bank, a contract
founded upon considerations of p'olicy required by the general
interests of the community, a contract protected by the laws of
England and America, and by all civilized States where the
common or the civil law is established. In Fletcher v.Peck,
6 Cranch, 135, Chief Justice Marshall says, " The principle
asserted is, that one legislature is competent to repeal any act
-tate,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

385

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

which a former legislature was competent to pass, and that one
legislature cannot abridge the powers of a succeeding legislature."
'"The correctness of this principle," he says, "so far as respects
general legislation, can never be controverted. But if an act
be done under a law, a succeeding legislature cannot undo it.
When, then, a law is in its nature a contract, a repeal of the
law cannot divest those rights ; and the act of annulling them,
if legitimate, is rendered so by a power applicable to the case
of every individual in the community."
And in another part of the opinion he says, "1Whatever respect might have been felt for the State sovereignties, it is not
to be disguised that the ..framers of the Constitution viewed,
with some apprehension, the violent acts which might grow out
of the feelings of the moment, and that the people of the United
States, in adopting that instrument, have manifested a deterruination to shield themselves and their property from the effects
of those sudden and strong passions to which men are exposed.
The restrictions on the legislative power of the States are obviously founded on this sentiment; and the Constitution -of the
United States contains what may be deemed a bill of.rights.for
the people of each State."
"No State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto laW.,
or law impairing the obligations of contracts. A bill of attainder may affect the life of an individual, or may confiscate his
property, or may do both."
In this form he says, "the power of the legislature over the
lives and fortunes of individuals is expressly restrained. What
motive, then, for implying, in words which import a general
prohibition to impair the obligation of contracts, ah exception.
in favor of the right to impair the obligations of those contracts
into which the State m~y enter."
The history of England affirds melancholy instances where
bills of attainder were. prosecuted in parliament to, tne destruction of the lives and fortunes of some of its most eminent subjects. A knowledge of this caused a prohibition in the Constitution against such a procedure by the States.
In the case of the State of New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164, it was held, "that a legislative act, declaring that certain
lands, which should be purchased for the Indians, should not
thereafter be subject to any tax, constituted a contract which
could not be rescinded by a subsequent legislative act, Such
repealing act being void under that clause of the Constitution
of the United States which prohibits a State from passing any
law impairing the obligation of contracts."
In 1758 the government of New Jersey purchased the Indians'
VOL. xvI.

33

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Xroop.

title to lands in that State, in consideratioa, of which the government bought a tract of land on which the Indians might reside,
an act having previously been passed that "the lands to be
purchased for them shall not hereafter be subject to any tax,
any law, usage, or custom to the contrary thereof in any Nise
notwithstanding." The Indians continued in possession of the
lands purchased until 1801, when they applied for and obtained
an act of the legislature, authorizing a sale of their lands. This
act contained no provision in regard to taxation; under it the
Indian lands were sold.
In October, 1804, the legislature repealed the act of August,
1758, which exempted these lands from taxes; the lands were
then assessed, and the taxes demanded. The court held the
repealing law was unconstitutional, as impairing the obligation
-of the contract, although the 'land was in the hands of the
grantee of the Indians. This case shows that although a State
government may make a contract to exempt property from, taxation, yet the sovereignty cannot annul that contract.
In the case of Gordon v. The Appeal Tax, 3 How. 13, Mr.
Justice Wayne, giving the opinion of the court, held, "that the
charter of a bank is a franchise, which is .not taxable as such,
if a price has been paid for it, which the legislature accepted.
But that the corporate property of the bank, being separable
from the franchise, may be taxed, unless there is a special agreement to the contrary."
And the court say, the language of the eleventh section of the
act of 1821 is, "And be it enacted, that upon any of the aloresaid banks accepting and complying with the terms and conditions of this act, the faith of the State is hereby pledged not to
impose any further tax or burden upon them during the continuance of their charters under this act." This, the court say,
is the language of grave deliberation, pledging the faith of the
State for some purpose, some effectual purpose. Was that
purpose the protection of the banks from what that legislature and succeeding legislatures could not do, if the banks
accepted the act, or from what they might do in the exercise of
the taxing power. The terms and condilions of the act were,
that the banks should construct the road and pay annually a
designated charge upon their capital stocks, as the price of the
prolongatio;A of their franchise of banking. The power of the
State to lay any further tax upon the franchise was exhausted.
That is the cbntract between the State and the banks. It follows, then,'as a matter of course, when the legislature go out
of the contract, proposing to pledge its faith, if the banks shall
accept the act not to impose any furthe:: tax or burden upon
them,-that it -must have meant. by these words an exemption

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

387

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.
from some other tax than a further tax upon the franchise of
the banks. The latter was already provided against; and the'
court held that the exemption extended to the respective capital
stocks of the banks as an aggregate, and to the stockholders, as
persons on account of their stocks. The judgment of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, which sustained the act imposing an
additional tax on the banks, was reversed.
It will be observed that the above compact was applied to the
stocks of the bank and the interest of the stockholders hy construction.
The Supreme Court of Ohio say in relation to this case, that
"the power to tax and the right to limit the power were both
admitted by counsel, and taken for granted in the consideration
of the case; and that a very large consideration had been paid
for the extension of the franchise and the exemption of the
stock from taxation."
In relation to the admissions of the counsel it may be said
that they were men not likely to admit any thing to the prejudice of their clients, which could be successfully opposed;
nor would the court, on a constitutional question, rest their
judgment on the admissions bf counsel.
Whethier the consideration paid by the banks was large. or small, we suppose
was not a matter for the court, as the motives or consideration
-which induced a sovereign State to make a contract, cannot be
inquired into as affecting the valid*ity of the act.
In the argument, the case of the Providence Bank v. Billing,
was referred to, 4 Peters, 561. This reference impresses me
with the shortness and uncertainty of human life. Of all the
judges on this bench, when that decision was given, I am the
only survivor. From several circumstances the principles of
that case were strongly impressed upon my memory; and I
was surprised when it was cited in support of the doctrines
maintained in the case before us. The principle held in that
case was, that where there was no exemption from taxation in
the charter, the bank might be taxed. This was the unanimous
opinion of the judges, but no one of them doubted that the
legislature had the power, in the charter or otherwise, from motives of public policy, to exempt the bank from taxation, or by
compact to impose a specific tax on it. And this is clear from
the language of the court.
The chief justice in that case says: "that the taxing power
is of vital importance, that it is essential to the existence of
government, are truths which it cannot be necessary to reaffirm.
They are acknowledged and asserted by all. It would seem
that the relinquishment of such a power is never to be presumed. No one can controvert the correctness of these axioms."

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

The relinquishment of such a power is never to be presumed;
but this implies it may be relinquished, or taxable objects may
be exempted, if specially provided for in the charter. And this
is still more clearly expressed, as follows: "We will not say
that a State may not relinquish it; that a consideration sufficiently valuable to induce a partial release of it may not exist;
but as the whole community is interested in retaining it undiminished, that community has a right to insist, that its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a case in which the
deliberate purpose of a State to abandon it does not appear."
Such a case was not then before the court. There was no
provision in the Providence Bank charter which exempted it
from taxation, and in that case the-court could presume no such
intention.
But suppose, in the language of that great man, "a consideration sufficiently valuable to induce a partial release of it, and
such release had been contained in the chatter; would not that
have been held sufficient? And of the sufficiency of the consideration, whether it was a bonus paid by the bank, or in supplying a sound currency, the legislature woald be the exclusive
judges. This would constitute a contract which a legislature
could not impair.
The above case is a strong authority against the defendants.
The Chief Justice further says, "any privileges which may
exempt the corporation from the burdens common to individuals, do not flow necessarily from the charter,, but must be
expressed in it, or they do not exist." But if so expressed, do
they not exist ?
A case is cited from the Stourbridge Canal v. Wheely, 2
Barn. & Adol. 793, to show- tha no implications in favor of
chartered rights are admissible. Lord Tenterden says, "that
any ambiguity in the terms of the contract must olicrate against
the adventurers, and in favor of the public; and the plaintiffs
can claim nothing that is not clearly given them by the act."
In the same opinion his lordship.said z " No:,v i it-is quite certain
that the company have no right expressly -to receive any compensation, except the tonnage paid for goods carried through
some of the canals or the locks on the canal, or the collateral
cuts, and it is therefore incumbent upon thera to show that they
have a right clearly given by inference from some of the other
clauses."
Neither this, the Rhode Island Bank case, nor the Charles
River Bridge case, affords any aid to the doctrines maintaincd,
with the single exception, that a right set up under a grant must
clearly appear, and cannot be presumed; and this has not been
controverted.

DECEMBER TERMf, 1853.

389

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

That a State has power to make a contract which shall bind
it in future, is so universally held by the courts of the United
States and of the States, that a general citation of authorities
is unnecessary on the subject. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Town of
Pawlett, 9 Cranch, 292.
Mr. Justice Blackstone says, 2 .Bl. Com. 37, "that the same
franchise that has before been granted to one, cannot be bestowed on another, because it would prejudice the former grant.
In the King v. Pasmore, 3 Term, 246, Lord Kenyon says, that
an existing corporation cannot have another charter obtruded
upon it, or accept the whole or any part of the new charter.
The reason of this, it is said, is obvious. A charter is a contract, to the validity of which the consent of both parties is
essential, and therefere it cannot be altered or added to without
consent."

There is no constitutional objection to the exercise of the
power to make a binding contract by a State. It necessarily
exists in its sovereignty, and it has been so held by all the courts
in this country. A denial of this is a denial if State sovereignty. It takes from the State a power essentibL to the discharge of its functions as sovereign. If .it do not possess this
attribute, it could not communicate it to others. There is no
pbwer possessed by it more essential than this. Through the
instrumentality of contracts, the machinery of the government
is carried on. Money is borrowed, and obligations given for
payment. Contracts are made with individuals, who give bonds
to the State. So in the granting of charters. If there be any
force in the argument, it applies to contracts made with individual , the same as with corporations. But it is said the State
cannot barter away any part of its sovereignty. No one ever
contended that it could.
A State, in granting privileges to a bank, with a view of
affording a sound currency, or of advancing any policy connected with t*he public interest, exercises its sovereignty, and
for a public purpose, of which it is the exclusive judge. Under
such circumstances, a contract made for a specific tax, as in the
case before us, is binding. This.tax continues, although all other
banks should be exempted from taxation. Having the power
to make the contract, and rights becoming vested under it, it
can no more be disregarded nor set aside by a subsequent legislature, than a grant for land. This act, so far from parting with
any portion of the sovereignty, is an exercise of it. Can any
one deny this power to the legisrature? Has it not a right to
select the objects of taxation and determine the amount ? To
deny either of these, is to take away State sovereignty.
33 *

390

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

It must be admitted that the State has the sovereign power
to do this, and it would have the sovereign power to impair or
annul a contract so made, had not the Constitution of the United
States inhibited the exercise of such a power. The vague and
undefined and indefinable notion, that every exemption from
taxation or a specific tax, which withdraws certain objects from
the general tax law, affects the sovereignty of the State, is indefensible.
There has been rarely, if ever, it is believed, a tax law passed
by any State in the Union, which did not contain some exemptions from general taxation. The act of Ohio of the 25th of
March, 1851, in the fifty-eighth section, declared that " the pro.
visions of that act shall not extend to any joint-stock company
which now is, or may hereafter be organized, whose charter or
act of incorporation shall have guaranteed to such company an
exemption from taxation, or has prescribed any other as the
exclusive mode of taxing the same." Here is a recognition of
the principle now repudiated. In the same act, there are
eighteen exemptions from taxation.
The federal government enters into an arrangement with a
foreign State for reciprocal duties on imported merchandise, from
the one country to the other. Does this affect the sovereign
power of either State ? The sovereign power in each was
exercised in making the compact, and this was done for the
mutual advantage of both countries. Mrhel;her this be done by
treaty, or by law, is immaterial. The compact is made, and it
is binding on both countries.
The argument is, and must be, that a sovereign State may
make a binding contract with one of its citizens, and, in the
exercise of its sovereignty, repudiate it.
The Constitution of the Union, when first adopted, made
States subject to the federal judicial power. Could a State,
while this power continued, being sued for adebt contracted
in its sovereign capacity, have repudiated it in the same capacity ! In this respect the Constitution was very properly
changed, as no State should be subject to the judicial power
generally.
Much stress was laid on the argument, and in the decisions
of the Supreme Court, on the fact that the banks paid no'bonus
for their charters, and that no contract can be binding wiich is
not mutual.
This is a matter which can have no influence in deciding the
legal question. The State did not require a bonus, but other
requisitions are -found in the charter, which the 'legislature
deemed sufficient, and this is not questionable by any other
authority. The obligation is as strong on the State, from

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

391

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

the privileges granted and accepted, as if a bonus had been
paid.
Another assumption is made, that the banks are taxed as
property is taxed in the bands of individuals. No deduction, it
appears, is macfe from banks on account of debts due to depositors or others, whilst debts due by an individual are deducted
from his credits. If this be so, it places banks on a very different
footing from individuals.
The power of taxation has been compared to that of eminent
domain, and it is said, as regards the question before us, they
are substantially the same. These powers exist in the same
sovereignty, but their exercise involves different principles.
Property may be appropriated for public purposes. but it must
be paid for. Taxes are assessed on property for the support of
the government under a legislative act.
We were not prepared for the position taken by the Supreme
Court of Ohio, that "no control over the right of taxation by
the States was intended to be conferred upon the General Government by the section referred to, or any other, except in relation to duties upon imports and exports." This has never been
pretended by any one. The section referred to gives the federal
government no power over taxation by a State. Such an idea
does not belong to the case, and the argument used, ve submit,
is not legitimate. We have power only to deal with contracts
under the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution,
whether made by a State or an individual; if such contract
be impaired by an act of the State such act is void, as the
power is prohibited to the State. This is the extent of our
jurisaiction. As well might it be contended under the above
section that no power was given to the federal government to
regulate the numberless internal concerns of a State which are
the subjects of contracts. With those concerns we have nothing
to do; but when contracts growing out of them are impaired
by an act of the State, under the federal Constitution we inquire
whether the act complained of is in violation of it.
The rule observed by this eourxt to follow the construction of
the statute of the State by its Supreme Court is strongly urged.
This is done when we are required to administer the laws of the
State. The established 'onstruction of a statute of the State is
received as a part of the statute. But we are called in the case
before us not to carry into effect a law of the State, but to
test the validity of such a law by the Constitutioni of the Union.
We are exercising an appellate jurisdiction. The decision of
the Supreme Court of the State is before us for revision, and if
their construction of the contract in question'impairs its obliga-

tion, we are required to rever.e their judgment.

To follow the

892

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

construction of a State court in such a case, would be to surrender
one of the most important provisions in the federal Constitution.
There is no jurisdiction which we are called to exercise of
higher importance, nor one of deeper "interest to the people of
the States. It is, in the emphatic language of Chief Justice
Marshall, a bill of rights to the people of the States, incorporated
into the fundamental law of the Union. And whilst we have
all.the respect for the learning and ability which the opinions of
the judges of the Supreme Court of the State command, we
are called upon to exercise our own judgments in the case.
. In the discussion of the principles of this case, we have not
felt ourselves at liberty to indulge in general remarks on the
theory of our government. That is a subject which belongs to
a convention for the formation of a constitution ; and, in a limited view, to the law-making power. Theories depend so much
on the qualities of the human mind, and these are so diversified
by education and habit as to constitute an un 3afe rule for judicial action. Our prosperity, individuallr ard nationally, depends upon a close adherence to the setled rules of law, and
especially to the great fundamental law of the Union.
Having considered this case in its legal aspects, as presented
in the arguments of counsel, and in the views of the Supreme
Court of the State, and especially as regards the rights of the
bank under the charter, we are brought ti) the conclusion, that
in the acceptance of the charter, on its teims, and the payment
of the capital stock, under an agreement to pay six per cent.
semi-annually on the dividends made, deducting expenses and
ascertained losses, in lieu of all taxes, a contract was made bind.
ing on the State and on the bank; and that the tax law of
Ism, under which a higher tax has been assessed on the bank
than was stipulated in its charter, impairs the obligation of the
contract, which is prohibited by the Constitution of the United
States, and, consequently, that the act of 1851, as regards the
tax thus imposed, is void. The judgment of the Supreme Court
of Ohio, in giving effect to that law, is, therefore, reversed.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY'gave a separate opinion, as follaws:
I concur in the judgment in this case. I think that by the
.sixtieth section of the act of 1845, the State bound itself by con.
tract to levy no higher tax than the one therein mentioned, upon
the banks or stocks in the banks which organized under that
law during the continuance of their charters. In my judgmeht

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

393

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

the words used are too plain to admit of any other construction.
But I do not assent altogether to the principles or reasoning
contained in the opinion just delivered, The grounds-upon which
I hold this contract to be obligatory on the State, will appear in
my opinion in the case of the Ohio Life Insurance and 'Trust
Company, also decided at the present term.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
This is a contest between the State of Ohio and a portion of
her banking institutions, organized under a general banking
law, passed in 1845. She was then a wealthy and prosperous
community, and had numerous banks which employed a large
capital, and were taxed by the general laws five per cent. on their
dividends, being equal to thirty cents on each hundred dollars'
worth of stock, supposing it to be at par value. But this was
merely a State tax, payable into the State treasury. The old
banks were liable to taxes for county purposes, besides; and
when located in cities or towns, for corporation taxes also.
These two items usually amounted to much more than the
State tax.
Such was the condition of Ohio when the general banking
law was passed in 1845. By this act, any number of persons
not less than five might associate together, by articles, to carry
on banking.
The State was laid off into districts, and the law prescribes
the amount of stock that may be employed in each. Every
county was entitled to one balik, and some to more. Commissioners were appointed to carry the law into effect. It was the
duty of this Board of Control to judge of the articles of associa'tion, and other matters necessary to put the banks into. operation. Any company might elect to become a branch of the
State Bank, or to be a separate bank, disconnected with any
other. Fi.ty thousand dollars was the iiniinum, and five hundred thousand the maximum, that could be employed in any
one proposed institution.
By the fifty-first section, each of the banking companies
authorized to carry on business was declared to be a body corporate with succession to the first day of May, 1866, with general banking powers; with the privilege to issue notes of one dollar and upwards, to one hundred dollars; and each bankl was
required to have "on hand in gold. and silver coin, or their equivalent, one half at least of which shall be in gold and silver coin
in its Vault, an amount equal to thirty per cent. of its outstanding notes of circulation ;" and whenever the specie on hand, or
its equivalent, shall fall below twenty per ednt. of the outstand-

394

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v.

Knoop.

ing note , then no more notes shall be circulated." The equivalent to specie, meant deposites that might be drawn against in
the hands of eastern banks, or bankers of good credit. In
this provision constituted the great value of the franchise.
The 59th section declares that semiannual dividends shall be
made by each bank of its profits, after deducting expenses; and
the 60th section provides, that six per cent. per annum of these
profits shall be set off to the State, "which sum or amount so
set off shall be in lieu of all taxes to which such company, or
the stockholders thereof on account of stock owned therein,
would otherwise be subject." This was equal to thirty-six cents
per annum on each hundred dollars of stock subscribed, suppos.
ing it to yield six per cent. interest.
By an act of 1851, it was declared that bank stock should be
assessed at its true value, and that it should be taxed for State,
county, and city purposes, to the same exient that personal pro.perty was required to be taxed at the place where the bank was
located. As this rate was much more than that prescribed by
the 60th section of the act of 1845, the bank before us refused
to pay the excess, and suffered herself to be sued by the tax
callector, relying on the 60th section, above recited, as an irrepealable contract, which stood protected by the Constitution of
the United States.
It is proper to say that the trifling sum in dispute in this
cause is the mere ground of raising the question between the
State of Ohio and some fifty of her banks, claiming exemption
under the act of 1845.
The taxable property of these banks is about eighteen millions
of dollars, according to the auditor's report of last year, and
which was used on the argument of this cause, by both sides.
Of course, the State officers, and other tax payers, assailed the
corporations claiming the exemption, and various cases were
brought before the Supreme Court of Ohio, drawing in question
the validity of the act of 1851 in so ffr as it increased the taxeo
of the banks beyond the amount imposed by the 60th section of
the act of 1-845. The State court sustained the act of 1851, from
which decision a writ of error was prosecuted, and the cause
brought to this court.
The opinions of the State court have been laid before us, for
our consideration; and on our assent or dissent to them, the
case depends.
The first question made and decided in the Supreme Court
of Ohio was, whether the 60th section of the act of 1845, purported to be in its terms, a contract not further to tax the banks
organized under it during the entire terra of their existence?
The court held that it imported no such contract; and with this
opinion I concur.

DECEMB:PR TERM, 1853.

395

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

The question was examined by the judge who delivered the
unanimous opinion of the court, in the case of Debolt v. The
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, 1'Ohio State Reports, 564, with a fairness, ability, and learning, calculated to
command the respect of all those who have his opinion to review;
and which opinion has, as I think, construed the 60th section
truly. But, as my brother Campbell has rested his opinion on
this section without going beyond it and as I concur in his
views, I will not further examine that question, but adopt his
opinion in regard to it.
The next question, decided by the State court is of most
grave importance; I give it in the language of the State court:
"Had the general assembly power, under the constitution then
in force, permanently to surrender, by contract, within the meaning and under the protection of the Constitution of the United
States, the right of taxation over any portion of the property of
individuals, otherwise subject to it?" On which proposition
the court proceeds to remark:
"Our observations and conclusions upon this question, must
be taken with reference to the unquestionable facts, that the act
of 1851 was a bond fide attempt to raise revenue by an equal
and uniform tax upon property, and contained no covert attack
upon the franchises of these institutions. That the surrender
did not relate to property granted by the State, so as to make
it a part of the grant for which a consideration was paid; the
State having granted nothing but the franchise, and the tax
being upon nothing but the money of individuals invested- in
the stock; and that no bonus or gross sum was paid in hand
for the surrender, so as to leave it open to controversy, that
reasonable taxes, to accrue in future, were paid in advance of
their becoming due. What effect a different state of facts might
have, we do not stop to inquire. Indeed, if the attempt hias
here been made, it is a naked release of sovereign power without
any consideration oD attendant circumstance to give it strength
or color; and, so far as -we are advised, is the first instance
where the rights and interests of the public have been entirely
overlooked."
"Under these circumstances, we feel no hesitation in saying
the general assembly was incompetent to such a task. This
conclusion is drawn from a consideration of the limited authority of that body, and the nature of the power claimed to be
abridged.
"That political sovereignty, in its true sense, exists only with
the people, and that government is "founded on their sole authority," and subject to be altered, reformed, or abolished only
by them, is a political axiom upon which all the American

3J9G

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

governments have been based, and is expressly asserted in the
bill of rights. Such of the sovereign powers with which they
were invested, as they deem necessary for protecting their rights
and liberties, and securing their independence, they have delegated to governments created by themselves, to be exercised in
such manner and for such purposes as were contemplated in the
delegaion. That these powers can neither be enlarged or diminished by these repositories of delegated authority, would seem
to result, inevitably, from the fundamental maxim referred to,
-and to be too plain to need argument or illustration.
" If they could be enlarged, government might become absolute; if they could be diminished or abridged, it might be
stripped of the attributes indispensable to enable it to accomplish the great purposes for which it was instituted. And, in
either event, the constitution would be made, either more or
less, than it was when it came frorn the hands of its authors;
being changed and subverted without their action or consent.
In the one event its power fox evil might be indefinitely enlarged; while in-the other its capacity for good might be entirely
destroyed; and thus become either an engine of oppression, or
an instrument of weakness and pusillanimily.
" The government created by the constizution of this State,
(Ohio,) although not of enumerated, is yet one of limited powers. It is true, the grant to the general asscmbly of "legislative
authority" is general; but its exercise within that limit is necessarily restrained by the previous grait of certain powers to the
federal government, and by the express limitations to be found
in other parts of the instrument. Outside of that boundary, it
needed no express limitations, for nothing vras granted. Hence
this court held, b.1Cincinnati, Wilmington, c. R. R. v. Clinton
Co. 1 Ohio State Rep. 77, that any act passed by the general
assembly not falling fairly within the sCopE of "legislative authority," was as clearly void as though expressly prohibited. So
careful was the convention to enforce this principle, and to pre.
vent the enlargement of the granted powers by construction
or otherwise, that they expressly declared in art. 8, § 28-" To
guard against the transgression of the high powers we have
delegated, we declare that all powers, not hereby delegated,
remain with the people." When, therefore, the exercise of any
power by that body is questioned, its validity must be determined from the nature of the power, connected with the manner
and purpose of its exercise. What, then, is the taxing power?
And to what extent, and for what purposes has it been conferred
upon the legislature ? That it is a power incident to sovereignty
t-"a power of vital importance to the very existence of every
government"- has been as often declared as it has been spoken

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

397

State fBank of Ohio r. Knoop.

of. Its importance is not too strongly represented by Alexander
HJamilton, in the 30th number of the Federalist, when he says:
" Money is with propriety considered as the vital principle of
the body politic; as that which sustains its life and motion, and
enables it to perform its most important functions. A complete
power, therefore, to procure a regular and adetuate supply of
revenue, a far as the resources of the community will permit,
may be regarded as an indispensable ingredient in every constitution. From a deficiency in this particular, one of two evils
must ensue; either the people, must be subjected to. continual
plunder, as a substitute for a more eligible mode of supplying
the public wants, or the government must sink into a fatal
atrophy, and in a short course of time perish."
" This power is not to be distinguished, in any particular
material to thepresent inquiry, from the power of eminent domain. Both rest upon the same foundation'- both involve the
taking of private property - and both, to a limited extent, interfere with the natural right guaranteed by the constitution, of
acquiring and enjoying it. But, as this court has already said.
in the ease referred to, "neither can be classed amongst the independent powers of government, or included in its objects and
ends." No government was ever created for the purpose of
taking, taxing, or otherwise interfering with the private property
of its citizens. "But charged with the accomplishment of great
objects necessary to the safety and prosperity of the people,
these rights attach as incidents to those objects, and become
indispensable means to the attainment of those -ends." They
can only be called into being to atcend the independent powers,
and can never be exercised without an existing necessity.
"To ,ustain this power in the general assembly, would be
to violate all the great principles to which I have alluded. It
would affirm its right to deal in, and baiter away the sovereign
right of the State, and thereby, in effect, to change the constitution. When the ge-neral assembly of 1845 convened, it found
the State in the unquestionable possession of the sovereign right
of taxation, for the accomplishment of its lawful objects, extending to 'all the persons-and property belonging to the body po
litie. "
'When its successor convened, in 1846, under the same constitution, and to legislate for the same people, if this defence is
available, it found the State shorn of this power over fifteen
or twenty millions of property, still within its jurisdiction and
protected by its laws. This and each succeeding legislature had
the same power to surrender the right, as to any and all other
property; until at length the government, deprived of every
thing upon which it could operate, to raise the means to attain
VOL, XVJ.

34

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

its necessary ends, by the exercise of its granted powers, would
have wQrked its own inevitable distruction, beyond all power of
remedy, either by the legislature or the people. It is no answer
to this to say that confidence must be reposed in the legislative
body, that it will not thus abuse the power.
"But, in the language of the court, in McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, ' is this a case of confidence? '"
"For every surrender of the right to tax particular property
not only tends to paralyze the government, but involves a direct invasion of the rights of property, of the balance of the community; since the deficiency thus created must be made up by
larger contributions from them, to meet thE public demand."
The foregoing are some of the reasonings of the State court
on the consideration here involved. With these views I concur,
and will add some of my own. The first is, "That acts of parliament derogatory from the power of subsecuent legislatures, are
not binding. Because, (as Blackstone says,) the legislature being
in truth the sovereign power, is always equal, always absolute;
and it acknowledges no superior on earth, which the prior legislature must have been if its ordinances could bind a subsequent,
parliament. And upon tle same principle Cicero, in his letters
to Atticus, treats with proper contempt these restraining clauses
which endeavor to tie up the hands of succeeding legislatures.
When you repeal the law itself, says he, you at the same time
repeal the prohibitory clause which guards against repeal."
If this is so under the British government, how is it in Ohio?
Her Supreme Court holds that the State constitution of 1802
expressly prohibited one legislature from restraining its successors by the indirect means of contracts exempting certain
property, from taxation. The court says, - Power to exempt property, was reserved to the people; they alone could exempt, by
an organic law. That is to say, by an amended constitution.
The clause mainly relied on declares, "that all powers not delegated, remain with the people." Now it must be admitted that
this clause has a meaning; and it must also be conceded (as I
think,) that the Supreme Court of Ohio, has the uncontrollable
right to declare what that meaning is; and that this court has
just as little right to question that construction as the Supreme
Court of Ohio has to question our construction of the Constitution of United States.
In my judgment the construction of tho court of Ohio is
proper; but if I believed otherwise I should at once acquiesce.
Let us look at the matter fairly and truly as it is, and see what
a different course on part of this court would lead to; nay,
what Ohio is bound to do in self-defence and for seff-preservation, under the circumstances.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

In 1845 a general banking law is sought at the hands of the
legislature, where five dollars in paper can be circulated for
every dollar in specie in the bank, or on deposit, in eastern
banks or with brokers. One dollar notes are authorized; every
county in the State is entitled to a bank, and the large ones to
several; the tempting lure is held out of six per cent. interest on
five hundred dollars for every hundred dollars paid in as stock:
thus obtaining a profit of tventy-four dollars on each hundred
dollars actually paid in. That such a bill would have advocates
enough to pass it through the legislature, all experience attests;
and that the slight tax of thirty-six cents on each hundred dollars' worth of stock, subscribed and paid, was deemed a privilege,
when the existing banks and other property were taxed mueb
higher, is plainly manifest. As was obvious, when the law
passed, banks sprang up at once - some fifty in number having
a taxable basis last year of about eighteen millions. The elder
and safer banks were, of course, driven out, and new organizations sought under the general law, by the stockholders. From
having constructed large public works, and made great expenditures, Ohio has become indebted so as to require a very burdensome tax on every species of property; this was imposed by
the act of 18-51, and on demanding from these institutions their
equal share, the State is told that they were protected by a
contract made with the legislature of 1845, to be exempt from
further taxation, and were not bbund by the late law,,and, of
course, they were sued in their own courts. The Supreme
Court holds that by the express terms of the State constitution
no such contract could be made by the legislature of 1845, to
tie up the hands of the legislature of 1851. And then the banks
come here and ask our protection against this decision, which
declares the true meaning of the State constitution. It expressly guarantees to the people of Ohio the right to assemble,
consult, "and instruct their representatives for their common
good;" and then "to alply to the legislature for a redress of
grievances."
It farther declares, that all powers not conferred
by that constitution on the legislature are reserved to the people.
Now, of what consequence or practical value will these attempted securities be if one legislature can restrain all subsequent ones by contracting away the sovereign power to which
instructions could apply?
The question, whether the people have reserved this right so
as to hold it in their own hands, and thereby be enabled to
regulate it by instructions to a subsequent legislature, (or by a
new constitumtion,) is a question that has been directly raised
only once, in any State of the Union, so far as I know. In the
case of Brewster v. Hough, 10 New Hampshire Reports, 139, it

400

SUPRE ME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

was raised, and Chief Justice Parker, in celivering the opinion
of the court in a case in all re.zpects like the one before us, says,
"That it is as essential that the public faith should be preserved
inviolate as it is that individual grants and contracts should be
maintained and enforced. But there is a material diffrrence
between the right of a legislature to grant lands, or corporate
powers, or money, and a right to grant away the e sential attribates of sovereignty or rights of eminent domain. These do
not seem to furnish the subject-matter of a contract."
This court sustained the principle announced by the Supreme
Court of New Hampshire, in the West River Bridge case. A
charter for one hundred years, incorporating a bridge company,
had been granted; the bridge was built and enjoyed by the
company. Then another-law was passed authorizing public
roads to be laid out, and free bridges to be erected; the commissioners appropriated the West River Bridge and made it
free; the Supreme Court of Vermont sustained the proceeding
on a review of that decision. And this court held that the
first charter was a contract securing the franchises and property
in the bridge to the company; but that the first legislature
could not cede away the sovereign right of eminent domain,
-and that the franchises and property could be taken for the uses
of free roads and bridges, on compensation being made.
Where the distinction lies, involving a pr neiple, between that
case and this, I cannot perceive,. as every tax-payer is compensated by the security and comfort government affords. The
political necessities for money are constant and more stringent
in favor of the right of taxation; its exercise is required daily to
sustain the government. But in the essential attributes of
sovereignty the right of eminent domain and the right of taxation are not distinguishable.
If the West River Bridg6 case be soun& constitutional law
(as I think it is) then it must be true that the Supreme Court
of Ohio is right in holding that the legislh.ture of 1845 could
not deprive the legislature of 1851 of its sovereign powers or of
any part of them.
It is insisted, that the case of the State of Ohio v.The Commercial Bank of Cincinnati, 7 Ohio Rep. 125, has held otherwise. This is clearly a mistake.. The Stat3 in that case raised
no question as to the right of one legislature to cede the sovereign power to a corporation, and tie up the hands of all subsequent legislatures: no such constitutional question entered into
the decision; nor is any allusion made to it in the opinion of
the court. It merely construed the acts of assembly, and held
that a contract did e.,ist on the ground that by the charter the
bank was taxed four per cent.; and therefore the charter must

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

401

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

be enforced, as this rate of taxation adhered to the charter, and
excluded a higher imposition.
It would be most unfortunate for ady court, and especially
for this one, to hold that a decision affecting a great constitutional consideration, involving the harmbny'of the Union, (as
this case obviously does,) should be concluded by a decision in
a case where the constitutional question was not raised by
counsel; and so far from being considered by the court, was
never thought of: such a doctrine is altogether inadmissible.
And in this connection I will sayi that there are two cases decided by this court, (and relied on by the plaintiff in error,) in
regard to which similar remarks apply. The irst one is that of
New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Granch, 164. An exchange of lands
took place in 1758 between the British colony ofJNew Jersey
and a small tribe of Indians residing there. The Tndians had
which
frombytaxes.
afterwards
it, and
legislature,
colonial sold
of the
an actThey
granted toit them
the landexempted
remov
ed. of
In the
1804,purchasers;
the State legislature taxed these lands in
the hands
they were proceeded against for
the taxes, and a judgment rendered, declaring the act of 1804
valid. In 1812, the judgment was brought before this court, and
the
case submitted
on the partfor
ofNew
the plaintiff
error without
argument;
no one appearing
Jersey. inThis
court held
the British contract with the Indians binding; and, secondly,
that it run with the land which was exempt from taxation in
the hands of the purchasers.
No question w raised in the Supreme Courtof New 8er
sey, nor decided there, or in this court, as to the constitutional
question
of one
legislatuepower.
having authority to deprive a succeeding one
of sovereign
The question was not cousidered, nor does it seem to have been thought of in the State
court
here.case is Gordon's case, 3 Howard, 144. What quesTheornext
tions were there presented on the part of the State of Maryland,
does not appear in the report of the case, but I have tuned to
them in the record, to see how they were made in the State
courts. They are as follows:
"1st. That at the time of passing the general assessment law
of 1841, there was no contract existing between the State and
thebnks, or any of them, or the stockholders therein or any of
them, by which any of the banks or stockholders can claim an
exemption from the taxation imposed upon them by the said
act of 1841."
"2d. That the contract between the State and the old banks,
if there be any contract, extends only to an exemption from"
further 'taxes.or burdens,' of the corporate privileges of bank340

402

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop'.

ing; and does not exempt the property, ei.ther real or personal,
of said banks, or the individual stockholders therein."
"3d. That even if the contract should be construed to exempt
the real and personal property of the old banks, and the property of the stockholders therein, yet such exemption does not
extend to the new banks, or those chartered since. 1830, and,
moreover that the power of revocation, in certain cases in these
charters, reserves to the State the power of passing the general
assessment law."
"4th. That the imposition -of a tax of 20 cents upon every
one hundred dollars' worth of property upon both'the old and
new banks, under the said assessment laW, is neither unequal
nor oppressive, nor in violation of the bill cf rights."
"5th. That taxation upon property within the State, wherever the owners may reside, is not against Ihe bill of rights."
On these legal propositions the opinion here given sets out
by declaring that, "The question, however, which this court is
called on to decide, and to which our decihion will be confined,
is - Are the shareholders in- the old and ntw banks, liable to be
taxed under the a6t of 1841, on account of the stock which they
own in the banks."
The following paragraph is the one re]ied on as adjudging
the question, that the taxing power may be embodied in a
charter and contracted away as private property, to wit: "Such
a contract is a limitation on the taxing power of the legislature
making it, and upon succeeding legislatures, to impose any
further tax on the franchise."
"But why, when bought, as it becomes property, may it not
be taxed as land is taxed which has been bought from the State,
was repeatedly asked in the course of the argument. The reason
is, that every one buys land, subject in his own apprehension to
the great law of necessity, that we must contribute from it and
all of our property something to maintain the State. But a
franchise for banking, when bought, the price is paid for the use
of the privilege whilst it lasts, and any tax upon it would subrstantially be an addition to the price."
As the case came up from the Supreme Court of Maryland,
this court had power merely to regxamine the questions raised
in the courtl below, and decided there. All that is asserted in
the opinion beyond this is outside of the case of which this
-court had jurisdiction, and is only so far to be respected as it is
sustained by sound reasoning; but its dicta are not binding as
authority; and so the Supreme Court of Maryland held in the
case of the Mayor, &c. of Baltimore v. The Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, 6 Gill, 288.
The State of Maryland merely asked to have her statates

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

403

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

construed, and if, by their true terms, she had promised to exempt the stockholders of her banks from taxation, then she
claimed no tax of them. She took no shelter under constitutional objections, but guardedly avoided doing so.
If an expression of opinion is authority that binds, regardless
of the case presented, then we are as well bound the other way,
by another quite equal authority. In the case of East Hartford
v. Hartford Bridge Co. 10 Howard, 535, Mr. Justice Woodbury,
delivering the opinion of the court, says: The case of Goszler
v. The Corporation of Georgetown, 6 Wheat. 596, 98, "appears
to settle the principle that a legislative body cannot part with
its powers by any proceeding so as not to be able to continue
the exercise of them. It can, and should, exercise them again
and again, as often as the public interests require." ....
"Its members are made, by the people, agents or trustees for
them, on this subject, and can possess no authority to sell or
grant their power over the trust to others."
The Hartford case was brought here from the Supreme Court
of Connecticut, by writ of error, on the ground that East Hartford held a ferry right secured by a legislative act that was a
private contract. But this court held, among other things that,
by a true construction of the State laws, no such contract existed; so that this case cannot be relied on as binding authority
more than Gordon's case. If fair reasoning and clearness of
statement are to give any advantage, then the Hartford case has
that advantage over Gordon's case.
It is next insisted that the State legislatures have in many
instances, and constantly, discriminated among the objects of
taxation; and have taxed and exempted according to their discretion. This is most true. .But the matter under discussion
is aside from the exercise of this undeniable power in the legislature. The question is whether one legislature can, by contract, vest the sovereign power of a right to tax, in a corporation
as a franchise, and withhold the same power that legislature
had to tax, from all future ones? Can it pass an irrepealable
law of exemption?
General principles, however, have little application to the real
question before us, which is this.; Has the constitution of Ohio
withheld from the legislature the authority to grant, by contract with individuals, the sovereign power; and are we bound
to hold her constitution to mean as her Supreme Court has
construed it to mean? If the decisions in Ohio have settled
the questiofi in the affirmative that the sovereign political power
is not the subject of an irrepealable contract., then few will be
Eo bold as to deny that it is our duty to conform to the construction they have settled; and the only objection to conform-

404

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

ity that I suppose could exist with any one is, that the construction is not settled. ' How is the fact?
The refusal of some fifty banks to pay their assessed portion
of the revenue for the year 1851, raised the question for the first
time in the State of Ohio; since then the doctrine has been
maintained in various cases, supported unanimously by all the
judges of the Supreme Court of that State, in opinions deeply
considered, and manifesting a high degree of ability in the
judges, as the extract from one of them, above set forth, abundantly shows. If the construction of the State constitution is
not settled, it must be owing to the recent date of the decisions.
An opinion proceeding on this hypothesis will, as I think, involve our judgment now given in great peril hereafter; for if
the courts of Ohio do not recede, but firmly adhere to their
construction until the decisions, now existing, gain maturity
and -strength by time, and the support of other adjudications
conforming to them, then it must of necessity occur that this
court will be eventually compelled to hold that the construction
is settled in Ohio; when it must be followed to avoid conflict
between the judicial powers of that State and the Union, an
evil that prudence forbids.
1. The result of the foregoing opinion is, that the sixtieth
section of the general banking law of 18455 is, in its terms, no
contract professing to bind the Legislature of Ohio not to
change the mode and amount of taxation on the banks organized under this law; and for this conclusion I rely on the reasons
stated by my brother Campbell, in his opinion, with which I
concur.
2. That, according to the constitutions of all the States of
this Union, and even of the British Parliament, the sovereign
political power is not the subject of contract so as to be vested
in an irrepealable charter of incorporation, and taken away
from, and placed beyond the reach of, future legislatures; that
the taxing power is a political power of the highest class, and
each successive legislature having vested in itl unimpaired, all
the political powers previous legislatures had, is authorized to
impose taxes on all property in the State that its constitution
does not exempt.
It is undeniably true that one legislature may by a charter of
incorporation exempt from taxation the property of the corporation in part, or in whole, and with or without consideration;
but this exemption will only last until the necessities of the
State require its modification or repeal.
3. But if I am mistaken in both these ccnclusions, then, I am
of opinion that, by the express provisions of the constitution
of Ohio, of 1802, the legislature of that State had withheld

DECEMBER

TERMT,

1853.

405

State Dank of Ohio v. Knool,
from its powers the authority to tie up the hands of subsequent
legi. latures in the exercise of the powers of taxation, and this
opinion rests on judicial authority that this court is bound to
follow; the Supreme Court of Ohio having held by various
solemn and unanimous decisions, that the political power of
taxation was one of those reserved rights intended to be delegated by the people to each successive legislature, and to be
exercised alike by every legislature according to the instructions
of the people. This being the true meaning of the nineteenth
and twenty-eighth sections of the bill of rights, forming part of
the constitution of 1802; one section securing the right of
instruoting representatives, and the other protecting reserved
rights held by the people.
Whether this construction given to the State constitution is
the proper one, is not a subject of inquiry in this court; it belongs exclusively to the State courts, and can no more be questioned by us than State courts and judges can question our
constiuction of the Constitution of the United States. For
these reasons I am of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio should be affirmed.
1Mr. Justice DANIEL.
In the views so clearly taken by my brother Campbell of the
character of the legislation of Ohio, impeached by the decision
of the court, I entirely coincide. I will add to the objections
he has so well urged to the jurisdiction of this court, another,
which to my mind at least is satisfactory; it is this, that one of
the parties to this controversy being a corporation created by a
State, this court can take no cognizance, by the constitution, of
the acts, or rights, or pretensions of that corporation.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from the opinion of the court.
The question disclosed by the record, is contained in the
sixtieth section of an act of the General Assembly of Ohio, "to
incorporate the State Bank of Ohio and other banking companies
of that State," adopted February, 1845.
The section provides, that every banking company organized
by the act, or complying with its provisions, shall semiannually,
at designated days, set off to the State, six per cent. of the net
profits for the six months next preceding, "which sum or amount
so set off shall be in lieu of all taxes to which such company,
or the stockholders thereof, on account of stock owned therein,
would otherwise be subject;"' and the cashier was required to
report the amount to the auditor and to pay it to the treasurer;
but in computing the profits of the company for the purposes

406

SUPREME

COURIT.

Stato Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

aforesaid, the interest received on the certificates of the funded
debt held by the company, or deposited with and transferred to
the treasurer of the State, or to the board of control by such
company, shall not be taken into the accotnt." I have extracted
the last clause merely because it forms a part of the section.
It is not usual for governments to levy taxes upon the certificates of their funded debt, and Ohio had, in an early statute,
forbidden taxation of hers. This clause was a cumulative precaution, wholly unnecessary. Swan Sta=. 747, § 5.
The case lies in the solution of the question whether the
clause directing the banks to set apait semianpually, upon the
profits for the six months preceding, six per cent. in lieu of all
other taxes to which the company or the stockholders would
otherwise be subject on account of the stock, institutes an
unalterable rule of taxiation for the whole time of the corporate
existence of these banks? The General Assembly of Ohio
thinks otherwise, and has imposed a tax upon the stock of the
banks, corresponding with the taxes levied upon other personal
property held in the State. The payment of this tax has been
resisted by the banks. The Supreme Court of Ohio, by its
judgment, affirms the validity of the act of the general assembly,
and has condemned the bank to the payment. This judgment
is the matter of consideration.
The section of the act above cited furnishes a rule of taxation,
and while it remains in force a compliance with it relieves the
banks from all other taxes to which they would otherwise be
subject. Such is the letter of the section.
The question is, has the State of Ohio inhibited herself from
adopting any other rule of taxation eithe:. for amount or mode
of collection, while these banks continue in existence ? It is
not asserted that such a prohibition has been imposed by the
( xpress language of the section. The term for which this rule
of taxation is to continue is not plainly declared. The amounts
paid according to it discharge the taxes for the antecedent six
months. Protection is given in advance of exaction.
The clause in the section, that this "sum or amount, so set
ofi; shall be in lieu of all taxes to which such company or the
stockholders thereof would otherwise be subject," requires an
addition to ascertain the duration of the :-ule. it may be completed in adding, "by the existing laws for ,he taxation of banks,"
or " till otherwise provided by law," or at "the date of such apportionment or dividend." Or, following the argument of the
banks, in adding, "d a rin- the existence of the banks:' Whether we shall select from the one series of expressions, leading
to one result, or the expression leading to another altogether ditferent, depends upon the rules of interpretation applicable to the
subject.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

407

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

The first inquiries are of the relations of the parties to the
supposed contract to its subject-matter, and the form in which.
it has been concluded. The sixtieth section of the act of
1145, was adopted by the General Assembly of Ohio in the
exercise of legislative powers, as a part its public law. The
powers of that assembly in general, and that of taxation especially, are trust powers, held by them as magistrates, in deposite, to be returned, after a short period, to their constituents
without abuse or diminution.
The nature of the legislative authority is inconsistent with al
inflexible stationary system of administration. Its office is one
of vigilance over the varying wants and changing elements of
the association, to the end of ameliorating its condition. Every
general assembly is organized .itli the charge of the legislative
powers of the State; each is placed under the same guidance,
experience, and observation; and all are forbidden to impress
finally and irrevocably their ideas or policy upon the political
body. Each, with the aid of an experience, liberal and enlightened, is bound to maintain the State in the command of all the
resources and faculties necessary to a full and unshackled selfgovernment. No implication can be favored which convicts a
legislature of a departure from this law of its being.
The subject-matter of this section is the contributive share of
an important element of the productive capital of the State to
the support of its government. The duty of all to make such a
contribution in the form of an equal and apportioned taxation,
is a consequence of the social organization. The right to enforce it is a sovereign right, stronger than any proprietary claim
to property. The amount to be taken, the mode of collection,
and the duration of any particular assessment or form of collection, are questions of administration submitted to the discretion
of the legislative authority; and -variations must frequently occur, aecording to the mutable conditions, circumstances, or policy
of the State. These conditions are regulated for the time, in the
sixtieth section of this act. That section comes from the law
maker, who ordains that the officers of certain banking corporations, at stated periods, shall set apart from their property . designated sum as their share of the public burden, in lieu of other
sums or modes of payment to which they would be subject; but
there is no promise that the same authority may not, as it clearly
had a right to do, apportion a different rate of contribution.- I
will not say that a contract may not be contained in a law, but
the practice is not to be encouraged, and courts discourage the
interpretation which discovers them. A common informer sues for
a penalty, or a revenue officer makes a seizure under a promise
that on conviction the recovery shall be shared, and yet the State

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v.

Knoop.

discharg-s the forfeiture, or prevents the iecovery by a repeal of
the law, violating thereby no vested right nor impairing the obligation of any contract. 5 Cranch, 281; 10 Wheat. 246;
6 Pet. 404.
A captor may be deprived of his share of prize-money, pensioners of their promised bounty, at any time before their payment. 2 Russ. & M. 35.
Salaries may be reduced, offices having a definite tenure,
though filled, may be abolished, faculties may be withdrawn,
the inducenients to vest capital impaired and defeated by the
varying legislation of a State, without irt-ipairing constitutional
obligation. 8 How. 163; 10 lb. 395; 3 Ib. 534; 8 Pet. 83;
2 Sanf. S. C. R. 355. The whole society is under the dominion
of law, and acts, which seem independent of its authority, rest
upon its toleration. The multifarious interests of a civilized State
must be continually subject to the legislative control. General
regulations, affecting the public order, or extending to the administrative arrangements of the State, must overrule individual
hopes and calculations, thoagh they may have originated in its
legislation. It is only when rights have vested under laws that
The citizen can claim a protection to themas property. Rights
do not vest until all the conditions of the law have been fulfilled
with exactitude during its continuance, or z direct engagenjent has
been made, limiting legislative power over.and producing an obligation. In this case it may be conceded i:hat at the end of every
six months the payment then taken is a discharge for all antecedent liabilities for taxes. That there could be no retrospective legislation. But beyond this the concessions of the section
do not extend.
A plain distinction exists between the statutes which create
hopes, expectations, faculties, conditions, and those which form
contracts. These bankg might fairly hope that without a change
in the necessities of the State, their quota of taxes would not
be increased; and that while payment was punctually made the
form of collection would not be altered. But the general assembly represents a sovereign, and as such designated this rule of
taxation upon existing considerations of policy, without annexing
restraints on its will, or abdicating its prerogative, and consequently was free to modify, alter, or repeal the entire aisposition.
I have thus far considered the sixtieth section of the act as a
distinct act, embodying a State regulation with the view of ascertaining its precise limitatations.
I shall, however, examine the general ;scheme and object of
the act, of which it forms a part, to ascertain whether a different
signification can be given to it. Before doing so, it isa matter
of consequence to ascertain on what prinsiples the inquiry must
be conducted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoup.

Three cases occurred in this court, before either of the members who now compose it belonged to it, in which taxation acts
of the States or its municipal authorities, involving questions of
great feeling and interest, were pronounced invalid. In the last
of these the court said, "that in a society like ours, with one
supreme government for national purposes, and numerous State
governments for other purposes, in many respects independent
and in the uncontrolled exercise of many important powers, occasional interferences ought 'not to surprise us. The power of
taxation is one of the most essential to a State, and one of the
rost extensive in its operation. The attempt to mdintain a rule
which -hall limit its exercise is undoubtedly among the most
delicate and difficult duties which can devolve on those whose
province it is to expound the silpreme law of the land, in its application to individuals." The court in each of these cases
affirm, "that the sovereignty of the State extends to every thing
which exists by its authority, or is introduced by its permission,
and all on subjects of taxation." 2 Pet. 449; 9 Wheat. 738;
4 lb. 316.
The limitations imposed by the court in these cases excited a
deep and pervading discontent, and must have directed the court
to a profound conside.ation of the question in its various relations. The case of the Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514,
enabled the court to give a practical illustration of sincerity
with which the principle I have quoted was declared. A bank,
existing by the authority of a State legislature, claimed an imnianity from taxation against the authority of its creator.
The court then said "however absolute the right of an individual (to property) may be, it is still in the nature of that right,
that it must bear a portion of the public burdens, and that
portion is determined by the legislature." The court declared
that the relinquishment of the power of taxation is never to be
assumed. " The community has a right to insist that its abandonnient ought not to be presumed in a ease in which the
deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it does not plainly
appear."
These principles were .reaffirmed, their sphere enlarged, and
their authority placed upon broad and solid louidations of constitutional lawv and general policy, in the opinion of this court,
in the case of the Charles River Bridge, 11 Pet. 420. No opinion of the court more fully satisfied the legal judgment of
the country, and consequentiy none has exercised more influence upon its legislation. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, speaking of these cases, says, "they are binding on the
.State courts not merely as precedents, and therefore proving
what ilhlaw is, but as the deliberate judgment of that tribunal
VOL.

-ZVI.

35

410

SUPREME COURT.
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

with whorm the final decision of all such questions rests. The
State courts have almost universally followed them. But no
tribunal of the Union has acceded to the rule they lay down
with *amore earnest appreciation of its justice than did this
court." 7 Har. 144; 10 Barr, 142.
The Supreme Court of Georgia says, "the decision, based
as it is upon a suoject particularly within the cognizance and
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States, is entitled
to the highest deference." And the eminent Chief Justice of that
court adds, "that the proposition it establishes commands my
entire assent and approbation." 9 Georgia Rep. 517; 10 N. H.
138; 17 Conn. 454; 21 Verm. 590; 21 Chio, (McCook's .Rep,)
564; 9 Ala. 235; 9 Rob. 324; 4 Corns. 419; 6 Gill, 288.
The chief justice, delivering the opinion of this court in that.
case, quotes with approbation the principle, that the abandonment of the power of taxation ought not to be presumed in a
case in which the deliberate purpose to do so did not.appear,
and says, " The continued existence of a goveni ment would be
of no ,reat value, if, by implications and presumptions, it was
disarmed of the powers necessary to accc mplish the ends of its
creation, and the functions it was designed to perform transferred to the hands of privileged corporations. The rule of
construction announced by the court was; not confined to the
taxing power; nor is it so limited in the cpinion delivered. On
the contrary it was distinctly placed on tWe ground that the interests of the community were concerned in preserving, undiminished the power in question; and whenever any power of
the State is said to be surrendered or diminished, whether it be the
taxing power or any other affecting the public interest, the same
principle applies, and the rule of construction must be the same."
The court only declared those principles for which the corm-mons of England had struggled for centuries, and which were
only established by magnanimous and heroic efforts. The rules
that public grants convey nothing by implication, are construed
strictly in favor of the sovereign, do not pass any thing not described nor referred to, and when the thing granted is described
nothing else passes; that general words shall never be, so construed as to deprive him of a greater amount of revenue than he
intended to grant, were not the inventions of the craft of crown
lawyers, but were established in cofitests with crown favorites
ind impressed upon the administration, executive and judicial
as checks for the people. The invention .f crown lawyers was
employed about such phrases, as ex speciali g-ratia, cerla scientia
mero vzoth, and non obstante, to undermine the strength of such
rules, and to enervate the force of wholesome statutes. A writer
of the seventeenth century s..ys, "from the time of William

DECEM1BER TERAM,

1853.

411

State Bank of Ohio v. Kndop.

Rufus, our kings have thought they might alienate and dispose
of the crown lands at will and pleasure; and in all ages, not
only charters of liberty, but likewise letters-patent for lands and
manors, have actually passed in every reign. Nor would it have
been convenient that the prince's hands should have been absolately bound up by any law, or that what had once got into the
crown should have been fozever separated from private possession. For then by forfeitures and attaintures he must have become lord of the wholu soil in a long course of time. The constitution, therefore, seems to have left him free in this matter;
but upon this tacit trust, (as he has all his other power,) that
he shall do nothing which may tend to the destruction of his
subjcts. However, though he.be thus trusted, it is only as head
of the, commonwealth; and the people of England have in no
age been wanting to put in their claim to that to whie'L they
conceived themselves to ha-ve a remaining interest; which claims
are the acts of resumption that from time to time have been
made in parliament, when such gifts and grants were rhde as
become burdensome and hurtful to the people. Nor can any
government or State divest itself of the means of its own preservation; and if our kings should hav had an unlimited power of
giving away their whole revenue, and if no authority could have
revoked such gifts, every profuse prince, of which we have had
many in this dngdom, would have ruined his successor, and.
the people must have been destroyed with new and repeated
taxes; for by our duty we are likewise to support the next prince.
So that if no authority could look into ths, a nation must be
utterly undone without any way of redressing itself, which is
against the nature and essence of any free establishment.
Our constitution, therefore, seems to have been, that the king
always might make grants, and that these grants, if passed according to the forms prescribed by the law, were valid and pleadable, against not only him, but his successors. However, it is
likewise manifest that the legislative power has had an uncontested right to look into those grants, and to make them void
whenever they were thought exorbitant."
Nor were they careless or indifferent to precautionary measures for the preservation of the revenues of the State from
spoliation or waste. Official responsibility was established, and
the Lords High Treasurer and Chancellor, through whose offices
the grants were to pass, were severally sworn "that they would
neither know nor suffer the king's hurt, nor his disheriting, nor
that the rights of his crown be distressed by any means as far
forth as ye may let; and if ye may not let it, ye shall make
knowledge thereof clearly and explicitly to the king with your
true advice and counsel."

SUPREME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

The respbnsibility of these high officers, as the history of
England abundantly shows, was something more than nominal;
nor did the frequent enforcement of that rule of responsibility,
nor the adoption by the judges of the stringent rules I have
cited, protect the revenues of the State from spoliation. " The
wickedness of men," continues this writer, "was either too
cunning or too powerful for the wisdom of laws in being. And
from time to time great men, ministers, minions, favorites, have
broken down the fences contrived and settled in our constitution. They have made a prey of the commonwealth, plumed
the prince, and '3onverted to their own ue what was intended
for the service and preservation of the State. That to obviate
this mischief, the legislative authority has interposed with inquiries, accusations, and impeachments, till at last such dangerous heads were reached." ' Davenant's Dis. passim.
Nor let it be said that this history contains no lessons nor
instructions suitable to our condition. TJhe discussions before
this court in the Indiana Railroad and the Baltimore Railroad
cases exposed to us the sly and stealthy arts to which State
legislatures are exposed, and the greedy appetites of adventurers, for monopolies and immunities from the State right of
government. We cannot close our ey4Es to their insidious
efforts to ignore the fundamental laws and institutions of the
States, and to subject the highest popular interests to their central boards of control and directors' management.
This is not the time for the relaxation of those time-honored
maxims, under the rule of which free institutions have acquired
their reality, and liberty and property their most stable guaranties. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania says, with great
force, "that if acts of incorporation are to be so construed as to
make them imply grants of privileges, immunities, and exemaptions, which are not expressly given, every company of adventurers may carry what they wish, without letting the legislature
know their designs. Charters would be framed in doubtful or
ambiguous language, on purpose to deceive those who grant
them; and laws, which seem perfectly herrmless on their face,
and which plain men would suppose to mean no more than
what they say, might be converted into engines of infinite
mischief. There is no safety to the putlic interest except in
the rule which declares that the privileges not expressly granted
are withheld." 7 Harris, 144.
The principles of interpretation, contained ift these cases, control the decision of this, if applied to this act. Indeed, the argument of the plaintiff rests upon rules created for, and adapted
to, -aclass of statutes entirely dissimilar. We were invited to
consider the antecedent legislation of Ohio, in reference to its

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

413

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

banks, the discouraging effects of that legislation,-and then to
deal with this act, as a medicinal and curative measure; as an
act recognizing past error, and correcting for the future the
consequences.
It is proper to employ this argument to its just
limit. The legislation of Ohio since 1825 certainly manifests a

distinct purpose of the State to maintain its powers over these
corporations, in the matter of taxation, unimpaired. With a very
few exceptions this appears in all the statutes.
It is seen in
the act of 1825, in the charters granted in 1834, in the acts of
1841-2-3, the two last being acts embracing the whole subjectmatter of banking. It is said this austerity was the source of
great mischief, depreciated the paper currency of the State, and
occasioned distress to the people, and that the change apparent
in the act of 1845 was the consequence.
The existence of a consistent and uniform purpose for a long
period is admitted. The abandonment of such a purpose, and
one so in harmony with sound principles of legislation, cannot
be presumed.
If the application of these principles iR Ohio
was productive of mischief, we should have looked for an explicit and unequivocal disclaimer.
'We have seen that the act
contains no renunciation of this important power. And it may
be fairly questioned whether the people of Ohio, would have
sancLioned such a measure. I know of no principle which enables me to treat the sixtieth section of this act as a remedial
statute. Even the dissenting opinions in the Charles River and
Louisa Railroad cases, which have formed the repertory from
which the arguments of the plaintiffs have been derived, do not
in terms declare such a rule, and the opinions delivered by the
authority of the court repel such a conclusion. Nor can I consid~r the decision in 7 Ohio R. 125 of consequence in this discussion. That case was decided upon a form of doctrine which
after the judgments of this court, before cited, had no title to
any place in the legal judgmenf-of the country. The case was
decided in advance of the most important and authoritative of
those decisions. It is not surprising to hear that the judges
who gave the judgment, afterwards rendunced its principle, or
that another State court has disapproved it, (7 Harris, 14,) or
that it has not been followed in kindred cases, 11 Ohio, 12, 393;
19 lb. 110; 21 Ib. (MeCook,) 563, 604, 626; and at the first time
when it came up for revision it was overruled.
It remains for me to consider the act of 1845, its purpose and
details, in connection with the sixtieth section of the act, to ascertain whether it is proper to assume that the State has relinquished its rights of taxation over the banking capital of the
State.
The act of 1845 was designed to enable any number, riot
35

414

SUPR-EME

COURT.

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

fewer than five persons, to form associations to carry on the
business of banking.
The legislature determined the whole amount of the capital
which should be employed under the act- that it should be
distributed over the State, according to a specified measure of
apportionment; that the bills to circulate as currency should
have certain marks of uniformity, and be in a certain proportion
to capital and specie on hand, and that a collateral security
should be given for their redemption. The act contains measures
for organization, relating to subscriptions for stock, the appuintment of officers and boards of management; sections, of a
general interest, referring to the frauds of officers, the insolvency
of the corporations, their misdirection and fdrfeiture; sections
containing explicit and clear statements of corporate right and
privilege, the capacities they can exercise, the functions they
are to perform, and the term of their existence.
. The act initiates a system of banking of which any five of
its citizens may avail, and which provides for the confederacy
of these associations under the general title.of the State Bank
of Ohio, and its branches, and their subjection to a board of
control, appointed by them.
More than fifty banks have been formed under this act, and
thirty-nine belong to the confederacy. Somae of the banks over
whose charters the State has reserved a p:enary control, are by
the act permitted to join it. It is said "that the whole of this
-'act is to be taken; the purpose of the act and the time of the
act. It is a unit?' It will not be contended that the fifty-first
section of this act, by which this multitc.de of banking companies are adjudged to be corporations, with succession for
twenty years, places every other relation established by the act,
beyond the legislative ,domain for the same period of time.
For there are in the act measures designed for organization and
arrangement for the convenience and benefit of the corporators
only; there are concessions creating hopes and expectations out
of which rights may grow by subsequent events; there are sections which convey present rights, or from -which rights may
possibly arise in the form of a contrac t; there are others which
enter into the general system of administration, affect the public
order, and tend to promote the common security. Some of
these provisions may be dispensed with by those for whose
exclu.ive benefit they were made. Some maybe altered, niodifled, or repealed, to meet other conditions of the public interest,
and'some perhaps may not be-alterable except with the consent
of the corporators 'themselves.
To determine the cldss to.
which one enactment or another belongs, we are referred to
those general principles I have already considered. In this act,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

415

State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop.

of seventy-five sections, which organizes a vast machinery for
private banking, which directs the delicate and complex arrangements for the supply of a paper currency to the State, and determines the investment of millions of capital, we find this sixtieth
section. The act is enabling and permissive. It makes it lawful for persons to combine and to conduct business in a particular manner. It forms no partnership for the State, compels no
one to embrace or to continue the application of industry and
capital according to its scheme. It grants licenses under certain
conditions and reservations, but is nowhere coercive. Among
the general regulations is the one which directs the banks at
the end of every six months to ascertain their net profits for the
six months next preceding and to set' apart six per cent. for.the
State in the place of the other taxes or contributions to which
they would be liable. But the legislature imposes no limit to
its power, nor term to the exercise of its will, nor binds itself to.
adhere to this or any other rule of taxation.
The subject affects th 3 public order and general administration. It is not properly 3. matter for bargain or barter; but the
enactment is in the exerse of a sovereign power, comprehending within its scope evry individual interest in the State. It
is a power which every department of government knows*that
the community is interested in retaining unimpaired, and that
every corporator understood its abandonment ought not to be
presumed in a case in which the deliberate purpose to abandon
it does not appear."
I have sough :n vain in the sixtieth section of the act, in the
act itself, and in the legislation and jurisprudence of Ohio, for
the expression of such a deliberate purpose.
My opinion is that the Supreme Court of Ohio has faithfully
applied the lessons inculcated by this court, and that its judgment should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of Ohio, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is'now here ordered and adjudged
by this court that the judgment of the said Supreme Court .of
Ohio in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed -with
costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to the said Supreme Court of Ohio for further proceedings to be
had therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

