DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Early v. Rogers et al.

We regard the cases just cited as directly in point, and as
conclusive against the claim of the plaintiffs to maintain an
action upon the covenant for repairs in the lease to Coleman,
apart from and independently of the other covenantees in that
lease jointly and inseparably interested in that covenant with
the plaintiffs. We therefore approv6 the judgment of the Circuit Cqurt, that the plaintiffs take nothing by their writ and
declaration, but that the defendants recover against them their
costs about their defence sustained, as by the said court was
adjudged; and we order the said judgment of the Circuit Court
to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On ensiderati6n whereof it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause, be and the same is hereby
afflimed, with cost-

H. EARLY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOHN ROGERS,
JUNIOR, AND JOSUPH ROGERS, SURVIVORS, &c. OF ROGERs &
BROTHIERs, DEFMNDANTS.

SAMuL

Where a controverted case wa., by ag-ement of the parties, entered settled, and the
tc-ni of cttl'uent were that the debtor should pay by a limited day, and the creditor r-rccd'to receive a les sum than that for which he had obtained a judgment; and the debtor failed to pay on the day limited, the original judgment
became revived in full force.
The oridinal judgment having omitted to name interest, and this -court having
afirmd the jud-rnent as it stood, it was proper for the court below to issue an execution for the aliotint of the judgment and costs, leaving out interest.
'Where the debtor alleged that process of attqchmnt had been laid in his hands as
garnilice, attaching the debt which lie owed to the creditor in question;-and moved
the court to stay execution until the rights of" the parties could be settled in the
State Court whicih had issued the attachment, and the court refused so to do, this
rcfaal is not the subject of review 1y this court. The motion was addressed to
the dis retion of the court bulow, which will take care that no injustice shall be
done to any party.
This court expre. -es no opinion, at present, upon the two points, namely:
1. Whether an attachment from a State Court can obstruct the collection of a debt
by the process of the courts of the United States, or
2. Whether a writ of error was the proper mode of bringing the present question before this court.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error. from the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia.

SUPREME

COURT.

Early v. Rogers et al.

On the 29th of June, 1849, John Rogers, junior, and Joseph
Rogers, of Cincinnati, and citizens of the State of Ohio, survivors, of the firm of Rogers & Brothers, the deceased partner
of which was Alfred Rogers, ,late of St. Louis, in Missouri, sued
Samuel H. Early in the District Court of the United States for
the Western District of Virginia.
Early filed a plea in abatement, setting forth certain writs of
foreign attachment against Rogers and Rogers, as non-resident
defendants, and against himself and othew, as home defendants.
This plea was afterwards withdrawn, and the general issue
pleaded.
At September term, 1850, the cause came on for trial, when
a verdict was found for the plaintiffs in the sum of $12,115, on
which verdict the following judgment was entered:
Jadgrnent. Came again the parties by their attorneys, and
thereupon came also the jury impanelled and sworn'in this
cause, in pursuance of their adjournment, and having retired to
their chamber, after some hours returned into court, and upon
their oaths do say, that they find the issues for the plaintiffs, and
assess their damages to twelve thousand one hundred and fifteen dollars. Whereupon the defendant moved the court to set
aside the said verdict, and award him a new trial in the premises ; which motion, being argued and considered, is ovterruled.
Therefore it is considered by the court, that the plaintiffs recover against the defendant the damages aforesaid, in the form
aforesaid ascertained, and their costs about- their suit by them
in this behalf expended ; and the said defendant in mercy, &c.
A bill of exceptions having been taken by Early, the case
was brought up to this court.
At December term, 1851, the case was entered "settled"
upon the doclet of this court, the following agreement filed, and
judgment entered, namely:
Agreement. In order to put an end to the litigation between
the above parties, and as a compromise, the matters in difference between them, that said Samuel H. Early shall pay to
the said John Rogers and Joseph Rogers, between this and the
firnt day of September, next, the sum of ten thousand dollars,
whicll sum of ten thousand dollars the said John Rogers and
Jo.eph Rogers agree to receive of the said Samuel H. .Early in
full satisfaction and discharge of the original judgment entered
against the said Early for the sum of about twelve thousand
five hundred dollars, in said District Court; of the United States,
for the Western District of Virginia, and in full satisfaction and
discharge of all claims and demands which said John Rogers
and Joseph Rogers held against said Early in any account arising out of the dealings on which said litigation is founded.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Early v. Rogers et al.

And it is further agreed, that the original judgment rendered
in said District Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia, and which is taken up to the Supreme Court
of the United States on a writ of error, which is now pending
in that court, may be entered affirmed in said Supreme Court
at its present session, subject to the above agreement: that ie.
the judgment, although affirmed, shall not be obligatory for
more thaii the above sum of ten thousand dollars, to be paid as
aforesaid; and as soon as that sum is paid, the said judgment
shall be entered satisfied, provided the amount is paid on or before the said first day of September next. Costs to be paid by
Early.
May 18th, 1852.
SAMUEL H. EARLY,
By CHARLES Fox, his attorney.
JOHN ROGERS,

JOsEPH RoGERs,
By

JAmEs F.

M'ELINE,

their attorney.

Order.
On eonsiderat.on whereof, it is now here ordered and ad-

judged by this court, that the judgment of the said District

Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs, in donformity to the preceding stiptlations; and that the
said plaintiffs recover against the said defendant, Samuel H.
Early, one hundred and twenty-nine dollars and fifty-two cents
for their costs herein expended, and have execution therefor.
Upon the going down of the mandate al execution was
issued by the District Court, in January, 1853, as follows:
Amount of judgment ........................................... 12,115.00
246.56
Co t6 iul
District Court ................. .......................
Interest from the 7th of December, 1550. the date of the writ of error
* ucd by the Supreme Court, to the 7th of December, 1851, date of
741.69
tile maldate,. ...................... .......................
129.52
Costs il Supreme Court .......... ............................
3.37
Cost of writ of c=ecutionl .......................................

]i April, 1853, a motion was made by Rogers to amend the
judgment for $12,115, by adding "with interest till paid," but
this motion was overruled.
At the same term, and on the motion of Samuel H. Early, a
rule was awarded him returnable here forthwith against John
Rogers, jr., and Joseph H. Rogers, requiring them to show cause
execution heretofore sued out on the mandate of the
why ill(
Supreme Court of tih United States, awarded on a judgment
of the said Supreme Court itfavor of said John and Joseph
VOL. X.Vi.

51

602

SUPREMIE

COURT.

Early v. Rogers et al.

Rogers -igainst said Samuel H. Early, which execution bears
date of ih1e 11th day of January, 1853, and was returnable at
March rules, 1853, shall not be quashed, And also to show
cause why execution on the said judgment of the said Supreme
Court should not be limited to the sum of ten thousand dollars,
with interest thereon from the 1st day of September, 1852, and
the costs; and also why the same shall not be stayed until the
further order of the court, on account of certain attachmncnt.,
and suggestions.
Whereupon the said John Rogers, jr., and Joseph H. Roge,8
ppeared in answer to the said rule, and the evidence and arg-1ments of counsel being heard, it is considesred by the court that
the'said execution be quasbed,.but that the said John Rogern jr.,
and Joseph H. Rogers be allowed to sue out their execution
against the said Early for the sum of $12,115, and $246.56
costs of the judgment in this court, and $129.52, the costs in
the Supreme Court aforesaid, but without interest, and without
damages on said sums.
lIem. - That on the trial of the said rul,, the said Samuel H.
Early tendered a bill of exceptions to opinions of the court delivered on the said trial, in the followirg words and figures,
to wit:
eight
bill of exceptions contained
Bill of exceptions. -The
concluded as follows:
records of cases of attachments, and
Whereupon, on consideration of said rules to show cause why
the execution should not be limited to the sum of $10,000, principal of said judgment, &6. ;- and -why execution should not be
stayed, &c,; the court was of opinion to discharge and disallow
each of said rules, which was done accordingly; to each of
which opinions and judgments of the court the defendant, Early,
by his counsel, excepts, and prays that then his exceptions may
be signed, sealed, and reserved to him.
JOHN *W. BROCXENBROUGH, [SEAL]I
Upon this bill of exceptions the case came up to this court,
and was argued by 1r. Mason, for the plaintiff in error, and by
2'. Clase,for the defendants in error.
-11'. Mllason, for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points:
The errors complained of, and for which it is now asked to
reverse the last judgment of the court below, are:
First. Because the execution should have been limited to the
strm of $10,000, or to be discharged by payment of that sum,
uriddr the agreement of the parties.
Second. Execution should have been stayed until the attachments set out in the bill of exceptions were finally disposed of.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

603

Early v. Rogers et al.

On the first pointIn allowing execution in the court below, that court was
necessarily constrained to construe the contract between the
parties of the 18th of May, 1852, on which the affirmance of
the judgment was rendered by the Supreme Court.
It is recited in this contract, (p. 12, 13, of the printed record,)
that as. "a compromise of the matters in difference," between
the parties, it was agreed that Early should pay to Rogers the
sum of $10,000, on or before a given day, and which sum the
latter agreed to receive, "in full satisfaction and discharge of the
original judgment," &c., and "in full satisfaction and discharge
of all claims and demands," which Rogers held against Early,
"arising out of the dealings on which said litigation is founded ;" and further, that the original judgment on which an appeal
was then depending in the Supreme Court should " be entered,
affirmdd, subject to the above agreement." This is the whole
contract. What follows is, on its face, only explanatory, and
should not have been construed to convert the time of payment
into a penalty or forfeiture.
The contract, must be construed as a whole, and the intention
of the parties thus gathered, is to be carried into effect.
It is submitted, that it was not the agreement of the parties
that so heav-y a forfeiture as the sum of $2,115, should be incurred on a compromise merely by failure to pay at the day, nor
is it in any manner susceptible of such construction, unless it
be taken from the last clause in the nature of a proviso. But
this clause does not necessarily require such construction; referring it to the contract, it relates to the entering of satisfaction
on.the judgment and to that only, so that the explanatory addendum would read thus: the judgment although affirmed, shall
not be obligatory for more than the above sum of $10,000, to
be paid as aforesaid, and the judgment shall be entered, satisfied
if that sum is paid on the day appointed for its payment herein
above.
In support of this view, I refer to Story's Equity, vol. 2, ยง 13,
14, where the principle is stated, "that wherever a penalty is
inserted merely to secure the performance or enjoyment of a
collateral object, the latter is considered as the principal intent
of the instrument, and the penalty is deemed only as accessory," &c.
On the first point, then, it is respectfully submitted that the
judgment should be reversed, because execution was allowed
fbr a sum exceeding that stipulated in the contract of the
parties, and subject to which contract the judgment had been
affirmed.

604

SUPREME

COURT.

"larly v. Rogers et al.

On the second point It is submitted, that no execution should have issued until
the attachment set out in the bill of exceptions had been disposed of.
By the statutes of Virginia the attaching creditors obtained
a lien on the property of their debtor from the time the process
was served, and the garnishee (Early) could not pay to the defendant in error, without violating the law, and subjecting himself to the risk of paying twice. Code of Virginia, (1849)
p. 603, ยง 11, 12; p. 605, ยง 17.
So entirely is the garnishee protected, in cases of attachment,
from the action of the absent debtor, that he is not even responsible for interest, whilst, pending the attachment, he is restrained
from parting with the effects in his hands. 1 Sergent on Attachments, 169; Fitzgerald v. Caldwell, 2 Dallas, 215; same case,
4 lb. 251; Willings v. Consequa, 1 Peters's Cir. Court Rep.
172; Erskine v. Staley, 12 Leigh, 406.
The reason why the garnishee is protected from interest is,
that he is not allowed to part with the principal, until the rights
of parties are settled under the attachment.
In allowing these attachments from a State court to be regarded by the federal court, when asked to direct execution to
be issued against the garnishee, there is no collision between
-the respective judiciaries. Far less is the action of the federal
court made subordinate to that of the State. The citizen is
fully subject to th& process of each, on matters within their
respective jurisdictions; and although it were conceded that the
State court must yield, when a federal court has taken jurisdiction properly, yet this must be in a case when the right litigated,
or the nature of the controversy is the same in both courts, and
where, unless one jurisdiction was paramount, there would arise
collision. Such is in no manner the case here. The federal
court, in disallowing executions, because of the pendency of
these attachments, decides only that the judgment creditor is
not entitled to execution, because, since the judgment was
rendered, other rights had intervened -- rights not asserted
to question or challenge the authority which rendered the
judgment, but, in fact, affirming such authority, and relying
upon it.
The judgment against Early, established a property in Rogers,
whicl property the creditors of the latter, through the State
court, seek to subject to payment of, their debts, and they may
do this without the slightest interference with the authority of
the court that rendered the judgment.
I am informed by counsel, on the other side, that he shall ask
the court to correct the judgment of affirmance, so as to allow

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Early v. Rogers et al.

interest on the amount of the verdict, from its date. On this I
have to say, that if it be error, it was error in the judgment of
the court below, and from which there is no appeal, and of
course cannot be corrected here.
But if I am right in my construction of the contract, under
which the judgment was affirmed, the parties have waived the
interest, which the law of Virginia would attach to a verdict,
by agreeing to a sum without hiterest.
.If,.. Chase, for the defendants in error, said that the questions
presented were these:
L The sum of $10,000 nof. having been paid by the 1st of
September, 1852, according to the terms of the affirmance agreement, are the judgment plaintiffs entitled to the full amount of
the judgment affirmed?
II. Can the proceedings in the State court be set up to arrest
the action of the federal court in enforcing its own judgment by
its own process?
II. There is a third point which arises, both on the writ of
error and on motion, namely, are the judgment plaintiffs entitled
to interest on the amount of the judgment affirmed, and from
what time?
I. The answer to the first question depends on the terms of
the agreement. That hardly seems to admit of two interpretations. It consists of two parts. The first stipulates that Early
shall pay to Rogers and Rogers $10,000 by the 1st of September, which sum, so paid, the latter agree to receive in full sailsfaction of the original judgment; the second expresses the same
uw1lerstanding in somewhat a different phraseology: the judgment is to be affirmed, but is not to be obligatory for more than
$10,000, on payment of which sum satisfaction is to be entered,
provided the amount is paid oi or before the 1st day of September next.
Under the agreement the judgment was affirmed. This judgzment wvas for $12,115. Early had a right to have it satisfied
by payment of $10,000 by the 1st September. He did not exercise that right, and therefore lost it. No later payment than
on the 1st of September would avail him. and he has offered
none.

It is claimed that the stipulation for the affirmance of the
judgment, upon agreement to accept a less sum in satisfaction,
if paid by a certain day, operates as a stipulation for a penalty.
and ought not to be enforced. This is by no means so. The
original judgment was for a balance of account. Rogers and
Rogers were pressed for money, and anxious for early payment.
They were willing to accept a part soon, rather than risk the
51 1

606

SUPREME

COURT.

Early v. Rogers et al.

collection of the whole by process, in the uncertain future. Hence
their agreement. The whole was no more than their due. The
agreement to accept part was conditional. Early not having
fulfilled the condition, they-are justly entitled to the whole.
II. The answer to the second question depends on the effect
to be given to the various proceedings in the State court.
All these suits, except two, were commenced after the institution of the suit in the District Court, and it is quite certain that
the pendency of these constitutes no objection to the enforcement of the judgment of the court. Wallace v. McConnell, 13
Peters, 136, is in point.
Of the two suits commenced prior to that of Rogers and Rogers, the first (Wilson's) has been prosecuted to final decree,
20th November, 1851, (Record, p.28,) against Rogers for the debt,
and against William Shrewsbury for payment, which decree
seems to have been satisfied, as the record. shows a judgment
on a forthcoming bond against Shrewsbury and Lewis. There
-is nothing to show, and no grbund to suppose that Early can
be made liable for any thing in this suit, in any event.
The other suit (Sargent's) was commenced. by issuing the
subponas on the 15th of June, but there is nothing to show
when process was served on Early. The bill-was not filed until
July. Nothing has been done in this cause beyond the mere
filing of the bill; and the court will not presume, without proof,
that process was served on Early so as to fix any liability on
him. 2 Rob.Prac. 201.
But if both suits had been commenced, and process in both
had been served on Early prior to the commencement of the
suit against him in the District Court, it would have made no
difference, and for several reasons:
1. An attachment does not create a lier, but a nere contingent liability, which can only become fixed after judgment or
decree, in the principal suit, and, in case, also, that the debt
due from the garnishee has not been previously extinguished
otherwise than by his voluntary act. Ex parte Foster, 2 Story,
1.51, 152; Embree v. Hanna, 5 Johns. 101.
2. If a defendant would avail himself of a pending attachment
against a subsequent suit for the debt attached, he must plead
the pendency of the attachment in abdtement. Wallace v. Mec
Connell- 13 Pet. 151. After issue joined it is too late to plead
in abatement. Payne v. Grimm, 2 Munf. 297; May v. State
Bank, 2 Rob. 56.
3. In the present case Early wail.ed all objections to the proceeding in the District Court growing out of the pending of the
attachment suits. The record shows that he did plead the
pending of some of these suits in abatement, and voluntarily

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

E arly v. Rogers et al.

withdrew the plea and joined issue. Record; 57. He was fully
aware, also, of the attachments when he consented to the affirmance of the judgment, and it would be unreasonable to allow him
to avail himself of grounds to evade payment, which, when he
positively engaged to pay, he must have been understood to
waive; for otherwise his engagements would amount to nothing.
I L We claim that the court below erred in not correcting
the judgment, by allowing interest on the verdict, and ask that
this error may be corrected. The original omission of interest
in the judgment was, doubtless, ,a clerical error. The verdict
was for the balance of an account. The Code of Virginia is
express, that "if a verdict be rendered.hereafter, which does not
allow interest, the sum thereby found shall bear interest from
its date-, whether the cause of action arose heretofore, or shall
arise hereafter, and judgment shall be entered accordingly."
Code of Virginia, 1840, c. 177, ยง 14, p. 673.
As the whole case is before the court upon the writ of error,
the court may, andI we think should, correct this manifest error.
At all events the court will allow interest upon the amount of
the judgment, either from the date of the verdict or *fromaffirmance, by way of damages. Rule 18.
If defendant attached wishes to exempt himself from interest,
he must bring the money into court. 2 Rob. Prac. 205-6, and
eases there cited.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court,
The defendants, (Rogers & Co.) on the 27th of May, 1852,
recovered in this court against the plaintiff a judgment, in the
following words:
"In order to put an end to the litigation between the above
parties and as a compromise
the matters 'in difference between them, that said Samuel H. Early shall pay to the said
John Rogers and Joseph Rogers, between thiq and the first day
of September next, the sum of ten thousand doll~.rs, which sum
of ten thousand dollars the said John Rogers and Joseph Rogers
agree to receive of the said Samuel H. Early, in full satisfaction
and discharge of the original judgment entered against the said
Early for the sum of about $12,500, in sdid District Court of
the United States, for the Western District of Virginia, and in
full satisfaction and discharge of all claims and demands which
said John R.'gers and Joseph Rogers held against said Early in
any account arising out of the dealings on which said litig.tion
is founded.
"And it is further agreed, that the original judgment rendered
in said District Court of the United States for the Western Dis-

SUPREME

COURT.

Early v.- Rogers et al.

trict of Virginia, and which is taken up to the Supreme Court
of the United States on a writ of error, which is. now pending
in thbit court, may be entered affirmed in said Supreme Court
at its present session, subject to the above agreement; that is,
the judgment, although affirmed, shall not be obligatory for more
than the above sum of ten thousand dollars, to be paid as aforesaid; and as soon as that sum is paid, the said judgment shall
be entered satisfied, provided the amount is paid on or before
the said first day of September next. Costs to be paid by
Early.
"May 18th, 1852.
SAMUEL H. EARLY,

By CHA

os Fox, his attorney.

JOHN ROGERS,
JOSEPH ROGERS,

.vsF.
By JM.

IELINE, their attorney.

"On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs, in conformity to the preceding stipulations; and that the
said plaintiffs recover against the said defendant, Samuel H.
Early, one hundred and twenty-nine dollars and fifty-two cents
for their costs herein expended, and have execution therefor.
"1May 27, -."
The mandate of this court was issued iu October, 1852, and
spread upon the records of the District Court for the Western
District~of Virginia. In January, 1853, an execution issued returnable to the March rules of that year. At the April term of
that court, the plaintiff, Early, obtained a rule against Rogers
& Co., requiring them to show cause why the execution so sued
out should not be quashed, nd also why execution on the said
judgment of the said Supreme Court should not be limited to
the sum of ten thousand dollars, with interest thereon, from the
1st day of September, 1852, and the costs; and also why the
same shall not be stayed until the further crder of the court, on
account of certain attachments and suggestions. Whereupon
the court ordered the execution to be quashed, but that the said
Rogers & Co. be allowed.to sue out their execution against said
Early for the principal sum of $12,115, with costs, but without interest or damages.
The writ of error has been taken to bring this order awarding
tle executioi to this court. We think the district judge interpreted the agreement of the parties and the judgment of this
court upon'it, correctly. The parties made the reduction of the
judgment to ten thousand dollars, dependent upon a condition,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853

609

Early v. Rogers et al.

which has not been fulfilled. The plaintiff in error had obliged
himself to comply with this condition, or to lose his claim for a
deduction. We think the award of execution, for the amount
contained in the order, was proper.
The motion to stay the execution, founded upon the fact that
creditors of Rogers & Co. had attached this debt, by service of
garnishment on the plaintiff in the State courts, was addressed
to the legal discretion of the District Court, and its judgment is
not revisable by this court.
The .mere levy of an attachment upon an existing debt, by a
creditor, does not authorize the garnishee to claim an exemption
from the pursuit of his creditor. The attachment acts make no
such provision for his benefit. It is the duty of the court wherein
the suit against the garnishee by his creditor may be pending,
upon a proper representation of the facts, to take measures that
no injustice shall grow out of the double vexation. The court
should ascertain if the attachment is prosecuted for a bon i fide
debt, without collusion with the debtor, for an amount corresponding to the debt, that no mischief to the security of the
debt wzill follow from a delay, and such other facts as may be
necessary for the protection and security of the ciedifor.. An
order of the court to suspend, or to delay the creditor's suit, or
his execution in whole or for a part, could be then made upon
such conditions as would do no wrong to any one.
It is apparent that such inquiries are proper only for the court
of original jurisdiction, in the exercise of the equity powers over
proceedings an,- suitors before it, with the view to fulfil its great
duty of administering justice in every case. We do not perceive
in this record.evidence that the district judge has exercised his
discretion unuvisely.
We do not express any opinion upon the questions whether
a writ of error was the proper remedy to bring this order befoie"
us, nor whether attachments could be levied from the State
court upon a judgment or claim in the course of collection in
the courts of -the United States. Accepting the case as it has
been made by the parties, and has been argued at the bar, our
conclusion is, there is no error in the record, and the judgment
is affirmed.

Order.
Trhis cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Western
District, of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

