DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Cervantes v. The -United States.

5 Mass. Rep. 403; 4 Dec. & BaL 363; 3 Ohio Reports, 232; 2
Ohio, 378; 3 Yeates, 284; 2 Yeates, 100; 13 Sergeant &
Rawle, 208; 4 Dec. & Bal. 386; 5 Wheat. 116; 6 Wheat. 119;
1 Yeates, 300; 3 Monroe, 271; 1 Tyler's Rep. 295; 14 Mass. 177;
8 Wheaton, 681; 15 Mass. 144; Greenleaf's Rep. 339; Taylor's
North Carolina Rep. 480; 3 Hawks's Rep. 283; 1 Gilm. 26; 10
Wend. 346; 18 Johns. Rep. 441; 5 Alabama, 433. I have not
the reports of the Supreme Court of Georgia at hand to cite
from them any cases of tax sales, if any have been decided by
it, but I know that the decisions of the courts in that State are
the same as those stated in this opinion and in the cases cited.
We affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

CRUZ

CERVANTES, APPELLANT, v.

TnE

UNITED STATES.

Upon an appeal from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, where it did not appear, from the proceedings, whether the land,
claimed was within the Northern or Southern District, this court will reverse the
judgment of the District Court and remand the case for the purpgse of making its

jurisdiction apparent, (if it should have any,) and of correcting any other matter
of form or substance which may be necessary.

THis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Northern California.
In February, 1852, Cervantes filed before the board of commissioners to ascertain and settle the private land claims in
California, the following claim:
Cruz Cervantes, a citizen of said State, gives notice that he
claims, by virtue of a grant from the Mexican nation, a tract of
land situated in the county of Santa Clara, in said State, and
known by the name of San Joaquin or Rosa Morada, with tb.
boundaries described in the grant thereof, to wit: on one side
the arroyo of San Felipe; on the second side, the hills or moun-

SUPREME

COURT.

Cervantes v. The United 3tates.

tains of San Joaquin; on the third, the arroyo of Santa Anna;
and on the fourth, a line drawn through the plain of San Juan.
Said land was conceded to claimant by a grant issued on the
1st day of April, 1836, by Don Nicolas Gutienez, superior political chief ad interim of California, and thereby authorized to
grant lands in the name and on behalf of the Mexican nation.
On the 18th February, 1841, judicial possession was given to
claimant by Juan Miguel Anzar, Judge of First Instance of that
jurisdiction.
Said land has been occupied by claimant, according to law
and the directions contained in said grant, and is now held by
him in quiet possession.
There is no conflicting grant to said land, or any part thereof,
in the knowledge of claimant.
Said land has never been surveyed, but its boundaries are
natural and well lkown, and may be easily traced. It is supposed to contain the quantity of two sitios de ganado mayor,
I
more or less.
A copy and translation of said grant, and a copy of said act
of judicial possession, are herewith presenited, and the originals
are ready to be produced and proved, as may be required.
On the 3d of August, 1852, Commissioner Harvy J Thornton
delivered the opinion of the board, declaring the @aim valid.
In July, 1853, the following notice was issued:
CRuz CERVANTES,

claimant, vs. 'NITED

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S

STATES.

OFFICE,

TWas inton, D. C. Tuly 11th, 1853.
You will please take notice, that the appeal in the above case
from the decision of the commissioners, z:oascertain and settle
the private land claims in the State of California to the District
Court of'the United States; for the Northern District of California, will be prosecuted by the United S€.tates.
C. CUSHING,

Attorney- General United States.
To the Clerk of the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California, San Francisco.

At a special term of the District Court of the United States
of America, for the Northern District of California, held at the
court-house in the city of San Francisco, on Monday, the 31st
day of October, in the year of our Lor&l one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-three.
Present, the honorable Ogden Hoffman, Jr., District Judge.
THE UNITED STATES, appellants, v. CRUZ CERVANTES, appellee.
This cause coming on to be heard at the above stated term,
on appeal from the final decision of the commissioners to ascer-

DECEI 'BER TERMI,

1853.

621

Cer intes v. The United States.
tain and settle private land claims in the State of California,
under the act of Congress, approved 3d of Mlarch, 1851, upon
the transcript of the proceedings and decision, and the papers
and evidence on which said decision was founded; and it appearing to the court that said transcript has been duly and
regularly filed in pursuance of the 12th section of the act of
Congress, approved August 31st, 1852.
And the argument of counsel for the United States and for
the claimant being heard, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the decision of the said commissioners be in all things
reversed and annulled; and that the said claim be held invalid
and rejected.
(Signed.)
OGDEN HOFF.&N, JR.,
U. S. Distfict Tud,-q.
Cervantes appealed from this decree to this court, which appeal was allowed.
It was argued by Xr. William Carey Jones, for the appellant,
when
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the following opinion of the
court.
It does not appear, from the proceedings before the District
Court, that the land claimed is within the Northern Judicial
District of California.
This .is necessary to give that court
jurisdiction. It can exercise no power over any elaim, where the
land lies in the Southern Judicial District of the same State. ,
This court has often held, unless the jurisdiction of the Circuit or District Court appear in the record, the judgment of such
court may be reversed on a writ of error. It is therefore important, that in dealing with land titles, the jurisdiction of the
inferior court should appear in the proceeding.
From a map of the State of California, recently published, it
appears the land claimed in this case lies in the Southern District, and if so, no jtirisdictid-n attached to the court where the
proceeding was Instituted.
For the purpose of correcting the proceeding in this respect,
the decision of the District Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to that court with leave to amend the proceeding in
regard to the jurisdiction of the District Court, and to any other
matter of form or substance which may be necessary.
Order.
This cause came to bV heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, and it not appearing therefrom that the

622

SUPREME COURT.
Deshler v. Dodge.

land claimed is within the Northern Judicial District of California, it is, on consideration thereof now here ordered and decreed by this court that the decree of the said District Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said District
Court, with leave to amend the proceedings in regard to the
jurisdiction of the said District Court, and also in regard to any
other matter of form or substance which may be necessary.

JOHN C. DE5HatR V. GEORGE C. DODGE.
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, says, "nor shall any District or
Circuit Court'have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promisso ' note or other chose in action, in favor of An assi'nee unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment had
been made. bxeept in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
This clause has no apl,ication to the case 6f a suit by tht assignee of a chose in action
to recover possession of the thing in specie, or damages for its wrongful caption or
detention.
Thereform where an assignee of a package of bank-notes brought an action of replevin
for the package, the action can be maintained in tha Circuit Court, altdiough the
assignor could not himself have sued in that court.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
It was an action of rejievin brought by Deshler, a resident
and citizen of the State of New York, against Dodge, a citizen
and resident of the State of Ohio.
The proceedings in the case were these:
In March, 1853, Deshler filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio the following pracipe and
affidavit.
Prcecipe. Issue a writ of replevin for the following goods and
chattels, to wit, a quantity of bank-bills, of various denoddnations,
consisting of fives, tens, twenties, and fifties, given for the payment, in the aggregate, of the sum of ten thousand five hundred
and eighty dollars, being the same bank-bills taken by the said
George C. Dodge, from the City Bank of Cleveland, on the 26th
day of Mamh, 1853. Also another quantity of bank-bills, of various denominations, consisting of ones, twos, threes, fours, fives,
tens, twenties, fifties, and hundreds, and given for the payment,
in the aggregate, for the sum of seven thousand nine hundred
sixty-five dollars, being the same bank-bills taken by the said
George C. Dodge, from the Merchants Bank of Cleveland, on
the 26th day of March, A. D. 1853. Also another quantity of
bank-bills, of various denominations, consisting of ones twos,

