DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

535

Barney v. Saunders et al.

AlAny E. BARNEY, BY HER NEXT FRIEND MAXWELL WOODHULL,
APPELLANT, V. DAVID SAUNDERS, ROGER C. WEIGTIAN, AND
SAMUEL C. BARNEY.
T[here we-e two trustees of real and personal estate for the benefit of a minor. One of
the trustees was also administrator de bonis non upon the estate of the father of the
minor; and the other trustee was appointed guardian to the minor.
Wl9,en the minor arrived at the proper age, and the accounts came to be settled, the
following rules ought to have been applied.
'l'lh tru~tc[s ought not to have been charged with an amount of money, which the
administrator trustee had paid himself as commission. Ti,at item was allowed by
the Orphans' Court, and its correctness cannot be reviewed, collaterally, by another
court.

N-or ought the trustees to have been charged with allowances made to the guardian
trustee. The guarstian's accounts also were cognizable by the Orphans' Court.
Having power under the will to receive a portion of the income, the guardian's
receipts were valid to the trustees.
The trustees were properly allowed and credited by five per cent. on the principal of
the personal estate, and ten per cent. on the income.
Under the circumstances of this ease, the trustees ought not to have been charged
upon the principle of six months rests and compound interest.
The trustees ought to have been charged with all gains, as with those arising from
usurious loans, unknown friends, or otherwise.
The trustees ought not to have been credited with the amount of a sum of money,
dep sited with a private banking house, and lost by its failue, so far as related to
the capital of the estate, but ought to have been credited for so much of the loss as
qrf-se from the deposit of current collections of income.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the
county of Washington.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. CMIton and Mr'. Linton, for the appellant, and by M11r. Lawrence and 1r. Bradley, for the appellees.
The points made by the counsel for the appellant were the
following.
I. That the trustees should have been charged with the thirty.
five shares of Bank of MIetropolis stock and the dividends ac.
truing thereupon, alleged to have been sold in 1836 by defend.
ant, 1). Saunders, to satisfy his commission as administrator de
bonis non of Edward DeKraft, he not being entitled to such
commission, and not having the right to sell the bank stock
without the order of the Orphans' Court.
Dorsey's Testamentary Laws of Maryland, 90, §§ 3, 4; Hil]
on Trustees, 31; 4 Ves. 497; Pocock v. Reddington, 5 Yes.
799; 2 Story's Equity, 1263; Pierson v. Shore, 1 Athyns, 480;
5, Peters, 562; 5 Gill & Johns. 60-64; Gist t-. Cockey and
Fendall, 7 Har. & Johns. 135; McPherson v. Lracl, 6 Gill &
Johns. 63, 64; 12 Id. 84.
II. Thatthe trustees should not have been credited by the

SUPREME COURT.
Barncy v. Saundcrs et al.

sums .of money alleged to have been p.id R. C. Weightman,
as guardian of plaintiff in error. That the will of Edward
ODeKraft creating the trust did not give the trustees such power
or authority, nor was the same warranted by the facts of the
case. The trustees should have invested. said moneys in bank
or other stocks, or put the same out at interest upon good and
sufficient security, as directed by the will.
Hill on Trustees, 395, 400, 40-, 574; 1 Rop. on Leg. 568; Dorsey's Testamentary Laws of Maryland, :.14, '8, p. 115, § 13;
Brodess t. Thompson, 2 Harris & Gill, 120; 3 Harris & Johns.
268; Hatton and Weems, 35-110.
III. That the trustees should not have been allowed and credited by 5 per cent. on the principal of the personal estate, and
10 per cent. on the income, as was done by the auditor. That
they shQuld not be allowed any commission at all, either upon
the principal or income of the estate. That in any event they
should not be credited by any commission upc n the amount of
principal never collected -upon the amount of the bank and
other stocks. Winder v. Diffenderffer, 2 Bland, 207; Miller ?,.
Beverly, Beverly v. Miller, 4 Hening & Munford, 420; Ringgold v. Ringgold, 1 Harris & Gill, 11, 109; Gwynn v. Dorsey, 4
Gill & Johns. 460; 3 lb. 348; Harland's Account, 5 Rawle's
Reports, 323.
IV. That the auditor did not charge the trustees upon the
principle of six months' rest and compourd interest. De Peyster
v. Clarkson and others, 2 Wendell, 77; Schieffelin v. Stewart,
1 Johns. Ch. R. 620; Garniss v. Gardiner, 1 Edwards's Ch. 130;
Harland's accounts, 5 Rawle's Rep. 323; 2 Story's Equity, 517521; Tucker's Commentaries, 457; Raphael v. Boehm, 11
Ves. 92; Ringgold v. Ringgold, 1 Harris & Gill, 11; Wright
v. Wright, 2 McCord, 1.5; Voorhees 7. Stoothoff, 6 Halsted's
Rep. 145; Tebbs v. Carpenter, 1 Mad. R. 305; Dunscoml- v.
Dunscomb, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 508; 5 Johns. Ch. Rep. 497.
V. That the trustees should have been charged by the auditor with all gains, as with those arising from usurious loans,
unknown friends, or otherwise.
2 Story, §§ 1210, 1211,
1261; Holton v. Bern, 3 Stu. 88, (note); 1 Johns. Chancery
Rep. 625; 4 1b. 284, 308; 2 Kent's Commentaries, 230; Story
on Contracts, 485; Hill on Trustees, 83; Walker v. Symonds,
3 Swans. 58.
VI. That the trustees should not have been credited by the
loan to- Fowler & Co. or any part thereof. Hill on Trustees,
368-378, 404; 2 Story's Equity, 509-513; Tebbs v. Carpenter,
1 Maddock's Rep. 305; 3 P. Williams, 100, (note); Ringgold
v. Ringgold, 1 Harris & Gill's Rep. 12; 1 McCord's Ch. Rep.
250, 495.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

537

Barney v. Saunders et al.

VII. That the trustees, Saunders and Weightman, should
have been dismissed, and others appointed in their place.
The points made by the counsel for. the appellees were the
following.
Firs. The court was right in not charging the trustees with
the thirty-five shares of the Bank of the Metropolis, sold by
Saunders, administrator de bonis non, to pay his commission.
1. Administration was necessary in order to pass the trust
property to the trustees. This gave the right to commissions.
2. The maximum of ten per cent. can be exceeded.
3. The allowance to Saunders was in Aprij 1836. and the
final allowance to the administratrix, who did'not settle the
whole estate, was in 1846, and it should have been taken from
that account.
4. The allowance of seven and a half per cent. to the .administratrix enured to the benefit of the complainant, she
being her only child.
5. The allowance to Saunders was made by the Orphans'
Court before the money was paid over to the trustees, and is
conclusive.
In addition to the authorities cited by the auditor, see Jones
v. Stockett, 2 Bland's Ch. 416.
Second. The trustees were properly credited with the amounT
paid to R. C. WVeightman, as guardian.
1. His accounts as guardian were not before the auditor for
settlement and examination. The parties and their counsel
were there, and the auditor ceritifies to the court, "the- guardianship trust of Mr. \Veightman has been settled, as was admitted
before me by the counsel of both parties."
2. Under the will, the guardian had the right to receive the
three fourths of the income.
3. The object of the trust was to provide for the maintenance
and education of his daughter. If the accounts of the guardian
are to be considered in evidence, they show that this was the
only fund out of which these objects could have been satisfied.
No charge is made in them for these objects.
4. His accounts, as guardian, are open for revision in the
Orphans' CourL
Third. The allowance of five per cent. on the personal estate,
and ten per cent. on the income, is right.
1. It is the rule in most of the States to allow commissions
to trustees. Boyd v. Hawkins, 2 Dev. Eq. 334.
The cases on this point have been collected with care, and will
be found in the Notesuof American Cases -to the case of Robinson v. Pett, 2 White & Tudor's Equity Cases, 353 and ihe
following.

538

SUPREXE COURT.
Barney v. Saunders et al.

2. The rule has been l6 ng settled in Maryland; and,
3. It has been fully adopted by the Circuit Court of the Dis.
.frict of Columbia.
Fourth. The court has charged the defendants with interest,
making annual rests. There is no appeal by the defendants;
but if that point is open, they will insist that no interest ought
to have been charged against them.
The liability of a trustee to pay interest depends upon the
money being held or appropriated accor6ing to, or in violation
of, the purposes of the trust. Sandford, 404; and the principle
is, that he should be charged with what he did make or might
lawfully have made. MeNair v. Ragland, 1 Dev. Eq. 517,524;
"Spazhawk v. Buel, 9 Vermont, 42, 82.
The general rule is to allow a trustee (having power to invest)
a reasonable discretion, and for simple neglect to charge simple
interest until the investment is made, and only for an intentional violation of duty, or a corrupt use of the money, to make
rests, or, according to the circumstances, compound the interest
as the measure of profits are undisclosed. 5 Johns. Ch. 517; 4
Barb. Sup. Ct. 649; 2 W. & S. 565; 1 Pick. 528, note; 10
Pick. 104; 1 Rob. Vir. 213; 5 Dana, 73, 132; 12 Ala. 355;
6 Geo, 271; 2 Dev. & Bat. 339 ; 4 Humph. 215; 6 Halst. 145;
1 H. & G. 80; 3 G. & J. 342.
The English rule is essentially the same.
Fifth. There is no exception upon which the complainant's
fifth point can rest. If it is now open, the defendants rest on
the view taken by the auditor.
Sixth. The trustees were entitled to credit for the deposit
'with Fowler & Co.
The facts in regard to this deposit will be found in the answers of the defendants Saunders and 'Weightman, in the evidence.
The substance is, that by the will the trustees were to
invest the income in bank or other stocks, or good security, with power to sell the real estate and invest the proceeds in other real estate, bank, or other stocks, and if in
real estate, that was to be in some of the cities north or
east of the city of Washington. In 1338, the banks in the
city had suspended specie payments. Their charters were
about to expire, and the several laws were passed, to which
reference is made.
The trustees had a discretion. They also had a right to
retain a sum to meet the contingencies .of the estate. One
of the original loans was in part repaid, and the ordinary
income was coming in. They consulted counsel. -Acting
-under his advice, anl exercising a sound discretion, they de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

539

Barney v. Saunders et al.

posited the fund with bankers in good credit, on an agreement to allow the depositors six per cent. It was a dedeposit
deposit awaiting investment -a
posit, not a loan -a
where their own funds and those of other discreet business men
was made- a deposit of funds received *fromaccruing income
of the estate in small sums, and in money not bankable, at a
period of great irregularity and pressure in the money market;
and a deposit where such funds were earning money instead of
being idle. The auditor credited a portion only. The court
allowed the whole sum.
If the trustees acted- in good faith, exercised a sound discretion, kept the money, or deposited it from necessity or convenience, used ordinary care and diligence in the mode of keeping
it, acted under the advice of counsel, and were actuated by a
sincere desire to promote the interest of the trust estate, they
are not to be charged with the loss.
They can only be charged in a case of clear negligence, perversion of the trust, or wilful default. Morley v. Morley, 2
Chan. Ca. 2; Knight v. Earl of Plymouth, 3 Atk. 480; Jones v.
Lewis, 2 Vez. Sen. 240; 5 Ves. 144; Rowth v. Howell, 3 Ves. 564;
Ambl. 419; Thompson v. Brown, 4 Johns. Ch. 628, 629; 10 Pet.
568, 569; 3 G. & J. 341; 11 G. & J. 203; 8 Gill, 403, 428-30,
and cases therein cited.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant, Mary E. Barney, is the only daughter of
Edward DeKraft, who devised all his real estate and the residue
of his personal estate to respondents, Saunders and Weightman,
(together with Joseph Pearson, since dead,) on the following
trusts: 1st. To permit the widow to 6njoy during life or widowhood certain portions of the trust estate. 2. In trust to receive
the rents, interest, dividends, &c., and to pay over quarterly to
his widow, until his daughter Mary arrived at the age of 18,
three fourths of the said rents and profits for the support and
maintenance of herself and daughter, and
3dly. To lay out and invest the residue of the said rents and
profits, &c., with the annual produce thereof, from time to time
in bank or other stocks or on good security.
4th. At the death of the widow, the trustees to hold the es tite
with its increase for the sole and separate use of the daugh.er;
and with numelous other provisions not necessary to be stated,
for the purposes of this case.
The widow of the testator refused to take under the will, and
claimed her legal rights; the executors also renounced, and letters of administration, with the will annexed, were granted to
the widow.

540

SUPREME COURT.
Barnfey v. Saunders et al.

Mrs. DeKraft died in October, 1834, leaving the complainant,
her only child, then about four years of age. At her death the
trustees went into possession of the trust estate. Saunders, one
of the trustees, took out letters of administration de bonis non
to the estate of DeKraft; received the assets of the estate, which
remained unconverted, and transferred them to himself and
Weightman. as trustees.
In 1836, Weightman was appointed guardian of the person
and property of the complainant.
Besides the real estate, consisting of four houses in the city,
,the personal propertr transferred to the trustees, in mortgages
and stocks, amounted to about $17,000.
The complainant interman4ed with Lieut. Barney, in 1847,
and attained the age of 18, in August, 1848. In March, 1849,
the bill in this case was filed, charging the trustees with divers
breaches of trust, demanding their removal; an account of the
trust estate, and the appointment of a receiver. The respondents filed their answer, and an account, -which was referred to a
master or auditor, who made report in October, 1850.
Numerous exceptions were made to this report by the complainant, which were overruled by the court below, to whose
judgment this appeal is taken.
We shall notice those only which have been urged by the
counsel in this court. The first is '
"I. That, the trustees should have been charged with the
thirty-five shares of Bank of the Metropolis stock and the dividends accruing thereupon, alleged to have been sold in J836 by
defendant, D. Saunders, to satisfy his commission as hdministrator de bonis non of Edward DeKraft, he not being entitled
to such commission, and not having the right to sell the bank
stock without the order of the Orphans' C:urt."
The acts of D. Saunders as administrator de bonis non of DeKraft are not the subject of review in this suit. He settled his
accoun t as administrator in the Orphans' Court, and the allowances made there cannot be reviewed .collaterally in another
court, in a suit in which a different trust is involved. The appellant may possibly have good reason to complain that her
estate has been almost devoured by the accumulation of per centages it has been compelled to pay to the numerous hands
through which it has passed, but must have her remedy, if any,
by demanding a review of the accounts in the court which has,
in -the exercise of its jurisdiction, allowed them. We are of
opinion, therefore, that this exception has not been sustained.
. The second exception is to the allowance of a credit to
the trustees for sums paid to Weightman, as. guardian of the
complainant.

O

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

541

Larney v. Saunders et al.

*What has been said in reference to the first exception will
apply to this. Weightnan's accounts, as guardian, were not before the auditor for settlement; and the guardian being entitled
under the will to ieceive a portion (not to exceed three fourths)
of the income, and apply it, if necessary, to the maintenance
and education of his ward, his receipts would be good and valid
vouchers to the trustees.
The guardian's account is open for revision in the Orphans'
Court, on the petition of the complainant.
While on this subject, we would'take the opportunity to remark, on the impropriety of appointing persons to trusts, however high their personal character may be, who are allowed to
pay from their right hand into their left; as where A, as administrator, has to settle an account with A as trustee; and B, as
trustee, to deal with B a§ guardian. To instance the present
case: Saunders, the trustee, whose duty it was to scrutinize the
accounts of the administrator de bonis non, from whom they receive the trust estate, is himself appointed administrator, and
thus left without a check, or any one to call him to strict account except his co-trustee, for many years, and until the ward
comes of age. NVeightman, the other trustee, is appointed
guardian, being the only person who for many years could call
to account the trustees for any negligence, mismanagement, or
fraud. Thus the estate of the infant is left at the mercy of
chance, the solvency or insolvency, the negligence or fraud of
the trustees for sixteen years or more, with no one to call them
to account. That the persons appointed in this particular case
were highly honorable men, is true; but the same rule should
be applied in all cases. If the estate of the infant in this case
has been so fortunate as to escape, it is an accident or exception, which cannot affect the propriety of a general rule. Experience has shown that the estates of orphans are more frequently wasted and lost by the carelessness of good-natured and
honorable men who- undertake to act as trustees, than by the
fraud and cupidity of men of a different character.
Such appointments, we are aware, are generally iaade on ex
parte applications, and without object:on. But in all cases the
court, exercising this important power, should remember that
orphans are under their special protection,-and should make no
appointments of guardians of their estates without due inquiry
and proper information.
III. The third exception is,
" That the trustees should not have been allowed and credited
by five per cent. on the principal of the personal estate, and ten
per cent. on the income, as was done by the auditor; that they
should not be allowed any commission at all, either upon the
VOL XVI.

46

SUPREME

CO

RT.

Barney v. Saunders et al.

principal or income of the estate; that in any event they should
not be credited by any commission upon the amount of princi1al never collected, upon the amount of bank and other stocks."
In England, courts of equity adhere to the principle which has
its origin in the Roman law, "that a trustee shall not profit by
his trust," and therefore that a trustee shall have no allowance
for his care and trouble. A different rule prevails generally, if
not universally, in this country. Here it is considered just and
reasonable that a trustee should receive a fair compensation for
his services; and in most cases it is guaged by a certain per
centage on the amount of the estate. The allowances made
by the auditor in this case are, we believe., such as are customary in similar cases, in M'aryland and this district, -here the
trustee has performed his duties with honor and integrity. But
on principles of policy as well as morality, and in order to insure
a fait~iful and honest execution of a trust, as far as practicable,
it woald be inexpedient to allow a trustee who has acted dishonestly or fraudulently. the same compensation with him who
has acted uprightly in all respects. And there may be cases
where negligence and want of care may amount to a want of
good faith in the execution of the trust as little deserving of
compensation as absolute fraud. If trustees, having a large
estate to invest and accumulate for the benefit of an infant, for
a number of years, will keep no books of account, make out no
annual or other account of their trust estate; if they risk the
trust funds in their own speculations; lend them to their relations -without security; and in other ways show a reckless disregard of the duties which they have assumed, they can have
but small claim on a court of equity for compensation in any
shape or to any amount.
But while the court agree in these principles, they are equally
divided in opinion as to the application of them to the present
case. The decision of the auditor and the court below on this
exception must therefore stand affirmed.
IV. The fourth exception is, "that the auditor did not charge
the trustees upon the principle of six months' rest and compound
interest."
On the subject of compounding interest on trustees, there is,
and indeed could not well be, any uniform rule which could
justly apply to all cases. When a trust'to invest has been
grossly and wilfully neglected; where the funds have been used
by the trustees in their own business, or profits made of which
they'give no account, interest is compoun-ded as a punishment,
or as a measure of damage for undisclosed profits and in place
of them. For mere neglect to invest, simple interest only is
generally imposed. Six months rests have been made only

DECEMIBER

TERTM,

1853.

543

Barney v. Saunders Ct al.

where the amounts received were large, and such as could be
easily and at all times invested.
The auditor in this case has made yearly rests. In calculating the interest on the loans, he says, " it has been charged upon
the days on which it became due, first applied to the disbursements, and the balance struck at the end of each year 4nd interest calculated on such balances while unemployed, but such
interest has not been carried into the receipts of the succeeding
year, but into a separate column, and the aggregate of interest
fbr all the years on these balances is added to the principal at
the foot of the account. In this I have followed the rule in
Grernbary's Case, 1 Wash. R. 246, and Leigh, 348."
In this way he alleges, that "compound interest is in effect
given on the loans, and simple interest upon the annual balances
while they were-uninvested, allowing a month after the termination of each rest to make the investment."
As the sums received by the trustees in this case were small,
and as three fourths of the annual income were liable to be
called for by the guardian for the use of his ward, we are of
opinion the auditor has stated the account in this respect with
fairness and discretion. The fourth -exception is therefore not
sustained.
V-. The fifth exception is, "that the trustees should have been
charged by the auditor with all gains, as with those arising
from usurious loans, unknown friends, or otherwise."
It is a well-settled principle of equity, that wherever a trustee,
or one standing in a fiduciary character, deals with the trust
estate for his own personal profit, he shall account to the cestui
que trust for all the gain which he has made. If he uses the
trust money in speculations, dangerous though profitable, the
risk will be his own, but the profit will inure to the cestui que
trust. Such a rule, though rigid, is necessary to prevent malversation. See Docker v. Somes, 2 My. & K. 655.
The money used in purchase of the house, having been settled
by the transfer of the same to the complainant, the subjectmatter of the present exception has been confined to the usurious
interest received. It amounts only to the sum of sixty-six
dollars. The auditor and the court erred in not charing that
sum to the accountants. They cannot be allowed to aver that
the profits made on the trnst funds should be put in their own
pockets, because they were unlawful gains, for fear that the
consciene, of the cestui que trust should be defiled by a participation in them. To indulge trustees in such an obliquity of
conscience, would be holding out immunity for misconduct and
an inducement to speculate with the trust funds, and -put them
in peril.

SUPREME COURT.
Barney v. Saunders et al.

This exception is therefore sustained.
VI. The sixth exception is, "that the trustees should not
have been credited by -the loan to Fowler & Co. or any part
thereof."
This is the most important point in the case.
The facts affecting it are reported by the auditor, as follows:
"C. S. Fowler & Co. were brokers in this city, dealing in
exchange, loans, and all the usual business of such an establishment; and, in addition, issued notes which formed a part of the
circulating medium of the city. They also received deposits
and allowed interest at six per cent., permitting the depositor to
check on the amount to his credit at pleasure. The establishment was in good credit in 1841, and up to the failure, in the
early part of 1842, many of the business men of the city deposited their funds with them. On the 22d of May, 1841, Mr.
Saunders placed with Fowler & Co. $1,181 under the following
agreement, entered in a pass or check book:
" CITY OF WASHINGTON, 22 May, 1841.
"We hereby agree with D. Saunders, acting trustee of Edw.
DeKraft's estate, to receive his deposits and to allow him sLx
per cbnt. interest thereon, he to check at will.
C. S. FOWLER & Co."

And an account was opened in said pass-book, headed thus:
"Dr. - C. S. Fowler & Co., in account with D. Saunders, actOther sums wvere
ing trustee of Edw. DeKraft's estate - Cr,"
afterwards added, and on the 3d of February, 18-12, when the
last-was made, they amounted to $5,277.33, and the cheeks to
$2,306.69; to the 1st of December, 1841, the checks amounted
to $1,312, and the deposits to $3,133.88, leaving $1,825.83
undrawn in the bands of Fowler & Co. The sums received
from Cooper, and left with Fowler & Co., amounfed to $1,876,
and the other sums placed with them prior to the 1st of December, 1841, to $1,261.88, within $50.12 of the amount checked
out up to this time.
The first sum paid in ($1,181) was a payment made on the
same 22d of May, by Cooper, on account of the principal and
interest due on his mortgage. The $1,700 paid on the 17th of
August was also a part of Cooper's debt. The $800 paid in on
the 3d of February, was a part of Jones's mortgage debt. The
residue is supposed to have'been the curreat collections of the
trustees from rents, dividends, &c.
" On the 14th March, 1842,.Fowler & Co. failed. No interest had been calculated or paid. The account was balanced
after the failure, when $2,970.96, were found standing to the
credit of Saunders, as acting trustee. It is a total loss. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

545

Barney v. Saunders et al.

credit of Fowler & Co. was good up to the time of their failure."
Before placing the trust fund i-ith Fowler & Co. the trustees
took the opinion of counsel, whether they could safely do so.
It was in evidence, also, that at any time within the last ten
years two or three thousand dollars could have been safely loaned on mortgage of real estate in this city.
By the decision of the auditor the trustees were charged with
those portions of the Fowler deposit which were composed of
the original capital paid in by Cooper before December, and
t1e residue of that loss, composed of their current annual collections and of Jones's payment in February, on account of the
original debt, was allowed as a credit.
The court below overruled this decision of the auditor, and
ordered the charge against the trustees of $2,521.53, on this account, to be stricken out. We are of opinion, that the court
below erred in making this correction of the auditor'g report.
The reasons given by the auditor, including the peculiar facts
of the case and the principles of law applicable to them, are
well stated in his report, and we fully concur in their correctness.
It will be only necessary to state them.
" The sums placed by D. Saunders, as acting trustee, with
Fowler & Co., were of two descriptions - original capital, and
current collections. Cooper's and Jones's payments were of the
former description; 1. As to those, the general rule seems to
be that a trustee, though compensated for his services, is bound
to take no greater care of the trust funds than a prudent man
would of his owi,. 2 Story's Eq. § 1268. But at the same time
if the line of- his duty is prescribed he must, according to Mr.
Lewvin, (p. 413,) "strictly pursue it., without swerving to the
-ight hand or the left;" and if he fail to do so, andkeep funds, which
ought to be invested, longer on deposit than necessary, and loss'
occur, he must bear the loss. Whatever doubt may he entertained as to the duty of the trustees in this case, to invest the
surplus annual income beyond the fourth, it is thought there can
be no doubt as to their obligation to reinvest the original loans
and debts of the testator, when paid in. If this be so, then were
these sums paid by Cooper and Jones to the trustees, and by
them placed with Fowler & Co., a loan or deposit with them.
They were repayable with interest at pleasure.
" It looks very much like a loan, payable with interest, on demand. And if a loan, clearly the trustees are liable, because
made without security of any description. The directions of
the will are to invest on some'security "in bank or other stocks,
mortgages or other good security," words which exclude personal
security. But the trustees, in their answers, deny it was a loan,
46*

546

SUPREME COURT.
Barney v.' Saunders et al.

and state that these sums were deposits made to await a fit
opportunity of investment.
"Assuming them'to be such, the proof is that mortgages
could be obtained at any time in this city. But trustees shall
be allowed a reasonable time to select.investments. What is a
reasonable time? Five months have been held to be an unreasonable time to keep money on deposit. Coper's first payment
was left with Fowler & Co. nearly ten months before the failure,
from May, 1841 to March, 1842, and his second, seven months, from
August to March. Jones's was left February 3, 1842- not quite
six weeks before the failure. Cooper's would seem to have been
on deposit waiting for investment too long, and therefore I have
charged the trustees with those sums, deducting the arrear of
interest due from him, and deeming three months not to be an
unreasonable time to be allowed for selecting investments, have
charged interest from that time. By that rule, Jones's payment
of original capital would not be chargeable to the trustees."
We concur also in the decision of the audihor as to his refusal to
charge the trustees with the balance arising from current collections and the payment of Jones, made within six weeks of the
failure. The funds were deposited where the accountants deposited their own private funds. The trust funds were not
mingled with their own. Other prudent and discreet men made
deposits with the same bankers. The advice of counsel was
taken. There was no reason to suspect the solvency of the
bankers. On the whole, we do not think the trustees have acted
with such want of prudence or discretion as to render them liable for the loss of this portion of the funds.
VII. As the whole trust estate has been delivered over to the
cestui que trust, and as the trustees hold only the bare legal
estate for the purpose of prqtecting the complainant in the enjoyment of it from the debts and control of her husband, the
exception taken to the action of the court below in refusing to
remove them, becomes of no importance, and has not been insisted on.
The decree of the court below is therefore reversed, as to the
fifth and sixth exceptions above stated - and affirmed as to the
residue. And the record remitted to the court below, with directions to amend the decree in conformity with this decision.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it iE now

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

547

Southard et al. v. Russell.

here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court; that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

DANIEL R. SOUTHARD, SAMUEL D. TOMPKINS, WILLIAM L.
THOMPSON, MATILDA BURKS, JOSEPH R. TUNSTALL, JOHN
BURKS, JAMES BURKS, SAMUEL BURNS, CHARLES BURKS, AND
MUARY BURKS (the four last named by WILLIAM L. THOmP-

SON, their next friend,) v. QILBERT C. RUSSELL.
A bill of review, in a chancery case, cannot be maintained where the newly discovered
purports to be founded, goes to impeach the character
evidence, upon which the bill
of witnesses examined in the original suit.
Nor can it be maintained where the newly discovered evidence is merely cumulative,
and relates to a collateral fact in the issue, not of itself, if admitted, by any means
d&cisive or controlling: such as th6 question of adequacy of price, when the main
question was, whether a deed was a deed of sale or a mortgage.
Where a case is decided by an appellate court, and a mandate is sent down to the

court below to carry out the decree, a bill of review will not lie in the court below
to correct errors of law alleged on the face of the decree. Resort must be had to
the appellate court.

Nor will a bill of review lie founded on newly.discovered evidence, after the publication or decree below, where a decision has-taken place on an appeal, unless the
right is reserved in the decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an
application to that court directly forthe purpose.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Uniteu
States for the District of Kentucky, sitting as a court of equity.
Being a continuation of the case of Russell v. Southard and
others, reported in 12 Howard, 139, it is proper to take it up
from the point where that report left it.
In 12 Howard, 159 it is said, "After the opinion of the court
was pronounc.ed, a motion was made on behalf of the appellees
for a rehearing and to remand the ecuse to the Circuit Court
for farther preparation and proof, upon the ground that new
and material evidence had been discoyered since the case was
heard and decided in that court. Sundry ;tffidavits were filed,
showing the nature of the evidence which was said to have
been discovered."
The reporter abstained from stating the substance of these
affidavits in consequence of the following order, which was indorsed upon them in the handwriting of Mr. Chief JuStice Taney.
"The court direct me to say, that these affidavits are not to
be inserted in the report, as they implicate the character of indi-

