DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

469

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

and, in looking into the case, we see that the controversy was
whether this cultivation of Gamache was not on an entirely different tract from that now claimed to include the premises in
dispute. "We are satisfied that the jury must have understood
the question to be, whether the cultivation of Gamache, spoken
of by the witnesses, was at any place upon the tract to which
his heirs now claim title, or at some place upon an entirely different tract. In this view of the question submitted to the jury,
there would be no propriety in reversing the judgment for the
instruction given for the defendant."
The instruetions asked by the plaintiffs, which were refused
by the court, all refer to the proceedings in the recorder's office,
the effect of which has been considered. On the whole it is
ordered that the judgment be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record, from the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court, in this cause, be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

THE STEAMBOAT NEW WORLD, EDWARD MINTURN, WILLIAM
iM.ENZIE, AND WILLIAM H. WEBB, CLAIMANTS AND APPEL-

LANTS, v. FREDERICK

G. KING.

Mhere a libl was filed, claiming compen'sation for injuries sustained by a passenger
in a steamboat, proceeding from Sacramento to San Francisco, in Caliiornia, the
case is within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The circumstance that the passenger was a "steamboat man," and as such carried
gratuitously, does not deprive him of the right of redress enjoyed by other passengers. It was the custom to carry such persons free.
The master had power to bind the boat by giving such a free passage.
The principle asserted in 14 How. 486, reaffirmed, namely, that "when carriers undertake to convey persons by the agency of steam, public policy and safety raquire
that they should be held to the greatest'possible care and diligence.
The theory and cases examined relative to the three degrees of negligence, namely,
slight, ordinary, and gross.
Skill fs required for the proper management of the boilers and machinery of a steamboat; and the failre to exert that skill, either because it is not possessed, or from
inattention, is gross negligence.
The 13th section of the act of Congress, passed on !he 7th of July, 1838, (5 Stat. at
Large, 306,) makes the injurious escapeof steam primdfadeevidence of negligence;
and the owners of the boat, in order to escape from .responsibility, must prove that
there was no negligence.
VOL. XVI.
40

SUPREME COURT.
Steamboat New World et al. v. King.
The facts in this case, as disclosed by the evidence, do rot disprove negligence, On
the contrary they show that the boat in question was one of two rival boats which
were "doing their best" to get ahead of each other that efforts had been made to
pass; that the engineer of the boat in question was restless, and constantly watching
the hindmost boat; and that the owners of the boat have failed to prove that she
carried only the small quantity of steam which they aleged.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Califor~aia.
It was a libel filed by King, complaining of severe personal
injury, disabling him for life, from the explosion of the boiler of
the steamboat, New World, while he was a passenger, on her
passage from Sacramento to San Francisco, in California.
The District Court decreed for the libellant in twenty-five hundred dollars damages and costs; and the owners of the boat
appealed to this court.
The substance of the evidence is stated in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting, for the appellants, and by Mir.
Mayer, for the appellee.
Points for the appellants.
First. The steamboat New World occupied no relation
towards the libellant that imposed on her the duty to carry
safely, or any duty whatever, as the libellant had not paid, and
was not to pay any compensation for his transportation.
1. The master had no power to impose any obligation upon
the steamboat, by receiving a passenger without compensation.
It was not within the scope of his authority. Grant v. Nor.
way, 10 Com. Bench R. Mann. G. & S. 664, 688, reported also
in 2 E. Law and Eq. R. 837, and 15 Jur. 296; Butler v. Basing,
2 C. & P. 613; Citizens Bank v. Nant ucket, S. B. Co. 2 Story
C. C. R. 32, 34; Pope v. Nickerson, 3 Story C. C. R. 475; Gen.
Int. Ins. Co. v. Ruggles, 12 Wheat. 408; Middleton v. Fowler
et al. 1 Salk. 282.
2. 'There was no benefit conferred on the steamboat whence
any obligation could result.
3. It was not a case of bailment. Story on Bailm. § 2;
Kent's Comm. vol. 2, p. 558; Ang. on Car. § 4.
4. The libellant assumed the risk of his own transportation.
5. The libellant stands in a less favorable relation than the
steamboats servants, but she would not be liable to them for
negligence of their fellow-servants. Farwell v. B. & W. R. R.
Co. 4 Metc. 49; Hayes v. Western R. R. Co. 3 Cushing, 270;
Coon v. Syracuse & U. R. R. Co. 1 Seld. 493; S. C. 6 Barb.
231; Priestley v. Fowler, 3 M. & *W.1.
6. He stands in a less favorable relation than goods carried
under gratuitous bailment of mandate.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

For passengers carried for hire stand in less favored positions
than goods.
But the gratuitous mandate imposes only the slightest diligence, and attaches liability only to gross negligence. Ang. on
Car. 6 21; Stry on Bailm. §§ 140, 174.
7. He stands in a less favorable relation than slaves transported gratuitously from mere motives of humanity. But the
carrier is only liable for gross negligence in their carriage. Boyce
v.Anderson, 2 Pet. 156.
8. In no reported case has any such action been brought, or
right of action claimed.
0Seond. Even if the libellant were to be regarded as a passenger carried for hire, the steamboat would only be responsible
for negligence, and would not be responsible for any injury
which should happen by reason of any hidden defect in the absence of hegligence. Ingalls v. Bills, 9 Mete. R. 1; Stokes v.
Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181.
But as the libellant was to be carried gratuitously, the steamboat cannot, in any view of the case, be held responsible except
for gross negligence. Boyce v. Anderson, 2 Pet. 156; Story on
Bailm. § 174.
Tkird. There was no negligence on the part of the steamboat.
1. The boilers were properly constructed. She was built as
a first-class boat. She had been inspected by the State Inspector, and allowed 40 pounds of steam; by the U. S. Inspector,
and allowed 05 pounds; and by neither of these inspectors was
any fault found with the structure of her boilers. Van Wart
and Cook both concur in judgment that the boilers were sufficient.
Lightall is the only witness that intimates a different opinion,
and he does not testify that it was usual to have a stay-brace,
or that it was negligence to omit it. He merely regards it as
"a measure of safety," and he then admits, that 'the "stay," if
there, would not have prevented the explosion. It would simply,
in his opinion, have made the cohsequence of the explosion less
serious.
2. The boilers were frequently and carefully examined.
No evidence is introduced to controvert this.
3. The engineer employed, and then in charge, was a man
of skill and prudence.
This is not denied.
4. The steamboat was not racing.
Mere competition is not of itself negligence, unless recklessly
or improperly conlucted. Barbour, J., 13 Pet. 192.
5.. The steamboat was not carrying an improper amount of

SUPREME

COURT.

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

steam She was allowed 35 pounds by the lowest certificate;
40 pounds by the certificate of another inspector. She was at
the time of the accident carrying only 23 pounds.
No witness testifies that she carried more than that.
This is the only fault that could have contributed to the hap.
pening of the explosion.
6. Rosin was not used to generate steam.
Haskell is the only witness that gives evidence tending to
establish this. But he does not swear the article he saw was
rosin. He admits that he did not see any put on the fire. He
was stunned by the accident, and his recollection should not be
relied on against the positive testimony of two witnesses.
_11r. Mayer contended that the decree of the District Court
was right for these reasons: I. The wrong occurred within the range and "influence" of
the tide, and was within the admiralty ju'isdiction,,as now by
this court defined. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441; New Jersey
Steamboat Co. v. Merchants Bank, 6 How. 341.
II. The disaster is of itself primd facie evidence of negligence, culpable to the degree necessary to attach liability for
the damage, and there is no testimony heie to countervail that
conclusion. McKinney v. Nell, I McL~an, 540; Saltonstail v.
Stokes, 13 Peters, 181.
III. Although the steamboat may not be considered as a
"common carrier" in case of a gratuitous service, (or mandate,
as the Law of Bailment phrases it,) there is, nevertheless, even
under a gratuitous undertaking, an obligation to -have all enginery in proper condition to carry pas3engers safely, and a
responsibility proportionate to the scrupulous care necessary in
so hazardous a mode of conveyance. And it might be justly
contended that a liability attaches here, L' even for the slightest
negligence. But gross negligence is shown not only by the
conduct of the boat on the occasion, but by the incompleteness,
for the perils of the passage, of the machinery. That inadequacy, per se, imputes gross negligence. McKinney v. Neil,
1 McLean, 540; Maury v. Talmadge, 2 McLean, 157; Hale
v. Steamboat Company, 13 Connect. 319; Fellowes v. Gordon,
S B. Monroe, 415; Story on Bailments, 125.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, sitting in
admiralty. The libel alleges that the appellee was a passenger
on board the steamer on a voyage from Sacramento to San
Francisco, in June, 1851, and that, while navigating within the
ebb and flow of the tide, a boiler flue was exploded through neg-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

44

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

ligence, and the appellee grievously scalded by the steam and hot
water.
The answer admits that an explosion occurred at the time
and place alleged in the libel, and that the appellee was on
board and was injured thereby, but denies that he was a passenger for hire, or that the explosion was the consequence of
negligence.
The evidence shows that it is customary for the masters of
iteamboats to permit persons whose usual employment is on
board of such boats, to go from place to place free of charge;
that the appellee had formerly been employed as a waiter on
board this boat; and just before she sailed from Sacramento he
applied to the master for a free passage to San Francisco,
which was granted to him, and he came on board.
It has been urged that the master had no power to impose
any obligation on the steamboat by receiving a passenger without compensation.
But it cannot be necessary that the compensation should be.
in money, or that it should accrue directly to the owners of the
bojit. If the master acted under an authority usually exercised
by masters of steamboats, if such exercise of authority must be
presumed to be -own to and acquiesced in by the owners, and
the practice is, e n indirectly, beneficial to them, it must be considered to have been a lawful exercise of an authority incident
to his command.
It is proved that the custom thus to receive steamboat men is
general. The owners must therefore be taken to have known
it, and to have acquiesced in it, inasmuch as they did not forbid
the master to conform to it. And the fair presumption is, that
the custom is one beneficial to themselves. Any privilege generally accorded to persons in a particular employment, tends to
render that employment more desirable, and of course to enable
the employer more easily and cheaply to obtain men to supply
his wants.
It is true the master of a steqmboat, like other agents, has
not an unlimited authority. He is The agent of the owner to do
only what is usually done in the particulai employment in
which he is engaged. Such is the general result of the author.
ities. . Smith on Aier. Law, 559; Grant v. Norway, 10 Com. B.
688, S. C. 2 Eng. L. and Eq. 337; Pope v. Nickerson, 3 Story,
R. 475; Citizens Bank v. Nantucket Steamboat Co. 2 Story,
R. 32. But different employments may and do have different
usages, and eonsequently confer on the master different powers.
And when, as in this case;a usage appears to be general, not
unreasonable in itself, and indirectly beneficial to the owner, we
40*

474

SUPREME

COURT.

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

are of opinion the master has power to act under it and bind
the owner.
The appellee must be deemed to have been lawfully on
boild
under this general custom.
Whether precisely the same obligation in all respects on the
par of th..master and owners and their boat, existed in his
case, as in that of an ordinary passenger paying fare, we do not
and it.necessary to determine. In the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company v. Derby,.14 Hbw. R. 486, which was a
case of gratuitous carriage of a passenger on a railroad, this
court said: "When carriers undert ke to donvey persons by the
powerful but dangerous agency of steam, public policy and
safety require that they should. be held to the greatest possible
care and diligence. And whether the consideration for such
transportation be pecuniary or otherv'xse, the personal safety of
passengers should not be left to the sport of chance or the negligehce of careless agents. Any negligence, in such cases, may
well deserve the epithet of gross."
We desire to be understood to reafirm. that doctrine, as
resting, not only on public policy;'but on sound principles of
law.
The theory that there are three degrees of negligence, described by the terms slight, ordinary, and gross, has bees intro.
duced into the common law from some of the. commentators
on the Roman law. It may be doubted if these terms can be
.usefully applied in practice. Their meaning is not fixed, or
capableI of being so. One degree, thus described, not only may
be confounded with another, but it is quite impracticable exactly
to distinguish them. Their signification necessarily varies according to circumstances, to whose influence the courts have
been forced to yield, until there are so many real exceptions
that the rules theraselves can scarcely be said to have a general
operation. In Storer v. Gowen, 18 Maine R. 177, the Supreme
Court of Maine say: ;I How much care will, in a given case, relieve
a party from the imputation of gross negligence, or what omission will amount to the charge, is necessarily a question of fact,
depending on a great variety of circumstances which the law
cannot exactly define." Mr. Justice Story, (Bailments, § 11,)

6ays: "1Indeed, what is common or ordinary diligence is more a
matter of fact than of law." If the law furnishes no definition
of the terms gross negligence, or ordinary negligence, which can
be applied in practice, but leaves it to the jury to determine, in
eash case, what the duty was, and what omissions amount to a
breach of it, it would seem that imperfect and confessedly unsuccessful attempts to define that duty, had better be abandoned.
Recently the judges of several courts have expressed their

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

475

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

disapprobation of these attempts to fix the degrees of diligence
by legal definitions, and have complained of the impracticability
of applying'them. Wilson v. Brett, 11 Meeson & Wels. 113;
Wylde v. Pickford, 8 Tb. 443, 461, 462; Hinton v. Dibbin, 2 Q.
B. 646, 651. It must be confessed that the difficulty in, defining gxoss negligence, which is apparent in perusing such cases
as Tracy et al. v. Wood, 3 Mason, 132, and Foster v. The Essex
Bank, 17 Mass. B. 479, would alone be sufficient to justify these
complaints. It may be added that some of the ablest commentators on the Roman law, and on the civil code of France, have
wholly'repudiated this theory of three degrees of diligence, as
unfounded in principles of natural justice, useless in practice,
and presenting inextricable embarrassments' and difficulties.
See Toullier's Droit Civil, 6th vol. p. 239, &c.; 11th vol. p. 203,
&c. Mlakeldey, Man. Du Droit Romain, 191, &c.
But whether this term, gross negligence, be used or not, this
particular case is one of gross negligence, according to the tests
which have been applied to such a case.
In the first place, it is settled, that "'the bailee must proportion
his care to the injury or loss which is likely to be sustained by
any improdence on his part." Story on Bailments, § 15.

ft ispralso0 settled that if the occupation or employment be
one requiring skill, the failure to exert that needful skill, either
because it is not possessed, or from inattention, is gross negligence. Thus Heath, J., in Shields v. Blackburne, 1 H. Bl. 161,
says, " Ifa man applies to a surgeon to attend him in a disorder
for a reward, and the surgeon treats him improperly, there is
gross negligence, and the surgeon is liable to an action; thsurgeon would also be liable for such negligence if he undertook
gratis to attend a sick person, because his situation implies skill
in surgery." And Lord Loughborough declares that an omisIr. Justice Story, although
sion to use skill is gross negligence.
he controverts the doctrine of Pothier, that any negligence renders a gratuitous bailee responsible for the loss 6ccasioned by
his fault, and also the distinction made by Sir William Jones,
between an undertaking to carry and an undertaking to do
work, yet admits that the responsibility exists when there is a
want of due skill, or an omission to exercise it. And the same
may be said of Mr. Justice Porter, in Percy v. \Iillaudon, 20
Martin, 75. This qualification of the rule is also recognized in
Stanton et al. v. Bell et al. 2 Hawks, 145.
That the proper management of the boilers and ma, hinery
of a steamboat requires skill, must be admitted. Indeed, by the
act of Congress of August 30, 1852, great and unusual precautions are taken to exclude from this employment .all persons
who do not possess it. That an omission to exercise this skill

476

SUPREME COURT.
Steamboat New World et al. u. King.

vigilantly and faithfully, endangers, to a frightful extent, the
lives and limbs of great numbers of human beings, the awful
destruction of life in our country by explosions of steam boilers
but too painfully proves. We do not hesitate therefore to declare that negligence in the care or management of such boilers,
for which skill is necessary, the probable consequence of which
negligence is injury and loss of the most disastrous kind, is to
be deemed culpable negligence, rendering the owners and the
boat liable for damages, even in case of the gratuitous carriage
of a passenger. Indeed, as to explosion of boilers and flues, or
other dangerous escape of steam on board steamboats, Congress
has, in clear terms, excluded all such cases from the operation
lof a rule requiring gross negligence to be proved to lay the
foundation of an action for damages to pe:tson or property.
The thirteenth section of the act of Jul 7., 1838, (5 Stat. at
Large, 306,) provides: "That in all suits and actions against
proprietors of steamboats for injury arising to persons or property
*fromthe bursting of the boiler of any steamboat, or the collapse
of a flue, or other dangerous escape of steam, the fact of such
bursting, collapse, or injurious escape of steam shall be taken
as full primd facie evidence sufficient to charge the defendant,
or those in his employment, with negligence, until he shall show
that no negligence has- been committed b:( him or those in his
employment."
This case falls within this section; and it is therefore incumbent on the claimants to prove that no negligence has been committed by those in their employment.
Have they proved this? It appears that the disaster happened a short distance above Benicia; that another steamer
called the Wilson G. Hunt, was then abou.t a quarter of a mile
astern of the New World, and that the boat first arriving at
Benicia got from twenty-five to fifty passengers. The pilot of
the Hunt says he hardly knows whether, fie boats were racing,
but both were doing their best, and this is confirmed by the
assistant pilot, who says the boats were always supposed to
come down as fast as possible; the first boat at Benicia gets
from
twenty-five
to fifty
passengers.
heattempted
adds that
particular
place called
"the
slough" t ieAnd
Hunt
to at
passa
the
Newthat
World.
Fay,
a passenger
on reaching
board the"the
Newslough
World,
before
occasins
on two
swears,
the Hunt attempted to pass the New Warld, and failed; that
mo
his knowledge these boats had been in the habit of contending for the mastery, and? on this occasion both were doing their
best. The fact that the Hunt attempted to pass the New World
in " the slough" is denied by two of the respondents' witnesses,
but they do not meet the testimony of Fay, as to the two pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

477

Steamboat New World et al. v, King.

vious attempts. Haskell, another passenger, says, "about ten
minutes before the explosion I was standing looking at the
engine, we saw the engineer was evidently excited, by his running to a little window to look out at the boat behind. He
repeated this ten or fifteen times in a very short time." The
master, clerk, engineer assistant engineer, pilot, one fireman,
and the steward of the New World, were examined on behalf
of the claimants. No one of them, save the pilot, denies the
the .exception of the
fact that the boats were racing. 'ith
pilot and the engineer, they are wholly silent on the subject. The
pilot says they were not racing. The engineer says: " We
have had some little strife between us and the Hunt as to who
shbuld get to Benicia first. There was an agreement made
that we should go first. I think it was a trip or two before."
Considering that the master says nothing of any such agreement, that it does not appear to have been known to any other
person on board either boat, that this witness and the pilot were
both directly connected with and responsible for the negligence
charged, and that the fact of racing is substantially sworn to by
two passengers on board the New World, and by the pilot and
assistant pilot of the Hunt, and is not denied by the master of
the New World, we cannot avoid the conclusion that the fact
is proved. And certainly it greatly increases the burden which
the act of Congress has thrown on the claimants. It is
possible that those managing a steamboat engaged in a race
may use all that care and adopt all those precautions which the
dangerous power they employ renders necessary to safety. But
it is highly improbable. The excitement engendered by strife
for victory is not a fit temper cf mind for men on whose judg
ment, vigilance, coolness and skill the lives of passengers depend. And wvhen a disastrous explosion has occurred in such a
strife, this court cannot treat the evidence of those engaged in
it, and prirdfaeie responsible for its consequences, as sufficient
to disprove their own negligence, which the law presumes.
We consider the testimony of the assistant engineer and fireman, who are the only witnesses who speak to the quantity of
steam carried, as wholly unsatisfactory. They say the boiler
was allowed by the inspector to carry forty pounds to the inch,
and that when the explosion occurred, they were carrying but
twenty-three pounds. The principal engineer says he does not
remember how riauch steam they had on. The master is silent
on the subject and says nothing as to the speed of the boat.
The clear weight of the evidence is that the boat was, to use
the language of some of the witnesses, doing its best. We are
not convinced that, she was carrying only twenty-three pounds,
little more than half her allowance.

SUPREME COURT.
Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

This is the only evidence by which the claimants have endeavored to encounter the presumption of negligence. In our
opinion it does not disprove it; and consequently the claimants
are liable to damages, and the decree of the District Court must
be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
From the opinion of the majority of the judges in this case
I dissent.
That the appellee in this case has sustained a serious injury
cannot, consistently with the proofs adduced, be denied, and it
is probable that the compensation which has been awarded him
may not be more than commensurate with the wrong inflicted
upon him, or greater than that for which the appellants were
justly responsible. But the only question in my view which
this court can properly determine, relates neither to the character nor extent of the injury complained of, nor to the adequacy
of the redress which has been decreed. It is a question involving
the power of this court to deal with the rights or duties of the
parties to this controversy in the attitude in which they are presented to its notice.
This is a proceeding under the admiralty jurisdiction, as vested in the courts of the United States by the Constitution. It is
the case of an alleged marine tort. The libel omits to allege
that the act constituting the gravamen of the complaint, did
tuces terre.
not occur either infra corpus comitatus, nor infraf
It will hardlfy be denied that the rule of the admiralty in England, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, confined
the jurisdiction of the admiralty within the limits above referred
to, or that the admiralty never had in England general or concurrent jurisdiction with the courts of common law., but was
restricted to controversies for the trial of which the pais, or local
jury, could not be obtained. Having on a former occasion investigated extensively the origin and extent of the admiralty
pov ers of the federal courts, (see New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company v. Merchants Bank, 6 How. 344,) it is not now my
purpose to do more than to refer to thai; examination, and to
of my adby the reassertion
consistency principles
my own
maintain
therein
constitutional"
herence
jurisdiction
the propounded,
I am constrained to deny
which
principlestobythe
of this court and of the Circuit Court, in the case before us.
It is true that the libel in this case alleges the injury to have
been committed within the ebb and flow of the tide, but it is
obvious that such an allegation does not satisfy the description

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

479

Steamboat New World et al. v. King.

of an "occurrence which to give jurisdiction'must be marine or
nautical in its character and locality. Although all tides are
said to proceed from the action of the moon upon the ocean, it
would be a von sequitur s--)uld the conclusion be attempted
that therefore every river subject to tides was an ocean.
It to my view seems manifest, that an extension of admiralty
jurisdiction over all waters affected by the ebb and flow of the
tide, would not merely be a violation of settled and venerable
authority, but would necessarily result in the most mischievous
interference with the common law and internal and police
powers of every community. Take one illustration which may
be drawn from subjects within our immediate view.
In the small estuary which traverses the avenue leading to
this court room, the tides of the Potomac regularly ebb and flow,
although upon the receding of the tide this watercourse can be
stepped over. Upon the return of the tide there may be seen
on this water numerous boys bathing or angling, or passing in
canoes. Should a conflict arise amongst these urchins, originating either in collision of canoes or an entangling of fishing
lines, or from any similar cause, this would present a case of
admiralty jurisdiction fully as legitimate as that which is made
by the libel in the case before las. Yet the corporate authorities
of Washington would think strangely no doubt of finding themselves, by the exertion of a great national power designed for
national purposes, ousted of their power to keep the peace, and
to inflict upon rioters within their notorious limits, the discipline
of the workhouse.
I am opposed to every assumption of authority by forced implications and constructions. I would construe the Constitution
and the statutes by the received acceptation of words in use at
the time of their creation, and in obedience to this rule, I feel
bound to express my belief that, in the present and in all similai
cases, this court has no jurisdiction under the Constitution of
the United States.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is nowhere ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the'decree of the said District Court
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and
interest, at the same rate per annum that similar decrees bear
in the courts of the State of California.

