SOUTHERN R'Y CO. v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH CO. 641
Statement of the Case.

right of the Board of Liquidation and the Drainage Commission to hereafter assert the impairment of the contract rights
which would arise from construing the judgment contrary to
its natural and necessary import so as to deprive the Board of
Liquidation of the power in countersigning the bonds to state
thereon the authority in virtue of which they are issued.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTiEPE OKHAm took no part in the decision of this

cause.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 64. Argued November 2, 1900.-Decided January 7,1901.

Luxton v. North Biver Bridge Company, 147 U. S. 3&7, is decisive of the
question raised in this case whether a final judgment or order has been entered by the Circuit Court which could be taken by writ of error to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
This court has jurisdiction to examine the proceedings in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and to reverse its order if its ruling is found erroneous,
or the r6verse if its ruling was correct.

THIS was a proceeding commenced by the Postal TelegraphCable Company (hereinafter called the telegraph company)
against the Southern. Railway Company (hereinafter called the
railway company) to acquire by condemnation the right to construct its telegraph line along and over the railway company's
right of way through the State of North Carolina. The peti
tion therefor was filed by the telegraph company in the office
of the clerk of the Superior Court of Guilford County, North
Carolina, on June 11, 1898. A summons was issued requiring
the railway company to appear before the clerk of the Superior
Court on June 22, 1898, and answer. On that day the railway
VOL. CLXXIX--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

company entered a special appearance and filed a petition and
bond for the removal of the case to the United States Circuit
Court for the Western District of North Carolina. Sundry piroceedings were had in that court, such as a motion to remand,
which it is unnecessary to notice. On August 31, 1898, the telegraph company by leave filed an amended petition. OnSeptemher 15,1898, the court made an order by which it directed its clerk
to appoint three commissioners to assess damages, and prescribed
their powers and duties. On September 19, 1898, the clerk appointed the commissioners as directed, and fixed the time and
place for their meeting, and on the same day issued a notice to
the railway company of his action. These orders were made
on the application of the telegraph company and without notice
to the railway company. Thereupon the railway company
moved the court to set aside its order of September 15, and for
leave to answer. On September 23 the court temporarily suspended the order of September 15. On October 21 an answer
was filed, a demurrer of the telegraph company was sustained,
and when the railway company asked leave to introduce testimony sustaining the averments of its answer the court overruled
the application and refused to permit the railway company to
introduce testimony, and so far as was needed reinstated its
order of September 15, 1898. Before any further proceedings
and without waiting for the assessment of damages by the commissioners and the confirmation of their award by the court, a
writ of error and supersedeas was 6btained by the railway company, and the case was transferred under such writ of error to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. That court,
on March 31, 1899, dismissed the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that no final order .had been entered in
the Circuit Court. , 35 C. C. A. 366. To review this ruling this
writ of error was sued out.
.Mr. Addison Holladay and X1.
error.

Robert Stiles for plaintiff in

.M. J. R?. .7cIntosh for defendant in error.

SOUTHERN R'Y CO. v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH CO. 643
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jus'rvi

BREWIR delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question we deem it necessary to consider is
whether a final judgment or order had been entered by the Circuit Court which could be taken by writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Luxton v. .NorthRiver Bridge Co'*, 147 U. S. 337, 34:1, is decisive of this question. Indeed, little more seems necessary than
a reference to the opinion in that case. There, as here, in condemnation proceedings, an order was made appointing commissioners to assess damages. To reverse this order a writ of
error was sued out, and by that writ of error an attempt was
made to challenge the constitutionality of the act authorizing
the condemnation, but this court dismissed the writ on the
ground that the order was not a final judgment, saying, after
referring to possible proceedings in the state court, that the
action of the United States Circuit Court could be reviewed
here "only by writ of error, which does not lie until after final
judgment, disposing of the whole case, and adjudicating all the
iights, whether of title or of damages, involved in the litigation. The case is not to be sent up in fragments by successive
writs of error. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, ยง 22 ; 1 Stat.
84; Rev. Stat. ยง 691; Rutherford v. Fisher, 4 Dall. 22; Holcombe v. .Aoi~usick, 20 H1ow. 552, 554; Louisiana Bank v.
Whitney, 121 U. S. 284:; Keystone Co. v. M[artin, 132 U. S. 91;
XfcGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Railway, 146 U. S. 536."
Reference is made by counsel to Wheeling & Belmont Bridge
Co. v. WT7eeling Bridge Co., 138 U. S. 287, in which this court
sustained its jurisdiction of a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Appeals of West Virginia, and inquired into the validity of
a judgment of that court affirming an order of a trial court appointing commissioners under a somewhat similar statute. But
that decision was based on the fact that the order of the trial
court had been held by the state Supreme Court to be a final
judgment, on which a writ of error would lie, and therefore,
being a final judgment in the view of the highest court of the
State, it onght to be considered final here for the purposes of
review. But no such ruling obtains in the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

North Carolina. On the contrary, that court has repeatedly
held that an order appointing commissioners n condemnation
proceedings is not a final judgment, nor subject to review until
after the confirmation of the award of the commissioners. American Union Telegraph Company v. Wilmington, Columbia &
Augusta Railroad Company, 83 N. C. 420, is a case directly in
point. In that case a proceeding was commenced by a telegraph company to obtain a right of way..for the construction
and operation of its telegraph lines along the roadway of a railroad company, and, as shown by the opinion of the Supreme
Court, at a hearing before the trial judge, he adjudged the telegraph company entitled to the right of way, and appointed
commissioners to ascertain and report the damages. An attempt
was made to take this order to the Supreme Court for review,
but the right to do so was denied, the court saying (p. 421):
"Upon a careful examination of the statute, and the portions
of the act of February 8, 1872, by reference incorporated with
it, and regarding the policy indicated in both to favor the construction and early completion of such works of internal improvement, telegraphic being upon the same footing as railroad
corporations, we are of opinion it was not intended in these
enactments to arrest the proceeding authorized by them at any
intermediate stage, and the appeal lies only from a final judgment. Then and no" before may any error committed during
the progress of the cause, and made the subject of exception at
the time, be reviewed and corrected in the appellate court, and
an appeal from an interlocutory order is premature and unauthorized."
In Commissioners v. Cook, 86 N. C. 18, the same ruling was
made and the prior case in terms affirmed. Again, in _omtfolk
& Southern Railroad Company v. Warren, 92 N. 0. 620, the
two prior cases were cited and approved. Still again, in Hendrick v. carolina CentralRailroad Company, 98 N. C. 431, the
same ruling was made, although it appeared that the facts were
all agreed upon, the court saying (p. 432):
"That the defendant broadly denies the plaintits alleged
rights and grievances, and the parties agreed upon the facts,
could not give the right of appeal at the present stage of the

SOUTHERN R'Y CO. v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH CO. 645
Opinion of the Court.

proceeding, because the order appealed from was nevertheless
interlocutory, and an appeal from the final judgment would
bring up all questions arising in the course of the proceeding,
without denying or impairing any substantial rights of the defendant.
"The order appealed from is -very different from that in the
similar case of Click v. The Railroad Co., decided at the present term ; in the latter the court denied the motion for an order
appointing commissioners, and dismissed the proceeding, thus
putting an end to the right of the plaintiff therein, and therefore
an appeal lay in that case."
The changes in the statute referred to by counsel for plaintiff
in error, made subsequently to these decisions, may affect the
mode of procedure and the basis for estimating damages, but in
no manner affect the question as to the finality of the order appointing commissioners.
Neither does the order made by this court at the last term
denying the defendant's motion to dismiss have any bearing oi
this question. That ruling determines simply our,jurisdiction,
not that of the Circuit Court of Appeals. That we have jurisdiction in such a case had already been adjudged. Aztec Mining Company v. Rip~ley, 151 U. S. 19. Having jurisdiction to
examine the proceedings in the Circuit Court of Appeals, if we
had found its ruling erroneous, we should have reversed its order dismissing the writ of error, but as we hold that its ruling
was correct, its judgment is

Affirmed.

