OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

of the 'State of Ohio, and may solicit orders for their goods in
any part of the State to be shipped from the.manufactory ; but
that if they establish places within the State, distinct from the
manufactory, where their goods are to be stored, for the purposes of sale and delivery, and such goods are there sold and
delivered, then they become traffickers within the meaning of
the law and are liable to pay the tax. Reymann Brewing Co.
v. Brister, 92 Fed. Rep. 28.
Accordingly the decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the
bill of complaint, is
Affirmed.
M

.JUSTIoE HARLAN concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. MORRISON.
UNITED STATES v. WOLFF.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 15,16. Argued December 12,1899.-Decided December 17, 1900.

These cases are concerned with the classification of certain articles imported by the respondents under the tariff act of 1890. Those imported
by E. A. Morrison & Son were variously colored in imitation of "cat's
eyes" or " tiger's eyes," and were strung. Others were colored in rcsemblance to the garnet, aqua marine, moonstone and topaz. Those imported by Wolff & Co. were in imitation of pearls, it is claimed, and
were also strung. The contention is as 4o how they shall be classified
or made dutiable-whether under paragraph 108 or under paragraph 454
of the act of 1890.
Held, that if the act of 1890 did not as specifically provide for beads as
prior acts, glass beads as such were in the legislative mind, and their
vdrious conditions contemplated. It was impossible to have in contemplation glass beads, loose, unthreaded and unstrung (445), and not have
the exact opposite in contemplation-beads not loose, beads threaded
and strung, and made provision for them. What provision ? Were they
to be dutiable at the same or at a higher rate than beads unthreaded or

UNITED STATES v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.
unstrung ? If at the same rate-if all beads were to be dutiable at the
same rate, why have qualified any of them? Were some to be dutiable
at one rate and some at another rate ? If made of plain glass, were they
to be dutiable at sixty per centum under paragraph 108; if tinted or
made to the color of some precious stone, were they to be dutiable at
ten per centum under paragraph 454 ? No reason is assigned for such
discrimination, and we are not disposed to infer it. It is a more reasonable inference that beads threaded of all kinds were intended to be dutiable at a higher rate than beads unthreaded, and if there can be a choice
of provisions that intention must determine. Indeed, admitting- that
either provision (paragraph 108 or paragiaph 454) equally applied, the
statute prescribed the rule to be that "if two or more rates of duty shall
be applicable to any imported article, it shall pay duty at the highest
of such rates."

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
Mr. Albert Comstock for Morrison and for Wolff.
MR. JUSTiCR MCKFNNA delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are concerned with the classification of certain
pLrticles imported by the respondents under the tariff act of 1890.
Those imported by E. A. Morrison & Son were variously colored
in imitation of "cat's eyes" or "tiger's eyes," and were strung.
Others were colored in resemblance to the garnet, aqua marine,
moonstone and topaz. Those imported by Wolff & Co. were
in-imitation of pearls, it is claimed, and were also sti'ung. The
contention is as to how they shall be classified or made ditiable
- whether under paragraph 108 or under paragraph 454 of the
act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567.
Paragraph 108 provides:
"Thin blown glass, blown with or without a mold, including
glass chimneys and all othe, manufactures of glass, or of which
glass shall be the component material of chief value, not specially provided for in this act, sixty per centum ad valorem."
Paragraph 454 provides:
"Precious stones of all kinds, cut but not set, ten per centum
ad valorem; if set, and not specially provided for in this act,

OCTOBER TERM, ,1900.
Opinion of the Court.

twenty-five per centum ad valorem. Imitations of precious
stones composed of paste or glass not exceeding one inch in dimensions, not set, ten per centum ad valorem."
The board of appraisers docided that the merchandise was
dutiable under paragraph 108, at sixty per cent. The decision
was affirmed by the Circuit Court. 84 Fed. Rep. 444. The
Circuit Court was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on
the appeal of the respondents. 55 U. S. App. 406. The cases
are here on certiorari.
There was a dispute between counsel whether the articles
represented by Exhibit 3 were involved in the pending appeal.
That dispute seems to be settled by the concession of counsel
for the United States that they are. At any rate, we do not consider the dispute important. We shall assume that all the articles are beads strung. The opinions bf the Circuit Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals dealt with beads strung and their
classification, and the same questions involved are here for consideration. At the taking of the testimony counsel for respondents made as to Exhibit 2 (so-called "cat's eyes") the following
concession:
"The importer concedes that they were imported upon strings,
and that the claim that they were entitled to entry as beads,
loose, unthreaded or unstrung, is not insisted on."
And in the Court of Appeals it was stipulated among things
(the stipulation is a part of the record here) "that the merchandise herein involved was in fact beads, and was in fact threaded
or strung at the time of its importation, and was thereby excluded from classification under paragraph 445, act of October 1, 1890, and that unless this court shall hold that it was
dutiable under paragraph 454 of the said act, as imitations of
precious stones, etc., it was properly blasified by the collector
of customs under paragraph 108 of the said act as manufactures
of glass not specially provided for."
We have therefore only to consider whether the merchandise
represented by all of the exhibits was or was not imitations of
precious stones. In passing upon and determining these alternatives, we do not consider it necessary to detail the testimony of
the witnesses. If we should regard it literally, and concede,

UNITED STATES v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

that though conflicting, it preponderates in favor of the view
that the articles imported were known in trade as imitations of
precious stones, we do not consider that that alone should determine our judgment. If the testimony shows the articles to be
imitations of precious stones, it also shows them to be beads,
and it is stipulated that they were "in fact beads," and were " in
fact threaded or strung" at the time of their importation. If
they are entitled to a double designation, how are they to be
classified? The answer would be easy and ready under prior
tariff acts.
From an early day up to and including the act of 1883 beads
had separate classification, and were dutiable at a higher rate
than precious stones or imitations of them. Precious stones set
and unset; imitations of them set or unset, and compositions of
glass or paste when not set, were separately mentioned, andbore a diffeient rate of duty from beads, and were not confounded with beads by resemblances, indeed not always by
ideitity of material.
As early as 1858 the Treasury Department decided that genuine pearls, when imported strung on a thread to-be used as beads
for necklaces without fuither manufacture, were dutiable as
beads. And later jet and coral necklaces were classed as beads
and bead ornaments. Also glass balls and oval pieces of onyx,
and pieces of glass or paste capable of being strung, were held
to be beads against a claim of being imitations of precious
stones.
A summary of the acts may be useful. In the act of 1832,
under the description of "composition, wax or amber beads;
all other beads, not otherwise enumerated," they were made dutiable at fifteen per cent ad valorem. In the act of 18,2 they
were dutiable at twenty-five per ceitt. In that of 1846 the description was "beads of amber, composition or wax, and all
other beads, thirty per cent ad valorem." The description andduty were the same"in the act of 1861. In the statutes enacted between 1861 and the Revised Statutes, beads or imitations of precious stones are not specifically mentioned. In the
Revised Statutes beads specifically reappear, and were classified
"all beads and bead ornaments except amber: fifty per cent

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ad valorem." In the act of 1883 the classification was "beads
and bead ornaments of all kinds except amber, fifty per cent ad
valorem."
The act of 1890, which is now under consideration, does not
contain in all respects the specific classification of the prior acts.
The only classification of beads by name is in paragraph 445,
which provides "that glass beads, loose, unthreaded or unstrung," shall be dutiable at ten per cent ad valorem. The
opposite condition-beads not loose, not threaded or strungis not specifically mentioned.
It cannot be said they ceased to exist with the passage 'of the
act of 1890 or were unprovided for by it. They necessarily
must be classified some other way than by name; but do they
thereby lose their distinction, and, while they are "in fact
beads threaded and strung at the time of importation," do they
cease to be that for lower duties by being made to resemble
something else-to make the application to the pending case,
to resemble some precious stone? That its purpose was to impose lower duties cannot be said of the act of 1890, nor can it
be contended that such result was attained by any change of its
provisions in regard to precious stones or their imitations.
In prior acts the rates on beads were higher than the rates
onprecious stones or imitations of them. Precious stones bore
no higher rate than ten per cent ad valorem. They, however,
were not specifically mentioned in all acts. They were mentioned in the act of 1816, and were dutiable at seven and one
half per cent. They were mentioned in the act of 1842, and
were dutiable at ten per cent. Imitations were dutiable at the
same rate. The description was on "gems, pearls or precious
stones seven per centum ad valorem; on imitations thereof, and
compositions of glass or paste . . . sot or not set, seven and
a half per centum ad valorem." There was no specific enumeration in the act of 1861 of precious stones or imitations of them,
nor of the latter in any act until the publication of the Revised
Statutes, wher9 they appear as follows: "Precious stones and
jewelry-diamonds, cameos, mosaics, gems, pearls, rubies, and
other precious stones, when not set, ten per centum ad valorem;

UNITED STATES v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

when set in gold, silver, or other metal, or on imitations thereof
and all other jewelry-twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
In the act of 1883 precious stones not set bore a duty of ten
per cent. Imitations of pre6ious 'stones were not specifically
mentioned. They came under the provision for compositions
of glass or paste, not set, and were dutiable at ten per cent. If
set (and precious stones if set), were classified as jewelry, and
were subject to a duty of twenty-five per cent.
In the act of 1890 pearls are not grouped, as in some prior
acts, with the diamond and ruby as precious stones. They have
a separate classification, and are dutiable, if not set, at ten per
cent. Precious stones are more carefully distinguished than
under the act of 1883. The provision for them is as follows:
454. Precious stones of all kinds, cut, but not set, ten per
centum ad valorem; if set, and not specially provided for in
this act, twenty-five per centum ad valorem.
Imitations of precious' stones composed of paste or glass, not
exceeding one inch in dimensions, not set, ten per centum ad
valorem.
If set, they seem to become jewelry under paragraph 452, and
dutiable at fifty per centum ad valorem.
From this review it is evident that in prior tariff acts beads
were classified separately from imitations of precious stones, and
were regarded as distinct from them and dutiable at a much
higher rate. Oan it be said that the act of 1890 suddenly
changed a purpose so constant throughout previous legislation,
and did not express the change but left it to be inferred from
indefinite and 'ambiguous provisions-provisions which had'not
had that effect nor were intended to have that effect? We
think not.
If it be said they were only precluded from that effect by
the specific provisions for beads and that such provisions are
not in the act of 1890, the answer is twofold (1) that there is
provision which applies to and embraces them. They are undoubtedly "glass and manufactures of glass," and the adequacy
of that description, which is the description of paragraph 108,
to include them cannot be denied. An imitation of a precious
stone may be a manufacture of glass, but the latter is not nee-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

essarily an imitation of a precious stone, or, more narrowly, an
imitation of a precious stone within the meaning of a tariff statute. Every resemblance would not make such imitation, and
the suggestion of the counsel for the United States is not without its weight, that the capability and puirpose of setting must
be considered. The condition seems to have been contemplated
by the statute, and in the testimony for the importers there
was an attempt to satisfy it. Witnesses testified that while the
articles were beads, they could be set and sometimes were set.
Undoubtedly they could 6e fixed in metal, and so arranged as to
conceal their perforations, but that was not their purpose or
use. Their purpose and use were for hat or dress trimmings,
or to ornament embroideries. It may be that in construing a
tariff act it is the essential nature of the article, not the purpose
of the importer, which determines its classification ; but if color
may be regarded to bring the article to the resemblance of a
precious stone its other conditions may be regarded to bring it to
the character of a bead-a manufacture of glass, a mere hat or
dress trimming, or an ornament for embroidery.
(2) If the act of 1890 did not as specifically provide for beads
as prior acts, glass beads as such were in. the legi.lative mind
and their various conditions contemplated. It was impossible
to have in contemplation glass beads, loose, unthreaded and unstrung (445), and not have the exact opposite in contemplation
-beads not loose, beads threaded and strung, and made piovision for them. What provision? Were they to be dutiable at
the same or at a higher rate than beads unthreaded or unstrung?
If at the game rate-if all beads were to be dutiable at the same
rate, why have qualified any of them? Were some to be dutiable at one rate and some at another rate? If made of plain
glass, were they to be dutiable at sixty per centum under paragraph 108; if tinted or made to the color of some precious stone,
were they to be dutiable at ten per centum under paragraph
454:? No reason is assigned for such discrimination, and we are
not disposed to infer it. It is a more reasonable inference that
beads threaded of all kinds were intended to be dutiable at a
higher rate than beads unthreaded, and if there can be a choice
of provisions that intention must determine. Indeed, admitting

ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

that either provision (paragraph 108 or paragraph 454) equally
applied, the statute prescribed the rule to be that "if two or
more rates of duty shall be applicable to any imported article,
it shall pay duty at the highest of such rates." Section 5.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Apeale is reversed,
and that !ofthe Circuit Court is afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECEHAm

dissented.

ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCI

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 59. Argued October 31, November 1, 190.-DeeidedDecember 17, 190.
It is the meaning of the tariff act of Jdly 24, 1897, to subject to different
rates of duty the leaves of tobacco suitable for cigar wrappers and those
not suitable when mixed in the same commercial bale or package.'
It is the meaning of said act to subject to the duty of one dollar and eightyfive cents per pound the leaves of tobacco suitable for cigar wrappers
intermingled in the bales or packages of tobacco (unstemmed) of the
description which, in their entirety at the date of the enactment, were
commercially known in this country as "filler tobacco," and bought and
sold by that name, notwithstanding such leaves constitute less than fifteen per centum of the contents.

THIS case is here ion certificate of the Court of Appeals of
the Second Circuit. The case went to that court by appeal
from the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York
which reversed a decision of the board of general appraisers.
87 Fed. Rep. 798.
The statement of facts made by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is as follows:
(IThe appellant imported from San Domingo into the port of
New York in September, 189T, certain bales of unstemmed leaf

