JQYCE v. AUTEN.
Statement of the Case.

the municipal law prevailing throughout this country, as declared by the highest court of every State in which the question has arisen, cities are not liable to such suits, and no authoritative precedent or satisfactory rdason has been pioduce d for
applying a different rule in a court of admiralty.

JOYCE v. AUTEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 83. Argue&November 7,1900.-Decided December 24, 1900.

A surety who signs an unconditional promise is not discharged from liability
thereon by reason of any expectation, reliance or condition, unless notice
thereof be given to the promisee ; or, in other words, the contract stands
as expressed in the writing in the absence of conditions which are known
to the recipient of the promise.
An assignment in insolvency does not disturb liens created prior thereto
expressly or by implication in favor of a creditor.

ON March 20, 1893, the plaintiff in error, as a sUrety, executed
with his principal the following note:

"Three years after date, we, or either of us, promise to pay
to the order of C. H. Whittemore, as receiver of the McCarthy

& Joyce Company, the sum of nine thousand ($9000.00) dollars,
with interest at six per cent per annum from date till paid.

This is one of the three notes executed for purchase money of
the assets of the McCarthy-Joyce Company, this day sold to
James E. Joyce & Company.
" JAEs E. JOYCE & Co.
"JoHN

JOYCE.

"Little Rock, Arkansas, March 20, 1893."
This note was transferred before duq for value to the First
National Bank of Little Rock, which afterwards went into the
hands of a receiver. Such receivership was changed, and the defendant in error is the present receiver. The note not having

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

been paid at maturity, this action was brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio.
The defendant answered, pleading two defences, as follows:
First, that the McCarthy & Joyce Company, a corporation of
Little Rock, Ark., became involved, and on or about January 16,
1893,assigned its property to one C. H. Vhittemore, as assignee,
for the benefit of creditors; that such assignment was confirmed
by the chancery court of the county, and the assignee appointed
receiver; that thereafter the receiver was directed by said court
to sell all the property belonging to the insolvent company;
that such sale was made on April 20, 1893, to James E. Joyce
& Company, the principal in this note, for $38,200, all of which
has been paid by the purchaser, except this note and another
of like date and amount, signed by another party as surety.
The answer then proceeds as follows:
"Defendant further says that at the time the order for the
sale of said real and personal property was made it was expressly provided and ordered by the court that the said receiver
was, in addition to obtaining endorsers or sureties upon the
notes given for the deferred payments, to retain and reserve a
lien, under the statutes of the State of Arkansas, upon all the
real and personal property so ordered to be sold, and this defendant, knowing that said property was more than sufficient in
value to pay all the deferred payments as provided for in said
sale, and relying upon the faithful execution of said order by
said receiver, became surety upon said note described in the
petition herein. Defendant further says that said receiver, after
having received said note, in violation of the order of the court,
and in violation of the rights of this defendant, negligently and
wrongfully failed to retain or reserve a lien upon said property,
real and personal, and improperly conveyed all of said real and
personal property to the said James E. Joyce & Company, free
and clear of any lien whatsoever. The defendant further says
that said James E. Joyce & Company, after so receiving said
property, have sold and conveyed all the personal property and
nearly all the real estate to third persons, who were ignorant of
said order of court, made for aid sale; whereby the lien which
ought to have been retained and reserved has been lost; and

JOYCE v. AUTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the said defendant further says that said property was sufficient
in value to have fully paid said note, as well as the other note
given for the deferred payments, and the said First National
Bank of Little Rock, Arkansas, as well as its receiier, having
received the said note with notice of the foregoing facts, this
defendant is discharged and released from the said note, he asks
that the plaintiff be compelled to surrender said note and that
the same be canceled by order of this court."
The second defence was that, when the McCarthy & Joyce
Company made its assigmment, a part of the property assigned
consisted of certain promissory notes, the dates, amounts and
payers of which were specifically described; that such notes
at the time of the assignment were in the possession.of the
First National Bank of Little Rock for collection; that such
bank was a preferred creditor to a large amount; that all the
property of said McCarthy & Joyce Company, including such
notes, was ordered sold, and that the sale was made for $38,200,
as heretofore stated; that thereafter the First National Bank
and its receivers declined to surrender the notes, or the proceeds of such as had been collected; that the purchaser, James
Joyce & Company, paid to the receiver of the McCarthy &"
Joyce Company $20,200, and that the notes retained by the
bank and its receiver were of sufficient value to pay the unpaid
purchase price, both this note and the other note heretofore described. A demurrer to such answer was sustained, and judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff, which judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, 35 C. C. A.
38,. and thereafter this writ of error was sued out.
X.A.Thoma8 . PoweZI for plaintiff in error.
B. .Minahan,was on his brief.
-tfr. Talourd P. Lin for defendant in error.
I. Outkwaite was on his brief.

.Mr'. Thomas
2fi. Joseph

MR.JUSTIOE BREWER, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

The surety, defendant below, now plaintiff in error, did not
VOL. cLxxIx-38

OCTOBER TERm, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in his answer aver that the note was not given for value, or that
either he or his principal had paid it. His defences were that
he was discharged from liability, first, by the conduct of the
payee; and, second*, by that of the plaintiff.
With regard to the first defence, wemay put the plaintiff out
of consideration, and inquire -whether the defence would have
been good if the payee had not transferred the note, but had
himself brought the action. For the plaintiff, though charged
to have had knowledge of the facts, is, if in no better, certainly
in no worse, position than the payee would have been.
That defence was in substance that the receiver was directed
in making a sale to retain a lien, as well as to take personal
security. The surety knew that such order had been made,
expected that it would be complied with, and signed as surety,
relying upon compliance; but there is no allegation that he
ever notified either his principal or the receiver that he signed
upon that condition. So far as the paper disclosed it was an
absolute promise on the part of the principal to pay so much
money, and an unconditional guarantee by the surety of such
payment. Could the principal defend against an action on this
note on the ground that no lien was retained upon the property
sold by the receiver and purchased by him? Clearly not. But
the paper puts both principal and surety on the same plane. If
the surety has any other defence it must be because the writing
does not fully express his contract. He says that it does not
express the-contract he intended to make, but no conditions are
named. If he wanted to attach conditions to his guarantee he
should have stated them in the writing, or, at least, given notice of them to the payee, the other party to the contract.
Even if he had told his principal that he signed only upon a
condition, such notice would not bind the payee unless communicated to him; much less when, so far as the answer discloses,
he never notified either the principal or the payee, but, relying
upon the payee's complying with the order of the court, signed
an apparently unconditional promise. The receiver was not acting in behalf of the defendant. His duty was .tothe estate and
its creditors. True, he ought, in compliance with the order of
the court, to have retained a lien, but his failure so to do was a

JOYCE v. AUTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

breach of duty to the estate in his hands, for which failurethe
estate and its creditors might hold him responsible. Undoubtedly, one may not after receiving the promise of a surety release
other securities which he holds td the prejudice of the surety,
but a release of security after the receipt of the promise of a
surety is very different from a failure to take more security
than such promise. It would seem from the allegations in
this answer that the surety signed supposing that he was incurring no liability; that his unconditional promise that the
principal should.pay the note meant nothing, and this because
he expected that other primary and sufficient security would be
taken. And yet he gave no notice that such was the condition
upon which he signed as surety, and did nothing to compel compliance by the receiver with the order of the court. He was
willing to make his unconditional promise and take the chances
of the receiver doing as he was ordered, and now seeks to release
himself from that promise simply because of the receiver's neglect.
There are many authorities sustaining the proposition that a
surety who signs an unconditional promise is not discharged
from liability thereon by reason of any expectation, reliance or
condition, unless notice thereof be given to the promisee; or, in
other words, that the contract stands as expressed in the writing
in the absence of conditions which are known to the recipient
of the promise. See, among other cases, Goodmanv. Simonds,
20 How. 343, 366; Dai, v. U ited States, 16 Wall. 1; Merriam
v. Rookwood, 47 N. 11. S1 ; Sd e v. Brock, 3 Ohio St. 302, 308;
PaseumpdioBank v. Goss, 31 Vt. 315; State v. Potter,63 Mo.
212; ]3aylies on Sureties and Guarantors, 440; 2 Brandt on
Suretyship and Guaranty, sec. 407. Without citing other of
the many authorities to the same effect, it may not be out of
place to refer to one decision which presents the question in
almost precisely the same form that it is presented here, War,nell v. Willirna, 19 Tex-as, 180. In that case an administrator
sold property of the estate, the order of sale directing that he
take from the purchaser two good sureties as well as mortgages
upon the property, as provided by the statute. He took the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

sureties but failed to take the mortgage. The sureties, when
sued, setting forth these facts, averred in their answer:
"Further answering, these defendants say that they became
sureties to the note aforesaid in consideration of the requirement made by the statute and said order, that a mortgage
should be taken upon the said slave; and they would not have
become sureties but for that requirement, and the belief and
assurance that it would be complied with."
There was no allegation of notice to the administrdtor of the
condition upon which they signed. The court, overruling the
defence, said:
"There is no allegation of any actual deception, imposition
or fraud practiced upon the defendants. The only ground for
relief really disclosed by the plea is that the plaintiff did not
perform his duty by taking the required additional security.
The taking of that security should have been contemporaneous
with the taking of the note upon which the defendants became
sureties. Hart. Dig. art. 1181. If they intended to become
such, only upon the taking of the mortgage upon the property,
it became them, before giving their note, to see that the mortgage security was taken. There was nothing to prevent them
from doing so. If, instead of taking that precaution, they saw
fit to trust to the prudence and discretion of the administrator,
the estate he represents cannot be made to bear the consequences of the want of their vigilance and care. They cannot
make a hardship, against which they had ample power and opportunity to prbvide, a ground to relieve them from their obligation to the estate."
The demurrer to the first defence in this answer was properly
sustained.
The second defence is substantially that the bank was a creditor of the insolvent firm; that it was a preferred creditor; that
it had certain notes for collection; that those notes were included in the sale but were not turned over to the purchaser,
and that they vere of sufficient value to offset the amount due
on this note. If is not alleged that the debt due from the insolvent to the bank had been paid by collection of those notes or
otherwise, but the defence is rested on the averment that notes

JOYCE r. AUTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

thus deposited and unpaid were of sufficient value to pay the
unpaid purchase money. It is familiar law that a bank receiving notes for collection is entitled, in the absence of a contract
expressed or implied to the contrary, to retain them as sepurity
for the debt of the party depositing the notes. 1 Jones' Liens
(2d ed.), ยง 244; Bank o Metropoli v. New England Bank, 1
How. 234, 239'; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 391, 392.
But if such banker's lien existed the sale transferred nothing
but the equity in those notes after the payment of the debt
secured by their deposit.
The fact, as alleged, that the bank, although a preferred
creditor, accepted the assignment, cannot be construed as an
admission that the bank waived its lien on the notes deposited
with it for collection. Nowhere is there a suggestion that the
bank either directly or indirectly consented that the assignment
should operate to divest itself of its lien and transfer the notes
in its hands to the receiver discharged from such lien. While
the amount of the indebtedness of the insolvent to the bank is
not in this answer disclosed, counsel refer us to the case of Cockrill v. Joyce, 62 Ark. 216, a case decided before the commencement of this action, in which the purchaser, the principal debtor,
sought to defeat the title of the bank to these notes and compel an inclusion of them in solido in the sale to the purchaser
discharged of any lien of the bank thereon. And in that case
it appeared that prior to the insolvency the company was indebted to the bank in the sum of nearly $100,000, and that
these notes were placed in its hands for collection. The court
sustained the title of the bank to the notes, and their proceeds
as security for its indebtedness, notwithstanding the assignment. While we may not refer to that case for matters of fact,
yet the facts therein disclosed add weight to the conclusion to
which, irrespective thereof, we have come, that an assignment
in insolvency does not disturb liens created prior thereto expressly or by implication in favor of a creditor. We conclude,
therefore, that the demurrer to the second defence was properly
sustained. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

