NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 51. Argued October 30,1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
In this record there is no averment and no proof of any violation of law
by the assessors of N~ew York. The mere fact that the law gives the
assessors in the case of corporations two chances to arrive at a correct
valuation of the real estate of corporations when they have but one in
the case of individuals, cannot be held to be a denial to the corporation
of the equal protection of the laws, so long as the real estate of the corporation is, in fact, generally assessed at its full value.
This court cannot, with reference to the action of the public and sworn officials of New Yor]i city, assbme, without evidence, that they have violated the laws of their State, when the highest court of the State
refuses, in the absence of evidence, to assume such violation.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.X'. Daviid Widlco for plaintiff in error. .Afr. William S.
Opdyke was on his brief.
Xii. JTame8 X. Ward for defendants in error. .Xr. Teodore
Connoly and .1fr. John W7alen were on his brief.
MR. JUSTI E PeOKeum delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error comes here for the purpose of obtaining a review of the judgment of the New York Court of
Appeals, which affirmed the judgments of the courts below
dismissing a writ of certiorari.
The relator is a corporation created under the laws of the
State of New York and a resident of and doing business in
the city of New York, and it procured the writ, as provided
for in the statute, to review an assessment of $165,999 made
upon its capital in the regular course of proceedings to levy
and collect the annual tax budget of the city for the year
1896. Plaintiff sought to review the assessment on the ground,

OCTOBER T9RM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

among others, that it was illegal, and that to levy it, under the
facts stated, would be to deny to the company the equal protection of the laws.
The facts upon which the question arises are these: The capital of the company was $900,000. The tax commissioners of
the city of New York, in the course of their proceeding to tax
the actual value of that capital, ascertained the actual value of
what they termed the total "gross assets" of the company,
which they found to have been .................. $1,095,049
This value was arrived at from a statement of its
property made by the company to the commissioners. By the term "gross assets," used by the commissioners, is meant the actual value of the capital
and surplus of the company, but not its franchise.
People ex 'rel. Union Trust Company v. Coleman,
126 N. Y. 433.
From this total they deducted(a) The debts of the company ....... $329,050
(b) The assessed value of the real estate
of the company, otherwise taxed. 600,000
929,050
Leaving a balance of ...................... $165,999
which was the amount upon which the company was assessed
upon its capital aside from the assessment of $600,000, separately made upon its real estate.
The company claims that these "gross assets" should have
been stated at $730,049, and the same deduction should be
made as in the above statement, which would result in no
assessment on the capital.
This difference of gross assets arises in this way: As made
up by the commissioners they consist of the actual value of
the building and lot owned by the company in New York city,
in which it does business, taking it at its cost as admitted by the
company in its statement made to the commissioners and which
the commissioners found to be its actual value, viz.. $ 965,1()
And to that is added other property ............. 130,O5
Mraking a total of ......................... $1,095,049,
while the item as claimed by the company is made up of the

NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

value of the same building and lot as it was assessed by one of
the deputy tax commissioners for the purpose of separate taxation under the law, such assessed value being ....... $600,00)
Added to that was the same item of ................ 130,050
for other property as stated by the commissioners, the
gross assets of the company by this valuation amounting to ..........................................
$730,050
and the difference between the two items is seen to be $365,000.
The plaintiff in error insists that in arriving at the actual value
of the capital for taxation under the statute of 1857 (the third
section of which is set out below) the real estate which goes to
make up a part of such value- should be put in at its value
as assessed for taxation in a separate manner, while the commissioners claim that as the law provides that the assessment
upon the capital shall be at its actual value, it is necessary to
arrive at the actual value of the real estate before a particular assessment can be reached in regard to the capital, which
includes it, and that in arriving at the actual value of the real
estate they are not estopped from determining what that actual
value is by the fact that for the purpose of a separate assessment the real estate had been mistakenly and improperly
assessed at another and a lower figure.
These conflicting claims arise out of the statute which provides for the taxation of corporations, their capital stock and
surplus, and' the general statute which provides for the taxation
of real estate belonging either to individuals or corporations.
That portion of the statute relating to the taxation of the capital of corporations which provides the method to be pursued
reads as follows:
"The capital stock of every company liable to taxation, except such part of it as shall 'have been excepted in the assessment roll, or as shall have been exempted by law, together with
its surplus profits or reserved funds, exceeding ten per cent of
its capital, after deducting the assessed value of its real estate,
and all shares of stock in other corporations, 'actually owned by
such company, which are taxable upon their capital stock under
the laws of this State, shall be assessed at its actual value and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

taxed in the same manner as the other personal and real estate
of the county." Laws of 1857, c. 456, ยง 3.
As the New York Court of Appealsin People v. Commissionerm of Taxes, 95 N. Y. 554, has said, there is a most extraordinary confusion of ideas in the above section. Its meaning has,
however, in some respects been made tolerably clear by the above
cited case, together with those of The People ex Tel. Union
Trust Company v. Coleman, 126 N. Y. 435, and People ex rel.
Equitable Gas Zight Company v. Barker, 144 N. Y. 94.
In the first case it was stated that the general purpose of the
statutes relating to assessments and taxation is to secure an assessment of all property, real and personal, at its actual value,
and they are to be construed and enforced with this purpose
in view. A construction of the statute in relation to other questions not material here was given in that case. In the case reit was held that the phrase "capital
ported in 126 N. Y.
stock" contained in the section above quoted meant not the share
of stock owned by the individual members but the capital owned
by the corporation, and that this capital was to be taxed, together
with the surplus, after making the reductions provided for in
the section, and that the law did not include, for purposes of
assessment and taxation, the franchises of the company.
In the .quitable Gas -Light Company Case, 144 N. Y. 94, it
was held that in arriving at the actual value of the capital for
purposes of assessment, the assessors were not concluded by the
assessed value of the real estate made for purposes of separate
taxation if that assessment were a mistaken one, but might
-legally disregard such assessed valuation and estimate the real
estate at its *actual value, although it exceeded its assessed
value.
Looking at the manner of assessing the real property of both
individuals and corporations we find the general statute is as
follows:
1 Revised Statutes, 393, ยง 17; 9th ed. p. 1685:
"All ieal and personal estate liable to taxation shall be estimated and assessed by the assessors at its full and true value,
as they would appraise the same in payment of a just debt due
from a solvent debtor."

NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER
Opinion of the Court.

And also 1 Revised Statutes, 389, ยง6:
"The real estate of all incorporated companies shall be assessed in the town or ward in which the same shall lie, in the
same manner as the real estate of individuals.
"
The special statute applying to New York city is substantially the same so far as assessment at full or actual value is
concerned; Consolidation Act, c. 410, Laws of 1882, ยง 814.
Under these statutes the tax up6n real estate must be imposed
in all cases, both of individuals and of corporations, upon its
full and true value as found by the assessors. In the case of
the individual, however, no resort can be had to any other proceeding by which that tax can be increased by any subsequent
assessment upon the difference between the assessed and the
actual value of the real estate, if any there should be.- In the
case of corporations, on the contrary, under the construction
given the statute of 1857 by the Court of Appeals, in the last
above-cited case, if the real estate should be mistakenly assessed
under the general statute at an undervaluation for purposes 'of
separate taxation, the difference between the assessed and the
actual value of the real estate may be reached in making an assessment upon the actual value of the capital under the act
above mentioned. By such a result it is claimed the company
is denied the equal protection of the laws. it must be remembered there is no claim made that in any event the corporation
is taxed upon any property not legally taxable or that it is taxed
beyond the actual value of its property as provided by law.
The only claim is that in this opportunity to correct a mistaken
assessment upon its real estate in the case of a corporation when
assessed upon its capital, which does not exist in the case of an
individual. the corporation is denied the equal protection of the
laws. This is the sole Fedei-al question in the case.
It is seen that the laws of the State provide for no undervaluation of real estate owned by either individuals or corporations.
Those laws provide in terms for the assessmnent of all real estate
at its actual value, while the whole force of the contention of
the plaintiff in error is based upon the fact of undervaluation,
although it is in the very teeth of the statute, and is a plain
violation of its provisions. If there were no undervaluation of

OCTOBER TERMt, 1900.
Opinion of ther Court.

real estate, or, in other words, if the laws of the State were
complied with, the questions sought to be raised by the plaintiff could not arise. Thl Tailure of the assessors in this one
instance to assess the real estate of the company for separate
taxation at its actual value, and its assessment at that value in
assessing for taxation the actual value of the capital of the comp'any, could obviously work no denial of the equal protection
of the laws to the company, if individuals were in fact assessed
for their ownership of real estate at its full and true value as
required by law. If the law were faithfully 'carried out, no
harm could in any event come to the plaintiff in error by this
subsequent assessment of its real estate at its full value, for it
would only pay the 'same as individuals, they being assessed
upon their real estate at its full value. To raise the question
which the plaintiff in error seeks it was therefore obviously
necessary to allege and prove as a fact that there was habitual
violation of law by undervaluation; that, in the language of
M
Mr. Justice Miller, in Supervisors v. StanLey, 105 U. S. 305, 318,
the assessors "habitually and intentionally, or.by some rule
prescribed by themselves or by some one whom they were
bound to obey,". undervalued real estate for assessment in New
York city; or, as stated in Cummings v. NSational Bank, 101
U. S. 153, 155, that a rule or system of valuation had been
adopted by those whose duty it was to make the Assessment,
which was designed to operate unequally and to violate a fundamental principle'of the Constitution, and that such rule had
been applied not solely to one individual, but to a large class of
individuals or corporations. It was said in that case that this
was precisely the case made by the bill, and if supported by the
testimony, the court thought relief should be given. There
was both allegation and proof.
Both these cases related to the taxation of national bank
shares, and the question was whether the tax levied violated
the provisions of the national banking act on that suibject.
In this record- there is no averment and no proof of any violation of law by the assessors of New York. There is no allegation in the petition for the writ of certiorari that there has
been any undervaluation of real estate, either with regard to

NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

individuals or corporations, but on the contrary it is therein
asserted that the assessed valuation of the real estate of the
company was its actual value, and that it had been overvalued'
in the valuation of the capital of the company. The mere fact
that the law gives the assessors in the case of corporations two
chances tc arrive at a correct valuation of their real estate,
when they have but one in the case of individuals, cannot be
held to be a denial to the corporations of the equal protection
of the laws, so long as the real estate of the individual is, in
fact, generally assessed at its full value. But we are nevertheless asked by the argument at bar, in the absence of allegations
or proof of habitual, or indeed of any undervaluation, to assume
or take judicial notice of its existence, notwithstanding such
undervaluation would constitute a clear violation of the law of
the State. And this we are asked to do in order to reverse a
judgment of a state court. Such a presumption of the violation of law and of their duty by the assessors, the Court of Appeals of New York expressly refused to adopt. People ex rel.
Manhattan_Railway Company v. Barkcer, 146 N. Y. 304. In
delivering the opinion of the court, Judge Haight said, at page
312:
"The value of property is determined by what it can be
bought and sold for, and there can be no doubt but that these
various expressions used in the statutes are all intended to mean
the actual value of the property. The commissioners are sworn
officers, and as such, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
are presumed to have done their duty. They have assessed the
real estate at $7,323,200, and yet, under the method presented
by their counsel for ascertaining the value of the relator's personal property, they now estimate the actual value of the real
estate to be $15,591,352. We are aware that it is generally
understood that in many localities throughout the State assessors, in violation of their duties, assess the real estate in their
localities.at a sum less than its actual value, but in the absence
of evidence that this has been done by the commissioners of
taxes and assessments in the city of New York, we cannot assume that tiey have. so transgressed, for the purpose of approving of their work in: this case,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Should this court, with reference to the action of the public
and sworn officials of New, York city, assume without evidence
that they have violated the laws of their State, when the highest court of the State itself refuses, in the absence of evidence,
to assume any such violation? We think not.
Nor did the Court of Appeals act upon any judicial notice of
the fact of undervaluation in the case of The E..'itable Gas
Light Company, 144 N. Y. 94, already cited. While the assessed
value was stated, the commissioners in their return -tothe writ
of certiorari distinctly showed that the actual was more than
the assessed value, and the only question in the case was whether
in arriying at the actual value of the capital they were bound
by the assessed and could no.t be permitted to show the true
value of the real estate. The court held they were not so bound.
What the court remarked about the practice of undervaluation was not the basis of its judicial action, for the facts were
distinctly proved. The subsequent case in 146 N. Y. (supra)is
a direct authority for the refusal to make any presumption of
a violation of official duty.
This court did not presume a violation of duty in Cummings
v. fNational Bank, 8uqa. On the contrary, the bill alleged the
facts, and the testimony supported the allegations. In extenuation of the practice alleged and proved, the court remarked in
passing (page 162) that it was not limited to the State of Ohio,
and that it wvas matter of common observation that in the valuation Qf real estate the rule was habitually disregarded. Although the justice who wrote the opinion did speak of the fact as
matter of common observation, neither he nor the court took
judicial notice thereof, but only those facts which had been
pleaded and testimony to sustain which had been duly given
formed the basis of judicial action. We will not and ought
not to presume a violation in the absence of allegations and
proofs to that effect.
Whether, if the case were proved, as assumed by counsel, it
would in fact amount to any such discrimination against corporations as to work a denial to the plaintiff of the equal protection of the laws, is a question not raised by this record, and
therefore, not necessary to be decided,

WISCONSIN &c. R'D CO. v. JACOBSON.
Syllabus.

We think the plaintiff in error has failed to show any error
in the record, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
New York is, therefore,

NEW YORK STATE v. BARKER (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No.52. Argued with No. 51, October 30,1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.

Same counsel as in No. 51.
MR. JusTioE

PEoKmiI delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the taxes of 1897, and the same question
in substance arises herein that has just been decided in the preceding case, and the judgment is, therefore,
Afirmed.

WISCONSIN, MINNESQTA AND PACIFIC RAILROAD
v. JACOBSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 28. Argued October 18, 19, 190.-Decided December 10, 1900.
The briefs filed in this case are in plain violation of the amendment to
Rule 31, adopted at the last term, and printed in a note to this case.
The providing, at the place of intersection of the two railroads affectedby
this case, ample facilities for transferring cars used in the regular business of the respective lines, and to provide facilities for conducting the
business, while it would afford facilities to interstate commerce, would
not regulate such commerce, within the meaning of the Constitution.
The tracks of the two railroads being connected, the making of joint rates

