CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. n. SNELL.

395

Statement of the Case.

in this connection, we cannot say that the General Assembly
would not have enacted this law if it had supposed it applied
only to domestic commerce; and if we were in doubt on that
point, we should unhesitatingly defer to the opinion of the Court
of Appeals, which, held that it would give it that construction
if the case called for it. In view of the language above quoted
from the Lander case, it would be unbecoming for us to say
that the Court of Appeals would not construe the law as applicable to domestic commerce alone, and if it did the case would
fall directly within the Xihmi8s4p ." case, 133 U. S. 587. We
therefore feel compelled to give it that construction ourselves,
and so construing it there can be no doubt as to its constitutionality. Pl8y v. Ferguon, 163 U. S. 537.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore,

.4ffirrned.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY COMPANY v. SNELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 110. Argued November 16, 1900.-Decided December 17,1900.

The.judgment of a state court, reversing the judgment of an inferior court,
bn account of its refusal to change the venue of the action, and remanding the case for further proceedings, is not a final judgment to which a
writ of error will lie.

THIs was an action of tort instituted by Snell in the Court
of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, against the Street
Railway Company, to recover damages for personal injuries
alleged to have been caused by its negligence.
On November 27, 1896, plaintiff Snell made a motion for a
change of venue, and in support thereof filed his own affidavit
as well as the affidavits of five other persons, in compliance
with the following section of the Revised Statutes of Ohio:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"SEo. 5033. When a corporation having more than fifty
stockholders is a party in an action pending in a county in
which the corporation keeps its principal office, or transacts its
principal business,,if the opposite party make affidavit that he
cannot, as he believes, have a fair and impartial trial in that
county, and his application is sustained by the several affidavits
of five credible persons residing in such county, the court shall
change the venue to the adjoining county most convenient for
both parties."
This motion was overruled and an exception taken on January 28, 1897. A bill of exceptions was allowed and filed,
showing what had occurred upon the motion so overruled.
The case came on for trial before a jury, and resulted in a
verdict in favor of the Railway Company. Motion for a new
trial was made and overruled, and judgment entered for the
defendant upon the verdict.
After this judgment upon the merits, proceedings in error
were begun and prosecuted in the state Circuit Court, sitting
in Hamilton County, to reverse the judgment by reason of the
refusal of the Court of Common Pleas to change the venue
under the section of the statute above quoted. By leave of the
Circuit Court, the Railway Company fied an amendment to
its answer, wherein it alleged, among other things, that section 5033 was in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States. The judgment of the
Court of Common Pleas was affirmed by the Circuit Court,
July 18, 1898, whereupon Snell began a proceeding in the
Supreme Court of the State to reverse the judgment of the
Circuit Court, the only error assigned being to the judgment
of the Circuit Court affirming -the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas denying a change of venue.
On May 9, 1899, the Supreme Court of Ohio rendered the
following judgment: "On consideration whereof it is ordered
and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the state Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs; and
proceeding to render the judgment which the court should have
rendered, it is considered and adjudged that the judgment of
the Court of Common Pleas be, and the same is hereby, re-

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. v. SNELL. 397
Opinion of the Cou-t

versed, with costs, for error in overruling the motion of the
plaintiff for a change of venue. It is further considered and
adjudged that the plaintiff in error recover of defendant in error
his costs in this court and in the Circuit Court expended, to be
taxed, and that the case be remanded to the Court of Common
Pleas, with directions to grant the change of venue, and for further proceedings according to law." 60 Ohio St. 256.
.fr.J. TW. Warrington for plaintiff in error. Mr.E.
tredge was on his brief.

w. 0t-

.Mr. Thomas L..Michiefor defendant in error. .r. John W.
Woyfe was on his brief.
M

.JusTIcE BRoww delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error must be dismissed for lack of finality in the
order appealed ftom. We have held in too many cases even to
justify citation, that a judgment reversing a case and remanding it for a new trial, or for further proceedings of a judicial
character, is totally wanting in the requisite finality required
to support a writ of error from this court. It is true that the
order appealed from finally adjudges that a change of venue
should have been allowed; but the same comment may be made
upon dozens of interlocutory orders made in the progress of a
cause. Indeed, scarcely an order is imaginable which does not
finally dispose of some particular point' arising in the case; but
that does not justify a review of such order, until the action
itself has been finally disposed of. If every order were final,
which finally passes upon some motion made by one or the
other of the parties to a cause, it might in some cases require a
dozen writs of error to dispose finally of the case. Moreover,
the action of the Railway Company in prosecuting this writ of
error is somewhat inconsistent with its position in the Circuit
Court, where in its answer it prayed that "since the order overruling the motion for a change of venue was interlocutory and
not final, and since no other 'proceedings in error have been
commenced herein, the present petition in error may be dismissed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true that after the change of venue was denied, the case
was tried upon the merits, and a verdict and judgment rendered for the defendant, of the benefit of which it was subsequently deprived; but it loses no right by acquiescing for the
time being in the action of the state. court, since, after judgment
ultimately rendered, it may have a writ of error reaching back
to the alleged .error of the state court; if it involve a Federal
question. The case is not unlike that of the refusal of a state
court to permit the removal of a cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States, or the action of the latter in remanding or
refusing to remand. Such removal, although affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, does not authorize a writ of error
from this court until after final judgment, when, if the removal
be found to have been erroneous, the subsequent proceedings in
the state court go for naught. Rairoad Co. v. WiswaZl, 23
Wall. 507; Moore v. Robbins, 18 Wall. 588; -llinois Gentral
Railroad v. Brow, 156 U. S. 386. Whether in this case defendant's judgment will be reinstated as it was originally entered, is a question which does not properly arise at this stage
of the proceedings. It is sufficient to say that the order appealed from lacks every element of finality, and the writ of
error is therefore
-Dismissed.

