OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTH-

ERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 42. Argued April 27, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
In a case brought here from a Circuit Court, the opinion regularly filed
below, and which has been annexed to and transmitted with the record,
may be examined in order to ascertain, in cases like this, whether either
party claimed that a state statute upon which the judgment necessarily
depended, in whole or in part was in contravention of the Constitution
of the United States; but this must not be understood as saying that the
opinion below may be examined in order to ascertain that which, under
proper practice, should be made to appear in a bill of exceptions, or by
an agreed statement of facts, or by the pleadings.
If a claim is made in the Circuit Court thata state law is invalid under the
Constitution of the United States, this court may review the judgment
at the instance of the unsuccessful party.
As the bonds in suit in this case were executed by the defendant township,
a corporation, and are payable to bearer, the present holder, being a
citizen of a State different from that of which the township wai a corporation, was entitled to sue upon them, without reference to the citizenship of any prior holder.
The Circuit Court erred in holding that the petition in this case made a
case that brought it within the decision in Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269.
Even if the third section of the statute in question be stricken out, the petition makes a case entitling the plaintiff to a judgment against the township.
The contention that; independently of any question of Federal law, the
statute of Ohio under which the bonds were issued was in violation of
the constitution of that State in that, when requiring the defendant township to widen and extend the avenue in question the legislature exercised
administrative, not legislative, powers, is not supported by the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Ohio made prior to the issuing of these bonds.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
"Xr. C. Hammond Avery for plaintiff in error. -Mr.J. IF
Wam'rngton and Jirb. H. D. Peck were on his brief.
.Mr.Wallace Burch for defendants in error. X!6. Simeon f
,fohnson and Jir.Oliver G. Bailey were on his brief.

LOEB r. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

473

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTin.

HARLAff delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the court below by Loeb, a citizen of Indiana, against the Trustees of Columbia Township in
Hamilton County, Ohio.
The petition was demurred to upon the ground that it did
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
the township. After argument the demurrer was sustained
and, the plaintiff electing not to plead further, judgment was
rendered for the defendant.
The suit is upon bonds issued by the township for the purpose
of raising money to meet the cost of widening and extending a
certain avenue within its limits.
The questions -to be considered relate to the jurisdiction of
this court, the validity under the Constitution of the United
States of an act of the General Assembly of Ohio in virtue of
which the bonds in suit were issued, and the applicability in
this case of certain decisions of the Supreme Court of the State
rendered after such bonds were executed and delivered.
The pleadings and orders of court make the following case:
The petition alleged that on April 27, 1893, the General
Assembly of Ohio passed an act by the first section of which
the trustees of that township were authorized and required to
widen and extend Williams avenue between certain points
named and to appropriate and enter upon and hold any real
estate within the township necessary for such purpose;
That by the second section of the Act the township trusttes
were directed to "immediately make application to the probate
court of the county as provided in section 2236 of the Revised
Statutes of Ohio, and thereafter, as far -as practicable, the proceedings shall conform to and be had, under the provisions of
sections 2236 to 2261, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes of
Ohio;" and,
That by the fourth section it was provided that "for the
purpose of raising money necessary to meet the expense of the
improvement, the trustees of sai*d township are hereby authorized and directed to issue the bonds of the township, payable in
instalments or at intervals not exceeding in all the period of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

six years, bearing interest at the rate of six per cent per annum,
which bonds shall not be sold for less than their par value."
90 Ohio Local Laws, 251.
The petition did not set out the third section of the act. But
as it was the duty of the Circuit Court to take notice of its provisions, and as it must be referred to in order to dispose of the
questions arising on this record, it is here given in full:
"The trustees shall receive reasonable compensation for their
services, which shall not exceed the sum of twenty-five dollars
each,-which, with all costs and expense of constructing said
improvement, together with the interest on any bonds issued by
the trustees for, the same, shall be levied and assessed upon each
frontfoot of the lots and'lands abutting on each side of said WilHams avenue between the termini mentioned in section one hereof,
and shall be a lien from the date of the assessment upon the
respective lots or parcels of lands assessed; said assessment shall
.epayable in five annual payments, and shall be paid to the
township treasurer; and the option of paying his portion of
such assessment in full within a period of twenty days from the
date of the levy thereof shall be given to each of the property
owners, but no notice to the property owners of such option
.shall be necessary. The township treasurer shall, on or before
the second Monday of September, annually, certify all unpaid
assessments to the county auditor, and the same shall be placed
on the tax list, and shall be, with ten per cent penalty to cover
interest and cost of collection, collected by the county treasurer
in'the same manner as other taxes are collected, and when collected he shall pay the same to the township treasurer; and all
moneys received by the township treasurer on such assessments
shall be applied to the payment of the bonds issued under this
act, and for no other purposd; and for the purpose of enforcing
the collection of the assessments so certified to him, the county
treasurer shall have the same power and authority now allowed
by law for the collection of state and county taxes." 90 Ohio
Local Laws, 251.
Iffurther appears from the petition that the township trustees
appropriated land for the avenue in the manner provided in the
act; and that for the purpose of raising the money necessary to

LOEB 7). COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

475

Opinion of the Court.

meet the expense of the appropriation the trustees, on or about
September 29, 1894,..duly executed and issued, in proper form
and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the act,
twenty-five bonds of Columbia Township of $500 each, five payable' respectively in one, two, three, four and five years each,
and one for $432 payable one year from date, all of the above
date, and numbered consecutively from one to twenty-six inclusive, and all payable to the order of the bearer, at the office
of the treasurer of the county, and bearing interest represented
by coupons attached, at'the rate of six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, on the 29th days of March and September
of each year; that on or about September, 1894, the bonds
were sold by the township to a bcnafide purchaser and the highest bidder for $13,325 and accrued interest; that on or about
September 29, 1895, the trustees paid bonds Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and
5, then due, each for $500, and No.26 for $432, and the interest coupons payable on the date last named on the entire issue
of the twenty-six bonds; and that on March- 29, 1896, the
trustees paid the interest coupons, due on that day, on the
twenty bonds remaining unpaid, including bonds numbered 6,
7, 8, 9 and 10.
The petition set out each of the bonds last named, and alleged
that the plaintiff was the bona fte owner and holder for value
of each of them, and had demanded payment of each in accordance with its terms, but that payment was refused.
The bonds, dated September 29, 1894, were signed by the
trustees and attested by the seal of the township, and were
alike in form. Each recited that it was "one of a series of 25
bonds of $500 each, issued by virtue of an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Ohio, passed April 27, 1893, authorizing the trustees of Columbia Township to levy an assessment
on the real estate abutting on the Williams avenue between
Duck Creek road and Madison pike,, and one bond for four
hundred and thirty-two dollars, for the payment of twelve
thousand nine hundred and thirty-two dollars,, for widening
and extending said avenue;" atd that "by virtue of said act,
the Trustees of Columbia Township hereby acknowledge said
township indebted to the bearer in the sum of five hundred dol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

lars, which sum they, as trustees, and for their successors in
office, promise to pay to the bearer hereof, upon the surrender
of this bond, at the office of the treasurer of said township,
on the 29th day of September, 1896, and also interest thereon
at the rate of six per cent, per annum, payable semi-annually,
on the 29th days of March and September of each year, during
the continuance of this loan, on presentation to the township
treasurer of the respective coupons hereto attached."
A judgment was asked for the amount of bonds 6 to 10 inclusive, with the interest thereon.
The record contains in full the opinion rendered and filed by
the court when disposing of the demurrer. 91 Fed. Rep. 37.
In that opinion it is expressly stated'that the following points
were made in argument in support 6f the demurrer:
1. That the petition did not show that the plaintiff was the
original holder of the bonds sued on, and if he were an assignee
or subsequent holder thereof he was not entitled to maintain
the action, because the bonds were payable to bearer, and were
not made by a corporation.
2. That act of the General Assembly, under and by virtue of
which the bonds were issued, was in violation of the constitution of the State, and therefore the bonds were invalid.
3. That the act contravened the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore the bonds were invalid.
It appears from the opinion of the Circuit Court that the
first and second of these points were ruled in favor of the plaintiff. But .the third point was decided for the defendant, the
court being of opinion that according to the principles laid down
in Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, the law under which the
bonds sued on were issued Was repugnant to that clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States
forbidding a State to deprive any person of property without
due process of law. In disposing of the third point the court
referred to the propositions made in its support as having been
"claimed" by the township.
I. The first question to be considered is one of the jurisdiction of this court to proceed upon writ of error directly to the
Circuit Court.

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
Opinion of the Court.

By the fifth section of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of
March 3, 1891, appeals or writs of error may be prosecuted to
this court from' the Circuit Courts "in any case in which the
constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States." 26 Stat. 826, 827-8,
c. 517.
The petition shows that the parties are citizens of different
States. It states no other ground of Federal jurisdiction. If
nothing more appeared bearing upon t6e question of jurisdiction, then it would be held that.this court was without authority
to review the judgment of the Circuit Court.
Is not this court, however, sufficiently informed by the record
that the defendant township, under its general demurrer,
"claimed" in the Circuit Court that the statute of Ohio by the
authority of which the bonds were issued was in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States?
It is said that even if the record shows such a claim to have
been made it will not avail the plaintiff; for, it is argued, when
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked by the plaintiff
only on the ground of diverse citizenship, a claim by the defendant of the repugnancy of a state law to the Constitution
of the United States is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, upon writ of error, to review the final judgment of the
Circuit Court sustaining such claim. Such an interpretation of
the fifth section is not justified by its words. Our right of review by the express words of the statute extends to "any case"
of the kind specified in the fifth section. And the statute does
not in terms exclude a case in which the Federal question therein
was raised by the defendant. That section differs from section
709 of the evised Statutes relating to the review by this court
of the final judgment of the highest court of a State in this,
that under the latter section we caii review the final judgment of
the state court upon writ of error sued out by the party who is
denied a .right, privilege or immunity specially set up or claimed
by Aim under the Constitution or laws of the United States;
whereas the Circuit Court of Appeals Act does not declare that
the final judgment of a Circuit Court in a case in which there
was a claim of the repugnancy of a state statute to the Consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tution of the Unit6d States may be reviewed here only upon
writ of error sued out by the party making the claim. In
other words, if a claim is made in the Circuit Court, no matter
by which party, that a state enactment is invalid underthe Constitution of the United States, and that claim is sustained or
rejected, then it is consistent with the words of the act, and, we
think, in harmony with its object, that this court review the
judgment at the instance of the unsuccessful party, whether
plaintiff or defendant.
It was the purpose of Congress to give opportunity to an
unsuccessful litigant to come to this court directly from the
Circuit Court in every case in which a claim is made that a
state law is in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States. If the Circuit Court had adjudged in this case that the
township's claim of unconstitutionality was without merit and
had given judgment for the plaintiff, can it be doubted for a
moment that the township could have brought the case here
directly from the Circuit Court upon writ of error? But if
the township, upon a denial of its claim, could invoke our
jurisdiction, as of right, upon what principle can the plaintiff
be denied the like privilege if the state law upon which his
action depended was, upon his adversary's claim, stricken down
as void under the Constitution of the United States? Can the
case, so far as the township is concerned, be regarded as belonging to the class which the act of Congress brings directly within
the cognizance of this court, and yet not be regarded as a case
of that class with respect to the plaintiff? The answer to these
questions has already been indicated.
It is true that the plaintiff might have carried this case to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and a final judgment having been
rendered in that court upon his writ of error, he could not thereafter have invoked the jurisdiction of this court upon another
writ of error to review the judgment of the Circuit Court; for,
as said in Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359, 362, "it was not
the purpose of the judiciary act of 1891 to give a party who
was defeated in a Circuit Court of the United States the right
to have the case finally determined upon its merits both in this
court and in the Circuit Court of Appeals," although the latter

LOEB v. COLUMBr-A. TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

4119

Opinion of the Court.

court, before disposing of a case which might have been brought
here directly from the Circuit Court, may certify to this court
questions or propositions as indicated in the sixth section of the
above act. But the plaintiff was not bound to go to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and thereby cut himself off from the right
to have this court declare whether the Circuit Court erred in
holding that the state law upon which he relied for judgment
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
Cases in this court are cited which hold that where the plaintiff invokes the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court solely upon the
ground of diverse citizenship, and where the claim of the invalidity of a state statute under the Constitution of the United
States came from the defendant or arose after the filing of the
petition or during the progress of the suit, then the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final within the meaning of
the sixth section of the act of 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517,
declaring that "the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts
of Appeals shall be final in all cases in which the jurisdiction
is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or
controversy being aliens and citizens of the United States or
citizens of different States." Colorado Central Consolidation
Xining Co. v. T,rck, 150 U. S. 138; Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159
U. S. 408, 414; Ex arte Jones, 164 U. S. 691, 693.
When the question is whether a judgment of the Circuit
.Court of Appeals is final in a particular, case, it may well be
that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is, within the meaning of that section, to be regarded as dependent entirely upon
the diverse citizenship of the parties if the plaintiff invoked
the authority of that court only upon that ground; because in
such case the jurisdiction of the court needed, no support from
the averments of the answer, but attached and became complete upon the allegations of the petition. But no such test of
the jurisdiction of this court to review the final judgment of
the Circuit Court is prescribed by the fifth section. Our jurisdiction depends only on the inquiry whether that judgment was
in a case in which it was claimed that a state law was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. In the present
case the Circuit Court, upon the claim of one of the parties,

OCTOBER TERM. 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

applied the Constitution to the case, and put the plaintiff out
of court. Cornell v. Green, 163 U. S. 75. Any other interpretation of the statute is inconsistent with the equal right of
the plaintiff with the defendant to come here, if unsuccessful,
in a -case embraced by the fifth section. Here the plaintiff
could not have raised in his petition any question of a Federal
right. He sued on the bonds held by him, and sought only a
judgment for money. His cause of action was not Federal in
its nature. He therefore could not have invoked the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court upon any. ground except that of diverse citizenship. He could not have added to or enforced
jurisdiction by anticipating the defence and alleging in his
petition that the defendant township would in its answer claim
that the state statute in question was in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States; for that would have been
matter of defence, and the allegation could, on motion, have
been properly stricken from the petition. Nevertheless, the
case is one in which there was a claim that a state law was
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The views expressed by us as to the scope of the act of 1891
are supported by Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 81, 88. That
was an action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan upon a written contract relating
to agricultural machines, the plaintiff being a corporation of
Ohio, and the defendant a corporation of Michigan. No question of a Federal nature appeared, in the plaintiff's petition.
The defendant, however, claimed that a certain statute of Michigan stood in the way of the plaintiff maintaining its action.
This court said: "The Circuit Court, in giving judgment for
the plaintiff, held that the contract was made in the State of
Ohio, and that the statute of Michigan, so far as it applied to
the business carried on by the plaintiff in that State under the
contract, was in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States authorizing Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
68 Fed. Rep. 467. This was therefore a 'case in which the
constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States,' and was rightly brought
directly to this court by writ of error under the act of March 3,

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

481

Opinion of the Court.

1891, c. 517, § 5, 26 Stat. 828. Upon such writ of error, differing in those respects from a writ of error to the highest court
of a State, the jurisdiction of this court does not depend upon
the question whether the right claimed under the Constitution
of the United States has been upheld or denied in the court below; and the jurisdiction of this court is not limited to the constitutional question, but includes the whole case. Wkitten v.
Tomlinwon, 160 U. S.231, 238; Penn. -Ins. Co. v. Austin, i68
U. S.685."
This brings us to the inquiry whether it can be assumed from
the present record that a claim was made in the Circuit Court
that the statute of the State under the authority of which the
bonds in suit were issued was invalid under the Constitution of
the United States. There can be but one ansvger to this question, if we.may look to the opinion filed by the Circuit Court
when it disposed of the demurrer. Although the demurrer
was general in its nature, it referred to the petition and its allegations, and thus brought to the attention of the court the
state ehactment under which the bonds were issued; and it
was certainly competent for the township to claim at the hearing of the demurrer that such enactment upon its face was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and therefore
void. Turning to the opinion of the Circuit Court, made part
of the transcript, we find it expressly stated therein not only
that such a claim was made by the township on the hearing of
the demurrer, but that the judgment sustaining the demurrer
and dismissing the petition was placed upon the sole ground
that the claim that the state law 'contravened the Constitution
of the United States was well rade.
Is the opinion of the Circuit Court of no value to us when
considering this case? May we not look to it for the purpose
of ascertaining whether it was claimed that the state law contravened the Constitution of the United States? It is said that
we cannot, and that view is supposed to be sustained by .England v. GeMardt, (188-) 112 U. S.502, '505, 506, which was a.
writ of error to review a judgment of a Circuit Court remanding to the state court a case removed therefrom under section
five of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 472. In the
VOL. cLxxix-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

petition for removal in that case it was averred that the parties
to the suit were citizens of different States, and it was stated
generally in the order remanding the case that there was a finding of the court that they were not. That finding was, of course,
based upon facts brought to the attention of the court in the
proper form. But the facts bearing upon the question of divers
citizenship did not appear in a bill of exceptions, nor in an agreed
statement of facts, nor in a special finding in the nature of a
special verdict, nor in any other proper or appropriate mode.
it, however, did appear from the record that certain affidavits
copied into the transcript had been filed in the case. This court
held that the affidavits formed no part of the record, saying:
"The mere fact that a paper is found among the files in a cause
does not of itself make it a part of the record. If not a part
of the pleadings or process in the cause, it must be put into the
record by some action of the court. Sargeant v. State Bank
of Indiana,12 How. 371, 384; Fisher v. Cockerell, 5 Pet. 248,
254. This must be done by a bill of exceptions, or something
which is equivalent. Here, however, that has not been done."
The opinion thus concluded: "Neither is the opinion of the
court a part of the record. Our Rule 8,1 section 2, requires a
copy of any opinion that is filed in a cause to be annexed to and
transmitted -with the record, on a writ of error of an appeal to
this court, but that of itself does not make it a part of the record below." That language is not to be taken too broadly
or without reference to the particular case then before the court.
What was said may undoubtedly be taken as an adjudication
.that the opinion of the court cannot, under our rule, be referred
to for the purpose of ascertaining the evidence or the facts
18.
WRIT OF E ROit, RETURN AND RECORD.

1. The clerk of the court to which any writ of error may be directed shall
make return of the same, by transmitting a true copy of the record, and of
the assignment of errors, and of all proceedings in the case, under his hand
and the seal of the court.
2. In all cases brought to this court, by writ of error or appeal, to review
any judgment or decree, the clerk of the court by which said judgment or
decree was rendered shall annex to and transmit with the record a copy of
the opinion or opinions filed in the case.

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

483

Opinion of the Court.

found below upon which the judgment was based; but not as
precluding this court from looking into the opinion of the trial
court for any purpose whatever, as for instance for the purpose
of ascertaining whether either party claimed, in proper form,
that a state law, upon which some of the issues depended, was
in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. The
principal if not the only object of requiring the opinion to be
annexed to and transmitted to this court was that we might be
informed of the grounds upon which the court below proceeded.
Unless the rule had at least that object, why should it have
been adopted?
In United States v. Tayo -, 147 U. S. 695, 700, which came
from a Circuit Court of the United States, this court said: "It
was formerly held that, even in writs of error to a state court,
the -opinion of the court below was not a part of the record,
Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117, 119; Reotor v. Ashley, 6
Wall. 142; Gibson v. Chouteau., 8 Wall. 314; but the inconvenience of this rule became so great that it was subsequently
changed, .2urdock v. .fAempis, 20 Wall. 590, and, finally, the
eighth rule of this court was so modified, in 1873, as to require
a copy of the opinion to be incorporated in the transcript."
In Sayward v. .Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 181, in which the question was whether it sufficiently appeared from the record that
the state court had denied any Federal right or immunity specially set up or claimed by the party who invoked our jurisdiction, the Chief Justice observed that certain propositions must
be regarded as settled-one of which was that the arguments of
counsel formed no part of the record, "though the opinions of
the state courts are now made such by rule "-citing, among
other cases, United States v. Taylor, above referred to.
The rule of our court referred to does not apply alone to cases
brought here from the highest court of a State. It applies, in
terms, to all cases brought to -this court by writ of error or appeal. What therefore was said in the above cases as to the object and effect of the rule applies to records from a Circuit Court
of the United States.
Some light is thrown upon this question by the decisions in
cases from the highest courts of the States. In Jrurdock v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

.Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 633, it was said that in determining
whether a Federal question was actually raised and decided in
the state court, "this court has been inclined to restrict its inquiries too much by this express limitation of the inquiry ' to
the face of the recbrd.' What was the record of a case was
pretty well understood as a common-law phrase at the time that
statute [act of 1789] was enacted. But the statutes of the State
and new modes of proceedings in those courts have changed and
confused the matter very much sincethat time." After observing
that it was in reference to one of the necessities thus brought
about that this court had long since determined to consider as part
of the record the opinions delivered in such cases by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, it was said: "And though we have repeatedly decided that the .opinions of other state courts cannot be
looked into to ascertain what was decided, we see no reason
why, since this restriction is removed, we should not so far examine those opinions, when properly authenticated, as may be
useful in determining that question."
The subject was again considered in Gross v. United States
&JortgageCo., 108 U. S. 477, 486, which came from the Supreme
Court of Illinois. After referring to what was said in .. Jurdock
v. City qf Memphis, this court said: "We cannot, therefore,
doubt that in the existing state of the law it is our duty to
examine the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois, in connection with other portions of the record, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether this writ of error properly raises any
question determined by the state court adversely to p right,
title, or immunity under the Constitution or laws of the United
States and specially set up and claimed by the party bringing
the writ." It is true that in that case the court stated that
any difficulty upon the subject was removed .by the statutes of
Illinois regulating that subject; but the decision was not placed
upon that ground.
It has long been the practice of this court in cases coming
from a state court to refer to its opinion made part of the record
for the purpose of ascertaining whether any Federal right,
specially set up or claimed, had been denied to the plaintiff in
error, or whether the judgment rested upon any ground of

LOEB. v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
Opinion of the Court.

local law sufficient to dispose of the case without reference to
any question of a Federal character. And we have done this
without stopping to fnquire whether there was any statute of
the State requiring the opinion of the court to be filed in the
case as part of the record.
For the reasons we have given it must be held that in a case
brought here from a Circuit Court the opinion regularly filed
below, and which has been annexed to and transmitted with
the record, may be examined in order to ascertain, in cases
like this, whether either party claimed that a state statute upon
which the judgment necessarily depended, in whole or in part,
was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
By this however we must not be understood as saying that the
opinion below may be examined in order to ascertain that
which under proper practice should be made to appear in a bill
of exceptions, or by an agreed statement of facts, or by the
pleadings.
The result is that this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and to determine every question
properly arising in the case. We may therefore determine
whether the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to
the petition.
II. One of the questions arising -upon the record is whether
the defendant township is a corporation within the meaning of
that clause of the Judiciary Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
25 Stat. 433, 431, § 1; which excludes from the cognizance of a
Circuit or District Court of the United States "any suit, except
upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder, if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not; made by any corporation, unless such
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment or transfer had been made."
This question affects the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to
take cognizance of this case.
When the act of 1888 was passed it was the established law
that a municipal corporation created under the laws of a State
With power to sue and be sued and to incur obligations was to

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

be deemed a citizen of that State for purposes of suit by or
against it in the courts of the United States. In Cowles v.
MIercer County, 7 Wall. 118, 122, this court said: "It is enough
for this case that we find the Board of Supervisors [of the
county] to be a corporation authorized to contract for the county.
The power to contract with citizens of other States implies liability to suit by citizens of other States, and no statute limitation
of suability can defeat a jurisdiction given by the Constitution."
Lincoln County v. Luning, 133 U. S.529, 531; foCy v. Vashington Co., 3 Wall. Jr. C. 0. R. 381, 384; Dillon's Removal of
Causes, § 105. We perceive nothing in that act indicating any
purpose of Congress to exclude from the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States suits by or against municipal
corporations having authority by the laws creating them to sue
or to incur liabilities in their corporate name. It must therefore
be taken that the words "any corporation" in the act of 1888
include municipal as well as private corporations. And it is the
settled law of Ohio that a township is suable on account of any
liabilities incurred by it. ifarding v. Trustees of Nfew Haven
Township, 3 Ohio, 227; Trustees of Concord Township v. Niller, 5 Ohio, 184; Wilson v. Trustees of N-o. 16, 8 Ohio, 174.
NTow by the statutes 6f Ohio the defendant township was constituted a body politic and corporate for the purpose of enjoying and exercising the rights and privileges conferred upon it by
law, and was made capable of suing and being sued, pleading
and being impleaded. 1 Bates' Anno. Stat. Ohio, § 1376. It
was created for purposes of local administration, and is a corporation. :Fairfield Township v. Ladd, 26 Ohio St. 210, 213;
Lane v. State, 39 Ohio St. 315. As therefore the bonds in suit
were executed by the defendant township, a corporation, and
are payable to bearer, the present hblder, being a citizen of a
State different from that of which the township was a corporation, was entitled- to sue upon them without reference to the
citizenship of any prior holder. Thompson v. Perine,106 U. S.
589, 592-3. This point.was properly decided for the plaintiff.
III. Was the statute under which the bonds in suit were
issued in violation of the Constitution of the United States?.

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

481

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court held that it was; and the plaintiff having
elected to stand upon his petition, the action was dismissed.
Looking at all the provisions of the statute that court held
that the case was embraced by iNorwood v. Baker, 172 U. S.
269, 279, 297, and upon the authority of that case held that the
bonds were issued in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Cofistitution of the United States prohibiting the
taking of property without due process of law.
In .NVo'wood v. Baker it was said that "the exaction from
the owner of private property of the cost of a public improvement in substantial excess of the special benefits accruing to
him is, to the extent qf such excess, a taking, under the guise of
taxation, of private property for public use without compensation," and that the assessment involved in that case, made against
,butting property, to pay the cost and expense of opening a
street in a village, was illegal and void because made "under a
rule which excluded any inquiry as to special benefits, and the
necessary operation of which was, to thd extent of the excess
of the cost of opening the street in question over any special
benefit accruing to the abutting property therefrom, to take
private property for public use without compensation."
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in holding
that the petition made a case that necessarily brought it within
the decision in Norwood v. Baker so far as the relief sought
by the plaintiff was concerned.
We have seen that the first section of the act of 1893 authorized and required the improvement to be made, and directed
the" township to appropriate, enter upon and hold any real estate necessary for such purpose; that the second section directed that proceedings for condemnation be immediately taken
in the probate court under specified sections of the Revised
Statutes of Ohio; that the third section prescribed how the
assessment to meet the cost of improvement shall be made,
namely, "upon each front foot of the lots and lands abutting
on each side of said Williams avenue between the termini mentioned;" and that a separate section, the fourth, directed bonds
to be issued "for the purpose of raising money necessary to
meet the expense of the improvement."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The second section of the act directed the trustees of the
township to make immediate application to the probate court
of the county, as provided in section 2236 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, and declared that the proceedings thereafter, as
far as practicable, should conform to the provisions of sections
2236 to 2261, inclusive. Those sections do not relate to modes
of assessment, but only to the steps'to be taken by a municipal
corporation when it appropriates private property for public
purposes. From other sections of those statutes it appears that
when the municipal corporation appropriates or otherwise acquires lots or lands for the purpose of laying off, opening,
extending, straightening or widening a street, alley or other
public highway, or is possessed of property which it desires to
improve for street purposes, the council may decline to assess
the cost and expenses of such appropriation or acquisition, and
of the improvement, upon the general tax list, in which case
the same "shall be assessed upon all the taxable real and personal property in the corporation." § 2263. But by section
2264,it is provided that in all cases where an improvement of
any kind is made of an existing street, alley or other public
highway, and the council declines to assess the costs and expenses or any part thereof on the general tax list, the amount
not so assessed shall be assessed by the council on the abutting
and such adjacent and. contiguous or other benefited lots and
lands in the corporation, either in proportion to the benefits
which may result from the improvements, or according to the
value of the property assessed, or by the front foot of the property bounding and abutting upon the improvement, as the council by.ordinance, "setting forth specifically the lots and lands
to be assessed, may determine before the improvement is made"
-the assessments to be payable in 'one or more instalments,
and at such times as the council might prescribe.
INow let it be supposed that the third section of the special
act in question prescribed a rule by which all inquiry is precluded in respect of special benefits accruing to the adjoining
property owners, and that an assessment under that section
would be invalid under the decision in -Norwoodv. Baker, as
taking private property for public use without just compensa-

LOEB v,. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion-upon which question we express no opinion-would it
follow that the township would escape liability on the bonds?
We think not. The fourth section of the act, authorizing and
directingbonds to be issued for the purpose of raising the money
necessary to meet the expenses of the improvement in question,
may stand with sections one and two, even if section three were
held to be void as prescribing an illegal mode of assessment.
The power to issue bonds to raise the nione-, and the mode in
which the township should raise the necessary sums to pay the
bonds when due as well as the interest accruing thereon from
time to time, are distinct and separable matters.
If the act under which the bonds were issued had not contained any provision whatever for an assessment to raise money
to meet them, the township could not have repudiated its ob
ligation to pay the bonds; for in the act would be found the
command of the legislature to widen and extend Williams ayenue, to immediately secure by proceedings in the probate court
the land required for the proposed work, and to issue bonds-to
raise the money necessary to meet the expenses of the improvemnent. We ought not to hold the statute invalid if it failed to
provide some legal mode of assessment to raise money to pay
the bonds when they matured, with the interest accruing
thereon. The statute, so far as the question of the power to
issue bonds and put them on the market is concerned, may be
carried into effect without reference to the third section. So
that if that section were held void under Norwood2 v. Baker,
the remaining sections, being valid, can stand and their provisions be executed.
There is some ground for saying that the legislature would
not have passed the act without the third section; and that
was the view expressed by the learned judge who tried the case
below. But we do not think that such is so manifestly the
case as to justify.the courts in refusing to execute the valid
parts of the statute when that can be (lone in harmony with
the intention of the legislature to have the improvement in
question made by the township and its cost met by issuing
bonds. We think the case comes within TDva.rer v. Bank,
47- Ohio St. 503, 523, in which the court said :. "The question

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

arises, however, whether, if that portion of the section is delared wholly or in part unconstitutional and void, it may not
result in invalidating the entire section. As one section of a
statute may be repugnant to the Constitution without rendering
the whole act void, so, one provision of a section may be invalid
by reason of its not conforming to the Constitution, while all
the other provisions may be subject to no constitutional infirmity. One part may stand, while another will fall, unless the
two are so connected, or dependent on each other in subject
matter, meaning or purpose, that the good cannot remain without the bad. The point is, not whether the parts are contained
in the same section, for, the distribution into sections is purely
artificial; but whether they are essentially and inseparably
ponnected in substance-whether the provisions are so interdependent that one cannot operate without the other."
The relief asked and the only relief that could be granted in
the present action, is a judgment for money. If the township
should refuse to satisfy a judgment rendered against it, and if
appropriate proceedings are then instituted to compel it to make
an assessment to raise money sufficient to pay the bonds, the
question will then arise whether the mpde prescribed by the
third section of the act of 1893 can be legally pursued; and if
not, whether the laws of the State do not authorize the adoption of some other mode by which the defendant can be compelled to meet the obligations it assumed under the authority of
the legislature of the State. All that we now decide is that,
even if the third section of the state statute in question be
stricken out as invalid, the petition makes a case entitling the
plaintiff to a judgment against the township. Whether a judgment if rendered could be collected, without further legislation,
depends upon considerations that need not now be examined.
IV. But it is contended that, independently of any question
of Federal law, the statute of Ohio under which the bonds were
issued was in violation of the constitution of that State in that
when requiring the defendant township to widen and extend the
avenue in question the legislature exercised administrative, not
legislative powers. This contention is not supported by the de-

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

'491

Opinion of the Court.

cisions of the Supreme Court of Ohio made prior to the issuing
of these bonds. Those decisions were to the contrary.
In Hibbs v. Commissioners, 35 Ohio St. 458, 467, decided-in
1880, the question was directly presented as to the validity under
the constitution of Ohio of a statute authorizing and directing a
particular county to levy a special tax, not to exceed a given
amount, for the purpose of building, grading and gravelling or
macadamizing a named public highway. On behalf of. the
county it was insisted that the legislature could not constitutionally compel it or the people to make an improvement of
merely a local character, for the,reason that the local authorities
were made by the constitution the sole judges of the necessity
of such an improvement. The Supreme Court of the State said:
"The power of the legislature to pass a mandatory statute, requiring the commissioners to levy the tax and improve the road
in question, is denied by the defendant. The only provision
which the constitution contains with respect to the county commissioners is the following: ' The commissioners of counties,
the trustees of townships, and similar boards, shall have power
of local taxatibn as may be prescribed by law.' Art. 10, See. 7.
Manifestly this .is no limitation on the power of the General
Assembly; and the inquiry therefore is as to the extent of such
power. That it is only legislative is conceded, but that is undeniably a very broad power and includes, generally, the right
to direct, in inmvitum, the construction and repair of public highways, and the levy of taxes to defray the necessary expenses
thereof. That the power is liableto great, abuse is denied by
no one, but the responsibility, as well as the power, rests with
the legislature."
But in Sltate v. Commissioners, 54 Ohio St. 333, and ffixson
v. Burson, 54 Ohio St. 470, decided in 1896, the principle announced in Hibbs v. Commissionerswas declared to be unsound.
In the first case the Supreme Court of Ohio held to be invalid,
an act of the legislature which, without the petition of any one
interested, authorized certain local improvements to be made
with the consent of the county commissioners, but which was
so framed as to require the commissioners to proceed in the
way and to the extent mapped out by the legislature. The court

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

said that the act was "an assumption of powers over the affairs
of a county not possessed by the General Assembly-it is administrative in character and not legislative." "It is simply a
usurpation of the powers heretofore alvays allowed to the
proper administrative boards selected by the people of the localities concerned in the exercise of the right of local self-government." In the latter case the court expressly overruled the
second syllabus in flibbs v. Commissioners,(which under the statutes of Ohio is to be regarded as presenting the point adjudged,)
stating that "an act providing for the improvement of a designated county road is local in its nature, and not in conflict
with article 2, section 26, of the constitution, which provides
that ' all laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation
throughout the State."'
What, under these circumstances, was the duty of the Circuit
Court ? That court, speaking by Judge Thompson,. held that its
duty was to enforce the provisions of the constitution of Ohio as
interpreted by the Supreme Court of that. State at the time the
bonds were issued, and not permit the contrary decisions, made
after the bonds were issued, to have a retroactive effect. This
was in accordance with the long-established doctrine of this
court, to the effect thdt the question arising in a suit in a Federal court of the power of a municipal corporation to make negotiable securities is to be determined by the law as judicially
declared by the highest court of the State when the securities
were issued, and that the rights and obligations of parties accruing under such a state of the law would not be affected by
a different course of judicial decisions subsequently rendered
any more than by subsequent legislation. Our decisions to that
effect are so numerous that ainy further discussion of the question is unnecessary, and we need only uite some of the adjudged
cases., Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How. 134; Ohio Life Ins. and
Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416, 432; Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Douglass v. County of Pike, 101 U. S.
677; Taylor v. Yjpsilanti, 105 U. S. 60, 71; County of Balls
v. Douglass, 105 U. S. 728; Green County v. Conness, 109 U. S.
104, 105; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 361-2;

LOEB v. COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.

-493

Opinion of the Court.

German Savings Bank v. _anklin County, 128 U. S. 526, 539;

Wade v. Travis County, 174 U. S. 499, 510.
It should be here said that the doctrine of prior cases was not
in anywise changed or impaired by the decision in CentralLand
Gompany v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 111, in which it was held
that, under the statute giving this court authority to review
the judgment of the highest court of the State, we were without jurisdiction if the action of that court was impeached simply
on the ground that it had not determined the rights of the
plaintiff in error in accordance with its decisions in force when
those rights accrued, but had followed its decisions of a contrary character rendered after his rights had accrued. This
court held that a mere change of decision in the state court did
not present a question of Federal right under that clause of the
Constitution of the United States prohibiting a State from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts-that the
question of such impairment did not arise unless the judgment
complained of gave effect to some provision of the state constitution or some enactment claimed by the defeated party to
impair the obligation of the particular contract in question.
As, however, the Circuit Courts of the United States are courts
of "an independent jurisdiction in the administration of state
laws, coSrdinate with and not subordinate to that of the state
courts, and are bound to exercise their own judgment as to the
meaning and effect of those laws," Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S.20, 33, 34; Folsom v. NYinety-six, 159 U. S.611, 624, 625,
they may, in suits within their jurisdiction, properly hold, as in
numerous cases this court has held, that the rights of parties
arising under contracts not involving questions of a Federal
nature are to be determined in accordance with the settled principles of local law as maintained by the highest court of the
State at the time such rights accrued. The statutory provision
that the laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States otherwise require
or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at
common law, in courts of the United States, in cases where
they apply, IRev. Stat. § 721, has not been construed as absolutely requiring conformity, in such cases, to decision§ of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

state courts rendered after the rights of parties have accrued
under the previous decisions of those courts of a contrary oharacter.
It results that the Circuit Court did not err in overruling the
point raised under the demurrer at the hearing below, to the
effect that the state enactment was invalid under the constitution of the State.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with directions for further proceedings consistent with law and this

opinion.
Revermed.

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW NATION AND CHICK, ASAW NATION.
BANDS OF INDIANS
v. CHOCTAW NATION, CHICKASAW NATION AND
UNITED STATES.

WICHITA AND

-AFFILIATED

CHOCTAW NATION AND CHICKASAW NATION v.
UNITED STATES AND WICHITA AND AFFILIATED
BANDS OF INDIANS.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF OA IS.
-os. 88, 89, 90. Argued March 7, 8, 9, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
On the 4th day of Sune, 1891, the United States and the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians entered into an agreement whereby the Indians
ceded to the United States a tract of land which is described in the opinion of the court in this case, and the United States agreed in consideration thereof that out of the territory so ceded there should be allotted
to each member of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians in the Indian Territory, native and adopted, one hundred and sixty acres of land
in the manner and form described, in the agreement. This agreement
was ratified by the Indian Appropriations Act of March 2, 1895, which
further conferred jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims, to hear and determine the claim of the Choctaws and the Chickasaws to a right, title

