OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

wise. De Fece v. National Life Is. Co., 136 N. Y. 144, was
likewise an action against a foreign insurance company, and involved no question like that before us. Raes Executor8 v.
NationalLife Ins. Co., 20 U. S. App. 410, was also an action
against a foreign insurance company, and the question was simply as to the sufficiency of the notice.
We conclude, therefore, that the statute of the State of New
York does not under the circumstances presented control, and
that the rights of the parties are measured alone by the terms
of the contract. The insured having failed to pay the premium
for years before his death, the policy was forfeited.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of A.peals wilZ be -reversed
and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the 1istrictof Washingtdn, with instructions to
set aside the judgment and ovemrule the demurrer.
MR.

JUsTI E MoKENNA

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAM took no part in the decision of this

case.

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 287. Argued October 29, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
By a general revenue act of'the State of Georgia, a specific tax was levied
upon many occupations, including that of "emigrant agent," meaning a
person engaged in hiring laborers to be employed beyond the limits of
the State. Held that the levy of the tax did not amount to such an interference with the freedom of transit; or of contract, as to violate the
Federal Constitution.
Nor was the objection tenable that the equal protection of the laws was
denied because the business of hiring persons to labor within the State
was not subjected to a like tax.
The imposition of the tax fell within the distinction between interstate
commerce, or an instrumentality thereof, and the mere incidents which

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
Statement of the Case.
may attend the parrying on of such commerce. These labor contracts,
were not in themselves subjects of traffic between the States, nor was the
business of hiring laborers so immediately connected with interstate
transportation or interstate traffic that it coulA correctly be.said *that
those-who followed it were engaged in interstate commerce, or that the
tax on that occupation constituted a burden on such commerce.

R.. A. WILLSS was arrested. on a warrant issued by the
county court of -Morgan County, Georgia, and placed in the
county jail on his failure to give bond pending his trial. Thereupon he made application to the judge of the superior court
within and for that county for a writ of habeas coarpus by petition alleging that the warrant under which he was arrested
charged him with a violation of the tenth paragraph of section
two of the General Tax Act of Georgia, of 1898, and that his
restraint was illegal because that part of the act was in conflict
with clause three of section eight, and with clause five of section nine, of article one, and with section two of article four,
of the Constitution of the United States; and also with the
Fourteenth Amendment. The writ of habeas corpus was duly
issued and the application heard on the return thereto, which
resulted in the denial of the petition by the superior court, and
the remanding of Williams to custody. The case was then
carried to the Supreme Court of Georgia, where, on April 11,
1900, judgment was rendered affirming the judgment of the
superior court. 35 S.E. Rep. 699.
The title of the General Tax Act of 1898, (Georgia Laws,
1898, p. 21,) read thus:
"An act to levy and collect a tax for the support of the state
government and the public institutions; for educational purposes in instructing children in the elementary branches of an
English education only; to pay the interest on the public debt,
and to pay maimed Confederate soldiers and widows of Confederate soldiers such amounts as are allowed them by law for
each of the fiscal years eighteen hundred and ninety-nine and
nineteen hundred; to prescribe what persons, professions and
property are liable to taxation; to prescribe the methods of
collecting and receiving said taxes; to prescribe the method of
ascertaining the property of the State subject to taxation; to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

prescribe additional questions to be propounded to taxpayers,
and to provide penalties and forfeitures for non-payment of
taxes; to prescribe how the oath of taxpayers shall be administered, and provide penalties for violation, thereof, and for
other purposes."
Section 2 provided "that in addition to the ad valorem tax
on real estate and personal property as required by the constitution and provided for in the preceding section, the following
specific taxes shall be levied and collected for each of said fiscal
years eighteen hundred and ninety-nine and nineteen hundred."
Then followed paragraphs imposing poll taxes, and taxes on
lawyers, doctors, photographers, auctioneers, keepers of pool
and billiard tables, traveling vendors of patent or proprietary
medicines, special nostrums, jewelry, paper, soap or other merchandise, local insurance agents, etc.
Paragraph 10 was as follows:
"Upon each emigrant agent, or employer or employ6 of such
agents, doing business in this State, the sum of five hundred
dollars for each county in which such business is conducted."
Section 4 was as follows:
"Be. it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the
taxes provided for in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
30, 31 and 32 of section 2 of this act shall be paid in full for
the fiscal years for which they are levied to the tax collectors
of the counties where such vocations are carried on at the time
of commencing to do business specified in said paragraphs. Before any person taxed by paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31 and 32 of section 2 of this act shall be authorized to carry
on said business they shall go before the ordinary of the county
in which they propose to do business and register their names,
places of business, and at the same time pay their taxes to the
tax collector; and it shall be the duty of said ordinary to immediately notify the comptroller general and the tax collector.
Any person failing to register with the ordinary, or, having registered, failing to pay the tax as herein required, shall be liable
to indictment for misdemeanor, and, on conviction, shall be

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
Opinion of the Court.

fined not less than double the tax, or be imprisoned as prescribed
by section 1039 of volume III of the Code of 1895, or both, in
the discretion of the court. One-half of said fine shall be applied to the payment of the tax, and the other to the fund of
fines and forfeitures for use of officers of court."
.Mr.James .Davisonfor plaintiff in error.

Mr. James X. Terrell for defendants in error.
MR.

CH*IEF

JusTIcE FULLFR, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Petsons following the occupations named in some twentynine paragraphs of section 2 of the Tax Act of 1898, if they
failed. to register their names before the ordinary, or, having
registered, failed to- pay their taxes, as required by section 4,
were liable to indictment for misdemeanor.
The Supreme Court of Georgia pointed out that it did not
distinctly appear whether Williams was charged with having
done business without registering, or without paying the tax,
but considered that to be immaterial since he could not be punished for a failure to do either, if the provision imposing the
tax were unconstitutional.
As preliminary to considering the validify of the provision
the court, as matter of orginal ,definition, and in view of prior
legislation, (Acts, 1876, -p. 17; Acts, 187, p. 120; Code, 1882,
ยง4598, a, b, o, ) held that the term imigrant agent," as used
in the General Tax Act of 1898, meant a person engaged in
hiring laborers in Georgia to be employed beyond the limits of
that State.
The court called. attention to -thefact that while previous, acts
had required a license, this act provided 'for a specific tax on
the occupation of emigrant agents in common with very many
other Qccupations, the declared purpose -of the levy being for
the support of the government, and ruled that the question of
whether the tax was so excessive as to amount to-a prohibition
on the transaction of that business, did not arise, and, indeed,
was not raised.
VOL. cLxxIx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.Opinion of the Court.

The inquiry is, then, whether a state law taxing occupations
is invalid so far as applicable to the pursuit of the business of
hiring persons to labor outside the state limits because in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
On behalf of plaintiff in error it is insisted that paragraph
ten is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment because it
restricts the right of the citizen to move from one State to
another, and so abridges his privileges and immunities; impairs
the natural right to labor; and is class legislation, discriminating arbitrarily and without reasonable basis.
Undoubtedly the right of locomotion, the right to remove
from one place to another according to inclination, is an attribute of personal liberty, and the right, ordinarily, of free transit
from or through the territory of any State is a right secured by
the Fourteenth Amendment and by other provisions of the
Constitution.
And so as to the right to contract. The liberty, of which
the deprivation without due process of law is forbidden, "means
not only the right of the citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term
is deemed to embrace the right of the citizen to be free in the
enjoyment of all his faculties; to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and work where he will ; to earn his livelihood
by anylawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and
for that purpose to enter into all contracts which may be proper,
necessary and essential to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned;

.

. .. although it

may be conceded that this right to contract in relation to persons or property or to do business within the jurisdiction of the
State may be regulated and sometimes prohibited when the
contracts or business conflict with the policy of the State as
contained in its statutes." Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
578, 589, 591; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.

But this act is a taxing act, by the second section of which
taxes are levied on occupations, including, by paragraph ten,
the occupation of hiring persons to labor elsewhere. If it can
be said to affect the freedom of egress from the State, or the
freedom of contract, it is only incidentally and remotely. The

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
Statement of the Case.

individual laborer is left free to come and go at pleasure, and
to make such contracts as he chooses, while those whose business it is to induce persons to enter into labor" contracts and to
change their location, though left free to contract, are subjected
to taxation in respect of their business as other citizens are.
The amount of the tax imposed on occupations varies with
the character of the occupation. Dealers in futures are compelled to pay one thousand dollars annually for each county in
which the business is carried on; circus companies exhibiting
in cities or towns of twenty thousand inhabitants or-more, one
thousand dollars each day of exhibition; peddlers of cooking
stoves or ranges, two hundred dollars in every countyin which
such peddler may do business; peddlers of clocks, one hundred
dollars; and so on.
The general legislative purpose is plain, and the intention to
prohibit this particular business cannot properly be imputed
from the amount of the tax payable by those embarked in it,
even if we were at liberty on this record to go into that subject.
It would seem, moreover, that the business itself is of such
nature and importance as to justify the exercise of the police
power in its regulation. We are not dealing with single instances, but with a general business, and it is easy to see that
if that business is not subject to regulation, the citizen may be exposed to misfortunes from which he might otherwise be legitimately protected.
Nor does it appear to us that the objection of unlawful discrimination is tenable.
The point is chiefly rested on the ground that inasmuch as
the business of hiring persons to labor within the State is not
subjected to a like tax, the equal protection of the laws secured
by the Fourteenth Amendment is thereby denied.
In Skeperd v. Commissioners, 59 Georgia, 535,- approved
and followed in this case, the Supreme Court of Georgia decided that the act of 186, which required a license as preliminary to carrying.on this business, was not unconstitutional on
this ground, for the reason that it*did not appear that hiring for
internal employment had become a business in Georgia, or was

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

pursued as such by any person or persons. And for the further
reason that the State could properly discriminate in its police
and fiscal legislation between occupations of similar nature but
of dissimilar tendency; between those which tended to induce
the laboring population to leave, and those which tended to induce that population to remain.
We are unable to say that such a discrimination, if it existed,
did not rest on reasonable grounds, and was not within the discretion of the state legislature. American Sugar Reftnng
Company v. Louisiana, ante, 89, anid cases cited.
In fine, we hold that the act does not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment in the particulars named.
Counsel for plaintiff in error further contends that the imposition of the tax cannot be sustained because in contravention
of clause three of section eight, and clause five of section nine
of article one of the Constitution.
Clause five of section nine provides that "no tax or duty shall
be laid on articles exported from any State." The facts-of
this case do not bring it within the purview of this prohibition
upon the power of Congress, and it need not be considered as
a substantive ground of objection.
The real question is, does this law amount to a regulation of
commerce among the States? To answer that question in the
affirmative is to hold that the emigrant agent is engaged in
such commerce, and that this tax is a restriction thereon.
.In
.Zobile County v. KZimball, 102 U. S.691, 702, Mr. Justice,
Field, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "Commerce
with foreign nations and.among the States, strictly considered,
consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms
navigation and the transportation and transit of persons and
property, as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange of cominodities." Broad as is the import of the word "commerce" as
used in the Constitution, this definition is quite comprehensive
enough for our purposes here.
These agents were engaged in hiring laborers in Georgia to
be employed beyond the limits qf the State. Of course, transportation must eventually take place as the result of such contracts, but it does not follow that the emigrant agent was en-

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
Opinion of the Court.

gaged in transportation or that the tax on his occupation was
levied on transportation.
In AfcCall v. Calfojrnia, 136 U. S. 104, we held that the
agency of a line of railroad between Chicago and New. York,
established in San Francisco for the purpose of inducing passengers going from San Francisco to New York to take that
line at Chicago, but not engaged in selling tickets for the route,
or receiving or paying out money on account of it, was an
agency engaged in interstate commerce. But there the business was directly connected with interstate commerce, and consisted wholly in carrying it on. The agent was the agent of
the transportation company, and he was acting solely in its
interests.
So in wfork & Featern Railroad Company v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, it was ruled that a tax imposed by a State
ona corporation engaged in the business of interstate commerce,
as described, for the privilege of keeping an office in the State,
was a tax on commerce among the States.
On the other hand, it was held. in 1'Tathan v. Louisiana,8
How. 73, that a broker dealing in foreign bills of exchange was
not engaged in commerce, but in suipplying an instrument of
commerce, and that a state tax on all money or exchange brokers was not void as to him as a regulation of commerce.
In Paulv. Yirginia, 8 Wall. 168, 183, it was decided that is-suing a policy of insurance was not a transaction of commerce,
and it was said: "The policies are simple contracts of indemnity against loss by fire, entered into between the corporations
and the assured for a consideration paid by the latter. These
contracts are not articles of commerce in any proper meaning
of the word. They are not subjects of trade and barter offered
in the market as something having an existence in value independent of the parties to them. They are not commodities to
be shipped or forwarded from one State to another and then
put up for sale."
Again, in Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 655, it was
held that a section of the penal code of California making it a
misdemeanor for a person in that State to procure insurance
for a resident in the State from an insurance company not in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

corporated "under its laws, and which had not complied with
its laws relative to insurance, was not a regulation of commerce.
Mr. Justice White there adverts to the real distinction on which
the general rule and its exceptions are based, "and which consists in the difference between interstate commerce or an instrumentality thereof on the one side and the mere incidents which
may attend the carrying on of such commerce on the other.
This distinction has always been carefully observed, and is
clearly defined by the authorities cited. If thepower to regulate interstate commerce applied to all the incidents to which
said commerce might give rise and to all contracts which might
be made in the course of its transaction, that power would embrace the entire sphere of mercantile activity in any way connected with trade between the States; and would exclude state
control over many contracts purely domestic in their nature."
The imposition of this tax falls within the distinction stated.
These labor contracts were not in themselves subjects of traffic
between the States, nor was the business of hiring laborers so
immediately connected with interstate transportation or interstate traffic that it could be correctly said that those who followed it were engaged in interstate commerce, or that the tax
on that occupation constituted a burden on such commerce.
Nor was the imposition in violation of section 2 of Article.IV,
as there was no discrimination between the citizens of other
States and the citizens of Georgia.
Jedgnent affirmed.
MR. J-USTICE

H&RLAN

dissented.

