AVERY v. POPPER.
Syllabus.

amendment of the contract would be to preserve all the obligations of the corporation in favor of the State, and to take away
from the corporation the consideration on the part of the State
upon which the duty of the corporation to pay the gross receipt
tax rested. For this reason, we conclude that the act which it
is asserted repealed or amended the contract was void, because
a mere arbitrary exercise of power giving rise, if enforced, not
only to a denial of the equal protection of the laws, but to a
deprivation of property without due process of law. The reasons by which we are led to this conclusion were fully expressed
in the concurring opinion of four members of the court in
Stearns v. .Minnesota, and need not be here repeated.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this aopinion.
:MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR.JUSTICE BREWER, MR.JUS-

TIE SHnr&s and

MnR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concurred in the result.

AV]RY. v. POPPER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT -OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 72. Submitted November 7, 1900.-Decided December 3,1900.
In an action by a chattel mortgagee of certain cattle against the purchaser
of the same at a marshal's sale upon execution, the question was whether
a chattel mortgage upon a portion of such cattle, which did not identify
the particular animals covered by it, was good as against the purchaser of
the entire lot at marshal's sale. Held: That this presented no Federal
question.
With respect to wxits of error from this Tourt to judgments of state courts,
in actions between purchasers under judicial proceedings in the Federal
courts and parties making adverse claims to the property sold,'the-true
rule is this: That the writ will lie, if the validity or construction of the,,
judgment of the Federal court, or the regularity of the proceedings under
the execution, are assailed; bit if it'be admitted that the judgment was
valid and these proceedings were regular, that the purchaser took the

voL. oLXXix-20

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Statement of the Case.
title of the defendant in the execution, and the issue relates to the title to
the property as between the defendant in the execution, or the purchaser
under it, and the party making the adverse claim, no Federal question is
presented.

THIS was an action originally instituted in the District Court
of Hunt County, Texas, by Ignatz Popper and Edward Popper,
(doing business under name of I. Popper & Brother,) to recover
upon a certain promissory note executed May 26, 1891, by John
H. Cooke and Mary E.'Cooke, his wife, to Thomas H. King,
for .$1940, and for the foreclosure of a chattel mortgage upon
certain personal property hereinafter described, and.(in their
amended petition) also for a personal judgment against John
M. Avery and his sureties upon certain replevin bonds.
I An interest in the note to the amount of $775 was transferred
by King, the payee, on April 10, 1892, to the firm of I. Popper
& Brother, and the residue of such note and interest to Robert
R. Neyland, under the name and style of R. R. Neyland &
Company;
To secure the payment of such note John H. Cooke and wife,
on May 26, 1891, executed and delivered to King a chattel
mortgage upon fifty cows, with their calves of that spring, which
cows were branded "Cooke" on the left side and "0 K" on the
left hip, the calves not being branded; also one bay mare colt,
one gray horse colt and one black mule colt. This instrument
was legally filed and registered as a chattel mortgage on May 30,
1891;
On June 14, 1893, the marshal of the United States levied
upon, among others, the above mentioned property, by virtue
of an execution issued out of the Circuit Court of the United
States at Dallas on June 8, 1893, upon a judgment rendered in
favor of W. W. Avery against John H. Cooke and certain sureties upon a supersedeas bond, but not against his wife, Mary E.
Cooke. This judgment was rendered in pursuance of the mandate of this court in Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375. At the
marshal's sale, which took place on June 28, 1893, the property
was bid in by John M. Avery as attorney for and in the name
of W. W. Avery, and all of such property was then and there
delivered to John M. Avery;

AVERY v. POPPER.
Statement of the Case.

On the following day, June 29, 1893, I. Popper & Brother
brought this action in the District Court of Hunt County against
John H. and Mary E. Cooke, W. W. Avery and John M. Avery,
to recover of the Cookes the amount of plaintiffs' interest in
the note, ($775,) and to foreclose against all the defendants their
mortgage upon the property described. On the same day R.
R. Neyland & Company brought a separate suit against the
same parties to recover the balance due on such note after deducting the amount due Popper & Brother, and likewise to
foreclose the mortgage. These suits were consolidated January 16, 1894. The property was seized while in the possession
of John M. Avery by virtue of writs of sequestration issued in
these actions. After such seizure, John M. Avery replevied
and resumed possession of the property, drove it out of Hunt
County, and within a short time thereafter sold and disposed
of it.
At the time the mortgage was executed to secure the note,
there were many more animals of the same description .mingled
with those upon which the mortgage was given; but the state
court found the evidence sufficient to show that, just prior to
the exe6ution of the mortgage, the animals embraced in it were
pointed out to Mr. Neyland, who represented King in taking
the mortgage security and drafting the mortgage. But the
animals covered by the mortgage were not separated from the
.others of the same description with which they were mingled,
nor was there any such separation when the execution in favor
of Keyland was levied upon the property in controversy. The
cdurt further found that the fifty head of cows described in
the mortgage, as well as all others of like description mingled
with them, were the separate property of Mary E. Cooke at the
time the mortgage was executed, and continued to be her separate property until disposed of by Avery; that the fifty calves
were born during the marriage of Cooke and wife, after the
cows became the separate property of Mrs. Cooke, and were,
therefore, at the time the mortgage was given and the execution in favor of Avery levied, the community property of John
H. and Mary E. Cooke. Also, that the horses and mule involved
in this suit were the offspring of the separate property of Mary

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

-

Statement of the Case.

E. Cooke during her marriage with John H. Cooke, and were
likewise the community property of Cooke and his wife at the
time the mortgage was given and the execution levied.
The case appears to have been first tried in 1894, and judgment rendered against the plaintiffs in error; but on appeal by
them the mortgage was held to be invalid, the judgment reversed, and the case remanded by the-Court of Civil Appeals
for a new trial. Avery v. PoMer, 34 S. W. Rep. 325. The
case was again tried in October, 1897, and resulted in a judgment in favor of Popper & Brother against John H. Cooke in
the sum of $1637 and in favor of Neyland, whose suit was consolidated with the other, in the sum of $1974. The mortgage
was foreclosed on the fifty cows, one mare, one horse and one
-mule, and a further judgment rendered against John If. Avery
and the sureties upon his replevin bond in the sum of $850, the
value of the property disposed of by him. The court further
found that'as to the fifty calves the mortgage was invalid, and
a foreclosure of the mortgage to. that 'extent was denied.
The case was again carried to the Court of Civil Appeals by
John M. Avery and his sureties, which affirm'ed the judgment
against Cooke and wife, but increased the judgmdnt against
John Mff. Avery and his sureties in the sum of $534, the value
of seventeen two-year old steers and thirtytwo two-year old
heifers. 45 S. W. Rep. 951. The dourt found the District
Cburt to have been in error in holding that the mortgage execited by the husband and wife was not a lien upon all the property embraced in it, whether separate or community. On appeal to the Supreme Court the judgments of the Court of Civil
Appeals and of the District Court were reversed, and a judgment ordered in favor of Popper & Brother and Neyland against
the plaintiff-in error, John M[. Avery, and his sureties in the
sum of '$850, interest and costs. 92 Texas, 337. The court
found that "ho right attached under the mortgage to specific
animals, nor did it give a lien upon an undivided interest in the
herd. The power was given to sell- certain cows and their
-calves, which could only be done by selecting them from the
herd, and it being necessary to the execution of the express
'authority to sell, the law will imply the authority to take the

AVERY v. POPPER.
Opinion of the Court.

fifty cows and calves from the larger number. Ocsceer v. -Watt,
91 Texas, .121. The chattel mortgage was valid between the
parties to it." "Upon default in payment, King or the holders
of the note, had the right to select from John H. and Mary E.
Cooke's stock of cattle and sell fifty cows and calves corresponding to the description in the mortgage. If the right had
been exercised while the calves of the spring of 1891 were following their mothers, the selection of the cow would have identified the calf. But having failed to exercise the right until in
the course of nature the dam and the young would separate, it
has become impossible to identify the calves, and all claim upon
them has failed before Avery converted the stock."
Whereupon Avery and his sureties sued out a writ of error
from this court.
XM.

John X. Avmey for plaintiffs in error.

.Mn,. Benjamin F. Looney for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE BRowx, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error invoke the jurisdiction of this court
upon the ground stated in the third clause of Rev. Stat. section
709 of a "title, right, privilege or immunity claimed under
..an authority exercised under, the 'United States, and
the decision is against the title,, right, privilege or immunity
specially set up or claimed." The special right claimed was a
right as purchaser under the marshal's sale upon execution to a
priority of payment from the goods sold as against the chattel
mortgage. Thq claim set up in the second assignment of error
was that the mortgage was invalid as against such execution
for the reason that there were many more animals of the same
description mingled with those upon which the mortgage was
given, and that the animals covered by the mortgage were not
separated from the others of the same description with which
they were mingled, nor was there such separation up to the
time said execution from the United States court was levied

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the property in controversy ; that no lien attached to any
particular animals in the herd, nor did the mortgage give a lien
upon an undivided interest in the herd, and as a matter of law
was invalid as against the execution; and that in giving priority
to the mortgage the Supreme Court of Texas failed to give full
force and effect to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States.
It should be borne in mind that this action was not begun.
until the day after the termination of the action in the Federal
court by a sale of the property to Avery, the payment of the
money, and apparently the return of the execution satisfied;
and that the question litigated was not the legality of this par-ticular judgment, which was admitted to be valid, but the
general question whether, under the laws of Texas, an execution is valid as against a mortgage upon animals which are not
identified, and not separated from others of the same description with which they were mingled. Briefly stated, the question
is whether the mere fact that the plaintiff in error was a purchaser at a marshal's sale of the property, entitles him to bring
into this court questions under the state law with respect to
the validity and priority of a chattel mortgage covering the
same property or a part thereof.
There are many authorities upon the general question of the
rights of purchasers at marshals' sales as against lienholders
under laws of the several States, from which the true rule maw
be deduced. The question is analogous to the one decided at
the last term of this court in Blackburn v. Portland Gold
.Xining Co., 175 U. S. 571, and -Do .amar's .Nevada Gold
.Xining Co. v. ._esbitt, 117 U. S. 523, to the effect that the
mere fact that parties claim adversely to each other under the
mining laws or under patents of the United States does not entitle them to a writ of error from this court, unless there be a
question made as to the meaning and construction of a Federal
statute, or of ,an authority exercised under the United States.
Of the cases bearing more directly upon the question here
involved of the relations of a purchaser under a marshal's sale
to others claiming the same property, the earliest is that of
Collier v. Stanbrough, 6 How. 14. Collier was the purchaser

AVERY v. POPPER.
Opinion of the Court.

under a 3barshal's sale upon execution against one David Stanbrough of certain personal property which was claimed by
Josiah Stanbrough, the defendant, who insisted that the property was not legally seized or levied upon, and that it was not
legally appraised or advertised as required by law. Jurisdiction under the writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana
was sustained upon the obvious ground that the sale by the
marshal was directly attacked, and the invalidity of plaintiff's
title set up as a defence.
In Erwin v. Lowry, 7 How. 172, Erwin was the purchaser at
a marshal's sale of certain land and negroes, and was sued by
Lowry, who claimeg as curator of the estate to which the property belonged. The question was the same as that in Collier v.
Stanbrough, namely, whether the marshal's deed to Erwin was
void for the reason that it was not supported by a lawful judgment, or for want of compliance with any legal requirement in
conducting the seizure and sale. The jurisdiction was also sustained in this case.
In Clements v. Berry, 11 How. 398, the suit was by Daniel
Berry against the marshal directly, in replevin, to recover kroperty levied upon as the property of Charles F. Berry, and the
sale was stopped by a writ of replevin issued from the state
court. As the marshal was a party defendant to the suit, and
his right to sell the property was directly attacked, the jurisdiction was sustained. For the same reason that the marshal was
made a defendant to the suit in the state court, ,and justified
under process from the Federal court, jurisdiction was sustained
in Freeman v. Howe, 24- How. 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334:; Etheridge v. iperry, 139 U. S. 266, and Bock v. Perkins,
139 U. S. 628.
In Day v. Galhp, 2 Wall. 97, the suit was by Gallup against
Derby and Day, execution creditors, Allis, their attorney, and
Gear, marshal of the United States, who justified under a judgment of the Federal court against one Griggs. The suit was
discontinued as to the marshal before trial. The case turned on
the o~vfiership of the goods seized, and judgment went against
Derby and Day, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota. The suit was not begun until after the execution

312,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

from the Federal court had been returned and the action completely terminated. Upon writ of error from this. court it was
held that at the time Gallup brought his action there was no
case pending in the Federal court respecting the goods which
had been attached under process from that court; that it did
not appear that the authority of Gear as marshal to take the
goods was drawn in question, and that from the return of the
execution satisfied the Federal court had no control over the
parties. The case between the plaintiffs in error against Griggs,
the original defendant in the Federal court, had been decided,
the money made on the execution and the debt paid. In commenting' on that case in Buck v. Colbath, p. 342, it was said :
"It is only while the property is in possession of the court,
either actually or constructively, that the court is bound or professes to protect that possession from the process of other courts.
Whenever the litigation is ended, or the possession of the officer
or court is discharged, other courts are at liberty to deal with it
according to the rights of the parties before them, whether those
rights require them to take possession of the property or not."
We do not undertake to say that the mere fact the action in
the Federal court is no longer pending would oust the jurisdiction of this court to re6xamine the action of the state court, if
the validity of the judgment of the Federal court, or the proceedings by the marshal under that judgment were directly attacked; but in Day v. Gallup, it appeared that not only had
the proceedings in the Federal court terminated, but that the
real question was the ownership of the goods as between the
attaching creditors and Gallup. Gallup claimed under a sale of
the.goods which the attaching creditors insisted-was a fraud.
In Dupasseurv. Rocere'au, 21 Wall. 130, Rochereau, a judgment creditor of one Sauv6, brought an action in the state
court against Dupasseur, alleging that he had taken possession
of a plantation belonging to Sauv6 upon which he, Rochereau,
held a mortgage, and charging that the plantation was bound for
the debt, and that .Dupasseur was bound either to pay the debt
or give up the plantation. Dupasseur defended upon the ground
that he had bought the property at a marshal's sale, upon an
execution in his own favor against Sauv6, "fre6 of all mort-

AVERY v. POPPER.
Opinion of the Court.

gages and incumbrances, and especially from the alleged mortgage of the plaintiff," Rochere.u. Upon writ of error from
this court it was held that, as the question at issue was the effect to be given to the judgment of the Federal court and to
the proceedings under the execution in that court, and to the
sale by the marshal free of all mortgages -and incumbrances,
jurisdiction should be sustained. Here the validity of the sale
by the marshal was directly attacked. :Notwithstanding the
fact that Dupasseur purchased the property under the execution
sale on May 5, 1876, and Rochereau did not begin his action
until June 7,1866, the jurisdiction was sustained, because Dupasseur's title under that purchase was attacked by the other
party.
In .MKennav. Sim2pon, 129 U. S. 506, an assignee in bankruptcy resorted to a state court to set aside a conveyance by
the bankrupt as in fraud of creditors; but as no question 'was
raised there as to the power of the assignee, under the acts of
Congress, or as to the rights vested in him as assignee, but only
as to what should be deemed a fraudulent conveyance and as
to the application of the evidence in reaching that decision,
we held that the case presented no Federal question, and the
writ of error was dismissed.
Per contra, in O'Brien v. Veld, 92 U. S. 81; the question
arose whether, under the bankrupt law, the District Court had
authority to make a certain order, and as the deision of the
state court was against such authority, jurisdiction was sustained. Such was also the case in Factors' & Traders' Insurance Co. v. .urphy, 111 U. S. '738, where the effect to be given
to a sale of property under an order of a District Court was in
question, the authority of the court to direct a sale free from incumbrances being denied.
In Stanley v. Schwalby, 162'U. S.255, the action in the state
court was directly against officers of the 'United States, and
ultimately against the Government itself. Jurisdiction was
sustained upon'that ground.
Finally, in Pittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Railroadv. Long Island Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S. 493, the question arose whether.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

due effect was accorded to certain foreclosure proceedings in
Circuit Courts of the United States, under which plaintiff in
error claimed title to the land and property in question. Under
these proceedings a sale of railroad property had been made,
subject to certain outstanding bonds prior in lien to the mortgage and to all other, if any, paramount liens thereon, and that
the decree should not in any manner prejudice or preclude the'
holders of such paramount liens. Plaintiff in error contended
that the state court did not give due effect to these decrees of
the Circuit Courts of the United States, in that it did not recognize as paramount the rights acquired under those decrees by
the purchasers of the property in question; but postponed or
subordinated these rights to a lien upon such property, which,
it was alleged, was created or attempted to be created while
those suits were pending, and while the property was in the
actual custody of those courts, by receivers, for the purposes of
being administered. As the question concerned the effect to
be given to a sale under process from the Federal courts, and
to the construction of the decree of those courts, jurisdiction was
sustained.
With respect to writs of error from this court to judgments
of state courts in actions between purchasers under judicial proceedings in the Federal courts and parties making adverse claims
to the property sold, the true rule to be deduced from these
authorities is this: That the writ will lie, if the validity or construction of the judgment of the Federal court, or the regularity
6f the proceedings under the execution, are assailed; but if it
be admitted that the judgment was valid, and these proceedings
were regular, that the purchaser took the title of the defendant
in the executiofi, and the issue relates to the title to the property, as between the defendant in the execution or the purchaser
under it, and the party making the adverse claim, no Federal
question is presented-in other words, it must appear that the
decision was made against a right claimed under Federal authority, in the language of Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
Applying this test to the case under consideration, it is evident from the record that no ques.tion was made as to the valid-

AVERY v. POPPER.
Opinion of the Court.

ity of the judgment, or the regularity of the proceedings in the
Federal court; and that the case turned upon the question
whether, under the laws of Texas, a chattel mortgage upon property sold under execution is good which does not identify the
particular property covered by it, but leaves such property to
be subsequently identified by selection of the mortgagor. In
regard to this, the Supreme Court of that State held (92 Texas,
337) that the chattel mortgage upon the fifty cows with their
calves, out of a designated herd of one hundred, with power to
the mortgagee to sell on default, gave him the right to select
such cows from the larger number; and that such mortgage,
implying, as it did, a power of selection on the part of the mortgagee, was, when duly registered, notice of his rights to the purchaser of the mortgagor's interest-followingin these particulars
Oxakeer v.Watt, 91 Texas, 124. That this was no new doctrine
in the State of Texas is also evident from the case of Elliott v.
Long, 77 Texas, 467, decided in 1890, three years before the
property was sold upon execution in this case. See also Woford
v. M~enna, 23 Texas, 36, 46. We are referred to two cases
which apparently conflict with these, Cleveland v. Williams, 29
Texas, 204, 212, and X088 v. Sanger,12 S. W. Rep. 616, but if any
such conflict existed, it was for the Supreme Court to settle it,
as it seems to have done in Elliott v. Long, by overruling the
former cases. Whether the right of selection recognized as between mortgagor and mortgagee is also applicable as between
a purchaser upon execution and the mortgagee, is not a Federal
question, if no discrimination be made against executions from
Federal courts.
This was a question either of local law or of general law. If
of local law, of course the decision of the Supreme Court of
Texas is binding upon us. If of general law, as it involves no
Federal elkment, it is equally binding in this proceeding, since
only Federal rights are capable of being raised upon writs of
error to state courts. Conceding that, if the question had arisen
on appeal from a Circuit Court of the United States, we might
have come to a different conclusion, it by no means follows that
we can do so upon a writ of error to a state court, whose opinion
upon a question of general law is not reviewable here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Other questions are raised in the assignments of error, but
they bear even more remotely upon a Federal right. The decision already made covers them.
The writ of error must therefore be

Disised.

I

re DE BARA, PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.

No. 15, Original. Submitted November 5,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

Under section 5480 of the Revised Statutes of the United States the court
below had the power to give a single sentence for several offences, in excess of that which is prescribed for one offence.
In re Henry, 123 U. S. 372, affirmed and followed to this point.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. D. IF. Baker for petitioner.
.&.Solioitor General opposing.
MR.JvsTicE MoKFNxA delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon filing the petition in this case a iule to show cause was
issued to John L. M. Donell, Superintendent of the House of
Correction, at Detroit, Michigan, by whom it is alleged the petitioner is illegally restrained of his liberty.
The petition shows that the petitioner was convicted in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, upon the charge of violating section 5480 of the .Revised
Statutes of the United States, which prohibits the use of the
mails for fraudulent purposes, and that on June 17, 1899, he
was sentenced as follows:
"Came the parties by their attorneys and the defendant in
his own proper person in the custody of the marshal to have
the sentence and the judgment of the court pronounced upon
him, he having heretofore, to wit, on the 5th day of June, 1899,

