SAXLEHNER v. NIELSEN.
Statement of the Case.

have acted in good faith, and the sales of the others were small,
they should not be required to account for gains and profits.
The fact that the Siegel-Cooper Company acted innocently does
not exonerate it from the charge of infringement. Xoet v.
Couston, 33 Beav. 578;
Zilington v. Fox, 3 Myl. & Cr. 338;
deldten v. Edelsten, 1 De Gex, J.'& S. 185; Brown on Trade
Marks, ยง 386.
The decree of the Circuit Court of A4peals in these cases are
also reversed, and the cases remanded to the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of -New York for furtherproceedings, etc.

SAXLEHINER v. NIELSEN7.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 33. Argued and submitted lIarch 22, 23, 1900.- Decided October 15, 1900.
Defendant was prosecuted for selling bitter waters under the name of "Hunyadi Lajos."1 Held, That although the proof of laches on the part of
plaintiff was notas complete as in the former case the same result must
follow, and that the bill must be dismissed as to the word "Hunyadi"
and sustained as to the infringement of the bottles and labels.

THIS was a bill of similar character to those involved in the
prior cases, and was brought to enjoin the defendant from selling water under the name of "l I unyadi Lajos," or any other
name in which the word "Hunyadi" occurs, as well as selling
such water in bottles or under capsules or labels resembling
those of the plaintiff upon her bottles of "Hunyadi Janos"
water. The answer pleaded abandonment and laches. The
Circuit Court made a similar decree to that in the Eisner and
Mendelson suit, enjoining the infringement of plaintiff's red and
blue label, requiring an accounting for damages, and denying
relief against the use of the name "Hunyadi." The Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals reversed this decree, and ordered the bill to
be dismissed.
Xr. Antonio XYnauth and X.M John G. Johnson for petitioner. -M. Arthurvan Briesen was on their brief.
.2r. Louis C. 1?aegener, for respondent submitted on his
brief.
MR.

JUSTiCE.

BROWN delivered the opinion of the

court.

The evidence in this case is much less complete than that in
the cases just decided, although its general tendency is much
the same. Plaintiff proved the adoption of the name "Hunyadi" by certificate of the Municipal Council of Buda-Pesth,
dated January 19, 1863, authorizing Saxlehner to give his spring
the name of "Hunyadi Spring," and by other certificates of a
similar character.
It was shown that Andreas Saxlehner had used uninterruptedly the trade-mark "Hunyadi Janos," ever since 1865; that in
1873 he had registered this trade-mark in Hungary, and that
plaintiff had re-registdred the same in 1890. It was admitted
that, if the plaintiff had not been guilty of laches, acquiescence
or abandonment, she would undoubtedly be entitled to the
exclusive enjoyment of both name and labe.
But the contract with the Apollinaris Company was also put
in evidence, together with testimony showing that from 1886,
when the Hunyadi Arpad water began to be imported, some
fourteen different Hunyadi waters were put upon the American
market without opposition on the part of Saxlehner or the
Apollinaris Company, and that the iiame "Hunyadi" had become widely known in this country as applicable to Hungarian
bitter waters. Of some of these waters the importations were
as high as six or seven thousand cases a year. As stated in the
former opinion, the use of the name "Hunyadi" had become
generic in Hungary, and Saxlehner could not have beeu ignorant of this fact, or of the futther fact that exportations of these
waters were .constantly being made to foreign countries. He

SAXLEHNER v. NIELSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

was, at least, put upon inquiry as to whether these waters were
not being sold in America in competition with his own, and he
should have either instructed the Apollinaris Company to prosecute the infringements, or instituted proceedings himself to
vindicate his proprietary interest in the name. Under such
circumstances we think it too late now to maintain an exclusive
title on the part of the plaintiff to the name "Hunyadi," and
that she has been guilty of laches which preclude her right to
an injunction.
So far as the question of label is concerned, plaintiff's witnesses proved sales of the Hunyadi Janos water in this country since abbut 1870, first under a red and white label and
afterwards under the red and blue label. Defendant's water
does not come from the neighborhood of Buda-Pesth, but from
a spring situated at Kocs, more than a hundred miles from that
place, though the water is apparently of similar character.
His label appears to have been designed originally by one
Schmidthauer, in Hungary, where it was registered as a trademark in July, 1892, and introduced the same year into this
country. The label is so obviously an imitation of the Saxlehner label that defendant makes no argument to the contrary,
and the appearance of the two is so nearly alike that a casual
purchaser would easily suppose he was purchasing the Hunyadi
Janos water in buying that of the defendant. The record also
shows that the trade-mark registered by Schmidthauer in Jfily,
1892, as above stated, was canceled by the Gyor Chamber of
Commerce and Industry on March 24, 1897. There seems to
have been no excuse for the adoption of this label except the
fact that so many dealers of bitter water in Hungary had seized
upon Saxlehner's name and label that it was treated as public
property. For the reasons stated in the former case, we think
that defendant should be held accountable for this misappropriation.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Affea& wiZZ therefore be
revemed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of New York with direction to rein8tate its decree of July 18, 1898, and forfurther proceedings consonant with this opinion.

