DAVIS r. BURKE.
Statement of the Case.

DAVIS v. BURKE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE uNrTED STATES Fo

THE

DISTRICT OF IDAHO.
No. 286. Argued December 3,1900.-Decided December 17,1900.
Defendant being coniicted of murder, carried the case to the Supreme
Court of'the State, but made no claim there of a Federal question. Held:
That before applying to a Circuit Court of the United States for a writ
of habeas corpus he should have exhausted his remedy in the state
court, either by setting up the Federal question on his appeal to the
Supreme Court, or by applying to the state court for a writ of habeas
corpus.
The constitution of Idaho, providing for the prosecutions of felonies by
information, is so far self-executing that a conviction upon information
cannot be impeached here upon the ground that defendant has been denied due process of law.
The question whether a convict shall be executed by the sheriff, as the law
stood at the time of his trial and conviction, or by the warden of the
penitentiary, as the law was shbsequently amended, or whether he shall
escape punishment altogether, involves no question of due process of law
under the Fourteenth Amendment.

THIS was an appeal from an order denying a writ of habeas
corpus to the appellant Davis, who was, on April 15,1897, found
guilty of murder in the District Court of Cassia County, Idaho;
and sentenced to be hanged June 4, 1897.
Motion for a new trial was denied, an appeal taken to the
Supreme Court of Idaho, and on May 6, 1898, the judgment of
the lower court was affirmed. 53 Pac. Rep. 678.
His execution having been postponed, an application for pardon was presented to the State Board of Pardons, and was
denied January 23, 1899. Thereupon a petition for a writ of
habeas co pus was presented to the United States District Judge
for Idaho, which was denied January 30; and an appeal taken
from this order was on April 16, 1899, dismissed.by the Circuit
.Court of Appeals, Davis v. Burke, 97 Fed. Rep. 501, upon the
ground that, as the appeal involved a construction of the Federal Constitution, that court was without jurisdiction. "

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court

Section 8021 of the Revised Statutes of Idado provides that
executions of defendants convicted of murder in the first degree
shall take place at the county jail under the direction of the
sheriff; but while this case was pending before the Circuit Court
6f Appeals this.section of the statute was amended, Laws, 1899,
page 340, so as to provide for the execution of criminals at the
state penitentiary 'under the direction of the warden. After
the passage of this act, February 18, 1899, Davis was removed
from the jail of Cassia County to the state penitentiary.
Upon being advised that this proceeding was erroneous, Burke,
,he sheriff of Cassia County, applied to the Supreme Court of
Idaho for a writ of habeas corpus. That court decided that the
act of February 18, 1899, above mentioned, regulating the time,
place and manner of inflicting a death penalty, was not applicable to past offences, and that Davis should be executed in accordance with the law as it stood at the time of the commission
of the offence, the trial and original sentence. 59 Pac. Rep.
544. In accordance with that decision appellant was returned
to the custody of the sheriff.
After the decision in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and while
awaiting a resentence by the state coiirt, appellant presented
this petition for a writ of habeas corpus to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Idaho, and upon the denial
of such petition: appealed to this court.
.[r. James H. Hawley for appellant.
-Mr. Edgar Wilson were on his brief.

.MX. J. IF. Dorsey and

.Mr. Samuel H. Hays for appellee.
on his brief.

.M". TV. E. Borah was

MR.JUsTICE BRoWN,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The assignments of error, which are somewhat voluminous,
are practically resolvable into two questions, first, whether the
petitioner was legally prosecuted by information, and, second,
whether the act of February 18, 1899, providing for executions

DAVIS v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.

at the state penitentiary under the direction of the warden, is
as to this defendant expost facto, and, as dependent upon this,
whether he could be executed under section 8021 of the Revised
Statutes as it formerly stood, after that section had been repealed by the act of February 18, 1899.
(1) The constitution of Idaho contains the following clause:
"Art. 1, Sec. 8. No person shall be held to answer for any
felony or criminal offence of any grade, unless on presentment
or indictment of a grand jury, or on information of the public
prosecutor, after a commitment by a magistrate." Appellant's
answer to this is: (a) That the provision is not self-executing.
(b) That a lw passed March 13, 1891, known as the Information Act, is void, because it was not passed in the manner required in the Idaho constitution, and that the journals of the
legislature may be resorted to to determine this question.
In reply to his first contention, it is sufficient to say that this
case has been twice before the Supreme Court of Idaho, and
upon neither occasion was the point made that it could not be
prosecuted by information. The first time it was carried there
by appeal from the judgment of the lower court, following a
trial upon the merits, and was there affirmed. 53 Pac. Rep. 678.
After conviction, and after the surrender of Davis by the sheriff
to the warden of the penitentiary, in pursuance of the act of February 18, 1899, the sheriff made an original application to the
Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus to obtain the custody
of Davis, who had been surrendered to the warden of the penitentiary. This was granted. 59 Pac. Rep. 544. Upon the
hearing of that case, counsel, who we, ' admitted to appear on
behalf of the prisoner as amici cur-i, insisted that the provisions
of the Revised Statutes for the execution of prisoners having
been repealed, and the provisions of the act of February 18,1899,
being expotfacto, there was no law under which Davis could
be executed; but no question was made as to the validity of
prosecutions by information.
The rule is well settled in this court that, while there may be
a power on the part of the Federal courts to issue a writ of
habeas corpus where the petitioner insists that he has been deprived of his liberty withoutdue process of law, that power will
voL. cixxix-26

OCTOBER TERm, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not ordinarily be exercised until after an appeal made to the
state courts has been denied. Ece arte Royall, 117 U. S. 241;
Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449 ;

In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278; Cook v. Hart, 146 U.S. 183; In re
_Frederick, 149 U. S. 70; -New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89;
Titten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S.
284; 7farkuson v. Bo cher, 175 U. S. 184.
Certain exceptional cases have arisen in which the Federal
courts have granted the writ in the first instance, as where a
citizen or subject of a foreign State is in custody for an act done
under the authority of his own government; or an officer of
the United States has been arrested under state process for acts
done under the authority of the Federal government, and there
were circumstances of urgency which seemed to demand prompt
action on the part of the Federal government to secure his release. Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S.1 ; In re Loney, 134 U. S.
372; ITn re -Yeagle, 135 U. S.1. It is recognized, however, that
the power to arrest the due and orderly proceedings of the
state courts, or to discharge a prisoner after conviction, before
an application has been made to the Supreme Court of the State
for relief, is one which should be.sparingly exercised, and should
be confined to cases where the facts imperatively demand it.
While the power to issue writs of habeas corpus under Rev. Stat.
see. 753, nominally extends to every case where a party "is in
custody in violation of the Constitution, or of a law or treaty of
the United States," it is not every such case where the interference of the Federal court is demanded, particularly where
the state court is executing its own criminal laws, and is asserting a jurisdiction which does not reside elsewhere, to try an accused person for a violation of such laws. The state courts
are as much bound as the Federal courts to see that no man is
punished in violation of the Constitution or laws of the United
States; and ordinarily an error in this particular can better be
corrected by this court upon a writ of error to the highest
court of the State than by an interference, which is never less
than unpleasant, with the procedure of the state courts before
the petitioner has exhausted lis remedy there.
This case is peculiarly one for the application of the general

DAVIS v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.

rule. Not only was there ample opportunity for making this
defence upon the original hearing in the Supreme Court, or
upon an independent application for a writ of kabeas corpu;
not only does the question involve the construction of the con
stitution and laws of the State With which the Supreme Court
of the State is entirely familiar, but a ruling by this court that
prosecutions by information in the courts of Idaho are invalid
might result in the liberation of a large number of persons under sentence upon convictions obtained by this method of procedure. A step so important ought not to be taken without
full opportunity given to the state court to pass upon the question, and without clear conviction of its necessity.
(9)But we are also of opinion that for the purposes of this
case the provision of the Idaho constitution must be deemed
self-executing. The rule is thus stated by Judge Cooley in his
work upon Constitutional Limitations (p. 99): "A constitutional
provision may be said to be self-executing if it supplies a sufficient rule by means of which the right given may be enjoyed
and protected, or the duty imposed may be enforced; and it is
not self-executing when it merely indicates principles, without
laying down rules by means of which those principles may be
given the force of law. Thus, a constitution may very clearly
require county and town government; but if it fails to indicate
its range, and to provide proper machinery, it is not in this particular self-executing, and legislation is essential."
Where a constitutional provision is complete in itself it needs
no further legislation to put it in force. When it lays down
certain general principles, as to enact laws upon a certain subject, or for the incorporation of cities of certain population, or
for uniform laws upon the subject of taxation, it may need more
specific legislation to make it operative. In other words, it is
self-executing only so far as it is susceptible of execution. But
where a constitution asserts a certain right, or lays down a certain principle of law or procedure, it speaks for the entire people
as their supreme law, and is full authority for all that is done in
pursuance of its provisions. In short, if complete in itself, it
executes itself. When a constitution declares that felonies may
be prosecuted by information after a commitment by a magis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

trate, we understand exactly what is meant, since informations
for the prosecution of minor offences are said by Blackstone to
be as old as the common law itself, and a proceeding before
magistrates for the apprehension and commitment of persons
charged with crime has been the usual method of procedure
since the adoption of the constitution. It is true ihe legislature
may see fit to prescribe in detail the method of procedure, and
the laW enacted by it may turn out to be defective by reason
of irregularity in its passage. In such case a proceeding by information might be impeached in the state court for such irregularity, but it certainly would not be void so long as it was
authorized by the Constitution. For us to say that the accused
had been denied due process of law would involve the absurdity
of holding that what the people had declared to be the law was
not the law.
(3) The question whether appellant shall be executed under
the act of the legislature by the warden of the penitentiary, or
under the Revised Statutes, as the law stood at the time of his
trial and conviction, by the sheriff, or whether he shall escape
punishment altogether, was determined adversely to him by the
Supreme Court of the State, 59 Pac. Rep. 544, and involves no
question of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment. .- oNulty v. California,149 U. S.645.
The order of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Idaho denying the writ of habea8 cor"j8 is, therefore,
Ajbwwe.

