CONTZEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

FRITZ CONTZEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 84. Submitted November 7,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

Texas was an independent State, when admitted into the Union, and the
effect of the admission was to make its citizens, citizens of the United
States. But those who, at that time, could only become citizens by naturalization, were thereupon relegated to the laws of the United States in
that behalf.
lMinor aliens in Texas, separated from their parents, were not made citizens
of the United States by the admission, and in order to become such were
obliged to comply with the requirements of the laws of the United States.
As appellant was a German subject and not a citizen of Texas when Texas
became one of the United States, and had not been naturalized when the
injury complained of was inflicted, the Court of Claims was right in dismissing his petition for want of jurisdiction.

APPELLAN1T filed his petition in the Court of Claims, alleging
that on October 20, 1861, a band of Apache Indians raided the
settlement at San Xavier, near Tucson, Arizona Territory, and
stole from his ranch certain cows, horses and mules of the value
of $10,330; that these Indians were in amity and under treaty
relations with the United States at that date; and "that petitioner is a naturalized citizen of the United States, and has at
all times borne true allegiance to the Government of the United
States," etc.
The United States pleaded that the claimant was not a citizen of the United States at the date of the alleged depredation,
and that the court was therefore without jurisdiction to hear
and determine the cause.
The court adopted as its findings of fact the following agreed
statement of facts:
"The claimant, Fritz Contzen, was born in Germany on the
27th day of February, 1831, and emigrated to Texas in July,
1845. He remained in Texas until the admission of the State
into the Union, December 29, 1845.
"1Since the admission of Texas, the claimant has resided con-

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tinuously in the United States, mostly in, Arizona and some
time in California. He visited Germany with his wife and child
from 1873 to 1880, his home and furniture remaining all the
time in this country. He was married in the United States.
His residence was in Texas until he came to Arizona, in 1855,
with Major Emory on the boundary commission.
"In the year 1854 he went into court at San Antonio, Texas,
and he was told that he being a regident of Texas when it became part of the United States, that made him a citizen of the
United States, and he voted there. He never took any further
steps about naturalization. There is no record of naturalization
from 1847 on of any one of the claimant's name, when such record should appear in the courts of San Antonio.
"That in October, 1861, the defendant Indians were in amity
with the United States."
Judgment was thereupon given sustaining defendants' plea
to the jurisdiction, and dismissing the petition. 33 0. CL 475.
-yr.A. B. Browne, -Yr. J. TV..Douglas, .Xr.Alexander Briton and .Mr.Alexander PorterMorse for appellant.
Jflr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and .r.
B. Smith for appellees.

Lincoln

M. CHIEF JusTic' FULLB delivered the opinion of the court.

The petition alleged that appellant was a naturalized citizen
of the United States at the time it was filed, but it contained
no averment that he was such citizen at the date of the alleged
depredation. If he was not, the Court of Claims did not have
jurisdiction to adjudicate upon his claim, and its judgment must
be affirmed. Johnson v. United States, 160 U. S. 546.
It appeared that Contzen was born in Germany, February 27,
181, and came to Texas in July, 1845, and that he was not
naturalized under the statutes of the United States in that behalf prior to October 20, 1861. His title to citizenship at that
time is asserted on the ground that he was embraced by a collective naturalization effected by the admission of Texas into
the Union.

CONTZEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not disputed that citizenship may spring from collective
naturalization by treaty or statute, nor that by the annexation
of Texas and its admission into the Union all the citizens of
the former Republic became, without any express declaration,
citizens of the United States.
And the first question is whether Contzen was a citizen of
the republic when it became a State.
The declaration of independence of Texas was adopted
March 1, and proclaimed March 2, 1836, and the constitution
of that Republic was ordained March 17 of that year.
Section six of the "General Provisions" of that instrument
read: "All free white persons who shall emigrate to this Republic, and who shall, after a residence of six months, make oath
before some competent authority that he intends to reside permanently in the same, and shall swear to support this constitution, and that he will bear true allegiance to the Republic of
Texas, shall be entitled to all the privileges of citizenship."
ty section ten it was provided that: "All persons (Africans,
or descendants of Africans, and Indians excepted) who were
residing in Texas on the day of the declaration of independence,
shall le onsiderod citizens of the Republic and entitled to all
the privileges of such." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1760.
The fundamental law of the Republic thud identified as citizens only such persons as were residing in Texas on the day of
the declaration of independence or should be naturalized according to its provisions.
Section 10 also provided that: "No alien shall hold land in
Texas except by titles emanating directly from the government
of this Republic ;" and by an act of 1837, appointments of aliens
to military office were forbidden. Laws Rep. Texas, vol. 2, p. 61.
Aliens as well as Africans and Indians were recognized constituents of the population.
March 1, 1845, a joint resolution for the annexation of Texas
was approved, which.provided that the territory of that Republic might be erected into a new State, "with a republican form
of government, to be adopted by the people of said Republic,
by deputies in convention assembled, -with the consent of the
existing government, in order that the same may be admitted
VOL.

CLXXIX-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

as one of the States of this Union." The government of Texas
thereupon consented to annexation, and a convention was called
to sit at Austin on July 4, 1845, for the adoption of a constitution for the proposed State. That convention assented to and
accepted the resolution of Congress, and framed a constitution,
which was submitted to and ratified by the people, October 13,
1845.
The joint resolution for the admission of Texas into the Union
was approved December 29, 1845. This recited the previous
proceedings, and that the constitution, "with the proper evidence, of its adoption by the people of the Republic of Texas,"
had been transmitted to the President of the United States and
laid before Congress. An act of Congress was passed on the
same day, December 29, 1845, by which the laws of the United
States were "declared to extend to and over, and to have full
force and effect within, the State of Texas, admitted at the
present session of Congress into the Confederacy and Union of
the United States." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1761, .1165,
1768, 1783 ; 5 Stat. '97; 9 Stat. 1, 108.
Contzen was a minor in 1845, and his nationality of origin
attached. He did not reside in Texas on the day of the declaration of independence; he had not resided there six months at
the date of the admission of Texas into the Union; he had not
taken the oath of allegiance to the Republic; he was simply, as
Davis, J., delivering the opinion of the Court of Claims, said,
"a German subject lately arrived in Texas." Clearly.he was
not a citizen of Texas when the State'was admitted.
But it is contended that by his stay in Texas of less ihan six
months Contzen became one of the'people of Texas; that the
people were admitted into the Union; and that all who were
competent thereupon became citizens of the United States. In
other words, that the effect of the proceedings through which
annexation and admission were accomplished was not simply to
collectively make citizens of the United States of all the then
citizens of Texas, but to collectively naturalize all who might
have been naturalized in Texas, but had not been, and had in no
way signified their election to become citizens of the United
States. And that this included alien minors independently of
their parents.

CONTZENv. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

We cannot concur in this view, and do not think such was the
intention of Congress or of the people applying for admission.
Texas occupied towards the United States the position of an
independent sovereignty. Its citizens were determined by its
laws, and they prescribed the manner in which aliens might
become citizens.
The United States admitted Texas as one of the States of the
Union with its population as it stood. Those who were citizens
of the State became citizens of the United States, while aliens
were relegated for naturalization to the laws of the United
States on that subject.
It is true that section two of article three of the state constitution, transmitted to Congress in the process of admission,
provided that: "All free male persons over the age of twentyone years, (Indians not taxed,.Africans and descendants of Africans excepted,) who shall have resided six months in Texas,
immediately preceding the acceptance of this constitution by
the Congress of the United States, shall be deemed qualified
electors."
But we need not consider the effect of that clause, as Contzen
did not come within it.
The subject of collective naturalization is discussed at length
in Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, and many caess cited and
illustrations giien. The case before us, however, is not one of
a treaty of cession, or relating to a territory of the United
States and involving the construction of acts of Congress for
its government, or of enabling acts for its admission.
Contzen, as we have said, was a minor at the time Texas was
admitted. If he elected, when he attained his majority, to become a citizen of the United States, the way was open to him.
By the act of May 26,1824, carried forward into section 2167
of the Revised Statutes, special provision was made for the
naturalization of alien minor residents on attaining majority,
by dispensing with the previous declaration of intention, and
allowing three years of minority on the, five years' residence
required; but he was obliged, at the time of his admission, to
take the oath to support the Constitution, and of renunciation
of all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign sovereign, in court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and also to declare on oath and prove to the satisfaction of the
court that for two years next preceding it had been his bona
ftde intention to become a citizen of the United States; and in
all other respects to comply with the laws in regard to naturalization.
The usual proof of naturalization is a copy of the record of
the court admitting the applicant, though, in some instances,
there may -be facts from which, in the absence of the record, a
jury may be allowed to infer that a person, having the requisite
qualifications to become a citizen, had been duly naturalized.
But the finding of facts in this case excludes any presumption
that Contzen had complied with the statute prior to October,
1861.
Judgment affirmed.

LOWRY v. SILVER CITY GOLD AND SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 104.

Argued and submitted November 14, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

On the facts stated in the statement of the case, held that the court below
was right in deciding that the plaintiffs in error were estopped by virtue
of the lease from the defendant in error under which two of the plaintiffs
in error acquired possession of the premises in dispute from maintaining
this action.

ON January 1, 1889, the Wheeler Lode mining claim, a claim
1500 feet in length by 600 feet in width, was duly located on
mineral lands situated in the Tintic mining district, Juab
County, Utah. The title to the claim pa~sed to the defendant
in error, and its right thereto was kept alive by regular performance of the prescribed annual work. On February 8,1897,
it leased this claim to two of the plaintiffs in error, Lowry and
De Witt, for eighteen months, and those lessees went into possession and continued work on the mine. On June 4,1897, the
owners of a mining claim called the Evening Star, applied for

