SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Syllabus.

Acts of the insurer are sometimes construed as an acceptance, when the intention to accept is fairly dducible from particular conduct, in the absence of explicit refusal. Silence may
give rise to ambiguity solvable by acts performed. Here, hiowever, defendant refused to accept, and there was no ambiguity
in its attitude; and what was done, if done by it, was- no more
than it had the right to do without incurring a liability expressly disavowed. There was nothing to be left to the jury
on this branch of the case.
Some further suggestions are made, but they call for no particular consideration.

Judgment affii-ned.

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON COMPANY.
'CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 29. Argued Blarch 22, 23,1900.-Decided October 15, 1900,
In 1862, plaintiff's husband discovered a spring of bitter water in Hungary, and was granted by the Municipal Council of Buda permission to
sell such water, and to give the spring the name of " Hunyadi Spring."
He put up these waters in bottles of a certain shape and -with a peculiar
label, and opened a large trade in the same under the name of "Hunyadi
Janos." In 1872, one Markus discovered a spring of similar water and
petitioned the Council of Buda for permission to sell the water under the
name of "Hunyadi Matyas." This was denied upon the protest of Saxlehner; but in 1873 the action of the Council was reversed by the Minister of Agriculture, and permission given Markus to sell water under the
name of "Hunyadi Matyas." Other proprietors seized upon the word
"Hunyadi" which became generic as applied to bitter waters. This continued for over twenty years when, in 1895, a new law was adopted, and
Saxlehner succeeded in the Hungarian courts in vindicating his exclui.
sive right to the use of the word "Hunyad *' In 1897 he began this
suit.
Held: That the name "Hunyadi" havingbecome public property in Hungary, it also became, under our treatywith the Austro-Hungarian Empire
in 1872, public property here; that the court could not take notice of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
law of Hungary of 1895 reinstating the exclusive right of Saxlehuer, and
that the name having also become public property here, his right to an
exclusive appropriation was lost.
Held also: That even if this were not so, he, knowing the name "Hunyadi"
had become of common use in Hungary, was also chargeable with knowledge that it had become common property here, and that he was guilty
of laches in not instituting suits, and vindicating his exclusive right to
the word, if any such he had.
Held also: That acts, tending to show an abandonment of a trade-mark being insufficient, .unless they also show an actual intent to abandon, there
was but slight evidence of any personal intent on the part of Saxlehnerto
abandon his exclusive,right to the name "Hunyadi," and that a company, to whom he had given the exclusive right to sell his waters in
America, was not thereby made his agent and could not bind him by its
admissions.
Held also: Thatthe fact thathe registered the trade-mark "Hunyadi Janus"
did not estop him from subsequently registering the word "Hunyadi"
alone.
Held al8o : That the appropriation by other parties of his bottle and label,
beingwithout justification or excuse, was an active and continuing fraud
upon his rights, and that the defence of ]aches was not maintained.
Held also : That the adoption by the defendant of a small additional label,
distinguishing its importation from others did not relieve it from the
charge of infringement, inasmuch as the peculiar bottles and labels of the
plaintiff were retained.

THIs was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York by the widow of Andreas Saxlehner, deceased, a resident of Buda-Pesth and a subject of the
King of Huhgary, against the Eisner and Mendelson Company,
importers and wholesale dealers, to enjoin the defendant from
selling any water under a name in which the word " Hunyadi" occurs, or making use in the sale of bitter waters of
labels, in form, color, design and general appearance, imitating
the labels used by plaintiff in the sale of Hunyadi Janos water.
The bill averred in substance that plaintiff's husband, Andreas
Saxlehner, was, until May 24, 1889, the proprietor of a certain
well within the city limits of Buda-Pesth, and that in 186s he
began to sell the waters of the same in the market under the
name or trade-mark of "Hunyadi Janos;" that as his business
increased he acquired additional territory, opened new wells,
adopted a novel style of bottles and a peculiar label, and that
the waters soon became known in all the markets of the world

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MIENDELSON CO.
Statement of the Case.

under the name of "Hunyadi Janos," or in England and the
United States under the name of "Hunyadi" alone; that in
March, 1876, Saxlehner entered into a contract with the Apollinaris Company of London, under which such company was
given the exclusive right to sell this water in Great Britain and
the. United States, and that such contract was not terminated
until March, 1896; that this company used a label of similar
design but of different color, and that large quantities of this
water were exported by Saxlehner through such company and
sold in the United States under the name of "Hunyadi" water;
that Saxlehner died May 24, 1889, and plaintiff succeeded him
in the business; that prior to his death Saxlehner obtained the
registration in the Patent Office of the name "flH unyadi" as his
trade-mark; that the defendant, knowing of these facts, had
unlawfully imported and sold bitter water, not coming from
plaintiff's wells, in bottles of identical shape and size as those
used by plaintiff, and with labels in "close and fraudulent simulation of your orator's trade-mark," but under the name of
"Hunyadi Laszlo" or "Hunyadi Matyas "- all in defiance of
plaintiff's right, and with the design of imposing the waters
upon the public as those of the plaintiff.
The answer denied the material allegations of the bill, and
averred that in the year, 1873, one Ignatius Markus, being the•
proprietor of a certain well -within the limits of Buda-Pesth,
applied to the proper authorities and was granted the registration of the name "Hunyadi Matyas" as a denomination of the
waters of his spring, such authorities holding that the name
was distinguished from that of the "KHunyadi Janos;" that
"Hunyadi Janos," when anglicised, is John Hunyadi, the name
of a. celebrated Hungarian hero, and that the name "Hunyadi"
is a common one in Hungary, and means of or from Hunyad,
and that for this reason it is of itself incapable of exclusive appropriation by any one, being a common descriptive personal
name, and also used to designate certain districts and towns in
Hungary; that in the year 1889 the word had become a generic term, describing a kind of bitter aperient water, the peculiar product of a large number of wells in Hungary; that the
shape of the bottle and the peculiarities of the label have be-

OCTOBER 'TERM1, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

come common property, and were adopted by every one who
sold the Hunyadi water, whether under the name of "Hunvadi
Janos," "1Laszlo," "Matyas , " "Arpad," etc., and that to the
time of his death Saxlehner had never asserted or made any
claim to the exclusive use of his style of bottle, or capsules, or
labels; that in 1886 or 1887 the Apollinaris Company brought
suit against the American agents of several of these waters and
obtained temporary injunctions, which were subsequently dissolved upon evidence that the word "Hunyadi" was used in
Hungary as part of the name of a number of different mineral
waters, that Saxlehner refused to join with or aid the Apollinaris Company in opposing a dissolution of such injunctions,
and that thereafter these waters were sold freely, openly and
continuously in competition with the "Hunyadi Janos" in the
bottles and with the labels and capsules affixed thereto as before stated, with the knowledge, consent and acquiescence of
Saxlehner and his agents; that defendant, a Pennsylvania corporation, entered into a contract with the owners of the "Hunyadi
Matyas" spring, and obtained the exclusive right to import
their waters.into the United States for the term of twenty-five
years; that in 1890 it began to sell this water in like bottles
and with like capsules and labels affixed thereto as now claimed
by the plaintiff herein to be in violation of her claimed rights,
which bottles, capsules and labels were similar to those in which
the said " H unyadi M,atyas" water had been first imported, and
that this was done with the consent of the American agent of
the Apollinaris Company, who expressly stated that he had no
objection to the label used by the defendant, nor to the way in
which it was advertising the "Itunyadi Matyas" water; that
in 1889 it also became the agent for sale in the United States
of the "lH unyadi Arpad," "Ifunyadi Laszlo" and "Hunyadi
Bela" waters, and began to sell the same in large quantities;
that these waters were put up for sale and sold in bottles similar to those of the' "Hunyadi Janos," with like capsules and
labels; that these waters were sold in open competition with
the "Hunyadi Janos" until some time in 1893, when plaintiff
stopped said competition in part by purchasing the Arpad and
Bela springs, and thereupon revoked the agency of the defend-

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Statement of the Case.

ant to sell such waters; that in 1877 Saxlehner applied to tie
Commissioner of Patents for the registration of the words
".Hunyadi Janos" as a trade-mark; that such trade-mark was
registered September 11, 1877, by which proceeding he abandoiaed all claim and assertion of right to the word "Hunyadi"
in and of itself, and that it had for many years previously been
a generic term to designate this class of waters. The answer
further alleged that the defendant, in order to designate the
waters sold by it and to secure additional protection to the label
used by it, registered the trade-mark "Hunyadi Matyas," since
which time the defendant has used such trade-mark as stated
therein, and in accordance therewith.
As the case depended almost wholly upon questions of fact,
a somewhat elaborate statement of the evidence becomes
necessary.
In 1862, Andreas Saxlehner discovered within the city limits
of Buda-Pestb, Hungary, in a valley surrounded on all sides by
hills acting as a natural barrier, secluding it from the outer
world, a spring, which was named by him the "Hunyadi"
spring, and on January 19, 1863, the Municipal Council of
Buda-Pesth granted him permission to sell water taken from such
spring and to give the spring the name of '5Hunyadi," upon the
payment of a small sum of money for hospital purposes. Soon
after this he began to bottle the water of his spring and to sell
it under the arbitrary name or trade-mark of "Hunyadi
Janos;" in other words, John Hunyadi, a Hungarian hero of
the fifteenth century. Several wells were subsequently sunk
by him in the same valley to the number of about one hundred
and twelve, all of which produced water, substantially of the
same chemical combination, which is led through a system of
pipes to large subterranean cisterns, froxm which it is taken and
bottled. It soon began to be exported beyond the limits of
Hungary to other European countries, and also to the United
States.
Saxlehner was not, however, the first one in Hungary to put
up the bitter waters with which that kingdom abounds, but
others were already sold in the market, one of them being
called "Hildegarde," and another "Franz Deak." Different

OCTOBER TERM1, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

bottles and labels were used for these waters, when Saxlehner
adopted, in conjunction-with the distinctive name of "Hunyadi
Janos," a novel style of bottle of strdight shape with a short
neck, to the top of which was attached a metal capsule beari]g
the inscription "Hunyadi Janos, Budai KeserUviz Forrds,"
meaning "Hunyadi Janos, bitter water of Buda," together
with a supposed portrait of the hero stamped thereon. He
also adopted a peculiar label covering almost the whole body
of the bottle, divided into three longitudinal panels, the middle
one of which bore the same portrait in a medallion, with the
name of "Hunyadi Janos" written in large letters on the top
of the label, the color of the middle panel being a reddish
brown and the outer panels white. As this water was exported
to and sold in the various countries of the world, a different
custom concerning its appellation sprung up in different countries, the Latin races using the word "Janos" as the common
appellation of the water, it being known as "Eau de Janos" or
"Aqua di Janos," while in England and the United States of
America the name of "Hunyadi" became its common appellation, it being known as Hunyadi water.
In 1872, it seems that one. Ignatius Markus discovered a
spring upon a plot of ground leased by him, which also produced
bitter water of similar quality, and shortly thereafter petitioned
the Municipal Council of Buda-Pesth not only for permission to
sell the water, which was unconditionally granted upon 'the
report of the town physician concerning the quality of the watei
found, but also to be allowed to name this spring '"Hunyadi
Matyas," and to bring the water into commerce under that name.
This was denied, upon the petition and protest of Saxlehner, who
claimed the exclusive right to the use of the name "Hunyadi."
It was said that the granting of the denomination "Hunyadi
Matyas" to another spring "would very likely, nay certainly,
lead both between the owners of the two springs and among
the consuming public, to unpleasant misunderstandings, which
it is the duty of the authorities to avoid and even to prevent.
And further, the fact that petitioner, notwithstanding the many
designations at his disposal, seeks to apply the name ' Hunyadi'
to his spring, undoubtedly shows the not very noble intention

SAXLEHNER i. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Statement of the Case.

on his part to avail himself of the great diffusion and good
renown enjoyed by the Saxlehner Hunyadi Bitter Spring, both
at home and abroad, which, however, cannot be tolerated by
the authorities, and in the present case all the less, as it is a wellknown fact that Mr. Saxlehner was able to secure this good
renown to his spring only through many years' labor and at
considerable expense."
On a petition in appeal, however, to the Minister of Agriculture, in 1873, the decision of the Council, which denied to Markus
the permission to use the name "1H unyadi. Matyas," was reversed, because of certain omissions by Saxlehner to conform to
the local laws, and also because " Hunyadi Janos" and "Hunyadi
Matyas"' "represent two quite clearly different names, which
may stand without any infringement to each other." This
spring was afterwards registered in Buda-Pesth by the name of

"Hunyadi Matyas," and thereupon the proprietors of other
wells began to sell their waters in Europe under the name of
Hunyadi with an added name, and also with the use of a close
imitation of the red and white labels. It did not appear, however, that Markus sold any water or made use of the permission
granted to him by the Minister, or obtaineil a license from the
local authorities; but, in 1876, the firm of Mattoni & Wille
became the purchasers of the plot of ground leased by Markus
and several other adjoining plots containing springs, and in that
year registered a separate trade-mark and name for each of the
six springs which they then acquired, among which was a trademark bearing the name "iHunyadi Matyas." In 1877 they
began selling these waters in Hungary, claiming certain specific
differences of composition of the various waters which recommended them for different purposes.
In February, 1876, Saxlehner made a contract with the Apollinaris Company, Limited, of London, by which that company agreed to purchase a certain quantity yearly, and Saxlehner bound himself for a term, which finally expired in 1896, to
give the company the exclusive right to sell his "Hunyadi
Janos" water in Great Britain, United States and other transmarine countries. The company agreed to purchase at least
100,000 bottles yearly until 1878, and at least 150,000 bottles

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

thereafter at a stated price. In addition to this Saxlehner
agreed not to fill any orders coming from the territory granted
to the company, but to make them over to the company. A
special label was designed to be used on the bottles sold by the
company of substantially the same contents and characteristics,
but of a different color, the body of the label being a dark blue,
with a red or reddish brown central field. A narrow strip on
the top of the label contained the name of the Apollinaris Company as the importer, and from the making of this contract
large quantities of water bearing this label were exported and
sold in the United States under the name of "Hunyadi Janos,"
or the shorter name "Hunyadi."
After April, 1889, and until the cancellation of the contract
in 1896, this company placed upon each bottle of Janos water
which it sold in this country a red diamond containing these
words: "The red diamond is the trade-mark of the Apollinaris
Company, Limited, and is meant only to indicate that the mineral waters so marked are sold by the Apollinaris Company,
Limited."
In 1887, Saxlehner caused the name "Hunyadi" to be
registered separately from "Janos" as a trade-mark in the
United States Patent Office. In the statement accompanying
this registration he was again careful to refer to the red and
white or red and blue label upon which said trade-mark was
used by him, and to repeat the caution that he did not in anywise intend by said registration to abridge his right to the exclusive use of said label as a whole, or to any of its features.
The Apollinaris Company embarked in the business of selling Hunyadi Janos water in the United States, but met with
competition from one Scherer, who imported the water under
the red and"white label from. Europe, buying it from parties
who had purchased it from Saxlehner. The company sought
to enjoin Scherer from so selling upon the ground of its exclusive right within the United States, but failed in the suit. The
case was decided in 1886, and reported in 27 Fed. Rep. 18.
In the same year Mattoni & Wille of Buda-Pesth consigned
to one Andres in New York one hundred and twenty-one cases
of Hunyadi Matyas water taken from one of four springs pur-

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Statement of the Case.

chased by them, one of which was the original Markus spring
above mentioned.
About the same time the firm of Ignatz Ungar & Son began
to sell waters from a spring owned by them, which was designated
"Hunyadi Arpad," through one Joseph Ungar as their agent.
This water was put up in an imitation of Saxlehner's red and
blue labels. The Matyas water was also put up in red and
white labels of similar design. Suits were brought against them
in 1886, in the Circuit Court of the United States, by the Apollinaris Company to enjoin the use of the name "Hunyadi" and
of the labels. These suits were, however, withdrawn for want
of jurisdiction, and two other cases, one against Andres and the
other against Ungar, were brought by the Apollinaris Company
in the Supreme Court of the State. Ex parte injunctions were
issued in each case in February, 1887, and remained in force
until July, 1888, when the injunction in the Ungar suit was dissolved upon application of the defendant, and soon thereafter
the Andres suit was voluntarily discontinued. Saxlehner appeared to have had no knowledge of these suits, although an
effort was made, which the court below found to have been unsuccessful, to show that he was notified of the motion to dissolve the injunction, and -refused to assist in opposing it. The
defendants in these suits seem to have relied largely upon the
fact that, under the laws of Hungary, as they then were, they
had a right to make use of the word "Hunyadi," provided they
annexed thereto as a suffix a word different from "Janos," as
for instance, "Matyas" or "Arpad," and that, having obtained
permission by royal grant to make use of these names in Hungary, they were entitled to make use of the same names in' other
countries.
In the mean time, however, and in 1$87,Saxlehner instituted
another suit in Hungary to enjoin the use of the name "Hunyadi" as applied to a water sold there called the "Hunyadi
Josef." He was again unsuccessful, not only in preventing the
use of the word "Hunyadi," but even in preventing the use of
colorable imitations of his red and white label, apparently on
account of the lack of efficient statutes upon the subject of trademarks. As one of the witnesses, Saxlehner's son, states, he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

advised by his lawyer that before 1890 there was a statute which
gave protection against so-called counterfeit or imitation labels
and against literal imitations, but not imitations which were
similar merely.
In 1890, a statute.was passed which gave a protection to pictorial trade-marks only, but not to trade-marks designated by
name. Plaintiff, whose husband died in 1889, at once took advantage of this statute, and instituted suits against Mattoni &
Wille, as well as a number of other infringers. In 1895, another
act was passed giving protection to verbal trade-marks. The
suit against Mattoni & Wille resulted in an order of the Minister of Commerce, November 26, 1894, cancelling the several
trade-marks of Hunyadi Matyas water, "because, according to
the opinion of three experts consulted by the chamber, such
trade-marks are similar in composition, design and color, and
also for keneral impression to the trade-marks previously registered for the firm Saxlehner, and have.been found to be imitation of the same and apt to mislead the public."
A similar suit instituted by plaintiff against the "Co m pagnie
G6n~rale d'Eaux Universelles et de Bains de Mer" resulted in a
similar decree canceling the Hunyadi Laszlo label, "because of
the three experts consulted, two have pronounced same to be
entirely similar to the trade-mark registered for Saxlehner, and
the danger of misleading is greatly augmented by the fact
that on this trade-mark the name Hunyadi is applied in a
prominent place."
The sale of the Hunyadi Laszlo water seems to have been
practically stopped by this decree, but notwithstanding the decree against them of November 26, 1894, Mattoni & Wille continued to use the name of Hunyadi Matyas separate from the
label, and exported water as before to the defendant in this suit
with red and blue labels, which were not registered in Hungary.
In 1895, however, another act was passed in Hungary for the
registration of words or names as trade-marks. Plaintiff took
advantage of this, registered the name "iH unyadi" as a trademark, and promptly instituted another suit against Mattoni &
Wille, which resulted, in 1896, in another decree cancelling, not

SAXLERNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opiuion of the Court.

only the illustrated trade-marks, but the verbal trade-mark
Hunyadi Matyas, and awarding to the plaintiff a priority of
right to the exclusive use of the words "Hunyadi Janos" and
"Hunyadi" alone, both as a commercial denomination as well
as a trade-mark. In the decree of the Minister the prior decree
of the Minister of Agriculture of the year 1873, legalizing the
use of Hunyadi Matyas, was referred to and treated as superseded by the laws of 1890 and 1895. "There is," says he,
"therefore absolutely no connection between that decision and
the case now under consideration." Similar decrees were rendered the same year against other defendants who sought to
appropriate the name Hunyadi, including "Hunyadi Josef,"
against which Saxlehner had been unsuccessful in 1887;" Hunyadi Lajos," and also " Uj lutiyadi," or new Hunyadi, whose
litigation against Saxlehner seems to have been carried on in
the interest of the Apollinaris Company.
In fact, this litigation seems to have resulted in a complete
vindication of the right of Saxlehner to the use of the word
"Hunyadi."
Promptly upon the rendition of these decrees, and early in
1897, this suit, as well as the others hereinafter mentioned, was
instituted.
The case came on for hearing before the Circuit Court upon
pleadings and proofs, and resulted in a decree enjoining the
defendant from selling, or offering for sale, any bitter water
not coming from the "Hunyadi Janos" wells of the plaintiff
in bottles of a straight shape, with a short neck, and bearing
labels in color, size, shape and general design so closely similar
to plaintiff's said label as to be calculated to deceive, but permitting the defendant to make use of the name "Hunyadi" as
a prefix to some other name than "Janos," and denying the
injunction demanded by the plaintiff against the use of the
name "iHunyadi." 88 Fed. Rep. 61.
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the decree of the
H
Circuit Court was affirmed as to the name "fl
unyadi," but reversed as to the label, and the bill dismissed. 63 U. S. App.
139, 145,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. Antonio JXnuth and hr. John G. Johnson, for Saxlehner. Mr. Arthur von Briesen was on their brief.
hXr. Charles G. Coe and -Mr. Edmund Wetmore for respondents.

MRi. JUSWIcE BROWN, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
This case involves the question of plaintiff's exclusive right
to the use of the name "Hunyadi" as a trade-mark for Hungarian bitter waters, as well as her right to the red and blue
label and its characteristic features used by her upon the bottles in which she has been.accustomed to sell "IHunyadi Janos"
water.
From the foregoing summary of the facts it appears:
1. That Saxlehner was the first to appropriate and use the
name "Hunyadi" as a trade-mark for bitter watets, and that
such name being neither descriptive nor geographical, but purely
arbitrary and fanciful as applied to medicinal waters, was the
proper subject of a trade-mark;
2. That in the shape of his bottles, the design of his capsules
and his labels, he was originally entitled to be protected against
a fraudulent imitation;
3. That the defendant is selling a water under the name of
"Hunyadi Matyas" in bottles of the same size and shape as
the plaintiff's, containing a label in three parallel panels of the
same colors, size and general design as those of the plaintiff,
that their general appearance is such as to deceive the casual
purchaser, and that such bottles and labels were evidently designed for the purpose of imposing the defendant's waters upon
the public as those of the plaintiff. A moment's comparison of
the two labels will show that, while the printed matter upon
each is different from that upon the other, their general resemblance is such as would be likely to mislead the public into the
purchasing of one for the other. While the proprietors of the
"lHunyadi Matyas" water undoubtedly found a justification
for their use of the word "Runyadi" in the decision of the Min-

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

.ister of Agriculture of 1873, that decision did not cover the use
of the simulated label, the adoption of which seems to have been
an act of undisguised piracy.
Practically, the only defences pressed upon our attention are
those of abandonment and laches.
.1. To establish the defence of abandonment it is necessary to
show not only acts indicating a practical abandonment, but 4n
actual intent to abandon. Acts which unexplained would -be
sufficient to establish an abandonment may be answered by showing that there never was an intention to give up and relinquish
the right claimed. Singer Zfg. Co. v. June .Mfg. Co., 163 U. S.
169,186 ; 3foore v. Stevenson, 27 Conn. 13 ; Livemnore v. White,
74 Maine, 452; J udon v. -Malloy,40 California, 299;, Hickman
v. Link, 116 Missouri, 123. And in a recent English case this
doctrine has been applied to a case of trade-marks. Aouson v.
Boehm, 26 Ch. Div. 398. With regard to the defence of abandonment, it may with confidence be said that there is but very
slight evidence of any personal intention on the part of Andreas
Saxlehner or his wife to abandon the use of the word "Hunyadi" or dedicate the same to the public, and none at all of an
intent to abandon the peculiar bottles and labels in connection
with which he sold his waters. In fact, Saxlehner's whole life
was a constant protest against the use by others of the name
"Hunyadi." He discovered his spring in 1862, and in 1863 obtained permission to give it the name of Hunyadi Spring. He
carried on an uninterrupted trade under that name until 1872.
It also appears from the certificate of the Chamber of Commerce
and Industry that the trade-riark "Hunyadi Janos" was, on
December 12, 1872, registered, and that previously to such registration no trade-mark was entered in which the name "Hunyadi" or 1" Janos" was contained. It further appears that Ignatius Markus had no sooner petitioned the town council for a
license to apply to his spring the name of "Hunyadi Matyas"
than Saxlehner entered his protest, and was at first successful,
but was finally defeated, and that upon the strength of this decision other springs were opened by various parties under trademarks, of which the word "Hunyadi" was the principal component. At that time, owing to the inefficacy of the Hungarian

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion ot the Court.

laws upon the subject of trade-marks, he could do' no more.
In 1877 he registered the trade-mark " H unyadi Janos" in the
Patent Office of the United States. In 1884 he registered both
his red and white and red and blue labels in the Buda-Pesth
Chamber of Commerce, the latter being intended for use by the
Apollinaris Company. In 1887 he instituted an unsuccessful
suit in Hungary against the use of the words "Hunyadi Josef."
Upon the passage of the Hungarian law of 1890, legalizing the use
of pictorial trade-marks, the plaintiff again registered the three
labels, and in the following year instituted suits against all in•fringers in Hungary, which finally resulted in a complete establishment of !-r rights to the name Hunyadi. In 1887 Saxlehner
registered the word "Hunyadi" as his trade-mark in the Patent
Office of the United States, and in 1895, when the act for the
protection of verbal trade-marks was enacted, plaintiff registered the same word in Hungary. Saxlehner appears, however,
to have successfully protested against Mattoni & Wile's registration of "ttunyadi Mvatyas" in Germany. In June, 1896,
plaintiff also instituted a suit against the Apollinaris Company
in England, and obtained a final injunction against the illegal
In the decree of the Court of
use of the name "lHunyadi."
Chancery, which is reproduced, it was ordered that the Apollinaris Company deliver up to the plaintiff for destruction all
labels, trade documents and capsules in their possession which, by
reason of their.exhibiting the name "lHunyadi," are capable of
being used for business in the United Kingdom for any Hungarian Bitter Water not being Hunyadi Janos water. Immediately upon the determination of the Hungarian litigation, and
in the spring of 1897, plaintiff began these suits.
There is nothing in these facts tending to show an abandonment by Saxlehner or the plaintiff of their rights either in the
name of Hunyadi or in the labels, unless it be the fact that the
trade-mark registered in the United States in 1887 contained
the words "Hunyadi Janos," which, it is insisted, was a waiver
of a right thereafter to register the name "Hunyadi" alone.
That position, however, assumes that, in the absence of such
re-registration, other dealers would have the right to seize upon
and appropriate the principal word "lHunyadi "' of the prior

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

trade-mark, provided they changed the final word and substituted another. We are not prepared to indorse this contention. It is not necessary to constitute an infringement that
every word of a trade-mark should be appropriated. It is sufficient that enough be taken to deceive the public in the purchase of a protected article. It was said by Vice Chancellor
Shadwell, in 1857, that if a thing contained 'twenty-five parts,
and one only was taken, such imitation would be sufficient
to contribute to a deception, and the law would hold those
responsible who had contributed to the fraud. Guinness v.
Ullmer, 10 Law Thies, 127. While this may be a somewhat
exaggerated statement, the reports are full of cases where bills
have been sustained for the infringement of ono of several
woids of a trade-mark. Shrimpton v. Laigt,18 Beav. 164;
Clement v. Mftaddick, 1 Giff. 98; Iostetter v. Vonwinke,
1 Dill. 329; Aforse v. Worrell, 9 Am. Law Review, 368; GrilIon v. Guenin, Weekly Notes (1877), 14; American Grocer
Pub. A88ociation' v. Groem, Pub. Co., 25 Hun, 398. It would
seem that the registration in 1887 of the single word "Hunyadi" was really unnecessary for the protection of Saxlehner's
rights, though we see no reason for holding the former registration an estoppel. The evidence shows that these Hungarian
bitter waters were largely known in this country as Hunyadi
waters, and that in a certain sense Hunyadi had become a generic word for them. Of course, if it became such with the
assent and acquiescence of Saxlehner, he could not thereafter
assert his right to its exclusive use. But as this appropriation
was made against his constant protest, and as he apparently
made every effort in his power-to put a stop to the use of it,
it ought not to be charged-up against his claim that the word
had become generic.
It is contended, however, that the conduct of the Apollinaris
Company was such as to show an abandonment both of the
name and label, and that plaintiff is estopped by, their act in
further asserting title to them. This defence presupposes that
the Apollinaris Company had power to bind Saxlehner by its
admission and contract. Certainly the contract gave it no such
power in express terms. Saxlehner did not purport to make
VOL. CLXXIX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court

the company his agent. He agreed to sell the company a certain number of cases of his water at a certain price, and also
agreed to sell to no one else during the pendency of the contract. It was agreed that their consignments should carry the
label " Sole importers, Apollinaris Company, Limited,' 19 Regent
street, London, S. W." The company agreed not to compete
with Saxlehner upon the continent, and upon his part he agreed
to make over to the company all orders arising from countries
reserved to it, as well as to refuse such orders where he had
good reason to suppose they were intended for such countries.
This is practically all there is of the contract. No agreement
was made with respect to the trade-mark or the good. will of the
business, and the company reserved the right, which it subsequently exercised, of cancelling the contract upon notice. While
such contract may have authorized the company to prosecute
infringers here, and in the conduct of thbse particular suits
Saxlehner may have been bound, it did not agree to do so or
preclude the institution of other suits by him, nor was there
uny authority on the part of the company to bind him by its
admissions.
The conduct of the Apollinaris Company, relied upon as evidence of abandonment, consists principally in the discontinuance'
of the two suits against Ungar and Andres after preliminary
injunctions had been obtained (Saxlehner was not shown to
have had knowledge of these suits); of a conversation between
Mendelson, treasurer of the defendant company, and Steinkopf,
a director of the Apollinaris Company in London, in which
Mendelson spoke of his intention to sell the Hunyadi Matyas
water, of which he had obtained control, and Steinkopf stated
"that he could have no objection to that; that there were other
Hunyadi waters," and of some other statements equally unimportant. There is little in any of these indicative of an intent
on the part of the Apollinaris Company to abandon its exclusive
right to the use of the word "Hunyadi" in America. Certainly,
nothing indicative of such an intent on the part of Saxlehner,
whose conduct in Hungary was wholly inconsistent with that
theory. Evidence that the Apollinaris Company intended to
abandon an exclusive right to the name "Hunyadi" might be

SAXLEHNER "z. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficieht as against them to defeat a suit for an injunction, but
would not be binding upon the plaintiff unless done with her
knowledge and acquiescence.
2. The defence of laches depends upon somewhat different
considerations, and, so far as it applies to the use of the word
"Hunyadi," we think it is established. It appears that after
the decision of the Minister of Agriculture in 1873 sustaining
the claim of Markus to the trade-mark "Hunyadi Matyas,"
other springs were opened whose waters were bottled under
different trade-marks, in all of which the word "Hunyadi" was
a component, and as early as 1886 these waters found their way
to the United States, and were put on sale here with the knowledge of the Apollinaris Company. There is no evidence that
Saxlehner had personal knowledge of these infringements, and
while something may be said in his favor in view of his persistent efforts to establish his rights in Hungary, he was bound
to know the law in this country, and to take steps within a
reasonable time to vindicate his rights. The infringers were
making use of their trade-marks under licenses from the Hungarian Government, and we see no reason to doubt that they
were proceeding in good faith to dispose of their waters under
the trade-marks registered in Hungary. Under these circumstances, if Saxlehner had intended to assert his rights under the
laws of this country, to the exclusive use of the word "Hunyadi," he was bound to act with reasonable promptness.. It is
true that he may have supposed the Apollinaris Company would
assert his rights in that particular for their own benefit; but if,
a8 we have already held, he was not bound by their admissions,
he is in no position to take advantage of their inaction, and, as
against traders who were selling bitter waters under trademarks legalized by the Hungarian Government, he should not
have waited until the name "Hunyadi" had become generic
in this country, and indicative of this whole class of medicinal
waters.
We do not find it necessary to decide exactly what effect
shall be given to the various decrees of the Hungarian ministers and courts. It is quite sufficient to observe that the use
of the words "Hunyadi Matyas" was expressly sanctioned

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

within the Kingdom of Hungary by the Minister of Agriculture in .1873, and it would seem that under our treaty with the
Austro-Hungarian Empire of June 1, 1872, 17 Stat. 917, the
right to use the word became available in the United States.
By the first article of this treaty "every reproduction of trademarks which, in the countries or territories of the one of the
contracting parties, are affixed to certain merchandise
is forbidden in the countries or territories of the other of the
contracting parties;" and by the same article, "If the trademark has become public property in the country of its origin,
it shall be equally free to all in the countries or territories of
the other of the two contracting parties." In view of the decision of the Minister of Agriculture of 1873, sustaining the
trade-mark "Hunyadi Matyas," and the subsequent adoption
of the word "Hunyadi" in connection with some other word
by numerous proprietors of similar waters, it seems to be clear
that the word became and continued to be for twenty years
public property in the Kingdom of Hungary, and it is difficult
to escape the conclusion that it also became so here. It is true
the law of Hungay was subsequently changed in this particular, and that the courts of that country held the plaintiff entitled to the benefit of that change; but it needs no argument to
show that, if the word once became public property here, a
subsequent change in the law in her own country would not
enure to the advantage of the plaintiff here. The right to individual appropriation once lost is gone forever.
If, upon the other hand, we assume that the case can be decided without reference to the law of Hungary or the decisions
of its officers and courts, the plaintiff is still at a disadvantage
by reason of not instituting her suits more promptly. Saxlehner knew as a matter of fact that the Minister of Agriculture
had overruled his protest, and that the word "Hunyadi" had
become public property in the Kingdom of Hungary. He knew
that a large number of dealers would appropriate the word, and
that he was himself selling a large quantity of bitter water in
the United States. He must also have known, or at least had
good reason to know, that his competitors were doing the same
thing. Under such circumstances he should have instituted

SAXLEHNER r. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

inquiries upon his own account, and, regardless of his contract
with the Apollinaris Company, have seen to it that his own interests were protected. If the Apollinaris Company were not
his agent for the protection of his rights in the United States,
then it was incumbent upon him to assert such rights person
ally or through some other recognized medium. In now invoking our laws, his successor is bound to show that she has
complied with our requirements of diligence and promptuess in
instituting suit. She has failed in this particular. By twenty
years of inaction she has permitted the use of the word by
numerous other importers, and it is now too late to resuscitate
her original title.
3. This argument, however, has but a limited application to
the appropriation of the bottles and red and blue labels covering them, which appear to have been seized upon by the proprietors of the Matyas spring as well as by others, without a
shadow of justification and in fraud of plaintiff's rights. As
already stated, Saxlehner, when he began selling his water,
adopted not only the name "Hunyadi Janos," but a straight
bottle with a short neck, to the top of which was attached a
metal capsule with an inscription, as well as a peculiar label,
covering almost the whole body of the bottle, divided into three
rectangular panels of red and white, which at the time of his
contract with the Apollinaris Company was changed to red
and blue, so far as it applied to waters sold to that company
for the American market. A narrow strip on the top of the
label was added, containing the imprint of the Apollinaris Company as importers, and.from 1876, the date of-the contract, until 1886, the business was carried on by the Apollinaris Company in this country without any important competitors. In
1886, however, Mattoni & Wille began to consign "Hunyadi
Matyas" bitter water to New York, put up in bottles bearing a red and white label. In 1889 the Eisner & Mendelson
Company, defendant herein, made a contract with Mattoni &
Wille, by which it obtained the sole agency for the United
States and Canada for the sale of their bitter waters for the
term of twenty years. During 1889 and 1890 defendant imported some twenty thousand bottles under the name of" Royal

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Hungarian Bitter Water," under a red and white label devised
by themselves. In 1890 the defendant took a new lease for five
years, with an option for a renewal for twenty years, from
Mattoni of the Hunyadi Matyas spring. The Circuit Court
found in this connection that "the reason which induced Eisner
to make this lease was his desire to control the American label;
so that neither Mattoni & Wille nor European producers could
interfere with the American trade. A new label was therefore
forth with devised by Eisner, which was a reddish brown and
blue label, and is described in the complaint'containing the
name ' Hunyadi Matyas,' ' Buda Keserllviz' and a medallion
portrait of King Stephen in the center of the red division'. He
intentionally simulated the Saxlehner United States label for
the purpose of obtaining, by means of the simulation, part of
the good will which the Janos water had gained."
We are pointed to no decision of the Hungariai authorities
authorizing the use of Saxlehner's label by other parties.
The petition of Markus did not ask for permission to use it.
The decision of 1873 did not grant it. The decree favorable to
Saxlehner did not nention it, but dealt only with the name
"Hunyadi." Notwithstanding repeated violations of his label,
he seems to have beefi unable to obtain redress on account of
the inefficacy of the laws until 1896, when a competitive trademark was ordered to be canceled in his favor by reason of its
resemblance to Saxlehner's label, as well as by the use of the
word "Hunyadi." In all his applications, both in Hungary
and the United States, for the registration of his trade-mark
name, there is an express reservation of his right to the medallion head of Hunyadi and to his label. Indeed, we find no
authority whatever for the appropriation of this label by any
of Saxlehner's competitors, and nothing to show that it was
not a case of undisguised piracy. The only justification for its
appropriation now insisted upon is the fact that, by general use
in this country for the past ten years, it has come to be recognized as a kind of generic label applicable to all Hungarian bitter waters, and if Saxlehner had originally an exclusive right
to make use of it, that right has been lost by his acquiescence
and 1hat of the Apollinaris Company in its general use by other

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

importers. But in cases of actual fraud, as we have repeatedly
held, notably in the recent case of McIntyre v. P "yor, 173 U. S.
38, the principle of laches has but an imperfect application,
and delay even greater than that permitted by the statute of
limitations is not fatal to plaintiff's claim. We have only to
refer to the cases analyzed in'that opinion for this distinguishing principle that, where actual fraud is proven, the court will
look with much indulgence upon the circumstances tending to
excuse 'the plaintiff from a prompt assertion of his rights. Indeed, in a case of an active and continuing fraud like this we
should be satisfied with no evidence of laches that did not amount
to proof of assent or acquiescence.
As applicable to trade-marks, two cases in this court are
illustrative of this principle. In .Ac-ean v. Fleming, 96 U. S.
245, there had been apparently a delay of about twenty years
ininstituting proceedings, but the court observed that "equity
courts will not, in general, refuse an injunction on account of
delay in seeking relief, where the proof of infringement is
clear, even though the delay may be such as to preclude the
party from any right to an account for past profits." An injunction was granted in this case, but it was held that by reason
of inexcusable laches, the complainant was not entitled to an
account of gains or profits. See also Harrisonv. Taylor, 11
Jurist (N. S.), 408. An effort was made in MI'enendez v. Holt,
128 U. S. 514, to obtain a reconsideration of the principle of
M7fcLean v. Fleming, so far as it was therein held'that an injunction might be awarded, though the complainant were precluded by his delay friom obtaining an account of gains and
profits. But the Chief Justice observed: "The intentional
use of another's trade-mark is a fraud; and when the excuse is
thai the owner permitted such use, that excuse is disposed of
by affirmative action to put a stop to it. Persistence then in
the use is not innocent, and'the wrong is a continuing one, demanding restraint by judicial interposition when properly invoked. Mere delay or acquiescence cannot defeat the remedy
by in junction in support of the legal right, unless it has been
continued so long and under such circumstances as to defeat
the right itself,

.

.

.

nor will the issue of an injunction

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

against. the infringement of a trade-mark be denied on the
ground that mere procrastination in seeking redress for depredations had deprived the true proprietor of his legal right."
Fullwood v. Fullwood, 9 Ohan. Div. 176. ". . . So far as
the act complained of is completed, acquiescence may defeat the
remedy on the principle applicable when action is taken on the
strength of encouragement to do it, but so far as the act is in
progress and lies in the future, the right to the intervention of
equity is not generally lost by previous delay, in respect to
which the elements of an estoppel could rarely arise."
In the case under consideration we do not see how it is possible to wring an abandonment on the part of Saxlehner or the
plaintiff from the repeated and persistent efforts made by them
in Hungary to assert their rights. But it was not until the law
was amended in 1895 that these efforts were successful. It can
scarcely be wondered at that, in view of the disabilities under
which he labored in his own country, Saxlehner should have
thought it futile to undertake the prosecution of his rights in a
distant land. As the defendant is unable to call to his assistance
any authority from the home government for the use .of these
simulated labels, and as they and their vendors in Hungary
seized upon these labels with knowledge of Saxlehner's rights,
it isno hardship to enjoin their further use, and to hold defendant liable for such profits as it may have realized or for such
damages as the plaintiff may have sustained by reason of the
illegal use.
It seems, however, that in 1893 the defendant company began
to affix to their bottles of Matyas water an additional label,
consisting of a red seal upon a white ground, and containing the
words, "Ask for the Seal brand. This label has been adopted
to protect the public from imitation b nd as a guarantee of the
genuineness of the Hunyadi Matyas Water imported solely by
Eisner and Mendelson Co., New York." The attention of druggists was called to this seal brand by advertisements in the trade
papers. The Circuit Coutt was of opinion that, as the word
"Hunyadi" had become generic, and was no longer subject to
individual appropriation, this label was a sufficient attempt on
the part of defendant to assert that it was the seller of the

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Matyas water, and that from its adoption it freed the defendant from the charge, which before that time was true, that it
was cajoling or deceiving the ordinary purchaser into the belief
that he was buying the Janos water; and in its decree refused
to enjoin the defendant from selling such water under the red
and blue label bearing the name "lH unyadi Matyas" in connection with the Seal brand label.
We are of opinion, however, that as defendant's bottle and
label are a clear infringement upon those of the plaintiff, it
would be destructive to her just rights to permit the use of such
bottles and labels by the defendant, notwithstanding the affixing
of the Seal brand, whicli is a mere private mark of the importer.
The injury to her is in the simulation of her bottle and label,
and she has the right to require that her competitors shall be
forced to adopt a style of bottle which no one with the exercise
of ordinary care can mistake for hers. While this label may
have been adopted in good faith, we do not think its employment would prevent the casual customer from purchasing this.
water as that of the plaintiff, and that the injunction should also
go against its use and that plaintiff should recover her damages
therefor.
We are therefore of opinion that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Ap~.eals mu8t be reverged, and the case remanded
to the Circuit Courtfor the Southern Districtqf .Aew York,
with directionsto reinstateits decree of April 29,1898, except
so far as it denies to the plaintif an injunction againstthe
use of the Seal brand Utbels and damages sustained by such.
use, and for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this court.

