GABLEMAN v. PEORIA &c. R'Y CO.
Syllabus.

But the obvious answer is that the law in question has been
declared to be valid under the constitution of the State. The
general right to vote in the State of Missouri is primarily derived from the State, United States v. Peese, 92 U. S. 214; and
the elective franchise, if one of the fundamental privileges and
immunities of the citizens of St. Louis, as citizens of M[issouri and
of the United States, is clearly such franchise "as regulated and
*established by the laws or constitution of the State in which it
is to be exercised." Blake v. XcClung, 172 U. S.239, quoting
from the opinion of Mr. Justice Washington at circuit in Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. 0.380. The power to classify cities
with reference to their population having been exercised in conformity with the constitution of the State, the circumstance
that the registration law in force in the city of St. Louis was
made to differ in essential particulars from that which regulates
the conduct of elections in other cities in the State of Missouri,
does not in itself deny to the citizens-of St. Louis the equal protection of the laws. Nor did the exercise by the general assembly of Missouri of the discretion vested in it by law give
rise to a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Cha]ppell Chemical Co. v. Sul.phur.Mines Co., 172 U. S. 474, 475, and cases cited; Jfaxwell
v. .Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 598.
Judgment aflrmed.

GABLEMAN v. PEORIA, DECATUR AND EVANSVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTMH
CIRCUIT.
No. 438. Submitted November 16,1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.

An action against a receiver of a state corporation is not a case arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States simply by reason
of the fact that such receiver was appointed by a court of the United

States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
A receiver appointed by a Federal court may be sued in that court as well
as in the state court, but if in the state court, he is not entitled to remove
the cause on the sole ground of his appointment by the Federal court.

THE certificate in this case was as follows:
"This action was brought originally in the superior court for
Vanderburg County, in the State of Indiana, on the 28th of
August, i897, -by the plaintiff in error, a citizen of Indiana,
against the defendants in error, to recover damages for personal injuries said to have been sustained by the plaintiff in
error, in March, 1897, through the negligence of the defendants
in error in the operation of a railway train, and the failure to
properly operate the gates at a railway crossing. The defendant railway company is a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Indiana, and the defendant, George Colvin, is a
citizen of Indiana. The defendant, Edward 0. Hopkins, was,
at the time the injuries were received and the suit was commenced, receiver of the defendant railway company, by appointment of the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Illinois, and was, at the time of the injuries, in sole
control and management of the railway company, having an
office in Vanderburg County, in the State of Indiana, the defendant Colvin being in his employment as a locomotive engineer,
and as his servant operating the engine at the time of the injury.
The record does not show that the duties of the defe~idant,
Colvin, extended to the operation or maintenance of the gates
at the railway crossing. The record does not disclose the place
of residence, or the citizenship of Hopkins, as an individual.
"In due time after the commencement of the suit the defendant, Edward 0. Hopkins, receiver, on his sole petition, removed
the cause into the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana,
upon the ground that it was a case arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. A motion to remand was
entered by the plaintiff in error, and overruled by the Circuit
Court for the District of Indiana; and, at the trial subsequently,
a verdict was, by direction of the court, returned for the defendants in error.
"The questions of law upon which this court desires the advice and instruction of the Supreme Court are:

GABLEMAN v. PEORIA &c. R'Y CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"(1.) Did the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana have, upon these facts, jurisdiction to try the

cause?.
"(2.) Was the cause one properly removable into the Circuit
Court of the United States "
.Mr. William Allan Cullop for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Walter S.Horton for defendants in error.
M .C0rEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion 6f the court.
The general policy of the act of March 3, 1887, corrected by
the act of August 13, 1888; 24 Stat. c. 373, p. 552; 25 Stat.
c. 866, p. 433, as is apparent on its face, and as has been repeatedly recognized by this court, was to contract the jurisdiction of the Circuit. Courts. Tennessee v. Union & Planters'
Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 462, and cases cited.
And it is well settled that a case cannot be removed from a
state court into the Circuit Court of the United States on the
sole ground that it is one arising under the Constitution, laws
or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's statement of his own claim, and, if it does not so appear,
the want cannot be supplied by any statement in the petition
for removal or in the subsequent pleadings. Walker v. Collin ,
167 U. S. 57.
It has also been determined that when the application rests
on that ground, and there is more than one defendant, all the
defendants must join. Railway Company v. .fartin, 178 U. S.
245.
And in respect of the removal of actions of tort on the ground
of separable controversy, that the existence of such controversy
must appear on the face of the plaintiff's pleading, and that it
does not so appear, if the defendants are charged with direct
or concurrent or concerted wrongful action. Chesa eace Ohio Railway Company v. Dixon, ante, 131.
In this case the pleadings are not before us, and the certifiVOL. OLxx -22

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cate states that the receiver removed the cause into the Circuit
Court, on his sole petition, "upon the ground that it was a case
arising under the Ccnstitution and laws of the United States."
A motion to remand was made and denied. 82 Fed. Rep. 791.
This decision was afterwards reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, but, as is admitted, a rehearing was granted, and this
certificate was then made. 101 Fed. Rep. 1.
The receiver rested his contention that the case arose under
the Constitution and laws of the United States on the single
ground of his appointment by the Federal court; and, upon
this record, our opinion of the tenability of that ground is requested.
Section 3 of the acts of 1887 and 1888 reads:
"That every receiver or manager of any property appointed
by any court of the United States may be sued in respect of any
act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected
with such property, without the previous leave of the court in
which such receiver or manager was. appointed; but such suit
shall be subject to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in
which such receiver or manager was appointed, so far as the
same shall be necessary to the ends of justice."
This act abrogated the rule that a receiver could not be sued
without leave of the court "appointing him, and gave the citizen
the unconditional right to bring his action in the local courts,
and to have the justice and amount of his demand determined
by the verdict of a jury. He ceased to be compelled to litigate
at a distance, or in any other forum, or according to any other
course of justice, than he would be entitled to if the property or
business wvere not being administered by the Federal court.
The object of the section is manifest, and it is equally plain
that that object would be open to be defeated if the receiver
could remove the case at his volition. The intention to permit
this to be done cannot reasonably be imputed to Congress, and,
moreover, such a right would be inconsistent with the general
policy of the act.
As, however, the receiver, as the officer of the court, holds
the property for the benefit of all who have an interest in it,
and is not to be interfered with in its administration and dis-

GA-BLEMAN v. PEORIA &c. R'Y CO.
Opinion of the Court.

posal by the judgment or process of another court, the closing
clause of the section, out of abundant caution, provides that
when the receiver is sued, without leave, "such suit shall be subject to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in which
said receiver or manager was appointed, so far as the same shall
be necessary to the ends of justice."
Of course it devolves on the court in possession of the property or funds out of which judgments against its receiver must
be paid to adjust the equities between all parties, and to determine the time and manner of payment of judgment creditors
necessarily applying for satisfaction from assets so held to the
court that holds them. But, as we observed in Texas 6 Pacific Railway Co. v. .7ohn8 on, 151 U. S. 81,.103, ",the right to
sue without resorting to the appointing court, which involves
the right to obtain judgment, cannot be assumed to have been
rendered practically valueless by this further provision in the
same section of the statute which granted it."
In lVaetern Union Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor RailroadCo.,
178 U. S. 239, 243, we said, in the language of previous opinions, that when a suit does not really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the
Constitution or laws of the United States, upon the determination of which the result depends, it is not a suit arising under
the Constitution or laws. And it must appear on the record,
by a statement in legal and logical form, such as is required in
good pleading, that the suit is one which does really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to a right which
depends on the construction of the Constitution or some law or
treaty of the United State , before jurisdiction can be maintained. Gold Washing & Water Co. v. .Keyea, 96 U. S. 199;
Blackburn v. Portland Gold 2fining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Shoshone Alining Company v, R2utter, 1-77 U. S. 505.
The inquiry we are pursuing does not fall within the ruling
that a corporation created by Congress has a right to invoke the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts in respect to any litigation it
may have, except as specifically restricted.
Nor are the cases against United States officers as such, or on
bonds given, under acts of Congress, or involving interference

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

with Federal.process, or the due faith and credit to be accorded
judgments, in point.
The question is whether the bare fact that the appointment
of this receiver was by a Federal court makes all actions against
him cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, notwithstanding he was appointed under the general
equity powers of courts of chancery, and not under any provision of that Constitution or of those laws; and that his liability depends on general law, and his defence does not rest on
any act of Congress. We are of opinion that this question
must be answered in the negative, and that this has been heretofore so determined as the Circuit Court of Appeals properly
held in this case. Bausman v. Diton, 173 U. S. 113; Pope v.
Railway -Company, 173 U. S. 573 ; -McKennav. Simpson, 129
U. S. 506; Provident Savings Society v. Ford,114 U. S. 635.
In Bausman v. Dixon we ruled that a judgment against a
receiver appointed by a Circuit Court of the United States;
rendered in due course in a state court, does not involve the
denial of an authority exercised under the United States or of
a right or immunity specially set up or claimed under a statuteof the United States. That was an action to recover for injuries sustained by reason of the receiver's negligence in operat-.
ing a railroad company chartered by the State of Washington,
though the receiver was the officer of the Circuit Court, and we
said: "It is true that the receiver was an officer of the Circuit
Court, but the validity of his authority as such was not drawn
in question, and there was no suggestion in the pleadings, or
during the trial, or, so far as appears, in the state Supreme
Court, that any right the receiver possessed as receivdr was
contested, although on the merits the employment of plaintiff
was denied, and defendant contended that plaintiff had assumed
the risk which resulted in the injury, and had also been guilty
of contributory negligence. The mere order of the Circuit
Court appointing a receiver did not create a Federal question
under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, and the receiver did
nbt set up any right derived from that order, which he asserted
was abridged or taken away by the decision of the state court.
The liability to Dixon depended on principles of general law

GABRLEMAN

v.

PEORIA &c. R'Y CO.

341

Opinion of the Court.

applicable to the facts, and not in any way on the ternms of the
order." And although that was the case of a writ of-error to
a state court, we applied the reasoning in Pope v. Louisville
&c. Railway Comlany, in which the right of appeal to this
court from the Circuit Court of Appeals was asserted on the
ground that the case arose under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, because Pope was a receiver of a Federal
court. We decided that the suit was ancillary to the original
cases in which the receiver was appointed, and that the jurisdiction was dependent on the ground of jurisdiction in those
cases, and we also held that the receiver's orders of appointment were not equivalent to laws of the United States in 'the
meaning of the Constitution, and that the mere order 6f a Federal court, sitting in chancery, appointing a receiver, did not in
itself form adequate ground of jurisdiction.. We said-: "The
bill nowhere asserted a right under. the Constitution or laws of
'the United States, but proceeded on common-law rights of action. We cannot accept the suggestion that the mere order of
a Federal court, sitting in chancery, appointing a receiver on a
creditor's bill, not only enables the receiver to invoke .Federal
jurisdiction, but to do this independently of the ground of
jurisdiction of the suit in which the order was entered, and
thereby affect the finality of decrees in 'the Circuit Court of
Appeals in proceedings taken by him. The validity of the
order of the appointment of the receiver in this instance de-pended on the jurisdiction of the court that entered it, and
that jurisdiction, as we have seen, depended exclusively upon'
the diverse citizenship of the parties to the suits in -hich the
appointment was made. The order, as such, created no liability against, defendants, nor did it tend in any degree to
establish the receiver's right to a money decree, nor to'any"
other remedy prayed for in the amended bill. The liability of
defendants arose under general law. and was neither created
nor arose ifnder the Constitution or laws of the United S'tates."
The question there was as to whether or not the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was made final by the sixth section
of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, and we held that it was,
and dismissed the appeal. ' We could.not, however, have arrived

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

at that conclusion if the jurisdiction had rested on the ground
that the case arose under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, as such cases are not among the classes enumerated in
that section, in which the decisions of that court are made final.
We have repeatedly held that the jurisdiction of such proceedings is dependent upon that of the main case. Rouse v..Letcher,
156 U. S. 49; Gregory v. Van 1e,160 U. S. 143; Carey v.
Railroad Company, 161 U. S. 115.. In Rouse v. Letcher, we
pointed out that the intention could not be attributed to Congress of allowing judgments on every incidental controversy to
be brought to this court for review, while denying such review
to the principal decree; and any other conclusion would be
manifestly inconsistent with the avowed object of the act of
IMfarch 3, 1891.
It should be added that while these actions against receivers
may be brought in other courts, they may, nevertheless, also be
brought in the court by which the receiver was appointed, inasmuch as the judgments recovered are payable frown the property or funds in the course of administration, and the actions
may be regarded as ancillary in the sense of subordination to
such administration.
We have just held in Baggs, Receiver, v. Martin, ante, 206,
that where a receiver sued in the state court had removed the
action to the Circuit Court, which had appointed him, and the
plaintiff had not moved to remand but had accepted the jurisdiction thus invoked, a judgment in that court in plaintiffs
favor might be sustained, because the court would have had
original jurisdiction, and it, did not lie in the mouth of the receiver, under such circumstances, to deny the jurisdiction he
had sought.
The judgments in Texas & Paciflc Railway Company v. Cox,
145 U. S.593; Tennessee v. nion & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S.
454; and Hornsby v. Rou'se, 161 U. S.588, cited by counsel,
are consistent with the result reached in the Baggs case as well as
in this, although there are expressions in the opinions in those
cases which -are modified by what has since been said.
Te .questionspropounded are answered in the negative.

