CHESAPEAIKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v. DIXON.

131

Statement of the Case.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
DIXON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 40. Argued October 10, 1900.- Decided November 19, 1900.

Where the right of removal depends upon the existence of a separable controversy, the question is to be determined by the condition of the record
in the state court at the time of the filing of the petition to remove.
In an action of tort, the cause of action is whatever the plaintiff declares it
to be in his pleading, and matters of defence cannot be availed of as
ground of removal.

When concurrent negligence is charged, the controversy is not separable,
and as the complaint in this case, reasonably construed, charged concurrent negligence, the court declines to hold that the state courts erred in
retaining jurisdiction.

OCTOBER 19, 1894, Lucy Dixon, as administratrix of Alexander Dixon, brought her action against the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railway Company, R. H. Chalkey and William Sidles in the
circuit court of Boyd County, Kentucky, by petition, which
alleged"That Alexander Dixon departed this life intestate on the 22d
day of September, 1894, while a resident of and domiciled in
Boyd county, Kentucky; that by an order of the Boyd county
of September, 1894-,
court, made and entered on the -day
plaintiff was appointed administratrix of his estate, and gave
bond and duly qualified, and is' now acting as the administratrix of the said estate. A copy of said order is filed herewith
as part hereof, marked ' A.'
"She says that the defendant The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company is and at the time hereinafter stated was a corporation and common carrier of freight and passengers for hire,
and said defendant, by its locomotives, cars, and other appurtenances, now operates and at the times hereinafter stated operated lines- of railway extending into the county of Boyd and
State'of Kentucky. She says that on the 22d day of Septem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

ber, 1894, while crossing the track of the defendant at the crossing of the Ashland and Catlettsburg Turnpike road and within
the corporate limits of said town, the said intestate, Alexander
Dixon, was by the negligence of the defendant The Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company and of its agents and servants, R.
H. Chalkey and Win. Sidles, who were in charge thereof, run
over and instantly killed by one of defendant's passenger trains
while on its way from Catlettsburg to Ashland, Boyd county,
Kentucky, whereby she has been damaged in the sum of thirty
thousand dollars.
"At the time and place when and where plaintiff's intestate
was injured, as aforesaid, the defendants R. H. Chalkey and
Win. Sidles were and for a long time theretofore had been servants of the corporate defendants, in charge and control of said
train, and then and there were and for a long time theretofore
had continuously been respectively engineer and fireman of said
train, and said negligence of the corporate defendant was done
by and through its said servants and other of its servants then
and there in its employment, and said negligence was the joint
negligence of all the defendants."
On the 30th of January, 1895, the railway company filed its.
petition for the removal of the cause to the District Court of
the United States for the District of Kentucky, and tendered
therewith a bond, as required by law.
The petition read as 'follows:
"Your petitioner, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company,
respectfully shows that it is one of the defendants in the above
entitled suit, and that the matter and amount in dispute in the
said suit, exclusive of interest and cost, exceeds the sum or
value of $2000.
"Your pkitioner further shows that the said suit is of a civil
nature, and that there is in said suit a controversy which is
wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be
fully determined as between them, to wit, a controversy between your said petitioner, The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company, who avers that it was at the time of the bringing of
this suit and still is a corporation created, organized, and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Virginia

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v. -DIXON.

133

Statement of the Case.

and a citizen of the said State of Virginia, and the said plaintiff, Lucy Dixon, administratrix of Alexander Dixon, who,
your petitioner avers, was then and still is a citizen of the State
of Kentucky; that the said controversy is of the following
nature, viz:
"Whether your petitioner is liable to the said plaintiff for
damages on account of the death of said intestate, alleged to
have been caused by the negligence of certain of its servants
therein named and made defendants thereto and other of its
servants then and there in its employment and who are not
named, it being claimed by said plaintiff that because thereof
your petitioner is liable in damages to her, and that your petitioner and the said plaintiff are both actually interested in said
controversy.
"Your petitioner further states that the defendants R. H.
Chalkey and William Sidles are .neither necessary nor proper
parties defendant to this cause, and that they were made parties
defendant to this cause for the sole and single purpose to prevent a removal by petitioner of this cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and thereby
unlawfully to deprive your petitioner of the right conferred
upon it by the Constitution and laws of the United States."
The Boyd Circuit Court adjudged the bond. sufficient, but
overruled the petition.
Separate answers by the company and by Chalkey and Sidles
were thereupon filed, and issue joined thereon ; trial was had,
resulting in a verdict ana judgment in favor of plaintiff; and
the judgment was affirmed, on appeal, by the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky. 47 S. W. Rep. 615.
In the opinion of that court it was said, among other things:
"The main ground for reversal is the refusal of the lower
court to sustain the petition of the appellant the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad Company for a transfer of this case to the
United States couirt for the District of Kentucky.
"The ground upon which the transfer was sought, as alleged
in the petition asking it, is that the action is wholly between
citizens of different States, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
Company being a corporation created under the laws of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

State of Virginia, and a citizen thereof, while appellee, Lucy
Dixon, is and was a citizen of the State of Kentucky. As appellants Chalkey and Sidles were, when this action was commenced, citizens of Kentucky, the Boyd Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the persons of all the defendants, as well as of
the subject of the action, if the defendants were jointly guilty
of the negligence alleged to have been the cause of the death
of Alexander Dixon, and jointly liable therefor.
"It is alleged by appellee in her petition, and, so far from the
contrary being shown by appellant the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad Company, is clearly proved by the evidence in this
case that appellants Chalkey and Sidles, as engineer and fireman
of said train, were guilty of the negligence causing said death,
and that the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, through
its said employ6s, was also guilty of said negligence; and therefore they were jointly liable for the destruction of the life of
said Dixon, caused thereby.
" It is not material that, as alleged in the petition for a transfer of this case, Chalkey and Sidles were made parties defendant for the single purpose of preventing the removal of the case
by the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, or
what May have been the motive of the plaintiff for bringing a
joint action, unless they were wrongfully and illegally joined;
and such is the doctrine as settled by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
"As, therefore, the appellant Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
Company neither sufficiently alleged nor attempted to prove
that the defendants were wrongfully joined as such, the lower
court properly refused to make the transfer."
To review the judgment of the Court of Appeals this writ of
error was allowed.
M .. 7.H. Wadsworth for plaintiff in error. XrM.A. ff. .
Cochran and MAr. C. B. Simpall were on his brief.
Zr.Jam6s Andrew Scott for defendant in error. Mlr. J'ohn
H. Hager and 21r. R. S. .Dinkle were on his brief.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v. DIXON.

135

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question to be determined is whether the Court of Appeals of Kentucky erred in affirming the action of the Boyd
circuit court in denying the application to remove. And that
depends on whether a separable controversy appeared on the
face of plaintiff's petition or declaration. If the liability of defendants, as set forth in that pleading, was joint, and the cause
of action entire, then the controversy was not separable as matter of law, and plaintiff's purpose in joining Chalkey and Sidles
was immaterial. The petition for removal did not charge fraud
in that regard or set up any facts and circumstances indicative
thereof, and plaintiff's motive in the performance of a lawful
act was not open to inquiry.
By section 241 of the constitution of Kentucky it is provided
that "whenever the death of a person shall result from an injury inflicted by negligence or wrongful act, then, in every such
case, damages may be recovered for such death, from the corporations and persons so causing the same."
Section 6 of the Kentucky statutes provides: "Whenever the
death of a person shall result from an injury inflicted by negligence or wrongful act, then in every such case, damages may
be recovered for such death from .the person or persons, company or companies, corporation or corporations, their agents or
servants, causing the same, and when the act is wilful or the
negligence is gross, punitive damages may be rec6vered, and
the action to recover such damages shall be prosecuted by the
personal representative of the deceased."
The cause of action thus created is independent of any right
of action the deceased may have had, or would have had if he
had survived the injury; and in this case the Court of Appeals
held that the company and its engineer and fireman were jointly
liable for Dixon's death, if caused by the negligence of those
employ~s; and that the cause of action as alleged -against all
the defendants was an entire cause of action. The court also
held that such cause of action was sufficiently proven, but we
are dealing with the pleadings alone.
Counsel for plaintiff in error contends, however, that plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff's complaint does not state a joint cause of action against the
corporate and individual defendants, but states a separate cause
of action against the railway company and a separate cause of
action against the other defendants.
it is conceded that if an action be brought on a joint cause
of action it makes no difference that separate causes of action
may have existed on which *separate actions might have been
brought, and furthermore that it makes no difference that in an
action on a joint cause of action a separate recovery may be had
against either of the defendants; while it is insisted that if two
or more separable controversies appear from the averments it is
not material whether they have been propefly or improperly
joined.
If the liability was not joint then separable controversies ex
isted, and the argument is that the averment that the negligence
complained of "was the joint negligence of all the defendants"
merely stated the conclusion of law that the company and its
employ~s were jointly liable in the action for the injury inflicted through the n6gligence of the latter in the course of and
within the scope of their employment, and this conclusion is
denied on the ground that the liability of the company as alleged
rested on a wholly differetit basis from that of the liability of
its servants.
In Warax -v. Cincinnati, I. 0. & T. P. Railway Cornyany,
72 Fed. Rep. 631, Taft, J., held that there were separable controversies in such cases, because the liability of the master for
the negligence of his servants in his absence, and without his
concurrence or express direction, arises solely from the policy
of the law which requires that he shall be held responsible for
the acts of those he employs, done in and about his business,
while the liability of the servant arises wholly from his personal
act in doing the wrong.
This view of the ground of the master's liability is expressed
by Mr. Pollock in his work on Torts, (Amer. ed. 89, 90,) thus:
"I am answerable for the wrongs of my servant or agent, not
because he is authorized by me or personally represents me, but
because he is about my affairs, and I am bound to see that my
affairs are conducted with due regard to the safety of others."

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v.DIXON.

137

Opinion of the Court.

So it was said by lord Brougham in Duncan v. Findlatr,
6 Clark & Fin. 894, 910: "The reason that I am liable is this,
that by employing him I set the whole thing in motion.; and
what he does, being done for my benefit and under my direction, I am responsible for the consequences of doing it."
By Lord Cranwofth in Bartons Hill Coal Company v. Reid,
3 McQueen, 266, 283: "He is considered as bound to guarantee
third persons against all hurt arising from the carelessness of
himself or of those acting under his orders in the course of his
business."
And by Chief Justice Shaw in Farwell v. Boston & Wocester Railroad Company, 4 Met. 49: "This rule is obviously
founded on the great principle of social duty, that every man,
in the management of his own affairs, whether by himself or by
his agents or servants, shall so conduct them 'asnot to injure another; and if he does not, and another thereby sustains damage, he shall answer for it. If done by a servant, in the course
of his employment, and acting within the scope of his authority,
it is considered, in contemplation of law, so far the act of the
master, that the latter shall be answerable civiliter."
Whatever its sources or the principles on which it rests, the
rule itself is firmly established; and many courts have held the
identification of master and servant to be so complete that the
liability of both may be enforced in the same action, although
other courts have reached the opposite conclusion.' As remarked by Mr. Justice Gray, then Chief Justice of Massachusetts, in .7iulchey v. Methodist Religious Society, 125 Mass. 487,
the question is "a somewhat nice one," the determination of
which by the highest court of Kentucky we are not called upon
to revise as the disposition of this case turns on other considerations.
In respect of the removal of actions of tort on the ground of
separable controv.ersy, certain matters must be regarded as not
open to dispute. In Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway
Company, 169 U. S. 92, it was said:
"It is well settled that an action of tort, which might have
1See cases collected in 15 Encyc. Pleading and Practice, 560.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

been brought against many persons or against any one or more
of them, and which is brought in a state court against all
jointly, contains no separate controversy which will authorize
its removal by some of the defendants into the Circuit Court of
the United States, even if they file separate answers and set up
different defenses from the other defendants, and allege that
they are not jointly liable with them, and that their own controversy with the plaintiff is a separate one; for, as this court
has often said, ' A defendant has no right to say that an action
shall be several which the plaintiff seeks to make joint. A separate defense may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot deprive
a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his suit to final decision in
his own way. The cause of action is the subject-matter of the
controversy, and that is, for all the purposes of the suit, whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in his pleadings.' Pirie v.
Toedt, 115 U. S.41, 43; Sloane v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 275;
Little v. Giles?, 118 U. S. 596, 600, 601; Louisville & IVashville
Railroad v. Wangelin, 1:32 U. S.599; Torrence v. ,Shedd, 114
U. S.527, 530; Connell v. Smiley, 156 U. S. 335, 340."
In Railroad Corpany v. Thangelin it was said.to be equally
well settled "that in any case the question whether there is a
separable controversy which will warrant a removal is to be
determined by-the condition of the record in the state court at
the time of the filing of the petition for removal, independently
of the allegations in that petition or in the affidavit of the petitioner- unless the petitioner both alleges and proves that the
defendants were wrongfully made joint defendants for the purpose of preventing a removal into the Federal court." In that
case the declaration charged two corporations with having
jointly trespassed on the plaintiff's land, and it was insisted
that one of the corporations was not in existence at the time of
the alleged trespass, but that was held to be a question on the
merits.
And in Provident Savinqs Life Assurance Society v. Ford,
, 114 U. S. 635, it was held that tlhe question of a colorable assignment was matter of defence and not ground for removal.
The contention of counsel is that this complaint charged
neither direct nor concurrent nor concerted action on the part

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v. DIXON.

139

Opinion of the Court.

of all the defendants, but counted merely on the negligence of
the employ~s.
If the complaint should be so construed, the question would
still remain whether the cause of action was not entire as the
case stood, and the objection of the difference in the character
of the liability matter of defense, which might force an election, or defeat the action as to one of the parties.
The cause of action manifestly comprised every fact which.
plaintiff was obliged to prove in order to obtain judgment, or,
conversely, every fact which defendants would have the right
to traverse. And on the principle of the identification, of the
master with the servant, it would seem that there was no fact
which the company could traverse which its codefendants, being
its employ~s, could not. At all events a judgment against all
could not afterwards be attacked for the first time on this
ground.
But does the complaint bear the construction the company
puts upon it?
The pleader did not set forth, and, according to the decision
of the Court of Appeals, this was not material, the specific acts
of negligence complained of. It was stated that the "negligence of the corporate defendant was done by and through its
said servants and other of its servants then and there in its employment, and said negligence was the joint negligence of all
the defendants." Assuming this averment to be inconsistent
with a charge of direct action by the company, it may nevertheless be held to amount to a charge of concurrent action when
coupled with the previous averment that Dixon was killed while
crossing the track at a turnpike crossing by the negligence of the
company and the other defendants in charge of the train. The
negligence may have consisted in that the train was run at too
great speed, and in that proper signals of its approach were not
given; and if the speed was permitted by the company's rules,
or not forbidden, though dangerous, the negligence in that particular and in the omission of signals would be concurrent.
Other grounds of concurring negligence may be imagined. And
where concurrent negligence is charged the controversy is not
separable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

In Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635, the action was brought
in the state court against one railway company and the receivers
of another to recover for personal injuries inflicted by concurrent negligence. The cause was removed to the Circuit Court
and remanded because there was no separable controversy. At
the close of the evidence on the subsequent trial the company
moved that the jury be instructed to return a verdict in its favor,
which was resisted by plaintiff, but granted by the court, and a
verdict returned accordingly. The other defendants, the receivers, then applied for a removal, which was denied: We
held the ruling in favor of the company was a ruling on the
merits and not a ruling on the question of jurisdiction, and sustained the action of the state courts.
Chicago, Rock Island &c. Coompany v. Jifartin, 178 U. S. 245,
is another case in which an action for concurrent negligence
was held not to present a separable controversy.
In Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, siqn'a,
where the company and its employ~s had been jointly sued as
in the case at bar, the case had been remanded on removal for
want of separable controversy. Plaintiff subsequently discontinued the action as to all the defendants except the company,
and the company again made application to remove. This was
denied by the state court but granted by the Circuit Court, and
the judgment of the latter was affirmed by this court, the question of separable controversy being necessarily not passed on
here. 169 :[T. S. 92.
Plymouth Gold Mlfining Company v. Amador & Sacramento
pal 118 U. S. 264, and Connell -. Utica &c. RailCa Company,
road Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 241, are more iii point on the precise
question sought to be raised, and in the latter case Mr. Justice
Blatchford expressed the opinion that it was proper for the
Federal courts to follow the decisions of the state courts that a
cause of action was entire.
Our conclusion is that it cannot properly be held that it appeared on the face of this pleading, as matter of law; that the
cause of Action was not entire, or that a separable controversy
was presented.
Judgment afned.

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.
i MR. JuSTICE ILA.N and MR. JUSTICE WHrrE dissented.

MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the disposition of the case.

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 9. Argued October 16, 1899.-Decided November 12, 1900.

The prohibition in the Constitution of the United States of the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation has no application to the case of an owner of land bordering on a public navigable
river, whose access from his land to navigability is permanently lost by
reason of the construction, under authority of Congress, of a pier resting
on submerged lands away from, but in front of his upland, and which
pier was erected by the United States, not with any intent to impair the
right of riparian owners, but for the purpose only of improving the
navigation of such river.
It was not intended, by that provision in the Constitution, that the paramount authority of Congress to improve the navigation of the public
waters of the United States should be crippled by compelling the Government to make compensation for an injury to a riparian owner's right of
access to navigability that might incidentally result from an improvement
ordered by Congress.
The state courts of Michigan having recognized this action as a proper one
under the laws of that State for the relief sought by the plaintiff, this
court has jurisdiction to consider the questions of a Federal nature decided herein.

THIS writ of error brings up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Michigan holding that the United States
is not required to compensate an owner of land fronting on a
public navigable river when his right of access from the shore
to the navigable part of such river is permanently obstructed by
a pier erected in the river under the authority of Congress for
the purpose only of improving navigation.
Omitting any reference to immaterial matters, the case as
made by the pleadings and evidence is as follows:

