TYLER v JUDGES OF COURT OF' REGISTRATION. 405
Statement of the Case.

TYLER v. JUDGES OF THE COURT OF REGISTRATION.
EROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 213. Argued October 25,1900.-Decided December 17,1900.
A petitioner in an application for a writ of prohibition to the judges of a
Court of Land Registration upon the ground that the contemplated proceedings in said court denied to parties interestd due process of law,
cannot maintain a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of
the State without showing that he is personally interested in the litigation, and has been, or is likely to be, deprived of his property without
due process of law.
The fact that other persons in whom he has no personal interest and who
do not appear in the case, may suffer in that particular is not sufficient.

THIS was a petition by Tyler to the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts for a writ of prohibition to be directed to the
Judges of the Court of .Registration to prohibit them from
further proceeding under what is known as the Torrens Act in
the registration of a certain parcel of land described in the application, or in the determination of the boundary between such
parcel of land and land of petitioner.
The petition alleged in substance that David E. Gould and
George H. Jones, on December 22, 1898, applied to the Court
of Land Registration to have certain land in thb county of Middlesex brought.under the operation and provisions of the Land
Registration Act, and to have their title thereto registered and
confirmed. The land referred to was shown on a plan filed
with the applicationl The petitioner, who was the owner.of
an estate in fee simple in a parcel of land adjoining pa rt of the
land described in the application insisted that the boundary
line between his land and the part aforesaid was not correctly
shown on the plan filed with the application, but enerQached
upon and included part of his land. The petition prayed for a
writ of prohibition, and .alleged that the Land Registration Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court,

under which the proceedings were taken violated the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States, first, in making a decree of confirmation conclusive upon persons having an interest
in the land, though they may have had no notice of the proceedings for registration, and therefore would have the effect
of depriving such persons of their property without due process
of law, and otherwise than by the law of the land; second,
that the act was also invalid in giving judicial powers to the
recorder and assistant recorders therein mentioned, who were
not judicial officers under the constitution of the Commonwealth,
and also in giving them power to deprive persons of their property
without due process of law; third, that the operation of the
act in other respects depended for the effect thereby intended
upon the conclusiveness of the original decree of registration,
and the exercise of nonjudicial powers by the recorder, etc.
Upon the petition and answer, which simply averred compliance with the terms of the act, together with the rules of the
land court, etc., the case was reserved for a full bench upon
the only question raised at the hearing, namely, the constitutionality of the act. The court decided the act to be constitutional, and dismissed the petition. 175 Mass.. 71. Hence this
writ of error.
MM. J. L. Tho'ndike, for plaintiff in error.
.M'. Hosea X. KEnowlton, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiOE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

The prime object of all litigation is to establish a right asserted by the plaintiff or to sustain a defence set up by the party
pursued. Save in a few instances where, by statute or the
settled practice of the courts, the plaintiff is permitted to sue
for the benefit of another, he is bound to show an interest in
the suit personal to himself, and even in a proceeding which he
prosecutes for the benefit of the public, as, for example, in cases
of nuisance, he must generally aver an injury peculiar to himself, as distinguished from the great body of his fellow citizens.

TYLER v. JUDGES OF COURT OF REGISTRATION. 407
Opinion of the Court.

The very first general rule laid down by Chitty, Pleading, p. 1,
is that "the action should be brought in the name of the party
whose legal right has been affected, against the party who committed or caused the injury, or by or against his personal representative." An action on contract (p. 2) "must be brought
in the name of the party in whom the legal interest in such
contract was vested;" and an action of tort (p. 69) "in the
name of the person whose legal right has been affected, and
who is legally interested in the property at the time the injury
thereto was committed." As stated by another writer: "No
one can be a party to an action if he has no interest in it. A
plaintiff cannot properly sue for wrongs that do not affect him,
and on the other hand, a person is not properly made a defendant to a suit upon a cause of action in which he has no interest,
and as to which no relief is sought against him." -In familiar
illustration of this rule, the plaintiff in an action of ejectment
must recover upon the strength of his own title and not upon
the weakness of the defendant's, who may even show title in a
third person to defeat the action.
Actions instituted in this court by writ of error to a state
court are no exceptions to this rule. In order that the validity
of a state statute may be "drawn in question" under the second
clause of section 709, Rev. Stat., it must appear that the plaintiff
in error has a right to draw it in question by reason of an interest
in the litigation which has suffered, or may suffer, by the decision of the state court in favor of the validity of the statute.
This principle has been announced in so many cases in this
court that it may not be considered an open question.
In Owings v. -Norood'sLessee, 5 Cranch, 344, an action of
ejectment, defendant set up an outstanding title in.one Scarth,
a British subject, who held a mortgage.upon the premises. The
decision of the court being adverse to Owings, he sued out a
a writ of error from this court, contending that Scarth's title
was protected by the treaty with Great Britain. It was held
that, as the defendant claimed no right under the treaty himself, and that the right of Scarth, if he had any, was not affected by the decisioii of the case, the court had no jurisdiction.
"If," the court said, "he [the defendant] claims nothing under

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

a treaty, his title cannot be protected by the treaty. If Scarth
or his heirs had claimed it would have been a case arising under
a treaty. But neither the title of Scarth nor of any person
claiming under him can be affected by the decision of this court."
In hIenderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 311, a similar case, namely,
an action of ejectment, an outstanding title in a third person,
was set up by the defendant, and alleged to have been derived
under a treaty. The court held that an outstanding title in a
third person might be set up, and that the title set up in this
case was claimed under a treaty, "but," said the court, "to
give jurisdiction to this court, the party must claim for himself,
and not for a third person in whose title he has no interest.
The heirs of Miller," who claimed under the treaty,
"appear to have no interest in this suit, nor can their rights be
affected by the decision." Like rulings were made under a
similar state of facts in Ofontgomery v. lernandez, 12 Wheat.
129; Hale v. Gaines, 22 How. 1-4; Verden v. Coleman, 1 Black.
472; and Zong v. Converse, 91 U. S.1075.
In Giles v. Little, 134 U. S. 645, the prior authorities are cited,
and the law treated as well settled that "in order to give this
court jurisdiction to review a judgmert of a state court against
a title or right set up or claimed under a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, that title or right
must be one of the plaintiff in error, and not of a third person
only." See also Ludeliny v. Ciawfe, 143 U. S.301.
It is true that under the third clause of section 709, where a
title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under Federal law,
such title, etc., must be "specially set up or claimed," and that
no such provision is made as to cases within the second clause,
involving the constitutionality of state statutes or authorities,
but it is none the less true that the authority of such statute
must "be drawn in question" by some one who has been affected by the decision of a state court in favor of its validity,
and that in this particular the three clauses of the section are
practically identical.
As we had occasion to observe in Californiav. San Pablo &
Tulare Railroad, 149 U. S.308, 314, "the duty of this court,
as of every judicial tribunal, is limited to determining rights of

TYLER v. JUDGES OF COURT OF REGISTRATION. 409
Opinion of the Court.

persons or of property, which are actually controverted in the
particular case before it. When, in determining such rights, it
becomes necessary to give an opinion upon a question of law,
that opinion may have weight as a precedent for future decisions. But the court is not empowered to decide moot questions
or abstract propositions, or to declare, for the government of
future cases, principles or rules of law which cannot affect the
result as to the thing in issue in the case before it. No stipulation of parties, or counsel, whether in the case before the
court, or in any other case, can enlarge the power or affect the
duty of the court in this regard." See also Lord v. Veazie, 8
How. 251; Cleveland v. Chamberlain,1 Black, 419; Ifimball
v. Kimball, 174 U. S. 158.
In the case under consideration the plaintiff in error is the
owner of a lot adjoining the one which is sought to be registered, and the only question in dispute between them relates to
the location of the boundary line. In his petition he does not
set forth that he made himself a party to the proceedings before the Court of Registration, and his name does not even
appear in the list of those who are required to be notified, or
elsewhere in the proceedings before the court.
In the assignment of error he complains only of the unconstitutionality of the statute, in that it deprives persons of property without due process of law. In his brief his first objection
to the validity of the act is that the registration, which deprives
all persons, except the registered owner of interest in the land,
is obtained as against residents and known persons only by
posting notices in a conspicuous place on the land and by registered letters, and as against non-residents and unknown persons
by publication in a newspaper; and that the rights of the parties may be foreclosed without actual .notice to them in either
case, and without actual knowledge of the proceedings. His
second objection to the validity of the act is that the registration of dealings with the land after the original registration
would, in certain cases, have the effect of depriving the registered owners of their property without due process of law.
His objections throughout assume that he has actual knowledge of the proceedings, and may make himself a party to them

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and litigate the only question, namely, of boundaries, before
the Court of Registration. In other words, he is not affected
by the provisions of the act of which he complains, since he
has the requisite notice. Other persons, whether residents or
non-residents, whose rights might be injuriously affected by the
decision, might lawfully complain of the unconstitutionality of
an act which would deprive them of their property without notice; but it is difficult to see how the petitioner would be affected by it. Indeed, if the act were subsequently declared to
be unconstitutional, the proceedings against him would simply
go for naught. He would have lost nothing, since the action
of the court would simply be void, and his interest in the land
would remain unaffected by its action.
It is true that his competency to institute these proceedings
does not seem to have been questioned by the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts. It may well have been thought that to avoid
the necessity and. expense of appearing before an unconstitutional court and defending his rights there, he had sufficient
interest to attack the law, which lay at the foundation of its
proposed action; but to give him a status in this court he is
bound under his petition to show, either that he has been, or is
likely to be, deprived of his property without due process of
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and as no
such showing has been made, we cannot assume to decide the
general question whether the Commonwealth has established
a court whose jurisdiction may, as to some other person, amount
to a deprivation of property. If that court shall eventually
uphold his contention with respect to the boundary, he will
have no ground for complaint If he be unsuccessful, he may,
under the registration act, appeal to the Superior and ultimately
to the Supreme Court, whence, if it be made to appear that a
right has been denied him under the Fourteenth Amendment,
he may have hig writ of error from this court.
Our conclusion is that the plaintiff in error has not the requisite interest to draw in question the unconstitutionality of this
act, and that the writ of error must be
Dismissed.

TYLER v. JUDGES OF COURT OF REGISTRATION. 411
JUSTCES HAnILAN,

BREWER, SHIRAS and the CmEF JUsTIcE, dissenting.:

MR. CHIrF JUSTICE FULLEI, with whom concurred: Mi. JusTICE HAyn.AN, M& JusTioe BRnwEw
and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,
dissenting.

In order to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state court on the ground that the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, was drawn
in question for repugnancy to the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and that its validity was sustained, it is enough
that a definite issue as to the validity of the statute is distinctly
deducible from the record; that the state court entertained the
suit; and that its judgment rested on the conclusion that the
statute was valid.
The inquiry is whether the validity of the statute or authority
has been drawn in question "in a suit" in the state court and
a "final judgment" has been rendered in favor of its validity.
If so, we have jurisdiction to review that judgment. Weston v.
Caiarleston,2 Peters, 449; Wheeling & Belmont Biridge Company v. Wheeling Bridge Company, 138 U. S. 287; Luxton v.
Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337; .fcPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1.
Veston v. Gharleston was an application to the state court
for a writ of prohibition to restrain the levy of a tax under a
city ordinance on the ground that it violated the Constitution,
and went to judgment in the highest court of South Carolina
sustaining the validity of the ordinance.
This court held that the writ of error was properly issued,
and Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said:
"The question, therefore, which was decided by the constitutional court, is the very question on which the revising power
of this tribunal is to be exercised, and the only inquiry is,
whether it has been decided in a case described in the section
which authorizes the writ of error that has been awarded. Is
a writ of prohibition a suit ?"
After answering this question in the affirmative the Chief
Justice thus proceeded:
"We think also that it was a final judgment, in the sense in
which that term is used in the 25th section of the judicial act.
If it were applicable to those judgments and decrees only in

OCTOBER TER,

1900.

JUSTICES HARLAN, BBEWEn, SH]RAS and the CmEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

which the right was finally decided, and could never again be
litigated between the parties, the provisions of the section would
be confined within-much narrower limits than the words import,
or than Congress could have intended.
"Judgments in actions of ejectment, and decrees in chancery
dismissing a bill without prejudice, however deeply they might
affect rights protected by the Constitution, laws, or treaties of
the United States, would not be subject to the revision of this
court. A prohibition might issue, restraining a collector from
bollecting duties, and this court would not revise and correct
the judgment. The word 'final' must be understoodin the section under consideration, as applying to all judgments and
decrees which determine the particularcause."
. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company v. Wheeling Bridge
Company was a petition to condemn land, and it had been held
by the Supreme Court of West Virginia that the right to con-demn was to be determined before the amount of compensation
to be made had been ascertained. The judgment of the inferior
court sustained the proceedings to condemn and appointed
commissioners, and the state Supreme Court entertained an
appeal from that judgment and affirmed it.
A writ of error from this court was brought and a motion to
dismiss it denied. -Mr. Justice Field said:
"The judgment appears to have been considered by that
court as so far final ag to justify an appeal from it; and if the
Supreme Court of a State holds a judgment of an inferior court
of the State to be final, we can hardly consider it in any other
light, in exercising our appellate jurisdiction."
In Lux"o. v. Bridge Company, which was a proceeding to
condemn in a Circuit Court of the United States, we held that
an order appointing commissioners to assess damages was not
a final judgment. The case of the Wheeling and Belmont
'Bridge Company was cited and distinguished by Mr. Justice
Gray, who said:
"Jurisdiction of a writ of error to the Supreme Court of

Appeals of West Virginia, affirming an order appointing commissioners under a somewhat similar statute, was there entertained by this court solely 'because that order had been held

TYLER v. JUDGES OF COURT OF REGISTRATION. 413
JUSTICES HABLAx,' BREWER, SHXEAS

and the CHIEF JusTIoE, dissenting.

by the highest court of the State to be an adjudication of the
right to condemn.the land, and to be a final judgment, on which
a writ of error would lie, and could, therefore, hardly be considered in any other light by this court in the exercise ot its
jurisdiction to review the decisions of the highest court of the
State upon a Federal question. 138 U. S. 287,.290. To have
held otherwise might have wholly defeated the appellate jurisdiction of this court under the Constitution and laws of the
United States; for if the highest court of the State held the
order appointing commissioners to be final and conclusive unless appealed from, and the validity of the condemnation not
to be open on a subsequent appeal from the award of damages,
it is difficult to see how this court could have reached the question of the validity of the condemnation, except by writ of
error to the order appointing commissioners."
It is true that it appeared in these cases that the interests of
plaintiffs in error were directly affected, and it is held that such
is not the case here. But that ruling in effect involves inquiry
into the merits on a question of procedure, and it seems to me
inadmissible for this court to deny, in a case like this, the competency of a party to invoke the.jurisdiction of the state court,
when that court has exercised it at his instance.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held that prohibition was the appropriate remedy to avert the injury with
which petitioner alleged he was threatened, and that petitioner
was entitled to make the application for the writ; and thereupon passed upon the question of the validity of the statute,
and rendered a final judgment sustaining its validity. The unconstitutionality of the act was the sole ground on which the
application for prohibition rested, and the determination of that
Federal question determined the cause.
We have then "a suit" and a "final judgment" sustaining
the validity of a state statute drawn in question for repugnancy
to the Constitution.
Every element requisite to the maintenance, of our jurisdiction exists, and I submit that we cannot decline to exercise it
because of any supposed error on the part of the state court in
respect of entertaining the suit.

,414

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

JusTicEs HARLAN, BREWER, SHIRAS and the CHIF JUSTIcE, dissenting.

To repeat: The state court ruled that the petition was sufficient to raise the Federal question; that petitioner was competent to raise it; and that he was entitled to preventive relief
if his contention was well founded. And these rulings should
be accepted on the preliminary inquiry into our jurisdiction.
The objections of plaintiff in error to the proceedings of the
land court *werenot for want of jurisdiction over him personally, but for want of jurisdiction over the subject-matter. In
other words, that there was a total want of power on the part
of the persons assuming to act as a court to proceed at all.
Whether that was so or not is the question which the state
court decided, and discussion of that question is discussion on
the merits.
Plaintiff in error alleged that the integrity of his boundary
line was threatened by these proceedings. The fact that he
had actual knowledge of them did not validate them if the act
was void. And the answer to the question whether if he were
deprived of some part of his real estate, or of the cost of litigation, such deprivation would be deprivation without due process
of law, determines the constitutionality of the statute, by which
that result was effected.
In my opinion the writ of error was providently issued, and
I am authorized to state that MR. JusTiE HRLAzN, M . JusToe
BnnwnR and M . JusTicE. SiamAs concur in that conclusion.

