OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

Syllabus.

few of the persons having occasion to travel on the road, permitting them to do so at a less expense than others, provided
they could buy a certain number of tickets at one. time. It was
not legislation for the safety, health or proper convenience of
the public, but an arbitrary enactment in favor of the persons
spoken of, who, in the legislative judgment, should be carried
at a less expense than the other members of the community,
and' there was no reasonable ground upon which the legislation
coald be rested, unless the simple decision of the legislature
should be held to constitute such reason.
In this lase the provision is a manifestly reasonable one,
tending directly to the accommodation of the public, and in a
manner not substantially or unreasonably detrimental to the
ultimate interests of the-corporation itself.
Although to carry out the judgment may require the exercise
by the plaintiff in error of the power of eminent domain, and
will also result in some, comparatively speaking, small expense,
yet neither fact furnishes an answer to the application of defendant in error. .Jfayor &~c.v. Northwester Railway, 109
Mass. 112; People v. Railroad, 58 N. Y. 152, 163; People v.

~oston &c. Railroad Company, 70 N. Y. 569; People v. Railroad Company, 10d: N. Y. 58, 67.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of 'Minnesota is, therefore.
AffirmedMR.

JuSTicE

WHrrE and MR.

JUsTc=

MoKEzA, dissented.

DULUTH AND IRON RANGE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. ST. LOUIS COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 173. Argued October 17,1900. -Decided

December 10, 1900.

Following the decision and the concurring opinion in Stearns v. M.innesota,
ante, 223, the court holds that the act of the legislature of Minnesota relied
upon in this case was void.

DULUTH &c. R'D CO. v. ST. LOUIS COUNTY.

t03

Opinion of the Court.

TE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.

. _Fr.ank B. Kellogg for plaintiff in error. 21r'. J. H.

Chandler, .3f. . J.Grannid, and .r. C. A. &vera'nce were on
his brief.
.fr. W. B. Douglas for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIo

Wurn delivered the opinion of the court.

The lands granted to the plaintiff in error to aid in the construction of 'its line of railroad were swamp lands which had
accrued to the State under the act of Congress of March 12,
1860. The granting act did not impose a gross receipt tax or
purport to make any contract with reference to a tax of that
character, but provided, in section 2, in express terms, that the
lands granted should be exempt. The proviso in qvestion reads
as follows: "None of the lands hereby granted shall be subject
to taxation until the expiration of five years from the issuance
of the patent by the State, unless previously sold or disposed of
by said railroad company."
Subsequently to the passage of this act, the legislature of
Minnesota, in 1873, enacted a law allowing railroad corporations, which accepted the provisions thereof, to discharge the
tax on all their property, real and personal, by the payment of
a gross receipt tax, with the condition, however, that the land
which had been given by the State to aid in the building of the
railroad should "be subject to taxation.as soon as sold, leased,
or contracted to be sold or leased." By this law the railroad
property and granted lands of the company were, as the result
of the payment of the gross receipt tax, to be "forever exempt
from all taxation and from all assessment." This law became
operative after the adoption of the constitutional amendment
relating to gross receipt taxes. The amendment in question
has been fully stated in &earnm v. Xinnesola, decided at this
term. There is no contention that this general law, which was
passed after the constitutional amendment in question, was repugnant to the constitution of Minnesota, since in the te-arns

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

case, 72 Minnesota, 200, and in the case at bar, 80 Northwetern
Rep. 626, the Supreme Court of Minnesota held that the effect
of the amendment of 1871 was not only to ratify prior gross
receipt tax laws, but moreover to authorize the legislature to
enact similar laws in the future, all, however, being subject to
the reserved power to repeal, alter or amend, conditioned upon
approval by a vote of the people.
If the case rested wholly upon the provisions ifithe act
granting an exemption for a stated period, the issue-for decision
would be whether an express contract of exemption could
lawfully have been made in view of the clauses of the constitution of the State of Minnesota requiring equality and uniformity, and empowering the legislature to exempt only in certain
specified cases. On this question there 'would be no room for
the assertion that prior decisions of th6 Supreme Court of the
State of Minnesota relating to the validity of acts imposing
gress receipt taxes had recognized the power to make such
contract, since such decisions of that court, whatever be the
doctrine which they announced as to gross receipt taxes, have
uniformly and consistently denied the authority to grant an
exemption. But the controversy which this case presents does
not rest on the rights asserted to havw been conferred by the
exemption contaified in the granting act, since the plaintiff in
error accepted the provisions of the law of 1873, and has from
the time of such acceptance paid the gross receipt tax therein
provided.. Although it be that the law imposing the gross
rebeipt tax, and which was accepted by the corporation, did
not give rise to an irrevocable contract protected from impairment by the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States, since the right to repeal, alter or amend was reserved,
the question yet remains whether the act of the legislature of
Minnesota which was submitted to a vote of the people" and
which is here relied upon as' manifesting the exercise of the
reserved power to repeal, alter or amend, has such effect. The
repealing or amending act relied upon in this case is the same
one which was involved in the case of Stearns v. Minnesota,
ante, 223, and its text was fully stated in that case. Here, as
there, to treat the act in question as a repeal, alteratiofi or

AVERY v. POPPER.
Syllabus.

amendment of the contract would be to preserve all the obligations of the corporation in favor of the State, and to take away
from the corporation the consideration on the part of the State
upon which the duty of the corporation to pay the gross receipt
tax rested. For this reason, we conclude that the act which it
is asserted repealed or amended the contract was void, because
a mere arbitrary exercise of power giving rise, if enforced, not
only to a denial of the equal protection of the laws, but to a
deprivation of property without due process of law. The reasons by which we are led to this conclusion were fully expressed
in the concurring opinion of four members of the court in
Stearns v. .Minnesota, and need not be here repeated.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this aopinion.
:MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR.JUSTICE BREWER, MR.JUS-

TIE SHnr&s and

MnR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concurred in the result.

AV]RY. v. POPPER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT -OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 72. Submitted November 7, 1900.-Decided December 3,1900.
In an action by a chattel mortgagee of certain cattle against the purchaser
of the same at a marshal's sale upon execution, the question was whether
a chattel mortgage upon a portion of such cattle, which did not identify
the particular animals covered by it, was good as against the purchaser of
the entire lot at marshal's sale. Held: That this presented no Federal
question.
With respect to wxits of error from this Tourt to judgments of state courts,
in actions between purchasers under judicial proceedings in the Federal
courts and parties making adverse claims to the property sold,'the-true
rule is this: That the writ will lie, if the validity or construction of the,,
judgment of the Federal court, or the regularity of the proceedings under
the execution, are assailed; bit if it'be admitted that the judgment was
valid and these proceedings were regular, that the purchaser took the

voL. oLXXix-20

