OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

the contract must lead to the preservation of the corresponding
* and reciprocal right or duty of the other. In reason, the argument comes to this, that the act purporting to amend, on its
face cannot be declared to have done so, without concluding at
the same time both that it did alter, repeal and amend, and that
it did not. Uiider these circumstances, to enforce the amendatory act would necessarily be to deny to the corporation the
equal protection of the laws, since it would leave the corporation subject to taxation, not by the general laws of the State
but by the provisions of a contract, and at the same time subject the corporation to a burden wholly incompatible with its
liability under the contract. It would be a denial of due process
of law to the corporation, since it would be but the recognition
of the right pf the State, without hearing and without process
of any kind, to condemn the corporation to the performance of
a duty alleged to be resting on it, and at the same time retain
in favor of the State as against the corporation an obligation
wholly at variance and in absolute conflict with the supposed
duty arbitrarily declared by the amendatory act to rest upon
the corporation.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK 'v. COHEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE N12UH
CIRCUIT.
No. 157. Argued March 14,15,1900.-

Decided December 3,1900.

The provision in the statutes of New York that "no life insurance company
doing business in the State of New York shall have power to declare
fQrfeited or lapsed any policy hereafter issued or renewed, by reason of
non-payment of any annual premium or interest, or any portion thereof,
except as hereinafter provided," does not apply to or control such a policy
issued by a corporation of New York in another State, in favor of a
citizen of the latter State, but is applicable only to business transacted
within the State of New York; and in such case the rights of the parties
,are measured by the terms of the contract.

MUT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK v. COHEN.

263

Counsel.
ON June 10,1885, the petitioner delivered to Alexander Cohen,
in the State of Montana, a life insurance policy for $3000, conditioned upon the annual payment of a premium of $89.61.
Upon it the insured paid premiums up to and including June 10,
1892. No subsequent premiums were paid. On September 21,
1897, he died. His *ife, Tine Cohen, was the beneficiary named
in the policy.
The application commenced in these words: "Application
for insurance in the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New
York, 140 to 146 Broadway, corner of Liberty street, New York
City, subject to the charter of such company and the laws of
said State." It further contained this provision: "That if the
insurance applied for be granted by the company, the policy, if
accepted, will be accepted subject to all the conditions and'
stipulations contained in the policy." Among those conditions
and stipulations was this: "Notice that each and every such
payment is due at the date named in the policy is given and
accepted by the delivery and acceptance of this policy, and any
further notice, required by any statute, is thereby expressly
waived."
On November 9, 1898, this action was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington.
The single defence was the non-payment of premiums after
June 11, 1892. There was no suggestion of rescission, abandon-.
ment, knowledge by the beneficiary of the non-payment of the
premium, or any refusal or failure on her part in respect to the
policy. A demurrer to the answer was sustained, judgment
rendered for the amount of the policy, less the unpaid premiums,
which judgment was affirmed by the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuiti 38 C. C. A. 696, and thereupon the case was brought here on certiorari.
.Mr.JTuien T. -Daviesand .Afr. Jok B. Allen for the Mutual
Life Insurance Company. .A&. Edward Lyman SAort, 11r.
Frederick -D. .cKenney and ..Abr. .RobertC. Strudwiek were on
their brief.
.X. S,. Warburton and -Mr. HaroldPreston for Cohen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Phinney, 178 U. S. 327,
was an action against the same insurance company, in the same
district, on a policy like the one in controversy here, save that
in that the insured was himself the beneficiary. It resulted in
a judgment in the Circuit Court against the company. Thereupon the company sought to transfer it by writ of error to the
Court of Appeals of that circuit, but that court dismissed the
writ of error. Thereafter, on April 19, 1897, a certiorari was
issued by this court. 1-66 U. S. 721. On examination we held
that the Court of %ppeals erred in dismissing the writ of error,
.that it had jurisdiction, and that it ought to have reversed the
judgment of the Circuit Court. The decision was based on the
ground of error in the ruling of the Circuit Court in respect to
rescission and abandonment. In the opinion we referred to the
fact that there was a primary question of the applicability of a
statute of the State of New York, but deemed it unnecessary to
decide it. That decision was followed by the cases of the same
company against Sears, 178 U. S.345; against Hill, 178 U. S.
34:7; against Allen, 178 U. S. 351. All of which cases were disposed of in like manner.
The primary question noticed but not decided in those cases
is distinctly and solely presented in this.
The insurance policy contained a stipulation that it should
not be binding until the first premium had been paid and the
policy delivered. The premium was paid and the policy delivered in the State of .Yontana. Under those circumstances,
under the general ruile the contract was a Montana contract,
and governed by the laws of that State. Eqg itable Life Assurance Society v. C-lements, 140 U. S.226, 232. In that State,
there being no statutory provisions to the contrary, the failure
to pay the annual premium worked, in accord with the terms
of the policy, a forfeiture of all claims against the company.
New York, on the other hand, the State by which the insurance company was chartered and in which it had its principal
office, by section 1.of chapter 321 of 1877 had enacted-

MUT. LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK v. COHEN.

265

Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 1. No life insurance company doing business in the
State of New York shall have power to declare forfeited or
lapsed any policy hereafter issued or renewed by reason of nonpayment of any annual premium or interest, or any portion
thereof, except as hereinafter provided."
The provision referred to and which is stated at length in
the succeeding part of the section is one for notice of a special
kind and to be given in a particular way. The section is quoted
in full in 178 U. S. 330.
This hotice was not given. Hence, if the law of New York
controls, the policy was still in force and the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The question, therefore, is whether the law of New York
controls.
The presumption is in favor of the law of the place of contract. He who asserts the contrary has the burden of proof.
The New York statute does not purport to change any insurance company charter. On the contrary, its obvious purpose
is only to reach business transacted within the State. Proceeding on the accepted principle that a State may determine the
conditions, the meaning and limitations of contracts executed
within its borders the language of the statute reaches contracts
made within the State. Undoubtedly a foreign insurance company making a contract within the State of New York would
find that contract burdened by its provisions, and equally clear
is it that such company making a contract in another State
would be free from its limitations. There is no indication of
an intent on the part of the legislature of New York to affect,
even if it were possible, the general powers of a foreign company
coming within the State and transacting business. But on the
face of the statute there is no express demarcation between
foreign and local c6mpanies. There is no attempt to say that
a foreign company doing business within the State shall, as to
such business, be subject to the prescribed limitations, and that
a home company doing business within the State and elsewhere
shall as to all its business be so limited. If we cannot from the
language impute to the legislatur6 an intent to regulate the
business of a foreign company outside of the State, how can we

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
,Opinion of the Court.

find in such language an intent to prescribe limitations upon
the coitracts of a home company outside the State? In the
absence of an expressed intent it ought not to be presumed that
New York intended by this legislation to affect the right of
other States to control insurance contracts made within their
limits. Can it be that the State of New York, aware of the
fact that other States and other countries might by their legislation properly prescribe terms and conditions of insurance contracts, meant by this legislation to restrict its local companies
from going into those States and countries and transacting
business in compliance with their statutes if in any respect they
were found to conflict with the regulations prescribed for business transacted at home?
Again, it is worthy of notice that .the State of New York has
changed its legislation repeatedly in the last quarter of a century in respect to this very matter of notice. See Laws, 1876,
chap. 341, sec. 1; the statute now under consideration, Laws,
1877; Laws, 1892, chap. 690, sec. 92; Laws, 1897, chap. 218,
sec. 92. The varying provisions of these statutes, directed in
terms, not to local companies but to companies doing business
in the State of New York, strengthen the conclusion that the
State was not thus changing the several charters of its companies, but prescribing only that which in its judgment from
time to.time was the proper rule for business transacted within
the State.
Again, the terms of the act itself tend in the same direction.
It provides for a 30-day notice. While such a notice might be
reasonable as to all policies within the State, yet when it is
remembered that some at least of the New York insurance
companies are doing business in all quarters of the globe, it is
obvious that a 30-day notice in many cases would be of little
value.
Further, by section 2 the statute provides that an affidavit
by one authorized to mail the notice shall be "presumptive evidence" of the giving of the notice. Can it be supposed that
the legislature of New York was contemplating a rule of evidence
to be enforced in every state and nation of the world?
These considerations lead to the conclusion that the statute of

MUT. LIFE INS. 00. OP NEW YORX v. COHEN.

267

Opinion of the Court.

lNew York, directed as it is to companies doing business within
.the State, was intended to be, and is, in fact, applicable only to
business transacted within that State.
It is not doubted that a contract by-an insurance company of
New York executed elsewhere may by its terms incorporate the
law of New York, and make its provisions controlling upon
both the insured and the insurer. And it is urged -that, although there is nothing in the policy to indicate this, the language of the application has that effect. It recites that it is
"subject to the charter of such company and the laws of said
State;" and the contract refers to the application, and declares
that it is issued "in consideration of the application for this
policy and of the truth of the several statements made therein."
While the contract is based upon the application, yet the latter
is only a preliminary instrument, a proposal on the part of the
insured, and a stipulation that it shall be controlled by the
charter and the laws of the State is not tantamount to a stipulation that the policy issued thereon shall also in like manner
be controlled. That such language was incorporated into the
application is not strange. Its meaning is clear, and is that no
local statute as to the effect of statements or representations or
any other matter in the application should in these respects override the provisions of the charter and the laws of New York.
In other words, if by the charter or the laws of New York any
statement in an application is to be taken as a warranty, no
local statute declaring that all statements in an application are
to.be taken as simply representations shall, override the terms
of the charter and the New York law. But that is very different from a provision that the contract issued upon such application should also be in all its respect§*controlled by the laws of
New York.
Further, it may be noticed that even if the languagejustifies
a broader construction, it may well mean that only such laws
of the State of New York as are intended to and do change the
charters of the companies or are intended to have extraterritorial
application should be considered a part of the policy.
The stipulation in this policy is different from that presented
to the Court of Appeals of New York in Baxter v. Brooddyn

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Life 14. Compainy, 119 N. Y. 450, 454, which was that it,was
"a contract made and to be executed in the State of New York,
and construed only according to the laws of that State." There
was a direct provision in respect to the contract itself, and thus
incorporated those laws into its terms.
While authorities on this particular question are not numerous, we may properly refer to an opinion of the Supreme Court
of.Washington, the State in which this action was brought,
Griesemer v. .Mutual Life Insurance Corpany,10 Washington,
202, in which, referring to this special question, and the contention that this very statute. of the State of New York became
a part of the contract of the company in the State of Washington, the court said, on pages 206, 207:
"It is claimed on the part of the plaintiff that upon, its enactment it became attached to the defendant, it being a corporation organized under the laws of New York, and effected a
change inits charter; so that every policy thereafter issued by
it, whether in the State of New York or elsewhere, became subject to its provisions. On the other hand, it is claimed by the
defendant that it only affected policies issued to, or held by,
residents of the State of New York; that the evident object of
its enactment was to 'protect such residents; that to give it a
broader effect would be to convict the legislature of having discriminated against life insurance companies organized under the
laws of the State.
"We are unable to construe the law in accordance with the
contention of either party. The construction contended for by
the defendant is too narrow. The language used is, that 'No
life insurance company doing business in the State-of New York
shall have power to declare forfeited or lapsed any policy.
.'
This language, construed irif its ordinary sense, seems
to preclude such a narrow construction. Beside, if it were warranted by the language, it would not be reasonable to suppose
that the legislature intended to so limit the effect of the statute. If it had so intended, it would have made use of language.
which in some manner confined the rights to be affected by the
statute to residents of the State, instead of. to cdmpanies doing
business therein. While the construction, contended for by the

MUT. LIFE INS. CO. O.F NEW YORK v. COHEN.

269

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff, seems to be equally untenable, for the reasona that it
would convict the legislature of having sought to acc6mplish
something not in its power. So construed the act would apply
to all policies of any company which should do business in the
State of New York, wherever issued, regardless of the question
as to whether or not it was organized under its laws. That the
legislature of New York could not control companies not organized under its laws as to their business transacted in other
States is too clear for argument. Hence the construction contended for by respondent would convict the legislature of having attempted that which it could not do, or of having deliberately discrim'inated against its Own companies.
"In our opinion the reasonable and ordinary construction of
the language used in the statute is such as to make it applicable
to business done in the State of New York; and that the question as to whether or not the companies doing such business
were organized under its laws, or those of some other State, has
no influence upon the question as to whether or not the statute
is applicable. This construction is justified by the language
used, and will give force to every word, while the other will
not do so. And since the well-settled rule as to construction of.
statutes requires every word to be given force if possible, it follows that the limitations of the act are impressed upon all policies issued in the State of New York by either domestic or for,
eign companies, and that it has no application to policies not
issued therein, even although the companies issuing them were
organized under its laws."
The New York cases cited by counsel throw no light on the
qiuestion. Baxter v. Brooklyn Life Ins. Co., 119 N.Y. 450, contained in the contract, as heretofore stated, an express stipulation of the controlling law. In Carter v. Brooklyn Life Ins.
Co., 110 N. Y. 15, the question was as to the significance of the
word "renewed" in the section referred to, and it does not appear where the policy was issued. In Phelan v. Y orthwestern
.7iutual Life Ins. Co., 113 N. Y. 14'7, the statute was held applicable to a foreign insurance company doing business in the
State of New York, the notice given was held insufficient, and
no question was considered as to the scope of the statute other-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

wise. De Fece v. National Life Is. Co., 136 N. Y. 144, was
likewise an action against a foreign insurance company, and involved no question like that before us. Raes Executor8 v.
NationalLife Ins. Co., 20 U. S. App. 410, was also an action
against a foreign insurance company, and the question was simply as to the sufficiency of the notice.
We conclude, therefore, that the statute of the State of New
York does not under the circumstances presented control, and
that the rights of the parties are measured alone by the terms
of the contract. The insured having failed to pay the premium
for years before his death, the policy was forfeited.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of A.peals wilZ be -reversed
and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the 1istrictof Washingtdn, with instructions to
set aside the judgment and ovemrule the demurrer.
MR.

JUsTI E MoKENNA

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAM took no part in the decision of this

case.

WILLIAMS v. FEARS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 287. Argued October 29, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
By a general revenue act of'the State of Georgia, a specific tax was levied
upon many occupations, including that of "emigrant agent," meaning a
person engaged in hiring laborers to be employed beyond the limits of
the State. Held that the levy of the tax did not amount to such an interference with the freedom of transit; or of contract, as to violate the
Federal Constitution.
Nor was the objection tenable that the equal protection of the laws was
denied because the business of hiring persons to labor within the State
was not subjected to a like tax.
The imposition of the tax fell within the distinction between interstate
commerce, or an instrumentality thereof, and the mere incidents which

