OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

was not necessary for the decision. Moot questions require no
answer.
This being the only matter suggested, and it appearing that
the Federal question stated in the record calls for no decision,
judgment is
-Aflrmed.

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 66. Argued November 5, 1900. -Decided

December 24,1900.

Final decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in respect
of final settlements in the orphans' court, may be reviewed in this court
on appeal.
Where, in a controversy between an executrix and next of kin, a decree of
the orphans' court approving the final account of the executrix has been
reversed by tle Court of Appcals on the appeal of the next of kin, and
the cause remanded that the account might be restated in accordance
with the principles set forth in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, involving a recasting of the entire account, tbe decree of the Court of Appeals is not final.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, sitting as an orphans'
court, has jurisdiction over the settlement of estates, and controversies
in relation thereto between the next of kin and the executrix, and resort
to the chancery court is unnecessary.
Certain familiar rules of construction of wills reiterated: (a) .That the
intention of the testator must prevail; (b) that the law prefers a construction which will prevent a partial intestacy to one that will permit
it, if such a construction may reasonably be given; (c) that the courts
in general are-averse from construing legacies to be specific.
Ademption is the extinction or withdrawal of a legacy in consequence of
some act of the testator equivalent to its revocation or clearly indicative
of an intention to revoke.
In this case, in view of the general intention of the testator as plainly shown
by the provisions of his will taken together, and of the rules against partial intestacy and against treating legacies as specific, the bequest of
money as therein made to testator's widow is construed not to have been
a specific legacy but rather in the nature of a demonstrative legacy, and
a change, between the date of the will and the death of the testator,

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
Statement of the Case.
from money into bonds, held not to be an ademption, and so a rule of
law rather than a question of intention.

THIS was a proceeding for the settlement of the final account
of Mary Louise Kenaday, as executrix of Alexander M . Kenaday, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding
a special term for orphans' court business. Alexander M. Kenaday died in the District of Columbia, March 25, 1897, leaving
a will, which was probated in the orphans' court of the District
at the April term, 1897, and Was as follows:
"In the name of God, Amen. I, Alexander McConnell Kenaday, resident of Washington, District of Columbia, being of
sound and disposing mind and memory, calling to mind the
frailty and uncertainty of human life, and being desirous of
settling my worldly affairs and directing how the estates with
which it has pleased God to bless me shall be disposed of-after
my decease-while I have strength and capacity so to do, do
make and publish this last will and testament, hereby revoking
and making null and void all other last wills and testaments by
me heretofore made. And first, I commend my mortal being
to Him who gave it, andmy body to the earth, to be buried with
[as1] as little expense by my executor hereinafter named.
"Imprimi8. My will is that all my just debts and funeral
charges shall be paid out of my estate, by my executrix.
"Item. I give, devise and bequeath to my beloved wife, Mary
Louise Kenaday, all my real estate, household furniture, and
claims pending in the courts in relation to said real estate, to
wit:
"House and lot known as No. 507 & 509 on F street, northwest, Washington, D. C., lot No. 2 (east half) of square 482,
30X101.10.
4

"House and lot known as No. 621 H street, northwest, lot 483
sq. No. 483, 20 X 133 to an alley.
A
"House and lot known as No. 2006 G street, northwest, lot
No. 25 in square No. 103, 201 X 120 ft. to an alley.
1 Word enclosed in brackets erased in copy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"And I hereby authorize my wife, as executrix, to convey
by deeds in fee simple any or all of said real estate in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia, under the
advice of some competent attorney.
"'Item.Included as claims pending in the courts are: An account for taxes against the estate of De Vaughn v. De Vaughn,
unjustly withheld, in charge of my attorney Woodbury Wheeler,
Esq. Also, an account for moneys withheld by the trustees.of
Edwards v. Maupin. In charge of my attorney, Frank W.
Hackett, Esq., amounting to $1078 with interest at six per
cent. per annum from March-7, 1888.
"Also, my business as a claim agent and as publisher of ' The
Vedette,' together with all books, papers, files, office furniture,
etc., etc. Also, 200 shares of Sutro Tunnel stock and Comstock
bonds; also, notes and evidences of indebtedness to me, of more
or less value; also, deposits of currency entered on my bank book
of the National Metropolitan Bank, amounting to $10,000.00
more or less.
"Item. I give, devise and bequeath to my beloved sister Arabella D. Sinnott, residing in New Orleans, La., twelve thousand dollars in registered U. S. 4% bonds, on special deposit in
the National Metropolitan Bank.
"Item. I give, devise and bequeath to the surviving children
of my deceased sister, Martha J. Piles, out of the residue of 4%
bonds deposited as aforesaid ($3500.00) as follows: To Mrs.
Belle Hubert, $500.00. To Win. A. Piles, $500.00. To Ida
Piles, $500.00. To Eloise Piles, $500.00. To Edith K. Piles,
$750.00. To Henry C. Piles, $250.00.
"Item. The promissory note for $1100.00 filed with a chattel
mortgage in my name in the office of the recorder of deeds, in
the District of Columbia, signed by Mrs. Anna Hemenway,
shall le cancelled and my executrix may allow Mrs. Hemenway
$500 in settlement of her account.
"The bond of the city of Richmond, for $5000.00 bearing
5 per cent interest, payable January and July--(on special deposit with the 4% bonds of the U. S: in the National Metropolitan Bank,) is hereby devised and bequeathed to my wife
and executrix.

KENADAY c. SINNOTT.
Statement of the Case.

"The

sum of $5000.00 advanced to Win. C. McGeorge

San Francisco,

of California, no account of which has been'rendered by him,
A
is hereby devoted to the relatives of my wife, and used according to her discretion."
The will was subscribed by the testator, April 3,.1894, in the
presence of three witnesses, whose attestation was sworn to.
Mrs. Kenaday duly qualified as executrix, and proceeded in the
discharge of her duties. On June 10, 1898, under the order of
the orphans' court, the executrix gave notice, appointing.Friday,
July 8, 1898, as the day for the settlement of her final account
as executrix by that court; and for making distribution of the
estate under its orders.
Arabella D. Sinnott, William A. Piles, Ida Piles Miller and
Belle Hubert appeared and filed their petition, claiming as distributees as the only surviving next of kin and heirs at law of
the decedent. They admitted the receipt from the testatrix of
their respective legacies under the will, and that another legatee therein named, Edith K. Piles, since dead, had also received
her legacy; and said: "The other two legatees, to wit, Henry
C. Piles, and Eloise Piles, have not been paid the amounts left
them, the said Eloise having died before the testator, Alexander
M. Kenaday, and the said Henry C. not having been heard from
during the last six years and who your petitioners believe is
dead."
The final account of the executrix was made up and filed
July 15, 1898, showing that she charged herself with a $5000
bond of Richmond, Va.; $24,500 United States registered
bonds; 200 shares stock Comstock Tunnel Company and one
certificate of scrip of that company, apprpised as valueless;
cash found on deposit in National Metropolitan Bank, $810.60;
and some items of interest, etc.; that the Hemenway note had
not been found; that she credited herself with disbursements
for costs, funeral expenses, etc.; with commissions; and with
legacies paid or otherwise satisfied, but not including therein the
$810.60 on deposit; and that there was in her hands $9218.76,
!3consisting mainly of United States bonds and deposits in
bank,". which the executrix credited herself with "on account
VOL, cLxxx-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the bequest to her by the testator'of ' notes and evidences of
indebtedness to me,' 'deposits of currency entered on my bank
book,' and other personal estate," and thus balanced and closed
the account in full.
The intervening next of kin claimed the balance on the ground
that it was residuary estate, and that, there being no residuary
clause in the will, it necessarily belonged to them; and filed
their exceptions to the account as stated, particularly excepting
to the credit of the $9218.16.
A certificate of the Register of the Treasury was filed, to the
effect that the records of his office showed that registered four
per cent bonds of the United States were standing in the name
of Alexander M. Kenaday on the first day of April, 1897, to the
amount of $24,500; of which, bonds to the amount of $15,500
bore date April 23, 1889, and bonds to the amount of $9000
bore date April 1, 1895.
The orphans' court, Hagner, J., presiding, on Octbber 11,
1898, overruled the exceptions, and approved the final account
of the executrix*as stated. All said next of kin thereupon appealed from this order to the Court of ApIpeals for the District
,of Columbia.
At the January term, 1899, the cause was heard, the order
was reversed with costs, and the cause was remanded to the
court below with- a direction "that the account be restated in
accordance with the principles of the opinion of this court."
14 App. D. 0. 1. The mandate having gone down, the account
of the executrix was restated as directed by the Court of Appeals, and approved February 10, 1899.
The balance. for distribution according to that account was
stated-to be $8,285.64, and the distributive shares as follows:
"To Arabella D. Sinnott, sister, I ........... $4142
" Mrs. Belle Piles Hubert, niece, j of I .... 828
" Edith K. Piles,
" " " " .... 828
" Ida Piles Miller,
" " " " .... 828
William A. Piles, nephew,
" " c ....
828
Henry C. Piles,
"
" " C.... 828

Fractions ...........: .....................

82
56
56
56
56
56

02
$8285 64"

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
Statement of the Case.

On the same tenth of February, Mrs. Kenaday was ordered
to pay over and deliver to the said Arabella B. Sinnott, through
her attorneys of record, the sum of $4142.82, being her distributive share of said estate, taking receipt for the same. Thereupon Mrs, Kenaday appealed in open court to the Court of Appeals from the order of February 10, approving and. passing the
account, and from the order directing the distribution to Arabella B. Sinnott of the amount therein mentioned as her share.
Au appeal bond in the- sum of $8000 running to Arabella B.
Sinnott, to operate as a supersedeas to the order directing the
payment to her of $4142.82 was required by order of court, and
it was also directed that the penalty of a bond for costs in the
matter of the appeal from the order approving the account, filed
the same day, be fixed at $50, or in lieu of such bond for costs
a deposit of that amount in cash. A supersedeas bond in the
penalty of $8000 was approved, filed and recorded, and $5()
was deposited in lieu of bond on appeal from the order approving the account. The Court of Appeals filed an opinion, _er
curiam, that on examihing the transcripts of record it was found
that the court below had in the restatement of the account followed and observed the mandate sent down on the former appeal, and that it was ordered that the motion made by the said
Arabella D. Sinnott to dismiss or affirm the order of the court
below approving and passing said final account of the estate,
under rule sixteen of the court, be denied, but that the said final
order of said court approving and passing said account, the
same bearing date the tenth day of February, 1899, on the appeal of the said Mary L. Kenaday, executrix, be affirmed, "the
said account appearing to be stated in accordance with the mandate of this court issued on the former appeal." Thereupon
judgment was entered April 5, 1899, "that the order of the said
Supreme Court in this cause, of February 10, 1899, approving
and passing account be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with
costs." A writ of error to remove the cause to this court was
thereupon allowed by that court, and issued, a supersedeas
bond being given and approved. Subsequently the executrix,
being in doubt whether the proceedings to obtain a review
should be by writ of error, or appeal, prayed an appeal, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

was granted in the words: "On motion of Mary L. Kenaday,
executrix, by her attorney, and it appearing to the court that
the practice in cases exactly of the character of the present one
has not been established by precedent, it is adjudged and ordered by the court this 17th day of April, 1899, that said executrix be, and she is hereby, allowed an appeal from the order of
this court passed herein April 5, 1899, and that the same bond
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, to act as a supersedeas upon
the issuing a writ of error in this case, shall stand and act as a
supersedeas upon said appeal, or according as a writ of error or
appeal is ultimately decided to be the method of obtaining a
review of the decision of this court in said cause."
The supersedeas bond was in the sum of $10,000, and ran to
Arabella D. Sinnott, William A. Piles, Ida Piles Miller and
Belle Hubert.
.Ar. William hfemry Dennis for plaintiff in error and appellant.
.Xr. William A. 2liliken. and f. Fi . _P. B. Sands for defendants in error and appellees.
MR.CMEF

JusTIc

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Court of Appeals allowed a writ of error to review its
decree approving the final account, and, a few days subsequently,
and at the same term, in view of the fact that the practice in
cases of this precise character had not been established, also allowed an appeal, the supersedeas bond on the writ to stand on
the appeal, if appeal were determined to be the correct method
of procedure. The cause was docketed in this court as on writ
of error, and as on appeal, and appellees or defendants in error
move to dismiss the appeal because the writ of error had previously issued, and the writ of error because the remedy was by
appeal. We must decline, however, to sustain both motions on
these grounds under the circumstances. The determination of
the proper course to be taken inseeking our jurisdiction will
dispose of one motion or the other.

r
i
KENADAX
v. SINNOTT.

Opinion of the Court.

By section 8.of the act of February 9, 1893, 27 Stat. 434, c. 74,
final judgments or decrees of the Court of Appeals are to be reexamined by this court on writ of error or appeal in the. same
manner and under the same regulations as theretofore provided
in cases of writs of error or appeals from judgments in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
In Orm8by v. WTebb, 134 U. S. 47, it was ruled that a writ of
error would lie to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, admitting a will to probate, not merely
because in that case a trial by jury had been actually had, but
upon the more general grounds, thus stated by Mr. Justice Harlan: "It is, of course, undisputed. that a final decree in equity, in
the court below, cannot be reviewed here by means of a writ of
*error. But a proceeding involving the original probate of a last
will and testament is not strictly a proceeding in equity, although
rights arising out of, or dependent upon, such probate have
often been determined by suits in equity. In determining the
question of the coinpetency of the deceased to make a will, the
parties have an absolute right to a trial by jury, and to bills of
exceptions covering all the rulings of the court during the progress of such trial. These are not the ordinary features of a
suit in equity. A proceeding in this District for the probate of
a will, although of a peculiar character, is nevertheless a case
in which there may be adversary parties, and in which there
may be a final judgment affecting rights of property. It comes
within the very terms of the act of Congress defining the cases
in. the Supreme Court of this District, the final judgments in
which may be reexamined here. If it be not a case in equity,
it is to be brought to this court upon writ of error, although
the proceeding may not be. technically one at law, as distinguished from equity." And see CampbpZl v. Port , 162 U. S.
478.
But while that.is the established rule in that class of cases,
it by no means follows that it is applicable in this case.
At common law jurisdiction over the estates of deceased persons vested in the ecclesiastical, common law and chancery
courts, and, in this country, courts of probate or orphans' courts
have universally been created by statute for the general exer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Oise of that jurisdiction, including the exercise of equitable, as
well as common-law powers, and the pursuit of appropriate
procedure.
The District Supreme Court sits as an orphans' court, and
by section 1 of subch. 15, of chap. 101 of the Maryland testamentary act of January 20, 1799, 2 Kilty, November Session,
11798, the orphans' court was instituted "for the purpose of
taking the probate of wills, granting letters testamentary and
of. administration, directing the conduct and settling the accounts of executors and administrators, securing the rights of
legatees, superintending the distribution of the estates of intestates, seciring the rights of orphans and legatees, and administering justice in all matters relative to the affairs of deceased
persons, according to law."
By other sections it is made the duty of the executor or the
administrator, on settlement of his account, to deliver up the
estate, or deliver up and distribute the surplus or residue.
And by section 12, of subch. 15, it is provided that: "The
orphans' court shall have full power, authority and'jurisdiction
to examine, hear and decree upon,-all accounts, claims and demands, existing between wards and their guardians, and between
legatees, or persons eititled to any distributable part of an intestate's estate, and exqeutors and administrators, and may enforce obedience to, and execution of, their decrees, in the same
ample manner as the court of chancery may."
There can be no question that the District Supreme Court
was clothed, as an orphans' court, with ample powers to proceed in the settlement of estates and the distribution thereof
to those entitled, in accordance with equitable principles and
procedure; and we think that the controversy raised by thVe
exceptions of the next of kin to this'final account was in its
nature of equitable cognizance, and that the decree of the Court
of Appeals is properly reviewable on appeal rather than on writ
of error.
The reasoning which conducts to this .conclusion in proceedings of this character. in effect disposes of the contention of
appellant that the decree should be reversed because the orphans' court had no jurisdiction over an alleged residue of per-

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

sonalty in the hands of an executrix undisposed of by the will;
as jurisdiction over it belonged solely to a court of equity, as
a matter of trust. Alvey, C. J., in the opinion reported 14
App. D. C. 1, 21, .discussed the subject at length, and, among
other things, said: "The executor, as is well understood, derives his title as exebutor from the will of the testator, but he
takes no beneficial interest in the undisposed of surplus or residue of the personal estate, by mere implication or construction,
as by the former English rule. It is true every executor is, in
a certain sense and to'a certain extent, a trustee for all persons
interested in the preservation and distribution of the personal
estate of the testator, and he isequally so in respect of the
surplus or residue of the estate undisposed of by the wi as
of any other portion of the estate. He takes the estate under
the will for purposes of administration, and of distribution to
those entitled; and while a court of equity-has a long established jurisdiction in all matters of trust, of account, of administration, and of construction, in the settlement of estates, yet
such jurisdiction is not exclusive of the very ample jurisdiction
conferred on the orphans' courts of Maryland, and the special
term of the Supreme Court of this District for orphans' court
business, by the testamentary act of 1798, ch. 101. That act
embodies in its various provisi6nsa testamentary and administrative system, intended to be complete in itself." The Chief
Justice then gave a resum4 of the act, and quoted the sections
to which we have already referred.
There being a controversy over the distribution between the
next of kin and the executrix, we are entirely satisfied that the
powers vested in the orphans' court gave it jurisdiction to dispose thereof, and that appellees were not compelled to go into
the equity court.
Appellees also moved to dismiss both the writ of error and
the appeal, on the ground that the judgment of the Court of
Appeals on the first appeal was a complete and final decree,
settling and fixing the rights of the parties, 'and that appellant,
because she did not appeal therefrom, was concluded from any
review by this court of the matters then considered.
We do not think so. On the appeal of the next of kin, the

OCTOBER TERn, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the cause "that the
account be restated in accordance with the principles of the opinion of this court."
The account was to be entirely recast under the mandate, and
the determination of who were the next of kin, the proportions
they shoild take, the effect of the death of one or more of them,
and any other questions that might arise, were remitted to the
court below. The settlement was to be a final settlement, and
the decree reversing and remanding that such a settlement might
be had on the principles indicated was not final so as to justify
an appeal by the executrix therefrom, although, had it been a
decree.of affirmance, the present appellees might have appealed.
We come then to the case upon the merits, and it must be
determined on the correct construction of the wil, arrived at
in accordance with well settled applicable rules.
The cardinal rule is that the intention of the testator expressed in his will, or clearly deducible therefrom, must prevail, if consistent with the rules of law. And anotherfamiliar
rule is that the law prefers a construction which will prevent a
partial intestacy to one that will permit it, if such a construetion may be reasonably given. And in principle this niust be
so when it is contenaed that the executor takes merely for
next of kin claiming as 'distributees of an alleged undisposed
of residue.
The general intention of the testator in this instance is perfectly clear. The will was inartificially drawn, but its various
provisions taken together put it beyond doubt that he intended
to dispose.of all of his property, and we think that he accomplished that purpose. In doing so all property not expressly
given another destination was, in substance, devised and bequeathed to his wife, including some $10,000 on deposit. His
intention that she should thus take is evident. And if by the
will he disposed of all the property he had, there appeared no
necessity for a technical residuary clause.
The property'enumerated in the will was the property he
owned, at the time of his death, except that there was but
$810.60 on deposit in bank, and he bad $9000 in United States
bonds more than when the will was executed. These bonds

KENADAY r. SINNOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

were of a subsequent date to that of the execution of the will,
and were necessarily, therefore, purchased afterwards.
The will, executed April 3, 1894, referred to $15,500 of
bonds, and, at his death, he had bonds for $24,500, $15,500
dated April 23, 1889, and $9000 dated April 1, 1895.
The question then' really comes to this, whether an irrebuttable presumption arises that the testator, by reducing the
amount of money on hand at the date of his will, intended
that the amount of such reduction though remaining in his
assets in another form should be distributed to his next of kin
rather than that his wife should receive it.
And it is to be observed at the outset that to each of the next
of kin he made a bequest. To his sister, Mrs. Sinnott, a specific
legacy of $12,000 of the $15,500 of bonds, and to the children
of a deceased sister legacies aggregating $3000 out of the $3500
of bonds remaining after the delivery of the $12,000 to Mrs. Sinnott. Certain enumerated promissory notes were otherwise disposed of, and all the rest of his property, real estate, household
furniture, Richmond-city bond, money, etc., was devised and
bequeathed to his beloved wife. There was indeed an apparent surplus of $500 of the $3500 of bonds, but the allowance
to Mrs. Hemenway of $500 immediately followed the bequests
to the next of kin.
At his death there were on hand $9000 more in bonds, and
$9000 less in money. Do the rules of law require it to be held
that by this change he intended to withdraw so much from what
he had designed his wife to have, and to bestow it on the next
of kin in addition to what he had originally expressly given
them?
The question involved is one of ademption.and not of satisfaction. Without going into refinements in respect of the definition of the word ademption, it may be said to be the extinction
or withdrawal of a legacy in consequence of some act-of the testator equivalent to its revocation or clearly indicative of an intention to revoke. The satisfaction of a general legacy depends
on the intention of the testator as inferred from his acts, but
the ademption of a specific legacy is effected by the extinction
of the thing or fund bequeathed, and the intention that the leg-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1900.
Opinion of the Cort.

acy should fail is presumed. At least a different intention in
that regard which is not expressed will not be implied, although
the intention which is expressed relates to something which has
ceased to exist.
Williams says in reference to the different kinds of legacies
that: "A legacy is general when it is so given as not to amount
to a bequest of a particular thing or money of the testator, distinguished from all others of the same kind. A legacy is specific when it is a bequest of a specified part of 'the testator's
personal estate, which is so distinguished. . . . A legacy
of'quantity is ordinarily a general legacy; but there are legacies
of quantity in the nature of specific legacies, as of so much
money, with reference to a particular fund for payment. This
kind of legacy is called by the civilians a demonstrative legacy;
and it is so far general, and differs so much in effect from one
properly specific, that if the fund be clled in or fail, the legatee
will not be deprived of his legacy, but be permitted to receive
it out of the general assets; yet the legacy id so far specific,
that it will not be liable to abate with general legacies upon a
deficiency of assets." Vol. 2, p. 1158. And he adds: "The
'courts in general are averse from construing legacies to be specific; and the intentidn of. the testator, with reference to the
thing bequeathed, must be clear."
These rules are considered and applied in well nigh innumerable cases. Many of them will be found cited in the notes to
Ashburner v. 7!acguire,2 White and Tudor's Leading Cases in
Equity, Part II, Fourth American Edition from Fourth London
Edition, p.. 600.
In Valton v. Walton, 7 Johns. Ch. 258, Chancellor Kent re- views the subject at large with his usual ability, and criticises
the -observation of Lord Thurlow in: Stanley v. Potter, 2 Cox,
180, that the question in these cases does not turn upon the intention of the testator, saying: "But I apprehend the words of'
Lord Thurlow are to be taken with considerable qualification;
and that it is essentially a question of intention, when we are
inquiring into the character of the legacy, upon the distinction
taken in the civil law, between a demonstrative legacy, where

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the testator gives a general legacy, but points out the fund to
satisfy it, and where he bequeaths a specific debt."
In Wilcox v. Wilcox, 13 Allen, 256, Wells, J., said: "Courts
do not incline to construe legacies to be specific, and will not
do so unless such be the clear intention of the testator. Rirby
v. Poter,4 Ves. 748; Attorney General v. Parkin,Ambl. 566;
Briggs v. Ho.ford, 22 Pick. 288; Boardman v. Boardman,4
Allen, 179. If a legacy be given, with reference to a particular
fund only, as pointing out a convenient mode of payment, it isto be construed as demonstrative and the legatee will not be
disappointed though the fund wholly fail."
In Tift v. Porter,8 N. Y. 516, Johnson, J., speaking for the
majority of the court, said: "A legacy is general, when it is so
given as not to amount to a bequest of a particular thing or
money of the testator distinguished from all others of the same
kind. It is specific, when it is a bequest of a specified-part of
the testator's personal estate which is so distinguished.
The inclination of the courts to hold legacies to be general,
rather than specific, and on which the rule is based that to
make a legacy specific, its terms must clearly require such a
construction, rests upon solid grounds. The presumption is
stronger that a testator intends some benefit to a legatee, than
that he intends a benefit only upon the collateral condition that
he shall remain till death, ownet of the property bequeathed.
The motives which ordinarily determine men in selecting legatees, are their feelings of regard, and the presumption of course
is that their feelings continue and they are looked upon as
likely to continue. An intention of benefit being once expressed,
to make its taking effect turn upon the contingency of the condition of the testator's property being unchanged, instead of
upon the continuance of the same feelings which in the first
instance prompted the selection of the legatee, requires, as it
ought, clear language to convey that intention."
And so Alvey, C. J., in Gelback v. Shively, 67 Md. 498:
"Ordinarily, a legacy of a sum of money is a general legacy;
but where a particular sum is given, with reference to a particular fund for payment, such legacy is denominated in the law
a demon8trative legacy; and such legacy is so far general, and

OCTOBER TERNI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

differs so materially in effect from one properly specific, that
if the fund be called in or fail, or prove to be insufficient, the
legatee will not be depived of his legacy, but he will be permitted to receive it out of the general assets of the estate.
Duganv. Hollins, 11 Md. 77. But such legacy is so far specific
that-it will not be liable to abate with general legacies, upon
a deficiency of Assets, except to the extent that it is to be
-treated as a general legacy, after the application of the fund
designated for its payment. Mullin v. Bmit', 1 Drew. & Sni.
.204; 2 Wins. Exrs. 995. The authorities seem to be clear
in holding that whether a legacy is to be treated as a demonstrative legacy, or is one dependent exclusively upon a particular
fund. for payment, is a 'question of construction, to be determined according to what may appear to have been the general
intention of the testator.

.

.

It is certainly true, as a gen-

eral proposition, as was said by the Vice Chancellor in Dicin
v. Edwa dsl 4 Hare, 276, that where a testator bequeaths a sum
of money in such a manner as to show a separate and independent intention that the money shall be paid to
the legatee at al
events, that intention will not be held to be controlled merely
by a. direction in the will that the money is to be raised in a
particular way, or out'of a particular fund."
These references, aLnd rulings of similar import are legion,
serve to illustrate the governigg principles. The intention of
the testator must prevail,, and legacies will not be held specific,
when the result would be that the mere transmutation of money
into securities raised an irrebuttable presumption of ademption
inconsistent with the intention of the testator as plainly deducible from all the terms of tis will taken together.
As we have already stated, the general intention of the testator in this. case was to leave all his property to his wife except.
what was expressly otherwise disposed of, and among the clauses
inserted in effectuation of that result were these: "Also, my
business as a claim agent and as publisher of 'The Vedette,'
together with all books, papers,, files, office furniture, etc., etc.
Also 200 shares of SiAtro tunnel stock and Comstock bonds;
also, notes and evidences of indebtedness to me, of more or less
value; also, deposits of currency entered on my bank book of

KENADAY v. SINNOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the National Metropolitan Bank amounting to $10,000.00, more
or less." If the latter item stood alone and were not read in
connection with the will as a whole, it might well be that it
should be held to be a specific legacy, adeemed pro lanto.by the
use of the money except $810.60 in the purchase of additional
bonds, or otherwise. But taken in connection with all the provisions of the will; with the manifest general intention of thepestator; and with the rules against partial intestacy, and against
treating legacies as specific, if that construction can b6 avoided,
we think that it should be regarded as in its nature a demonstrative legacy, and not adeemed by the change from money.
into property.
Assuming. that the testator had at the date of the will about
$10,000 on deposit in the bank, his intention was clear that his
wife should receive the amount, and we are of opinion that we
ought not to defeat that intention by holding that the pecuniary
legacy was specific, and that the subsequent change was an
ademption, and so a rule of law rather than a question of intention.
In Towle v. Swaeey, 106 Mass. 100, a legacy of "whatever
sum may be on deposit" in a certain savings bank was held to
be specific, but there the provisions of the will evidenced no,
intention to the contrary, and the language used essentially
differed from that in this case.
It results that Mrs. Kenaday was entitled to credit herself
with the $9218.76, and that the original decree of the orphans'
court was correct. But in view of the lapse of time and the
course of the litigation, we shall simply reverse the decree of
the Court of Appeals and remand the cause to that court with
a direction to remand it to the court below for a restatement
of the final account in accordance with the views we have
expressed.
So ordered.
M3. JusTicE BREwER and M. JUSTICE PEnom&m dissented.

