KIZER v. TEXARKANA & FORT SMITH R'Y CO. 199
Opinion of the Court.

KIZER v. TEXARKANA & FORT SMITH RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME.COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 100. Argued and submitted November 13,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

That a Federal statute was construed unfavorably to one of the parties to
a suit is no ground for jurisdiction by this court, unless such construction
was not only unfavorable, but was against the right, etc., specially set up
and claimed under the statute ; in which case the party so setting up and
claiming the right under the statute can obtain a review here.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.fr. 08car D. Scott for plaintiff in error subnfitted on his brief.
Mr. James F. Read for defendant in error. XP. Gardin&r
Lathrop, .Xf. Thomas B. Morrow, 31'. John X. Fox, fr. Samuel W. Moore, and XM. James B. XoDonough were on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

PEOKEAM delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error commenced an action against the defendant in error in a circuit court of the State of Arkansas to
recover damages for the breach of an alleged contract between
the parties, by which the railroad company agreed to furnish
cars and to transport over its road and into points in the State
of Texas certain lumber for the plaintiff in error from his sawmill in Rankin, in Little River County, in the State of Arkansas, at a certain rate of compensation, and it was alleged in the
plaintiff's complaint that the defendant had violated lhat contract by charging a greater sum for the transportation of such
lumber than had been agreed upon, and the plaintiff sought to
recover from the defendant in error the excess paid by the plaintiff over the contract price.
Several defences were put in by the defendant, and among
others it set up that the contract was illegal, because the trans-

OCTOBER TERm, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

portation of the lumber from Rankin, in the State of Arkansas,
to places in the State of Texas over defendant's road was interstate commerce, and the contract therefore violated sections 1,
2 and 3 of the interstate commerce act, act of February 4, 1887,
c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, in that it made a discrimination in favor of
the plaintiff.
The trial court held that the contract did violate that act,
and was, therefore, void, and could not be enforced or damages
recovered for its breach.
Plaintiff in error then appealed to the Supreme Court of
Arkansas, where the judgment was affirmed, the court saying,
in its opinion, that "the facts in this case, as found by.the court,
as set out in the statement of facts, show that the contract upon
which the appellant relies is within the prohibitions of sections 1, 2'and 3 of tle interstate commerce law, enacted by Congress. .
.
We think the contract relied on in this case is
prohibited by the act of Congress to regulate commerce, and is
void."
Upon the affirmance of the judgment by the Supreme Court
of Arkansas, the plaintiff brought the case here by writ of error.
le now says that, although he set up no claim of any title,
right, privilege or'imihunity under the act of Congress, yet the
claim which defendant specially set up under it was acknowledged and enforced by the state court, and the statute was thus
construed unfavorably as to him, and that he has, therefore, a
right to have the judgment of the state court, which was based
on such construction, reviewed here under section '709 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States. But that section provides, ,so far as here applicable, that when any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under a statute of the United
States, and the decision of the state" court is against the title,
right, etc., specially set up or claimed under such statute, then
and in such case the judgment of the state court may be reviewed by this court.
Here, the claim under the Federal statute has been allowed
by the state court, and the contract sued on by the plaintiff in
error. has been denied validity because of its violation of that
statute. It is not every case where a Federal statute has been

LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 201
Syllabus.

construed by a state court that gives a right of review to this
court, but the claim of any right, title, privilege or immunity
under the statute must have been denied by the state tribunal
in order to give us jurisdiction to review its judgment. That a
Federal statute was construed unfavorably to one of the parties
to the suit is no ground for jurisdiction by this court, unless
such construction was not only unfavorable, but was against
the right, etc., specially set up and claimed under the statute.
In that case the party setting up and claiming the right under
the statute, which has been denied, can obtain a review here.
Thus it might happen, as it has happened in this case, that,
while the decision upon the construction of the statute was unfavorable to the maintenance of the cause of action set forth by
the plaintiff in error, it was not against, but in favor of, the
claim made under the Federal statute. The question whether
that statute, properly construed, prohibited the making of such
an agreement as that set up in the complaint in the state court,
having been decided in favor of the claim set up by defendant
under the statute, this court has no jurisdiction to review the
judgment. De Lama.'s Gold -3fiig Company v. Nesbitt, 17T
U. S. 523, 528, and cases there cited; Xissour'i v. Andriano,
138 U. S. 496.
The writ of error is therefore
Dismissed.

LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT O1- PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.

No. 65. Argued lNovember 13,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.
The fourth subdivision of secfion 13 of the act establishing the Court of
Private Land Claims, which provides that "no claim shall be allowed
for any land the right to which has hitherto been lawfully acted upon
and decided by Congress or under its authority" applies to this case, and
the claimant has no right to ask that court to pass upon its claim.

