OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of-the Case.

PATTON v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
FROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 123. Argued December 6, 7,1900.- Decided January 7, 1901.
The plaintiff, an employ6 of the railway company, was injured while at
work for it.. With reference to his contention that the trial court erred
in directing a verdict for the defendant, and in failing to leave the question of negligence to the jury, this court, after stating the facts, said:
(1) That while in the case of a passenger, the fact of an accident carries
with it a presumption of negligence on the part of the carrier, a presumption which, in the absence of some explanation or proof to the contrary
is sufficient to sustain a verdict against him, a different rule obtains as to
an employd. The fact of accident carries with it no presumption of negligence on the part of the employer, and it is.an affirmative fact for the
injured employ6 to establish, that the employer has been guilty of negligence:
(2) That in the latter case it is not sufficient for the employ6 to show that
the employer may have been guilty of negligence, but the evidence must
point to the fact that he was; and where the testimony leaves the matter
uncertain, and shows that any one of half a dozen things may have brought
about the injury, for some of which the employer is responsible, and for
some of which he is not, it is not for the jury to guess between these half
a dozen causes, and find that the negligence of the employer was the real
cause when there is no satisfactory foundation in the testimony for that
conclusion:
(3) That while the employer is bound to provide a safe place and safe'machinery in which and with which the einploy6 is to work, and while this
is a positive duty resting upon him, and one which he may not avoid by
turning it over to some employS, it is also true that there is no guaranty
by the employer that the place and machinery shall be absolutely safe.
Ile is bound to take reasonable care and make reasonable effort, and the
greater the risk which attends the work to be done and the machinery to
be used, the more imperative is the obligation resting upon him.
The rule in respect to machinery, which is the same as that in respect to
place, was accurately stated by Mr. Justice Lamar for this court in Washington & Georgetown Railroadv. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570.

PLAINrIFF in error, plaintiff below, brought his action against

the defendant to recover for injuries sustained while in its em-

PATTON v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 659
Opinion of the Court.

ploy as fireman. A judgment in his favor was reversed on
April 10,1894, by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 23 U. S. App.
319 ; 9 0. C. A. 487. On a second trial in the Circuit Court
the judge directed a verdict for*the defendant, ripon which
judgment was rendered. This judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 37 C. C. A. 56, and thereupon the
case was brought here on error.
The facts were that plaintiff was a fireman on a passenger
train of the defendant, running from El Paso to Toyah and return. Some three or four hours after one of those trips had
been made and while the engine of which he was fireman was
being moved in the railrdad yards at El Paso, plaintiff attempted to step off the engine, and in doing so the step turned
and he fell so far under the engine that the wheels passed over
his right foot, crushing it so that amputation became necessary.
Plaintiff alleged that the step turned because the nut which
held it was not securely fastened; that the omission to have it
so fastened was negligence on the part of the company, for
which it was liable.
.A6r. Frank W. Raekett for plaintiff in error.
Patterson was on his brief. "
.M,. John F. Dillon for defendant in error.

..M.

Aillard

-fr. Winsl.w .

Pierce and X'. Dav'd .D. Duncan were on his brief.
MR. JUsTicE BRFwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff's, contention is that the trial court erred in directing a verdict for the defendant and in failing to leave the
question of negligence to the jury.
That there are times when it is proper for a court to direct a
verdict is clear. "It is well settled that the court may withdraw a case from them altogether and direct a verdict for the
plaintiff or the defendant, as the one or the other may be proper,
where the evidence'is undisputed, or is of such conclusive character that the court, in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, would be compelled to set aside a verdict returned in op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

position to it. Phwnix _im. Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32;
Grggs v. Houston, 104: U. S. 553; Randall v. Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad,109 U. S. 478, 482; Anderson, Uounty Oommissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 241; Schofield v. Chicago & St.
PaulRailway Co., 114 U. S. 615, 618;" Delaware&c.Railroad
v. 7onverse, 139 U. S. 469, 472. See also Aerkfetz v. 1u1aphreye, 145 U. S.418; Elliott v. Chicago, Iilwaukee &c. Rail
way, 150 U. S. 245.
It is undoubtedly true that cases are not to be lightly taken
from the jury; that jurors are the recognized triers of questions
of .fact, and that ordinarily negligence is so far a question of
fact as to be properly submitted to and determined by them.
Richmond & Danville Railroad v. Power,?, 149 U. S. 43.
Hence it is that seldom an appellate court reverses the action
of. a trial court in declining to give a peremptory instruction
for a verdict one way or the other. At the same time, the
judge is primarily responsible for the just outcome of the trial.
He is not a mere moderator of a town meeting, submitting
questions to the jury for determinatioh, nor simply ruling on
the admissibility of testimony, but one who in our jurisprudence
stands charged with full responsibility. He has the same opportunity that jurors have for seeing the witnesses, for noting
all those matters in a trial not capable of record, and when in
his deliberate opinion there is no excuse for a verdict save in
favor of one party, and he so rules by instructions to that effect,
an appellate court will pay large respect to his judgment. And
if such judgment is approved by the proper appellate court, this
court, when called upon to review the proceedings of both courts,
will rightfully be much influenced by their concurrent opinions.
While it would needlessly prolong this opinion to quote all the
testimony, it is proper that its salient features should be noticed.
The single negligence charged is in the failure to have the engine
step securely fastened. That step, a shoel.shaped piece of iron,
is firmly fixed to a rod of iron about an inch in diameter and
eighteen inches in length, which passes up through the iron
casting at the rear of the engine, about six or eight inches thick.
A shoulder to this rod fits underneath the casting and the part

PATTON r'. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 661
Opinion of the Court.

passing through above has threads on the upper end upon which
a nut is screwed firmly down on the casting, fastening the rod
so that it will not move. That the step, rod and nut were in
themselves all that could be required is not disputed. That the
nut was properly screwed on at El Paso, before the engine
started on its trip, is shown; the plaintiff, who assisted there,
testifying to the fact. The engineer testified that he used the
step both on the trip to Toyali and the return trip to El Paso and
found it secure, and there is nothing to contradict this evidence.
The engineer in his report of needed work both at Toyah and
on his return at El Paso did not mention the step. He certainly supposed it secure. Competent inspectors were provided
by the company both at El Paso and Toyab,. and neither of
them detected any failure in the secure fastening of the step by
the nut. All of the witnesses except the superintendent and
foreman of defendant testified that if the nut had been securely
fastened at El Paso it would not have worked loose in making
the trip from El Paso to Toyah and return by the ordinary jar
and running of the engine; that it might be loosened by the
step striking something. The superintendent and foreman testified from an experience of twenty years with engines that it
might work loose on such trip, but that it was impossible to tell
whether it would or not.
It was the duty of the fireman to clean the cab and all that
portion of the engine above the running board, and' to keep the
oil cans and lubricators filled with oil. It was not necessary
for him to attend to this work until eight hours after the engine
arrived at El Paso, though it was more convenient to do so
while the engine was hot and the oil warm, as it would take
less time than when the engine was cooled off. After the engine reached El Paso the fireman and. the engifieer would get
off and it would be taken charge of by the yardmen, who would
detach it from the train, take it to the yard, coal and sand it
and do all things necessary except the matter of repair, then
place it in the round house where it would be cleaned by employ~s other than the fireman in all its parts beneath the running board, and inspected by the machinist and repaired; and
after that the fireman would have ample time for all the duties

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

imposed upon him before the engine started on another trip.
All this the plaintiff knew, and simply took the time he did
for his work for his own convenience. On this particular day
he did not commence work until three or four hours after the
arrival of the train at El Paso.

Prior to that time the engine

had been coaled up, the coal being placed in the tender back of
the engine. Some of the pieces of coal were from a foot to
eighteen inches in length and from six to eight inches in width,
and very heavy, and one of them falling off might strike the
step. - The engine had not at the time of the accident reached
the round house for inspection and repair, and this the plaintiff
knew.
From this outline it. appears that the master provided perfectly suitable appliances, and appliances in good condition; that
they were properly secured when the engine started on its .trip,
and that it is impossible to tell from the testimony how the step
was loosened. It may have been from the ordinary working of
the engine, the possibility of which was testified to by the superintendent, who had had long experience with engines. It may
have been because the step struck something on its trip, which
striking might produce that result according to the testimony
of other experts who denied that the ordinary working of the
engine would loosen it. We say this notwithstanding the testimony of the plaintiff that the step did not hit anything on the
trip, for the step was on the right side of the engine, the side
occupied by the engineer, and therefore a striking might have
occurred' without the knowledge of the plaintiff, whose work
did not call him to that side of the engine. It may have resulted from the dropping on the step of some of the large lumps
of coal which were thrown into the tender after reaching El Paso.
We are not insensible of the matter to which the plaintiff calls
especial attention, to wit, a conflict between the testimony given
by Alexander "Mitchell,the round house foreman at Toyah, at
the first trial, and that given by him at the last. At the first
trial he testified that the step was not taken off at Toyah. In
the last that it was. He also testified that though taken off it
was securely fastened before the train left. The inference, of
course, sought to be drawn is that the testimony of this witniess

PATTON v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 663
Opinion of the Court.

is unreliable; that it is to be believed that he unscrewed the
nut, but not to be believed that he screwed it up tightly, and
therefore another possibility of the cause of the loosening of
the step is introduced into this case. But giving full weight
to this suggestion, it still appears that it is a mere matter of
conjecture as to how the step became loose.
On the other hand, it must be remembered that the plaintiff,
who knew that the engine was to be taken to the round house
at El Paso and inspected and repaired before he was called upon
to perform any duties upon it, for his own convenience, before
such inspection and repair went on the engine and attempted
to discharge his duties of cleaning, etc. If he, knowing that
there was to be an inspection and repair and that he had ample
time thereafter to do his work, preferred not to wait for such
inspection and repair but to take the chances as to the condition
of the engine, he ought not to hold the company responsible
for a defect which would undoubtedly have been disclosed by
the inspection and then repaired.
Upon these facts we make these observations: First. That
while in the case of a passenger the fact of an accident carries
with it a presumption of negligence on the part of the carrier,
a presumption which in the absence of some explanation or
proof to the contrary is sufficient to sustain a verdict against
him, for there isrima facie a breach of his contract to carry
safely, Stokes v. Saltonetall, 13 Pet. 181; Railroad Company v.
Pollard,22 Wall. 341; Gleeson v. Virginia.fidland Railroad,
140 U. S. 435, 443, a different rule obtains as to an employS.
The fact of accident carries with it no presumption of negligence on the part of the employer, and it is an affirmative fact
for the injured employ6 to establish that the employer has been
guilty of negligence. Texas & Paei.Jc Railway v. Barrett,
166 U. S. 617. Second. That in the latter case it is not sufficient for the employ6 to show that the employer may have
been guilty of negligence-the evidence must point to the fact
that he was. And where the testimony leaves the matter uncertain and shows that any one of half a dozen things may have
brought about the injury, for some of which the employer is
responsible and for some of which he is not, it is not for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

jury to guess between these half a dozen causes and find that
the negligence of the employer was the real cause, when there
is no satisfactory foundation in the testimony for that conclusion. If the employ6 is unable to adduce sufficient evidence
to show negligence on the part of the employer, it is only one
of the many cases in which the plaintiff fails in his testimony,
and no mere sympathy for the unfortunate victim of an accident justifies any departure from settled rules of proof resting
upon. all plaintiffs. Third. That while the employer is bound
to provide a safe place and safe machinery in which and with
which the employ6 is to work, and while this is a positive duty
resting upon him and one which he may not avoid by turning it
over to some employ6, it is also true that there is no guaranty by
the employer that place and machinery shall be absolutely safe.
Hough v. Railway Company, 10 Otto, 213, 218; Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 386; Baltimore &¢Potomac Railroadv. -fackey, 15-7 U. S. 72, 87; Texas & Pacifc
Railway v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 665, 669. He is bound to take
reasonable care and make reasonable effort, and the greater the
risk which attends the work to be done and the machinery to
be used, the more imperative is the obligation resting upon him.
Reasonable care becomes then a demand of higher supremacy,
and yet in all cases it is a question of the reasonableness of the
care-reasonableness depending upon the danger attending the
place or the machinery.
The rule in respect to machinery, which is the same as that
in respect to place, was thus accurately stated by Mr. Justice
Lamar, for this court, in Washington & Georgetown Railroad
v. .AfeDade, 135 U. S. 554, 510:
"Neither individuals nor corporations are bound, as employers, to insure the absolute safety of nachinery or mechanical
appliances which they provide for the use of their employ~s.
Nor are they bound to supply the best and safest or newest of
those appliances for the purpose of securing the safety of those
who are thus employed. They are, however, bound to use all
reasonable care and prudence for the safety of those in their
service, by providing them with machinery reasonably safe and
suitable for the use of the latter. If the employer or master

ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 60'5
ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. ,'.
Syllabus.

fails in this duty of precaution and care, he is responsible for
any injury which may happen through a defect of machinery
whichwas, or ought to have been, known to him, and was un'known to the employ6 or servant."
Tested by these rules we do not feel justified in disturbing
the judgment approved as it was by the trial judge and the
several judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Admittedly,
the step, the rod, the nut, were suitable and in good condition.
Admittedly, the inspectors at El Paso and Toyah were competent. Admittedly, when the engine started on its trip from
El Paso the step was securely fastened, the plaintiff himself
being a witness thereto. The engineer used it in safety up to
the time of the engine's return to El Paso. The plaintiff was
not there called upon to have anything to do with the engine until after it had been inspected and repaired. He chose, for his
own convenience, to go upon the engine and do his work prior
to such inspection. No one can say from the testimony how
it happened that the step became loose. Under those circumstances it would be trifling with the rights of parties for. a jury
to find that the plaintiff had proved that the injury was caused
by the negligence of the employer.
The judgment is

Afjbwd.

ELGIN NATIONAL WATCH COMPANY v. ILLINOIS
WATCH CASE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 121. Argued December 5, 1900. -Decided

January 7,1901.

The term trade mark means a distinctive mark of authenticity, through
which the products of particular manufacturers or the vendible commodities of particular merchants may be distinguished from those of
others.
As its office is to point out distinctively the origin or ownership of the ar-

