OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

MASON v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 258. Argued October 25, 26, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.

The Supreme Court of the State of Missouri having decided that the provision of the state constitution respecting the enactment of registration
laws does not limit the power of the general assembly to create more
than one class composed of cities having a population in excess of one
hundred thousand inhabitants, this conclusion must be accepted by this
court.

The general right to vote in the State of Missouri is primarily derived from
the State; and the elective franchise, if one of the fundamental privileges
and immunities of the citizens of St. Louis, as citizens of Missouri and
of the United States, is clearly such franchise, as regulated and established by the laws or constitution of the State in which it is to be exer-

cised.
.The power to classify cities with reference to their population having been
exercised, in this case, in conformity with the constitution of the State,
the circumstance that the registration law in force in the city of St.
Louis was made to differ in essential particulars from that which regulated the conduct of elections in other cities in the State of Missouri, does
not, in itself, deny to thl citizens of St. Louis the equal protection of the
laws; nor did the exercise by the general assembly of Missouri of the
discretion vested in it by law, give rise to a violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

By an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri,
approved on May 31, 1895, provision was made for the registration of voters in cities which then had or thereafter might
have a population of over one hundred thousand inhabitants.
This law became operative in the cities of St. Louis, Kansas
City and St. Joseph. On June 19, 1899, the governor of Missouri approved an act of the general assembly, known as the
Nesbit law, which made provision for the registration of voters
in cities in Missouri which then had or might thereafter have
a population of over three hundred thousand inhabitants. At
the time the Nesbit law went into operation it affected only
the city of St. Louis, which-was the only city in Missouri having a population of over three hundred thousand inhabitants.

MASON v. MISSOURI.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant relators were appointed a board of election
commissioners under the Nesbit law, and certain expenditures
having been incurred in carrying the law into effect, the board
applied to the plaintiff in error, in his official capacity as auditor of the city of St. Louis, to examine, audit and pass upon the
accounts of the boatd, as required by law. Compliance with
such request having been refused, the present litigation was"
commenced by the filing on January 5, 1900, in the Supreme
Court of Missouri of a petition for a writ of mandamus, to compel the performance by the plaintiff in error of the duty in
question. An alternative writ having issued, a return was filed,
in which it was averred that the law under which the relators
claimed to act was void, because repugnant both to the constitution of Missouri and the Constitution of the United States.
The incompatibility between the law in question and the Constitution of the United'States was rested upon the contention
that the provision of the law "deprives the citizens of the
United States residing in the city of St. Louis of their right to
the equal protection of the laws, and imposes on citizens of said
city unconstitutional requirements as preliminary to their right
to vote and hold office."
Issue having been joined by the filing of a reply, the matter
was heard by the Supreme Court of Missouri, and that court
awarded a peremptory writ. 55 S. W. IRep. 636. It also overruled a petition for a rehearing. A writ of error was thereupon allowed by the Chief Justice of the state.Supreme Court.
.Asthe most convenient form of stating the contentions of
the plaintiff in error, we excerpt from the brief of counsel a
statement of the proposition relied on:
"We maintain that this Nesbit law does deny to the citizens
of St. Louis the equal protection of the laws in these respects:
"(a) It denies them the right of appeal to any court from
the action of the .precinct boards of registration and from the
action of the board of election commissioners, in striking their
names from the registration lists, as qualified voters, while in
cities of 100,000 inhabitants and up to 300,000 inhabitants,
under the provisions of the law of 1895, this right is secured.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

It is secured so completely by the last named law that an appeal lies even to the highest court of the State.
"(b) It denies them the right of appeal to any court or judicial tribunal from the action of the precinct boards of registration or from the action of the election commissioners in admitting to registration or in refusing to strike from the registration
lists of qualified voters persons who are not entitled to register
or to vote--a right secured to all citizens by the law of 1895 in
cities and counties of 100,000 and not exceeding 300,000 inhabitants.
"(c) It allows a partisan board to add hundreds and even
thousands of names to the registration lists, which names are
unknown to the voters till the day of election, and have been
subjected to no canvass as to their right to remain on the lists
as registered qualified voters. If a citizen of St. Louis registers
in his own precinct, under the Nesbit law, or names are placed
on the registration lists in the precinct by the precinct boards
of registration during the three days allowed by the law for
registration in the precinct, the Nesbit law requires, as dbes the
law'of 1895, that the clerks, representing parties of opposite
politics, shall go together to each house or room from which
the party registers, anti ascertain, by personal inquiry, whether
or no the party registered actually resides at that place.
"But if the party has registered at the office of the board of
election commissioners, which he may do on all such days on
which registration is not conducted in the precincts, which days
of precinct registration are the Tuesday four weeks before the
election, the Saturday following, and the third Tuesday before
the election, and which he may do even on the Thursday, Friday
and Saturday immediately preceding the election-there is no
canvass or examination whatever provided by the Nesbit law
of his right to do so; his name is placed on the registration and
poll books by the commissioners, their deputy or clerks-all appointed by vote of a majority of the board-and it appears on
the day of election as the name of a qualified voter of the precinct. Thus a marked distinction is made by the Nesbit law
between those who register or have their names placed on the
registration lists at the office of the election commissioners and

MASON v MISSOURI.
Statement of the Case.

those who register in their own precinct. The latter are subjected to close and bi-partisan scruiiny;. the former go unchallenged and uncontested. Under the law of 1895 this cannot
occur, for no registration under that law can be made in the
office of the board of election commissioners, but all must be
made in the several precincts, and all is subject to rigid bipartisan scrutiny and canvass. This latter is the law in all
cities of 100,000 and up to 300,000 inhabitants, and the former
is the Nesbit law for all cities-meaning St, Louis alone-of
over 306,000 inhabitants.
"(d) Under the Nesbit law the judges and clerks of election
for each precinct, who are also the registration and canvassing
officers for those precincts, are all appointed by vote of a majority of the board of election commissioners-a majority
necessarily partisan. This majority selects them arbitrarilytrue, the law says they shall be of 'opposite politics '-but
whether of opposite politics or not, whether fit persons or not,
whether intelligent or not, is left to the uncontrolled, arbitrary
and exclusive determination of the majority of the board. This
in St. Louis alone. In all other cities of 100,000 and up to
300,000 inhabitants 'the commissioner or commissioners shall
select the judges and clerks to represent the party to which said
commissioner or commissioners belong;' and the person selected
shall be intelligent, educated, etc., and ' shall be recognized
members of the party from which selected.' The names of
those selected shall be filed in the Circuit Court and published,
and any elector may file objections to the persons so selected
and have his objections heard and determined by the court. If
sustained, new names are submitted by the commissioners unStil fit persons are secured; and that being done, the appointments made by the commissioners are confirmed by the court.
The court names no one; it only hears and passes on names
objected to; and then confirms the approved appointees of the
commissioners.
'.(e) The Nesbit law is so partisan as to deny to all citizens
in St. Louis, not members of the political party to which the
two majority members of the board belong, the equal protection
of the law. This is apparent on the face of the law. In this

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

respect it is in strong contrast with the law of 1895. In our
statement we have set forth the leading features of the two
laws and we will not repeat them here, but refer to that statement in support of this proposition. Where a State recognizes
political parties by its laws as does the State of Missouri by
numerous provisions, then it must do so equally for all-it
must grant to all its citizens equality of right and protection and this it has done in the enactment of this Nesbit law; and
in that has violated the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. It has done this, not only as between St. Louis and all other cities of over 100,000 inhabitants,
but in St. Louis itself it has made such distinction between
,parties in that city as to deprive all citizens of that city who
are not members of the political party to which the majority of
the board belongs of the equal protection of the law.
"(V) The Nesbit law involves a denial of the equal protection of the laws, in that it provides penalties which are different
in degree and character for offences than are prescribed for the
same offences by the law of 1895 and by the general statutes
of the State; that is, the same offence committed in the city of
St. Louis is punished one way under the Nesbit law; if committed in Kansas City or St. Joseph, or in any other city of
100,000 and not having 300,000 inhabitants, it is punished in
another way under the law of 1895; and if committed in the
State at large it is punished in yet another way under the
general laws. Furthermore certain acts are crimes if committed in one locality in the State, but not so when committed in
another.
"(g) The law also imposes unconstitutional requirements on
the citizens of St. Louis as requisite to the right to vote, in that
it provides that a voter shall have resided in his election precinct
at least 20 days prior to the election, and is not 'directly interested in any bet or wager depending upon the result of the
election.' No such requirements are in article 8 of the state
constitution; to enforce them on the citizens of St. Louis is for
the legislature to attempt to add tests to them not authorized
by the state constitution and *not applied to the other citizens
of this State."

MASON v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

.r. George D .Reynolds and Xr.George IT Shields for plain3 W. Noble was on their brief.
. d.
tiff in error.
Mr.Samuel B. J4'riesfor defendants in error.
C. Crow Was on his brief.

Mr. Edward

MR.JusTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The constitution of Missouri in force-at the time of the enactment of the' law of June 19, 1899, usually referred' to as the
Nesbit law, in addition to prescribing certain qualifications as
necessary to *theright to vote, empowered the general assembly
of the State to "provide by law for the registration of voters
in cities and counties having a population of more than one
hundred thousand inhabitants;" and further directed that the
general assembly "may provide for such a registration in cities
having a population exceeding twenty-five thousand inhabitants
and not exceeding orie hundred thousand, but not otherwise."
A law approved May 31, 1895, applied to all cities having a
population in excess of one hundred thousand inhabitants, andbefore the adoption of the Nesbit law,. the act of 1895 .was
operative in the city of St. Louis. The Nesbit law, which applied to cities having a population of over three hundred thousand inhabitants, necessarily withdrew the city of St. Louis from
the operation of the earlier statute.
The contention that the Nesbit law denied to citizens of St.
Louis the qual protection of the laws, in viQlation of the first
section of the Fourteenth Axnendment to the Constitution of
the United States, is based upon certain propositions, elaborated
in the argument of counsel, which we have reproduced in the
statement of the case.
The assertions referred toit must be borne in mind, are made
by a public official, who is seeking to avoid the performance.of
duties enjoined upon him by the law in question, and who does
not allege that any particular rights possessed "byhim as an
individual have been expressly invaded. Whether under the
ruling in Wiley v. Sinkler, ante, 58, the plaintiff in error could
properly raise the objection in question, we shall not deter-

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

mine, in view of the fact that the Supreme Court of Missouri
entertained and considered the question whether the law"in
question violated the Constitution of the United States.
In its final analysis it is apparent that the reasoning urged to
sustain the propositions relied on must rest upon the assumption
that under the constitution of Missouri but one registration law
can be enacted applicable to cities having a population in excess
of one hundred thousand inhabitants, whatever the maximum
number of inhabitants may. be; that, as a natural consequence,
the citizens of St. Louis cannot be classified separately from
cities having a population in excess of one hundred thousand
but less than three hundred thousand inhabitants, and that as
the law of 1895 more effectually protected the exercise of the
right and privilege of voting, and threw, about the enjoyment
of the right of suffrage greater safeguards than does the later
law, therefore the last enactment denies to the citizens of the
city of St. Louis the equal protection of the laws.
But the state Supreme Court has, in. this case, decided that
the provision of the state constitution respecting the enactment
of registration laws does not limit the power of the general assembly to create more than one class composed of cities having
a population in excess of one hundred thbusand inhabitants, and
hence that the Nesbit law was not repugnant to the state constitution. This conclusion must be accepted by this court.
Baekcts v. Fort Street Union D&eot Co., 169 U. S. 557, 566;
erchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania,167 U. S. 461,462, and cases
cited.
In one aspect the argument urged against the validity of the
provisions of the Nesbit law depends merely on comparison of
the requirements of that law with the act of 1895. All the
other contentions are reducible to the proposition that a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States has resulted from the putting in force by the general assembly of Missouri, in cities having a population of over
three hundred thousand inhabitants, of a registration law which,
in the mind of a judicial tribunal, may not as effectually safeguard the right and privilege of voting as might be devised, considered alone or with reference to a prior enactment.

GABLEMAN v. PEORIA &c. R'Y CO.
Syllabus.

But the obvious answer is that the law in question has been
declared to be valid under the constitution of the State. The
general right to vote in the State of Missouri is primarily derived from the State, United States v. Peese, 92 U. S. 214; and
the elective franchise, if one of the fundamental privileges and
immunities of the citizens of St. Louis, as citizens of M[issouri and
of the United States, is clearly such franchise "as regulated and
*established by the laws or constitution of the State in which it
is to be exercised." Blake v. XcClung, 172 U. S.239, quoting
from the opinion of Mr. Justice Washington at circuit in Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. 0.380. The power to classify cities
with reference to their population having been exercised in conformity with the constitution of the State, the circumstance
that the registration law in force in the city of St. Louis was
made to differ in essential particulars from that which regulates
the conduct of elections in other cities in the State of Missouri,
does not in itself deny to the citizens-of St. Louis the equal protection of the laws. Nor did the exercise by the general assembly of Missouri of the discretion vested in it by law give
rise to a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Cha]ppell Chemical Co. v. Sul.phur.Mines Co., 172 U. S. 474, 475, and cases cited; Jfaxwell
v. .Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 598.
Judgment aflrmed.

GABLEMAN v. PEORIA, DECATUR AND EVANSVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTMH
CIRCUIT.
No. 438. Submitted November 16,1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.

An action against a receiver of a state corporation is not a case arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States simply by reason
of the fact that such receiver was appointed by a court of the United

States.

