OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

on the one hand dismissed the question of legal title from consideration because it was not within the province of a court of
equity to decide who held the legal title, nevertheless the question of such title was finally disposed of in the cause.
But the premise contended for pushes to a more flagrant contradiction, since it cannot be accepted without admitting that,
although the decree was "without prejudice to an action at
law," the right to such action was in substance foreclosed.
Afflrmed.

BALDWIN v. MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 113. Argued November 16,190.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The controversy between the State of Maryland and the estate of the ward
having been finally settled in favor of the State, and the only Federal
question presented in this case having been determined in favor of the
State, this court declines to consider the purely local question whether a
judgment binding the estate binds also the sureties on the guardian's
bond.

THE facts are these: Prior to 1880 certain residents of Mary-

land died, leaving property to Columbus C. Baldwin, a minor.
After the settlement of the estates of the decedents a guardian
of the estate of said minor was appointed by the Orphans' Court
of Washington County, Maryland. In consequence of the death
of the. guardian succeeding guardians were appointed, and in
August, 1891, William Woodward Baldwin was duly appointed
a guardian of the estate of such minor, and gave bond to perform his duty according to law. The present plaintiffs in error
were sureties on that bond. During the years of the guardianship the Register of Wills of Washington County made annual
returns to the county commissioners of the property of estates
unsettled, and among those that of the estate of this minor, and
taxes were levied thereon in accordance with law, and were

BALDWIN v. MARYLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

duly paid up to the year 1893. The taxes for 1893 and 1894
being unpaid, the guardian filed a bill in the Circuit Court for
Washington County to restrain theit collection. The basis of
his contention was that both he and the ward were non-residents
of Maryland, and that the estate of the ward had been taken by
him outside of the State. The Circuit Court decided against
him, and denied the injunction. This judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of the State. 85 Maryland, 145. An
attempt was made to review that judgment in this court, but
the writ of error was dismissed (168 U. S. 705) on the ground
that no Federal question had been distinctly preserved, or, if
preserved, that there was a non-Federal question which was
decisive of the case. Thereafter, the taxes being still unpaid,
and the estate still unsettled, and the same statement presented
by the Register of Wills to the county commissioners in respect
to the taxes of 1895, this action was commenced to recover from
the bondsmen the amount of the taxes for the years 1893, 1894
and 1895. Judgment was rendered against them in the trial
court, and affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State, (89
Maryland, 587,) to reverse which judgment this writ of error has
been sued out.
.Mr. Cl aar s A. Boston for plaintiffs in error.
-M. Hfenry .Kyd Douglas for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTrIO

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The controversy in the case reported in 85 Maryland,,145,
was one between the estate of the ward and the State of Maryland. In that case the right of the State to compel a payment
by the estate of the ward of taxes levied thereon for the years
1893 and 1894: was settled. The personality of the litigants, the
form of the action, do not disturb the substantial fact that the
controversy was between the estate of the ward and the State
of Maryland, and that that controversy was determined in favor
of the State. This court declining to disturb the final judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland, that
controversy is settled and beyond further litigation. The matter has become res judicata between the estate and the State.
There is no pretence that the taxes of 1895 stand in any other
condition as to matter of fact than the taxes of 1893 and 1894,
which were in terms included within the litigation settled by
the decision referred to. The ruling therefore, as to the taxes
for 1895 comes within the force of that decision, and is determined by the conclusion in respect to the taxes of 1893 and
1894. Johnson Co. v. I~arton,152 U. S. 252; -Last Chance
-llining Co. v. Tyler X'ining Co., 157 U. S. 683; NTew Orleans
v. Qitizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
The controversy, therefore, between the State of Maryland
and the estate of the ward having been finally settled in favor
of the State, and the only Federal question presented in this
case being that already determined as to the right of the State
to enforce a tax upon the property of the ward, it is unnecessary to consider the purely local question as to whether a judgment binding the estate binds also the sureties on the guardian's
bond. .furdock v. Kefemphis, 20 Wall. 590; XJyrik v. Thomson, 99 U. S. 291, 297 ; Swope v. .efjlngwell, 105 U. S. 3.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland is
Aflrned.
M[R.

JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUsTiE PEcxHAm

dissented.

