OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES

'.

ANDREWS.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 423. Submitted October 15, 1900.-Decided November 5, 1900.

By the treaty with the Kiowa and Comanche Indians of August, 1868, the
Indians agreed not to attack any persons at home or travelling, and not
to molest any persons at home or travelling, or molest any wagon trains,
coaches, mules or cattle belonging to the people of the United States, or
persons friendly therewith; and the United States agreed that no persons except those authorized by the treaty to do so, and officers, etc., of
the Governmentshould be permitted to pass over the Indian Territory
described in the treaty. In 1877 Andrews passed over the territory with
a large number of cattle, travelling over the Chishom trail, the same
being an established trail en route from Texas to a market in Kansas.
He being convicted on trial for a violation of the treaty, appeal was taken
to this court. Held:
(1) That the finding of the court below was equivalent to a finding that
the trail was a lawfully established trail pIrmitted by the laws of
the United States;
(2) That as the plaintiff was lawfully within the territory, he was not a
,trespasser at the time his property was taken.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.X. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and XrM.Assistant Attorney Finn for the United States.
.Xr. Silas Hare for Andrews.
MR.JUsToIC PEoEHT

.delivered the opinion of the court.

The claimant, Thomas C. Andrews, filed his claim in the
Court of Claims against the United States and the above-named
Indians to recover the value of certain cattle destroyed by
the latter in June, 1877,in the Indian Territory. The claim
was filed pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress.of

March 3, 1891, entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and payment of claims arising from Indian depredations,"

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

26 Stat. 851. The property was alleged to have been of the
value of $9225.
The only defence set up was that the claimant at the date of
the alleged depredation was wrongfully and unlawfully within
the Indian country and was a trespasser, and therefore could
not recover.
After a trial, judgment was given against the United States
and the Indians for the sum of $8300, and the court made the
following finding:
"In June, 1877, while the claimant, with a large number of
cattle, was travelling over the Chisom trail, the same being an
established trail, en route from Texas to a market in Kansas,
and while camped on the Washita River, on the Kiowa and
Comanche Indian reservation, in the Indian Territory, Indians
belonging to the Kiowa and Comanche tribe of Indians took
and drove away property of the kind and character described
in the petition, the property of the claimant, which was then
and there reasonably worth the sum of $8300.
"Said property was-taken as aforesaid, without just cause or
provocation on the part of the owner or the agent in charge,
and has never been returned or paid for."
The Government contends that the claimant was a trespasser
by reason of the provisions of the treaty between the United
States and these Indians, proclaimed August 25, 1868, 15 Stat.
581, and because by section 17 of the act of 1831, 4 Stat. 7[29,
it is provided that the liability of the Government for property
taken by Indians, in the Indian Territory, shall arise only when
the owner of the property taken was lawfully within such territory.
The second article of the treaty, after describing certain lands
in the Indian Territory thereby set apart for the absolute and
undisturbed use and occupation of the tribes named, provides
as follows:
"And the United States now solemnly agrees that no persons
except those herein authorized so to do, and except such officers, agents, and employ~s of the Government as may be authorized to enter upon Indian reservations in discharge of
duties enjoined by law, shall ever be permitted to pass over,
VOL. CLXX-

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

settle upon or reside in the territory described! in this article,
or in such territory as may be added to this reservation, for the
use of said Indians."
By the eleventh article it is, among other things, provided
that"In consideration of the advantages and benefits conferred
by this treaty and the many pledges of friendship by the United
States, the tribes who are parties to this agreement
further expressly agree-"3d. That they will not attack any persons at home, nor
travelling, nor molest any wagon trains, coaches, mules or cattle belonging to the people of the United States, or to persons
friendly therewith.
"6th. They withdraw all pretence of opposition to the construction of the railroad now being built along the Platte River
and westward to the Pacific Ocean; and they will not, in future, object to the construction of railroads, wagon roads, mail
stations, or other works of utility or necessity which may be
ordered or permitted by the laws of the United States. But
ihould such roads or other works be constructed on the lands
of their reservation, the Government will pay the tribes whatever amount of damage may be assessed by three disinterested
commissioners, to be appointed by the President for that purpose; one of said commissioners to be a chief or headman of
the tribes."
The question now before us is, whether upon'the facts found
by the Court of Claims the claimant was lawfully within the
territory at the time the Indians destroyed or took away his
property.
While the Government, by the second article of the treaty
of 1868, agreed that no one should be permitted to pass over,
settle upon or reside in the territory described in that article,
yet in the subsequent article (XI) exceptions were made. By
the third and sixth subdivisions of that article the Indian tribes
agreed not to attack persons or cattle, and not to oppose the
construction of roads or other works of utility or necessity which
might be permitted by the laws of the United States. When

UNITED STA.TES v. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the Court.

they took the property of the claimant, consisting of cattle,
they violated their agreement.
The finding of the court below, that the property of the
claimant was taken and carried away while he was travelling in
the Indian reservation, over the Chisom trail, the same being
an established trail en ,routefrom Texas to a market in Kansas,
is equivalent to a finding that the trail was a lawfully established trail permitted by the laws of the United States.
We understand that by the use in the finding of the word
"trail," in connection with the balance of the finding, is meant
a way, road or path suitable for the purpose of driving cattle
over or along on their way to a market. In the territory named,
a trail along which to drive cattle from Texas to Kansas would
certainly be a work of utility or necessity within the meaning
of article eleventh, subdivision six, of the treaty. It would be
a road which the Government would naturally seek to provide
and obtain permission to lay out or to keep in use for the convenience o[ its citizens who would have occasion to use it for
the purpose indicated in the finding. In order to reverse this
judgment we would have to presume that the court in using
the words "established trail," meant a trail that was not legally or properly established; this we cannot do, nor can we
presume that the trail was established by a user which did not
amount to a legal user, and so did not establish a legal trail.
Being properly established, it was properly used by the claimant for the purpose stated.
While the finding might have been more definite and therefore more satisfactory, yet within the well-known rules governing the construction of findings of facts by trial courts, we cannot so cpnstrue it as to render the result arrived at by the court
below erroneous, when another construction much more reasonable and natural may be given it, and the judgment thus
rendered valid. An established trail, in this case, means a
legally established trail, and we must presume the couit below
so intended. The claimant was, therefore, lawfully within the
territory, and was not a trespasser at the time his property
was taken.
Judgment alarmed.

