OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

WILEY v. SINIKLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRIOT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 2. Argued December 8, 189.--Decided October 15, 1900.

The right to vote for members of Congress is not derived merely from the
constitution and laws of the State in which they are chosen, but has its
foundation in the Constitution and laws of the Unifed States.
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction of an action brought

against election officers of a State to recover damages, alleged to exceed
the sum of $2,000, for refusing the plaintiff's vote for a member of Congress.
In an action against election officers of the State of South Carolina for refusing the plaintiff's vote at an election, the declaration must allege that
the plaintiff was a registered voter, as is required by the constitution
and laws of the State.

THIS was an action, brought March 11, 1895, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina,
by a resident of the city of Charleston in that State, against
the board of managers of a general election at a ward and precinct in that city, to recover damages in the sum of $2500 for
wrongfully and wilfully rejecting his vote for a member of
the House of Representatives of the United States for the State
.of South Carolina on November 6, 1894. The allegations of the
complaint were as follows:
"1. That the plaintiff is and was on the 6th day of November, 1894, a resident of the city and county of Charleston in
the State of South Carolina; and that he had been a resident
of said State for a period of more than twelve months next preceding said 6th day of November, 1894, and a resident of said
city and county for more than sixty days next preceding said
day; and that under the constitution and laws of the said State
of South Carolina and the Constitution and laws of the United
States the said plaintiff is and was at the time aforesaid twentyone years of age, and is and was in every other respect a duly
qualified elector of said State, and is and was on the said 6th day

WILEY v. SINKLER.
statement of the Case.

of November, 1894, entitled to vote for a member of the House
of Representatives of the United States from said State of
South Carolina.
"II. That the defendants were on the day and year aforesaid the board of managers of the Federal election at the first
election precinct in the sixth ward of said city of Charleston in
said county and State; that, as the plaintiff has been informed
and believes, the said defendants were duly appointed and qualified as such managers; and that they were present at the polling place in the said election precinct on the said 6th day of
November, 1894, and during all the time the polls were open on
said day were there, acting as such board of managers of the
Federal election.
"III. That the proper election precinct at which the said,
plaintiff was entitled to vote is the said first precinct in the
sixth ward of the city and county of Charleston in the State
aforesaid; and that on the said 6th day of November, 1894, and
while the polls were open for voting purposes, the said plaintiff
presented himself at the polling place in said election precinct,
and then and there offered to vote and cast his ballot for one of
the candidates for the office of member of the House of Representatives of the United States for the State of South Carolina
in the Fifty-fourth Congress; and the plaintiff further avers
that he then and there had ready the proof of his qualifications
as such Federal elector as aforesaid.
"IV. That the said defendants unlawfully, wilfully and injuriously refused to permit the said plaintiff to vote at said
precinct and at said Federal election which was there held according to law, on said 6th day of November, 1894, for one of
the candidates for member of said House of Representatives of
the United States for the State aforesaid; and wrongfully and
wilfully, and without any lawful cause or exchse, rejected the
plaintiff's said vote; to his damage two thousand and five hundred dollars.
"Wherefore the plaintiff demands judgment against the defendants for the said sum of two thousand and five hundred
dollars, and for the costs of this action."
The defendants demurred to the complaint, upon the following grounds:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
-Statement of the Case.

First. That the court had no jurisdiction of the action, because it did not affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint that a Federal question was involved; and because it
appeared on the face of the complaint that a verdict for $2000
would be so excessive that the court would be required to set
it aside.
Second. That the complaint did not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, because by section 2008 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States an action must be brought
for a penalty, and not for damages; and because the complaint
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,
either under that statute, or at common law.
The court, without considering the other grounds, sustained
the demurrer, and dismissed the complaint, because it did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, in that it
failed to state that the'plaintiff was a duly registered voter of
the State of South Carolina. The plaintiff sued out a writ of
error from this court.
The material parts of the constitution and laws of South Carolina, referred to in argument, are stated in the margin.'
'In the constitution of 1868, the first article, entitled "Declaration of
Rights," contains the following provisions:
"SECT. 31. All elections shall be free and open, and every inhabitant of
this Commonwealth, possessing the qualifications provided for in this constitution, shall have an equal right to'elect officers and be elected to fill
public office."
"SEcT. 33. The right of suffrage shall be protected by laws regulating
elections, and prohibiting, under adequate penalties, all undue influences
from power, bribery, tumult or improper conduct."
The eighth article of the same constitution, entitled "Rights of Suffrage,"
contains the following provisionS:
"SEcT. 2. Every male citizen of the United States, at the age of'twentyone years and upwards, not laboring under the disabilities named in this
constitution, without distinction of race, color or formei condition, who
shall be a resident of this State at the time of the adoption of this constitution, or who shall thereafter reside in this State one year, and in the
county in which he offers to vote sixty days, next preceding any election,
shall be entitled to vote for all officers that .re now or hereafter may be
elected by the people, and upon all questions submitted to the electors at
any elections : Provided, that no person shall be allowed to vote or hold
office who is now or hereafter may be disqualified therefor -bythe Coiisti-

WILEY v. SINKLER.
Opinion of the Court.

'. Charle A. DougZas for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William A. Barber for defendants in error.
MR[h. JusTiaE GRAY, after stating the dase as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This case involves the construction and application of the
Constitution of the United States, and is therefore rightly
brought directly from the Circuit Court of the United States
tution of the United States until such disqualification shall be removed by
the Congress of the United States : Provided, further, that no person, while
kept in any almshouse or asylum, or of unsound mind, or confined in any
public prison, shall be allowed to vote or hold office.
"SECT. 3. it shall be the duty of the general assembly to provide from
time to time for the registration of all electors."
"SET. 7. Every person entitled to vote at any election shall be eligible
to any office which now is, or hereafter shall be, elective by the people in
the county where he shall have resided sixty days previous to such election, except as otherwise provided in this constitution or the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
"SECT. 8. The general assembly shall never pass any law that will deprive any of the citizens of this State of the right of suffrage, except for
treason, murder, robbery or duelling, whereof the person shall have been
duly tried and convicted." This section was amended in 1882 by substituting,ofor the word "robbery," the words "burglary, larceny, perjury,
forgery, or any other infamous crime.".
The Revised Statutes of South Carolina of 1893 contain the following
provisions:
"SEc. 162. The general elections for Federal, State and county officers
in this State shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday
in November in every second year, reckoning from the year one thousand
eight hundred and seventy."
"SEc. 131. Every male citizen of the United- States, of the age of
twenty-one years and upwards, not laboring under the disabilities named
in the constitution, without distinction of race, color or former condition,
who shall have been a resident of the State for one year, and in the county
in which he offers to vote for sixty days, next preceding any general electidn, shall be entitled to vote: Provided, that no person, while kept in any
almshouse or-asylum, or of unsound mind, or confined in any public prison,
or who shall have been convicted of treason, murder, burglary, larceny,
perjury, forgery, or any other infamous crime, or duelling, shall be allowed
to vote.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to this Court, under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 511, § 5, cl. 4.
26 Stat. 828.
The right to vote for members of the Congress of the United
States is not derived merely from the constitution and laws of
the State in which they are chosen, but has its foundation in
the Constitution of the United States.
"SEc. 132. All electors of the State shall be registered; and no person
shall be allowed to vote at any election hereafter to be held, unless he shall
have been heretofore registered in conformity with the requirements of
chapter 7 of the General Statutes of 1882, and acts amendatory thereof, or
shall be registered as herein required."
Sections 133-136 provide for the appointment of a supervisor and two
assistant supervisors of registration in each county, and establish registration precincts.
"SEc. 137. After every general election, the registration books shall be
opened, for registration of such persons as shall thereafter become entitled
to register, on the first Monday in each month, until the first day of July
preceding a general election, when the same shall be closed until such general election shall have taken place."
Section 138 requires the books of registration to be deposited and safely
kept in the office of a certain clerk or registrar.
"SEc. 139. The supervisor shall determine as to the legal qualifications
of all applicants for registration by summary process, requiring oath, evidence, or both, if he deem proper, subject to revision by the assistant supervisors and himself in all cases where he has refused to register an applicant. From their decision any applicant who is rejected shall have the
right to a review thereof by the circuit court, provided he give notice in
writing to the supervisor of his application for such review, and the grounds
thereof, within five days from the date of his rejection, and commence his
proceedings within ten days from the service of said notice.
"SE C. 140. Any person coming of age, and otherwise qualified as an
elector, may appear before the supervisor on any day on which the books
are opened as aforesaid, and make oath (which the supervisor is hereby
authorized to administer) as to his name, age, occupation and place of
residence; and if the supervisor find him qualified, he shall enter his name
upon the registration book of the precinct in which he resides. Such
persons shall have the right of appeal, as provided in the last section, if
the supervisor shall not find him qualified.
"SEC. 141. In case a person shall not be of age to qualify him as an
elector on the day of the closing of the books of registration before any
general election, but shall be of such age as will qualify him as such elector
before the said general election, and shall appear before the supervisor
of registration and take oath thereto, the supervisor, if he shall find him
qualified, shall enter his name upon the registration book as aforesaid,'

WILEY v. SINKLER.
Opinion of the Court.

This is clearly and amply set forth in Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651, in which this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller,
upheld a conviction in a Circuit Court of the United States
under sections 5508 and 5520 of the Revised Statutes for a conspiracy to intimidate a citizen of the United States in the exercise of his right to vote for a member of Congress; and answered the proposition "that the right to vote for a member
of Congress is not dependent upon the Constitution or laws
of the United States, but is governed by the law of each State
respectively," as follows:
"But it is not correct to say that the right to vote for a
member of Congress does not depend on the Constitution of the
United States. 'The office, if it be .properly called an office, is
created by that Constitution and by that alone. It also declares how it shall be filled, namely, by election. Its language
'is ' The House of Representatives shall be composed of members chosen every second year by the people of the several
States, and the electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the
state legislature.' 'rt. 1, see. 2. The States, in prescribing,
the qualifications of voters for the most numerous branch. of
their own legislatures, do not do this with reference to the election for rhembers of Congress. Nor can they prescribe the
qualification for voters for those eo nomine. They define who
are to vote for the popular branch of their own legislature, and
Section 142 provides that "each elector registered as aforesaid shall
thereupon be furnished by the supervisor with a certificate, which shall
contain a statement of his age, occupation and place of residence, as entered in the said registration book, and which certificate shall be, signed
by the said supervisor ; and no person shall be allowed to vote at any other
precinct than the one for which he is registered, nor unless he produces
and exhibits to the managers of election such certificate;" and the form.
of such certificate is prescribed.
By sections 146-149 an elector who changes his place of residence must
surrender his certificate of registrationi and take out a new nertificate; and
by section 50, if an elector loses his certificate, he may, upon application
made at least thirty days before the next general election, and upon -complying with certain stringent provisions as to proof of the loss, obtain a
new certificate.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the C onstitution of the United States says the same persons
shall vote for members of Congress in that State. It adopts
the qualification thus furnished as the qualification of its -own
electors for members of Congress. It is not true, therefore,
that electors for members of Congress owe their right to vote
to the state law in any sense which makes the exercise of the
right to depend exclusively on the law of the State." 110 U. S.
663.
The court then, referring to the statement of Chief Justice
Waite in -Minorv. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162,178, that "the Constitution of the United States does not confer the right of suffrage upon any one," explained that statement as follows:
"But the court was combating the argument that this right
was conferred on all citizens, and therefore upon women as well
as men. In opposition to that idea, it was said the Constitution adopts, as the qualification of voters for members of Congress, that which prevails in the State where the voting is to
be done; therefore, said the opinion, the right is not definitely
conferred on any person or class of persons by the Constitution
alone, because you have to look to the law of the State for the
description of the class. But the court did not intend to say
that, when the class or the person is thus ascertained, his right
to vote for a member of Congress was not fundamentally based
upon the Constitution, which created the office of member of
Congress, and declared it should be elective, and pointed to the
means of ascertaining who should be electors." 110 U. S.664.
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction, concurrent with the courts of the State, of any action under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, in which the
matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $2000. Act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866; 25 Stat. 433.
This action is brought against election officers to recover damages for their rejection of the plaintiff's vote for a member of
the House of Representatives of the United States. The complaint, by alleging that the plaintiff was at the time, under the
constitution and laws of the State of South Carolina and the
Constitution and laws of the United States, a duly qualified

WILEY v. SINKLER.
Opinion of the'Court.

elector of the State, shows that the action is brought under the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
The damages are laid at the sum of $2500. What amount of
damages the plaintiff shall recover in such an action is peculiarly
appropriate for the determination of a jury, and no opinion of
the court upon that subject can justify it in holding that the
amount in controversy was insufficient to support the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Barry v. Edmund8, 116 U. S.550;
Scott v. .Donald, 165 U. S.58, 89 ; VFance v. IK A. VFandercook
Co., 170 U. S.468, 472; North American Co. v. Morrison, 178
U. S.262, 267.
The Circuit Court therefore clearly had jurisdiction of this
action, and we are brought to the consideration of the other objections presented by the demurrer to the complaint.
The objection that the only remedy in that court was by suit
for a penalty under section 2008 of the Revised Statutes is answered by the repeal of that section, before this action was
brought, by the act of Congress of February 8, 1894, c. 25. 28
Stat. 36.
But the objection that the complaint failed to state that the
plaintiff was a duly registered voter of the State of South Carolina (which was -the ground of the judgment below in favor of
the defendants) is a more serious one.
By the constitution of South Carolina, every male citizen, of
the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who has resided in
the State for one year, and in the county where he offers to
vote for sixty days, next preceding any election, and is not disqualified by the Constitution of the United States, nor a lunatic
or a prisoner, nor been convicted of an infamous crime or of
duelling, is entitled to vote for all officers elected by the people.
Art. 1, § 31; art. 8, §§ 2, 8. That constitition, in art. 8, § 3, also
makes it the duty of the legislature to provide from time to
time for the registration of all electors.
The Revised Statutes of South Carolina of 1893 provide, in
§ 131, that every man, not laboring under the disabilities named
in the constitution of the State (repeating all the qualifications
and the disabilities mentioned in that constitution) shall be entitled to vote; and further provide, in § 132, that all electors of
VOL. CLXXIX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the State shall be registered, and that no person shall be allowed
to vote at any election unless theretofore registered as required
by those statutes or by previous laws.
The constitution of the laws of the State thus require that, in
order to entitle any ohe to have his vote received at any election, he must not only have the requisite qualifications of an
elector, but he must have been registered. By elementary rules
of pleading, both these essential requisites must be distinctly alleged by the plaintiff in any action against the managers of an
election for refusing his vote. .Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S.
15, 37; Blanchard v. Stearns, 5 Met. 298, 302.
The complaint in this case alleges that the plaintiff was a
duly qualified elector; but it contains no allegation that he was
ever registered as such. Because of this omission, the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
It was argued, in behalf of the plaintiff, that the registration
act of South Carolina was unconstitutional, because it allowed
for registration only one day in each month between the day
of a general election in November and the first day of July before the next general election; required the registration books to
be closed from such first day of July, for four months, until the
ensuing election day; and thus in effect required each voter to
reside in the county for one hundred and twenty days (whereas
the constitution required only sixty days) before the election,
and otherwise unreasonably impeded the exercise of the constitutional right of voting; that the only exception allowed was
in the case of voters coming of age during those four months,
and there was no exception in the case of electors who, by reason of sickness or absence or other good and sufficient cause,
did not or could not have registered before the first day of July.
In the case in the Supreme Court of South Carolina of Buler
v. Ellerbe, 44 So. Car. 256, cited at the bar, the Chief Justice
expressed his opinion that the registration act of the State was
unconstitutional; but the majority of the judges -declined to
express any opinion upon that question, because they thought
it unnecessary for the decision. Nor should this court undertake to decide it in the present case.
Passing by the difficulty of subjecting election officers to an

WILEY v. SINKLER.
Opinion of the Court.

action -for damages for refusing a vote which the statute under
which -they are appointed forbids them to receive, it is by no
means clear, taking into consideration all the constitutional and
statutory provisions upon the subject, that the construction contended for is the true construction of the statute.
But, even upon that construction, the plaintiff does not show
that he is in a position to impugn the constitutionality of the
statute. It is only on the day when this vote was refused, that
he alleges that he had resided in the State for a year and in the
county for sixty days, and was of age and otherwise a qualified
elector. He does not allege when he first became qualified.
So fai" as appears, he may have become of age and otherwise
qualified but a few days before the election day on which he
tendered his vote, in which case he would confessedly, by the
specific provision of § 141, have been entitled to apply for registration. Yet he does not allege that he ever was registered, or
made any application to be registered.
The provisions of the statutes of 1893 requiring registered
voters to obtain certificates from the supervisors, the provisions
for registration in earlier statutes, and the provisions of the
statute of December 24, 1894, for calling a constitutional convention, enacted since the date of the election here in question,
Were largely commented on, and their validity impugned, in
the argument for the plaintiff in error. But the validity of
none of those provisions is involved in the decision of this case.
Judgment atfirmed.

