CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE.

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

WASHBURN AND MOEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. RELIANCE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

No. 6. Argued March 15.16, 1899.-Decided October 15,1900.

In marine insurance the general rule is firmly established in this court that
the insurers axe not liable upon memorandum articles except. in case of
actual total loss, and that there can be no actual total loss when a cargo
of such articles has arrived in whole or in part, in specie, at the port of
destination, but only when it is physically destroyed, or its value extinguished by a loss of identity.
In this case the entire cargo was wairanted by the memorandum clause
free from average unless general, and by a rider, free from particular
average, but liable for absolute total loss of a part. Under these provisions the insurers were not liable for a constructive total loss, but only
for an actual total loss of the whole, or of a distinct part.
The carrying vessel was stranded, and, having been got off in a shattered
condition, was subsequently condemned and sold on libels for salvage;
most of the cargo was saved, and reached the port of destination in specie,
a portion damaged, and a substantial part wholly uninjured. Held, That
the owner could not recover for a constructive total loss, nor for an actual
total loss of the whole.
No right to abandon existed, and the insurers explicitly refused to accept
VOL. oLx
I-1
(1)

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
the abandonment tendered. If the cargo saved was carried from the port
of distress to the port of destination by the insurers, which was denied,
this was no more than, by the terms of the policy, they had the right to
do without prejudice, and could not be held to amount to an acceptance.
The Circuit Court did not err in declining to leave the question of actual
total loss of the entire cargo, or the question of acceptance, to the jury.

Tms was an action at law brought in the Superior Court of
Massachusetts for the county of Suffolk, and thence removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, by the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company against the Reliance Marine Insurance Company (Limited)
of London, England, on a policy of marine insurance taken out,
March 15, 1893, in the sum of forty-eight thousand, eight hundred dollars, on a cargo of wire shipped from Boston to Velasco,
Texas, on the schooner Benjamin Hale, John Hall, master.
The memorandum clause of the policy ran thus: "fsmio RDUN. It is also agreed that bar, bundle, rod, hoop and sheet
iron, wire of all kinds, tin plates, steel, madder, sumac, wickerware and willow (manufactured or otherwise), salt, grain of all.
kinds, tobacco, Indian meal, fruits (whether preserved or otherwise), cheese, dry fish, hay, vegetables and roots, rags, hempen
yarn, bags, cotton bagging, and other articles used for bags or
bagging, pleasure carriages, household furniture, skins and hides,
musical instruments, looking-glasses, and all other articles that
are perishable in their own nature, are warranted by the assured
free from average, unless general; hemp, tobacco stems, matting and cassia, except in boxes, free from average under twenty
per cent, unless general; and sugar, flax, flaxseed anal bread
are warranted by the assured free from average under seven
per cent, unless general; and coffee in bags or bulk, pepper in
bags or bulk, and rice, free from average under ten per cent,
unless general."
And on the margin the following was stamped or written:
"Free of particular average, but liable for abs6lute total loss of
a part if amounting to five (5%) per cent."
It was also provided: "And in case of any lQss or misfortune,
it shall be lawful and necessary to and for the assured, their
factors, servants and assigns, to sue, labor, and travel for,, in

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO.

3

Statement of the Case.

and about the defence, safeguard and recovery of the said goods
and merchandises, or any part thereof, without prejudice to this
insurance; nor shall the acts of the insured or insurers in recovering, saving and preserving the property insured, in case of
disaster, be considered a waiver or an acceptance of an abandonment; to the charges whereof, the said assurers will contribute according to the rate and quantity of the sum herein
insured."
. The "Benjamin Hale" sailed for Velasco, March 31, 1893, and
on April 15 ran ashore on Bahama Banks, but, after throwing
overboard two hundred reels of barbed wire, floated and proceeded. On the night of April 19 the schooner again ran ashore,
on Bird Key, near Dry Tortugas, and largely filled with water.
Wreckers came on board April 21. The master went to Key
West, and from thence telegraphed the Washburn and Moen
Company, April 24, that the vessel was ashore, and he thought
the loss was total. April 24, 25 or 26 the agent of that company told the agent of the insurance company, in Boston, "what
he knew in regard to the troubles, and said that he wished to.
abandon the cargo to the underwriters." April 29 a written
notice of abandonment was given, which the insurance company
explicitly declined to accept. The master returned at once with
further assistance, reaching the wreck the morning of April 25,
and the vessel was floated April 29, and finally taken to Key
West, arriving 'May 4. The captain testified that "from the
time the vessel went ashore until she came off they were taking
the cargo out as they could so as to get her off.

.

.

.

Think

about one half of cargo was discharged on the reef, of which
he thinks about thirteen hundred reels were dry." This was
substantially all carried to Key West, where the unloading was
completed May 10.
Captain Hall made a mnemorandum at Key West as to the
condition of the cargo when landed there. From this it appearedthat out of 13,051 reels of barbed wire, shipped from
Boston, 12,277 (or 12,625) were landed at Key West, of which
989 were perfectly dry, and 10,448 had received "hardly perceptible" damage. Of plain wire, 1102 bundles were shipped,
and all landed at Key West, and 461 were stated to be nearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

dry. Five reels of salamander wire and a wire rope were all
landed and transhipped dry and unimpaired; also 243 kegs of
staples out of 249; and 478 bundles of hay bands out of 1050.
Libels for salvage were filed against vessel and cargo at Key
West, and the schooner condemned and sold, but the cargo was
released and the amount decreed in respect thereof paid by the
insurance company.
The goods were forwarded from Key West to Velasco on the
schooner Cactus, where they were tendered to the Washburn
and Moen Company, which refused to receive them. That
company again abandoned, and the insurance company again
declined to accept abandonment.
At this time a very large part of the goods existed in specie,
and a considerable part was practically uninjured. There were
no facilities for handling and no market for barbed wire at Key
West, but there were at Velasco, which was also but sixty miles
by rail from Houston, the headquarters of the general agent of
the manufacturing company in Texas.
The go6ds were afterwards sold by order of court on the libel
of the master of the Cactus for freight, demurrage and ex-'
penses, and realized $10,000. Plaintiff was not present and made
no bid at the sale.
As the cost of saving the cargo and bringing it to Key West,
and expenses there, exceeded the sum realized at forced sale,
and the freight to Velasco added some hundreds of dollars to
that, plaintiff contended that the cost was more than the value
at Key West, and at Velasco.
In respect of the forwarding of the cargo from Key West to
Velasco, the charter party was signed by Captain Hall as master
of the Benjamin Hale. This was in Boston several days after
Hall had left Key-West, but there was evidence that he had
previously authorized the agents of the vessel at Key West, and
who paid for the discharge of the cargo there, to charter the
"Cactus," and the second bill of lading was signed, by one of
them as attorney in fact for Captain Hall, and stated that the
goods were shipped by him.
The agent for the board of underwriters testified that he instructed the agent at Key West to see that a vessel was secured

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO.

5

Statement of the Case.

and the cargo properly shipped to Velasco according to the original bill of lading; that Hall authorized the" Cactus" to be chartered; and that he always insisted that Hall should forward the
cargo; while Hall said that he received a request from defendant's agent to so forward.
The Circuit Court ruled that the defendant was not liable
for a constructive total loss; that the transhipment of the cargo
at Key West, though made by the underwriters as be thought
it was, did not, under the circumstances, make them liable for
the property as underwriters ; and that "inasmuch as a portion
of this cargo -a considerable portion, including the staples,
and a very large percentage of the fencing wire - was at Key
West in a condition to be transhipped, and did in fact arrive at
Velasco in specie, and suitable for.the purposes for which it was
intended, although not so suitable -asit would have been if it
had not been submerged in the sea," there was no absolute total
loss. of the whole.
It was agreed that there was an actual total loss of parts of
the cargo to the amount of $2500; and that, under the views
expressed by the court, plaintiff was entitled to a finding that
there was a constructive total loss.
Accordingly a verdict was directed for $2500, and a special
verdict "that there was a constructive total loss."
Judgment was rendered in favor of plaintiff, and each party
prosecuted a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court concurred in the rulings of the Circuit Court,
but was of opinion that the cargo was forwarded from Key
West to Velasco under authority of the captain of the Benjamin Hale. 50 U. S. App. 231.
Judgment having been affirmed, the Washburn and Moen
Manufacturing Company applied for and obtained a writ of
certiorari from this-court.
Errors were relied on by petitioner, in substance, that the
Circuit Court erred in not ruling that plaintiff was entitled to
recover for a constructive total loss under the policy; and in
not allowing the question whether there was an absolute total
loss to go to the jury; or the question whether defendant had
accepted plaintiff's abandonment of the cargo.

OCTOBER TER.H, 1900.
Argument for Plaintiff.

.Mr.Eugene P. Oarver for the Washburn and Moen Manufacturing Company. XM. Edward E. Blodgett was on his
brief.
I. The plaintiff can recover for a constructive total loss
under this policy.
There are two rules as to what is a constructive total loss
under a policy of marine insurance. (1) The English rule is
that, in the case of a vessel, if the amount of repairs caused by
perils insured against is more than her value, or in the case of
cargo, if the cost of saving and forwarding the same amounts
to more than the value of the same at the port of destination,
then, if there is an abandonment seasonably made, there can
be a recovery for a total loss. (2) The rule in the United
States in the case of both vessel and cargo is that, if the damage by perils insured against is in excess of one half.of the value,
and an abandonment is seasonably made, there is a constructive
total loss.
This doctrine was first laid down in this form in Massachusetts in 1810 by Parsons, 0. J., in Wood v. Lincoln & Kennebeck
Ins. Co., 6 Mass. 479.
It is true that in an early case in regard to the English rule,
Cooking v. Fraser, 4 Doug. 295, Lord Mansfield said, "absolute destruction of the goods by the wreck of the ship" would
amount to a total loss on articles insured "free of average,"
even at an intermediate port, but this case has been overruled
in England. See 2 Arnold on Insurance, Perkins' ed. 1026.
If, therefore, in the case at bar there were no restrictive clauses,
there could be a recovery for a constructive total loss, as the
abandonment, was seasonably made.
The law in the United States, by a long list of decisions relating to both vessel and cargo, has been settled in this regard.
Under the usual form of policy the assured can recover for a
constructive total loss of cargo, provided there has been an
abandonment duly made, if the loss or injury sustained amounts
to fifty per cent of the value fixed in the policy, or provided
the property will not bring fifty per cent of such valuation in
case of cargo. Kettelt v. Alliance Ins. Co., 10 Gray, 144; DeZ-

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO.

7

Argument for Plaintiff.

aware I4. Co. v. Winter, 38 Penn. St. 1'[6; Patapsco ins. Co.
v. Southgate, 5 Pet. 604: .AXose v. Columbian Ins. Co., 6 Johns.
219.
In determining the damage or injury to the property, the cost
of saving the property, or raising it, if submerged, and bringing
into port, will be taken as a part of the damage o injury in
order to make up the necessary fifty per cent. .Ellicottv. The
Alliance Ins. Co., 14 Gray, 318; Wallace v. Thgmes & .ZMersey
.ins. Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 66 (by Mr. Justice Matthews, late of
U. S. Supreme Court); Tudor v. Nfew England.XutualYarine
1n8. Co, 12 Cash. 554.
From an examination of the cases it is clear that the cases in
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts and in the Supreme Court
of the United States are not in conflict, and that the rule established by both of these courts can be thus briefly stated: That
if the goods are insured "free of particular average," "free of
partial loss," "against total loss only," or "warranted free from
average unless general," there can be a recovery for a constructive total loss, provided there is a seasonable abandonment and
a loss by perils insured against amounting to more than fifty per
cent of the valuation of the goods insured; that in case no
abandonment is made until after the goods have arrived at the
port of destination, the abandonment is not seasonably made,
and the plaintiff cannot recover; that in the case of common
memorandum articles, perishable in their own nature, there can
be no recovery for deterioration of the articles at a port of call,
or by mere delay in the voyage is all that the cases in the Supreme Court of the United States decide, and the court, in its
decisions, by express language clearly distinguishes between
articles perishable in their own nature and articles not so perishable.
II. It was a question of fact for the jury as to whether on all
the evidence the defendant company had not accepted the abandonment.
It is true that the agent of the defendant company, on May 1,
1893, wrote a letter in which he declined to accept the abandonment. He uses, however, these words in addition, "I await protest for particulars, after receipt of which can judge better re-

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

garding the loss." Which clause shows that he desired to have
the matter remain open. An abandonment is to be governed
by the facts existing at the time it is made. This doctrine has
often been stated by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Orient Ins. Co. v. Adams, 123 U. S.67.
III. There is sufficient evidence to warrant a jury in finding
an actual loss of cargo.
IV. The contract in this case should be governed by the law
of Massachusetts.
iib.. Frederic Jessu2 Stimson for the Reliance Marine Insurance Company.
MR.Onxai JusTici FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

By the memorandum, wire of all kirfds was expressly "warranted by the assured free from average unless general;" and
by the rider, "free of particular average but liable *forabsolute
total loss of a part if amounting to five per cent."
The memorandum and marginal clauses were inparimateria
and to be read together. They were not contradictory, and the
rider merely operated 'to qualify the memorandum by allowing
recovery for an actual total loss in part, which could not otherwise be had. In other words, the qualification was manifestly
inserted so that, while conceding that under the memorandum
clause no liability was undertaken for a constructive total loss,
but only a liability for an actual total loss, the insurers might
be held for an actual total loss of a part.
The contracting parties thus recognized the rule that articles
warranted free of particular average, or free from average unless general, are insured only against un actual total loss.
The warranty or memorandum clause was introduced into
policies for the protection of the insurer from liability for any
partial loss whatever on certain enumerated articles, regarded
as perishable in their nature, and upon certain others.none under
a given rate per cent. - This was about 1749, and since then in
the growth of commerce, the list of articles freed by the stipulation from particular average has been enlarged so as to em-

WASHBURN

& MOEN MFG. CO. r. RELIANCE INS. CO.

9

Opinion of the Court.

brace many, which, though they may not be inherently perishable, are in their nature peouliarly susceptible io damage.
The early form ran as follows: "Corn, fish, salt, fruit, flour
and seed are warranted free from average, unless general or the
ship be stranded; sugar, tobacco, hemp, flax, hides and skins
are warranted free from average under five pounds per cent;
and all other goods, and also the ship and freight, are warranted
free from average under three pounds per cent unless general
or the ship be stranded."
In 1764, Lord Mansfield, in Wilson v. Smith, 3 Burrow, 1550,
held that the word "unless" meant the same as "except,"
and that "the words 'free from average unless general' can
never mean to leave the insurers liable to any _partioular
average."
In Cockin' v. Fraser,4 Douglas, 295 (1785), the Court of
King's Bench held, Lord Mansfield and MNr. Justice Buller
speaking, that the insurer was secured against all damage to
memorandum articles unless they were completely and actually
destroyed so as no longer physically to exist.
Chancellor Kent in his Commentaries commended this rule
as "very salutary, by reason of its simplicity and certainty,"
"considet'ing the difficulty of ascertaining how much of the
loss arose by the perils of the sea, and how much by the perishable nature of the commodity, and the impositions to which
insurers would be liable in consequence of that difficulty ;" and
declared that notwithstanding the authority of Cocking v.
Fra8erhad been shaken in England, the weight of authority in
this country was "in favor of the doctrine that in order to
charge the insurer, the memorandum articles must be specifically and physically destroyed and must not exist in specie.",
He added, however, that it had been "frequently a vexed
point in the discussions, whether the insurer was holden, if the
memorandum articles physically existed, though they were absolutely of no value." 3 Kent (1st ed. 1828), 244; 12th
ed. *296.

The general rule is firmly established in this court that the
insurers are not liable on memorandum articles except in case
of actual total loss, and that there can be no actual total loss

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

where a cargo of such articles has arrived, in whole or in part,
in specie, at the port of destination, but only when it is physically destroyed, or its value extinguished by a loss of identity.
Biay8 v. Chesapeake Ins. Co. (1813), 7 Cranch, 415; 2llarcardier v. Chesapeake Ins. Co. (1814), 8 Cranch, 39; Iforean v.
United States Ins. Co. (1816), 1 Wheat. 219; Rfugg v. Augusta Ins. &c. Co. (1849), 7 How. 595; Insurance Co. v. Fogarty (1873), 19 Wall. 640. And see Robinson v. Insurance
Co., 3 Sumner, 220; Morean v. United States Insurance Co.,
3 Wash. Cir. Ct. Rep. 256.
Biays v. Chesapeake Ins. Co. was a case of insurance upon
hides, of which some were totally lost; some were saved in a
damaged condition, and some were uninjured. This court
overruled the contention that there could be a total loss as to
some of them, notwithstanding the memorandum clause, and
Mr. Justice Livingston said:
"Whatever may have been the motive to the introduction of
this clause into policies of insurance, which was. done as early
as the year 1749, and most probably with the intention of protecting insurers against losses arising solely from a deterioration of the article, by its own perishable quality; or whatever
ambiguity may once have existed from the term average being
used in different senses, that is as signifying a contributionto a
general loss, and also aparticularorpartialinjury falling on the
subject inisured, it is well-understood at the present day, with
respect to such [memorandum] articles, that underwriters are
-free from all partial losses of every kind, which do not arise
from a contributiori towards a general average.
*"It only remains then to examine, and so the question has
properly been treated'at bar, whether the hides, which were
sunk and not reclaimed, constituted a-total or partial loss within
the meaning of this policy. It has been considered as total by
the counsel of the assured, but- the court cannot perceive any
ground 'for treating it in that way, inasmuch as out of many
thousand hides which were on board; not quite eight hundred
were lost, making in point of value somewhat less than one-sixth
part of the sum insured by this policy. -Ifthere were no memorandum in the way, and the plaintiff had gone on to recover, as

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO. 11
Opinion of the Court.

in that case he might have done, it is perceived at once that he
must have had judgment only for a partial loss, which would
have been equivalent to the injury actually sustained. But
without having recourse to any reasoning on the subject, the
proposition appears too self-evident not to command universal
assent, that when only a part of a cargo, consisting all of the
same kind of articles, is lost in any way whatever, and the
residue, (which in this case amounts to much the greatest part),
arrives in safety at its port of destination, the loss cannot but
be partial, and that this must forever be so, as long as a part
continues to be less than the whole. This loss then being a
particular loss only, and not resulting from a general average,
the court is of opinion that, the defendants are not liable for it."
In .areardier v. Che8apeake 1n8. Co., some of .the goods

insured were warranted "free from average, unless general,"
and damages were claimed for a constructive total loss of these
goods, but the claim was disallowed. After stating the American rule that a damage of ordinary goods exceeding fifty per
cent entitles the insured to recover for a constructive total loss,
Mr. Justice Story continued:
"But this rule has never been deemed to extend to a cargo
consisting wholly of memorandum articles. The legal effect of
the memorandum is to protect the underwriter from all partial
losses; and if a loss by deterioration, exceeding a nioiety in
value, would authorize an abandonment, the great object of the
stipulation would be completely evaded. I4 seems' therefore,
to. be the settled doctrine that nothing short of a total extinction, either physical or in value, of memorandum articles at an
intermediate port, would entitle the insured to turn the case
into a total loss, where the voyage is capable of being performed."
In Robnson v. Commonwealth Ins. Co., 3 Sumner, 220, where
a clause in the policy exempted the insurers from liability for
any partial loss on goods esteemed perishable in their own nature, and the goods insured were held to be perishable, the same
eminent judge charged the jury :
"The principle of law is very clear, that, as this is an insurance on a perishable cargo, the plaintiff is not entitled to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cover, unless there has been a total loss of the cargo by some
peril insured against. If the schooner had arrived at the port
of destination, with the cargo on board, physically in existence,
the plaintiff would not have been entitled to recover, however
great the damage might have been by a peril insured against,
even if it had been ninety-nine per cent, or in truth even if the
cargo had there been of no real value."
Part of the cargo in Aforean v. United States Ins. Co. was
warranted free from average, unless general, and Mr. Justice
Washington said:
"All considerations connected with the loss of the cargo, in
respect to quantity or value, may, at once, be dismissed from
.the case. As to memorandum articles, the insurer agrees to
pay for a total loss only, the insured taking upon himself all
partial losses without exception.
"If the property arrive at the port of discharge, reduced in
quantity or value, to any amount, the loss cannot be said to be
total in reality, and the insured cannot treat it as a total, and
demand an indemnity for a partial loss. There is no instance
where the insured can demand as for a total loss that he might
not have declined an abandonment, and demand a partial loss.
But if the property insured be included within the memorandum, he cannot, under any circumstances, call upon the insurer
for a partial loss, and, consequently, he cannot elect to turn it
into a total loss.

.

.

.

The only question that can possibly

arise, in relation tW.memorandum articles, is, whether the loss
was total or not; and this can never happen where the cargo,
or a part of it, has been sent on by the insured, and reaches
the original port of its destination. Being there specifically,
the insurer has complied with his engagements; everything
like a promise of indemnity against loss or damage to the cargo
being excluded from the policy."
In Hugg v. Augusta Ins. Co., the insurance was upon freight
on a cargo of jerked beef, perishable articles being warranted
free from average, and it was held that defendant was not liable for a total loss of freight unless .it appeared that the entire
cargo was destroyed in specie. The memorandum clause is

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS, CO. 13
Opinion of the Court.

given in the margin.' Mr. Justice 1elson, delivering the opinion of the court, made these, among other, observations:
"What constitutes a total loss of a memorandum article has
been the subject of frequent discussion, both in the courts of
England and this country, and in the former of some diversity
of opinion; but, in most of the cases, the decisions have been
uniform, and the principle governing the question regarded as
settled; and that is, so long as the goods have not lost their
original character, but remain in specie, and in that condition
are capable of being shipped to the destined port, there cannot
be a total loss of the article, whatever may be the extent of
the damage, so as to subject the underwriter. The loss is but
partial.
"The only doubt that has been expressed in respect to the
soundness of this rule is, whether a destruction in value for all
the purposes of the adventure, so that the objects of the voyage
were no longer* worth pursuing, should not be regarded as a
total loss within the memorandum clause, as well as a destruc
tion in specie.
In this country the rule has been uniform, that there must be a destruction of the article in specie, as
will be seen by a reference to the following authorities. : ."Whether the test of liability is made to depend upon the
destruction in specie, or in value, would, we are inclined to think,
as a general rule, make practically very little, if any, difference;
for while the goods remain in specie, and are capable of being
carried on in that condition to the destined port, it will rarely
happen that on their arrival they will be of no value to the
owner or consignee. The proposition assumes a complete de'It is also agreed, that bar and sheet iron, wire, tin plates, salt, grain
of all kinds, tobacco, Indian meal, fruits, (whether preserved or otherwise),
cheese, dry fish, vegetables and roots, hempen yarn, cotton bagging, pleasure carriages, household furniture, furs, skins, and hides, musical instruments, looking-glasses, and all other articles that are perishable in their'
own nature, are warranted by the assured free from average, unless general; hemp free from average under twenty per cent, unless general; andsugar, flax, flaxseed, and bread are warranted by the assured free from
average under seven per cent, unless -general; and coffee in bags or bulk,
and pepper in bags or bulk, free from average under ton per cent, unless
general."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

struction in value, otherwise the uncertainty attending it would
be an insuperable objection; and, in that view, it may be a
question even if the degree of deterioration would not be greater
to constitute a total loss than is required under the present rule.
"The rule as settled seems preferable, for its certainty and
simplicity, and as affording the best security to the underwriter against the strong temptation that may frequently exist,
on the part of the master and shipper, to convert a partial into
a total loss."
The case came up on a certificate of division, and the answer
to the first question certified was:
"That, if the jury find that the jerked beef was a perishable
article within the meaning of the policy, the defendants are not
liable as for a total loss of the freight, unless it appears that
there was a destruction in specie of the entire cargo, so that it
had lost its original character at Nassau, the port of distress;
or that a total destruction would have been inevitable from the
damage received, if it had been reshipped before it could have
arrived at Matanzas, the port of destination."
The cases in this court are reviewed and applied by Mr. Justice Miller in Insuranco Co. v. Fogarty, in which it was ruled
that where certain machinery had been so injured as to have
lost its identity as such, recovery for total loss might be sustained.
The same conclusion has been announced in many of the state
courts. .Brookev. Louisiana Ins. Co., 5 Mart. N. S. 530, 535;
Skinner v. Western Ins. Co., 19 La. *273; Gould v. Zouisiana
Xut. L74. Co., 20 La. Ann. 259; Williams v. Hennebec Ins. Co.,
31 Maine, 455; Waln v. Thompson, 9 Serg. & R. 115 Willard
v. 3anufacturers'Ins. Co., 24 Mo. 561 ; Wadsworth v. Pacific
Ins. Co., 4 Wend. 33; De Peyster v. Sun Ins. Co., 19 N. Y.
272; Burt v. Brewers' Ins. Co., 9 Run, 383; S. C. 78 N. Y.
400 ; Chadsey v. Guion, 97 N. Y. 333; Yerchants' S. S. Co. v.
Commercial Xutual Ins. Co., 19 Jones & S. 444; Carr v. Security Ins. Co., 109 N. Y. 504.
It is said that a different rule has been laid down in Massachusetts by the Supreme Judicial Court of that Commonwealth.
XYettefl v. Alliance ins. Co., 10 Gray, 144; Xayo v. India .Aut.
ns. Co., 152 Mass. 172.

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO. 15
Opinion of the Court.

Even if this were absolutely so we should not feel constrained,
though regretting the difference of opinion, to depart from our
own rule. The policy was a Massachusetts contract, it is true;
but its construction depended on questions of general commercial law, in respect of which the courts of the United States are
at liberty to exercise their own judgment and are not bound to
accept the state decisions as in matters of purely local law.
We are not, however, persuaded that the cases cited justify
the asserted conclusion as respects articles specifically included
in the memorandum.
In KYettell v. Alliance Ins. Co., the memorandum clause of
the policy provided that the insurers should not be liable for
any partial loss on, among other articles, "salt, grain, fish, fruit,
hides, skins, or other goods that are esteemed perishable in their
own nature, unless it amount to seven per cent on the whole
aggregate value of such articles, and happen by stranding.
At the end of the last paragraph of the policy, next before the
formal conclusion, were printed these words: '- Partial loss on
sheet iron, iron wire, brazier's rods, iron hoops and tin plates,
is excepted."
The shipment. consisted of five hundred boxes of tin plates,
invoiced and valued together- at one sum. The vessel was
wrecked; all the plates damaged more or less; and some of
them totally destroyed. Chief Justice Shaw ruled, for the
court, that the exception did not come under the memorandum
clause; that it recognized a distinction between tin and brass
goods liable to tarnish, and memorandum articles liable to decay; and that the natural construction of the exception was
"that it leaves the insurer liable for all total losses; but it
makes no distinction between absolute and constructive total
losses; and in case of a constructive total loss, which gives theassured a right to abandon, and he exercises the right , it becomes a legal total loss, as if absolute in its nature." The insurers were held liable for a constructive total loss under the
fifty per cent rule.
In the case before us wire of all kinds was specifically exempted by the memorandum clause, and the exemption .was
relaxed by the rider in respect of absolute, that is, actual, loss
of a part.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

If the contract in that case had been in terms and arrangement the same as the contract in this, it does not follow that
the same result would have been reached.
But we must not be understood as accepting the views expressed in Hettell's case, great as is the weight attaching to the
utterances of the distinguished judge who delivered the opinion.
We do not think the words, "partial loss excepted," had any
other meaning as applied to tin plates than if applied to articles having an inherent tendency to decay. Tin plates may
not be perishable in their nature in the sense of liability to corporeal destruction, but their original character as tin plates is
perishable by reason of liability to corrosion and rust. And
this may explain why the words, "and happen by stranding,"
were omitted from the exception: It appears to us that the
natural meaning of the exception was to exempt the underwriters from liability for an actual partial loss, and, therefore,
for a constructive total loss, which involves an actual partial
loss, and a remainder transferred by abandonment.

Mayo v. India ITs. Co., 152 Mass. 172, follows the prior case,
but'the court expressly refused to decide "whether in this Commonwealth there can be no total loss of a memorandum article,
if any part of it arrives at the port of discharge in specie."
It would subserve no useful purpose to attempt a review of
the English cases on this subject. If in England a plaintiff may
recover for a constructive total loss of memorandum articles, it
is when they are so injured as to be of no substantial value when
brought to the port of destination.
In the United States (and herein is a material difference between the jurisprudence of the two countries), the general rule
is that a damage exceeding fifty per cent justifies abandonment
and recovery as for constructive total loss. Xarcardierv. Chesapeake ihs'urance Coompany, supra ; Le Guidon (Paris, 1831),
chap. VII, art. I; chap. V, art. VIII. But this principle is not
applicable to memorandum articles in respect of which the exception of particular average excludes a constructive total loss.
There is no pretence here that this wire, with some small exceptions duly allowed for, did not exist at Key West and did
not arrive at Velasco in specie, and as to a large part with its

WASHBURN & MOEN MFG. CO. v. RELIANCE INS. CO. 17
Opinion of the Court.

original character unimpaired. Abandonment is necessary when
the loss is only constructively total, and under this policy no
right of abandonment existed at the time of the disaster or afterwards, by the exercise of which the assured could turn this partial loss in fact into a total loss by construction.
The salvage charges at Key West were paid by the underwriters as incurred to avert an impending actual total loss of the
whole subject of the insurance. It was to their particular interest, as well as to the general public interest, that the goods
should be saved, and it is apparent that plaintiff could not injure their market by refusing to receive them, and then clkirn
that their value was determined by the price they brought at
forced sale.
Counsel conceded that the cargo was damaged to an amount
exceeding fifty per cent, and that, therefore, there was a constructive total loss according to the American rule applicable
to non-memorandum articles. But there was not an actual loss
of the whole, and by the memorandum and rider the insurance
company was exempted from liability except for the actual loss
of a specific part, and for that plaintiff has duly recovered.
The Circuit Court correctly ruled that under the terms of the
policy plaintiff could not recover for a constructive total loss of
the goods insured; and, inasmuch as a large part of the goods
reached Velasco in specie, a substantial part of them being
wholly uninjured, was right in declining to permit the jury to
pass on the question of actual total loss.
There is nothing taking the case out of the general rule.
The forced sale certainly does not affect it.
After some previous jettison the cargo passed through the
wreck, and the bulk of the wire, some damaged and much uninjured, arrived at the port of destination.
The consignee, which was also the manufacturer, refused to
accept it, and declined to put an end to the proceedings which
were instituted to its knowledge. If there had been a constructive total loss and a sufficient abandonment prior to the
sale, defendant was then liable. As there was not, and no right
to abandon or acceptance of abandonment, the goods were at
voL. oLXx-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's risk, and defendant was not responsible for any loss
plaintiff sustained by the sale.
But, although, as we have seen, plaintbiff had no right to
abandon, and although defendant specifically refused to accept
an abandonment, it is contended that defendant transhipped
the wire, and that such transhipment amounted to an acceptance of abandonment.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that the forwarding from Key West to Velasco was done under the author
and withthe approval of the captain of the "Benjamin Hale."
As the cargo was in a condition for transhipment, and there
was opportunity to effect it, defendant rightfully insisted that it
was the duty of the master to forward it to the destined port.
Yet even if the underwriters chartered the "Cactus" and forwarded the cargo, we agree with both courts that neither that
nor any other act disclosed by the evidence would have authorized the jury to find that defendant had accepted the attempted
cession of the cargo.
The.sue and labor clause expressly provided that acts of the
insurer in recovering, saving and preserving the property insured, in case of disaster, were not to be considered an acceptance of abandonment. Whether regarded as embodying a
common-law principle, or as new in itself, the clause must receive a liberal application, for the public interest requires both
insured and insurer to labor for the preservation of the property. And to that end provision is made that this may be done
without prejudice.
The Circuit Court of Appeal well points out that at Key
West there was no agent of the assured; no adequate means
of protection, and no market; while at Velasco there were excellent facilities for protection and handling of cargo; easy
access to the company's head agency; and a good market; and
it was the port of destination.
If then it vas the insurer that carried-the property, to be
preserved and carried, to Velasco, where it was offered to the
consignees, such labor and care rendered in good faith did not
operate as an acceptance of abandonment, and especially as
there was no right to abandon and a distinct refusal to accept.

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON CO.
Syllabus.

Acts of the insurer are sometimes construed as an acceptance, when the intention to accept is fairly dducible from particular conduct, in the absence of explicit refusal. Silence may
give rise to ambiguity solvable by acts performed. Here, hiowever, defendant refused to accept, and there was no ambiguity
in its attitude; and what was done, if done by it, was- no more
than it had the right to do without incurring a liability expressly disavowed. There was nothing to be left to the jury
on this branch of the case.
Some further suggestions are made, but they call for no particular consideration.

Judgment affii-ned.

SAXLEHNER v. EISNER & MENDELSON COMPANY.
'CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 29. Argued Blarch 22, 23,1900.-Decided October 15, 1900,
In 1862, plaintiff's husband discovered a spring of bitter water in Hungary, and was granted by the Municipal Council of Buda permission to
sell such water, and to give the spring the name of " Hunyadi Spring."
He put up these waters in bottles of a certain shape and -with a peculiar
label, and opened a large trade in the same under the name of "Hunyadi
Janos." In 1872, one Markus discovered a spring of similar water and
petitioned the Council of Buda for permission to sell the water under the
name of "Hunyadi Matyas." This was denied upon the protest of Saxlehner; but in 1873 the action of the Council was reversed by the Minister of Agriculture, and permission given Markus to sell water under the
name of "Hunyadi Matyas." Other proprietors seized upon the word
"Hunyadi" which became generic as applied to bitter waters. This continued for over twenty years when, in 1895, a new law was adopted, and
Saxlehner succeeded in the Hungarian courts in vindicating his exclui.
sive right to the use of the word "Hunyad *' In 1897 he began this
suit.
Held: That the name "Hunyadi" havingbecome public property in Hungary, it also became, under our treatywith the Austro-Hungarian Empire
in 1872, public property here; that the court could not take notice of the

