CHAPIN v. FYB.
Syllabus.

the municipal offices of the town of Guayama. The application
was submitted April 23, 1900, and, as usual, time was given for
a brief in opposition, which was presented April 30.
Section 716 of the Revised Statutes brought forward from
section 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, provides: "The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District Courts shall have
power to issue writs of scire faoias. They shall also have
power to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute,
which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
This court is-not thereby empowered to review the proceedings of military tribunals by certiorari. Nor are such tribunals
courts with jurisdiction in law or equity within the meaning of
those terms as used in the third Article of the Constitution, and
the question of the issue of the writ of certiorari in the exercise
of inherent general power cannot arise in respect of them.
By act of Congress of April 12,1900,31 Stat. 77, c. 191, taking
effect by its terms on the first of May, the tribunal in question
was, as the act states, discontinued, and a United States District Court established as its successor, authorized to take possession of its records and to take jurisdiction of all cases and
proceedings pending therein.
The result is, from either point of view, that this application
cannot be entertained.

Leave denied.

CHAPIN- . FYE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KALAMAZOO COUNTY, MICHIGAN.
No. 182. Submitted October 29,1900.-Decided November 19, 1900.

An assignment of error in this court that the decision of a state Supreme,
Court was inconsistent with certain paragraphs of an alleged brief putting

forward a Federal question, does not amount to a compliance with the
requirements of ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes.
Where a Federal question is raised in the state courts, the party who brings
the case to this court cannot raise here another Federal question, which
was not raised below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.
MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
of the court.

.ir.

Victor AX. Gore for the motion.

.Afr. N. H. Stewart and .P.
MII.

The case is stated in the opinion

CIEF JUSTICE

Benton Hanchett opposing.

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of trespass on the case tW recover for personal injuries ififlicted on Ruth I. Fye by a dog owned and kept
by Chapin; and was based on a statute of the State of Michigan,
approved March 28, 1850, which provided that the owner or
keeper of any dog injuring any person as set forth should be
liable to the person injured "in double' the amount of damages
sustained, to be recovered in an action of trespass, or on the
case;" and also that "if it shall appear to the satisfaction of
the court by the evidence, that the defendant is justly liable for
the damages complained of under the provisions of this act, the
court shall render judgment against such defendant for double
the amount of damages proved and costs of suit."
The declaration counted on the statute, and asked to have
plaintiff's damages doubled by virtue thereof; and the trial
having resulted in a verdict of $10,000 in plaintiff's favor, the
Circuit Court, on motion of her counsel, entered judgment for
double the amount, namely, $20,000. Defendant moved for a
new trial, and assigned among various grounds therefor that
the statute in question was unconstitutional because in violation
of the constitution of Michigan, and "in violation of the constitutimnal rights of citizens to have public trial in civil cases in
courts of record." The motion for new trial was denied, and
defendant filed twenty-two exceptions, the eighteenth and nineteenth of which were that the statute was in violation of the
Fifth and Seventh Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States. The case was then carried to the Supreme Court of the
State and ninety-eight errors were assigned, the ninety-fourth,
ninety-fifth and ninety-sixth being to the effect that the statute
was inconsistent with the ordinance of 1781 for the govern-

CHAPIN v. FYE.
Opinion of the Court

ment of the Northwest Territory, and with the Fifth and Sixth
Amendments, securing due process of law and the right of trial
by jury.
The Supreme Court required plaintiff to remit $10;000, and,
this being done, affirmed the judgment, as so modified, for
$10,000.
As to the contention that the act was unconstitutional, "in
that it confers upon the Circuit Judge power to act as a chancellor in a suit at law in so far as he exercises the authority to
double the damages," the Supreme*Court, without referring to
the Federal Constitution, held that it was competent for the
legislature to provide for doubling damages in this class of cases,
ahd that the latter portion of the section should be construed
to mean that the court, acting through all of its instrumentalities, which included the jury, should ascertain the damages as
in ordinary cases, and that as s6 construed. the act was valid.
80 N. W. i97.
This writ of error was then allowed and errors assigned in
this court, embracing alleged errors committed by the Supreme
Court in disregarding certain paragraphs of the brief of counsel
in that court which, it was said, asserted the statute to be in
contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mfotions to dismiss or affirm were submitted.
The validity of the provision creating the liability for double
damages is not denied, but the contention seems to be that the
statute authorizes the trial judge to determine independently
"the amount of the damages proved," and is therefore unconstitutional. But this need not be discussed, as we think the
writ must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. If a party to
an action in a state court intends to invoke for the protection
of his rights the Constitution of the United States, or some
treaty, statute, commission or authority of the United States,
he must so declare. In this case plaintiff, after judgment, excepted to the denial of his motion for a new trial on the ground,
among others, that the statute in question was in violation of
the Fifth and Seventh Amendments to the Constitution, and
repeated that contention in. the assignment of errors in the
Suprenie Court, adding also that the statute was inconsistent
VOL. CLXXIX-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, dissenting.

with the ordinance of 1787. But the ordinance of 1787 was
superseded by the adoption of the Constitution of the United
States, and of the State, and the Fifth and Seventh Amendments were intended to operate solely on the Federal government and contain no restrictions on the powers of the State.
The only reference to the Fourteenth Amendment is in the assigninent of errors in this court, where it is stated that the
state Supreme Court disregarded certain portions of counsel's
brief alleged to have treated of that subject. This did not meet
the requirements of section 709 of the :Revised Statutes. Zadig
v. Baldwin, 166 U. S.485; JMfiller v. Railroad Company, 168
U. S. 131; Dewey v. Des .A[oines, 173 U. S. 193; Keokeuk v.
Hamiltonr Bridge Company, 175 U. S.633.
Writ of error dismissed.
3b. JusTioE

Boww, dissenting.

It appears in this case that defendant intended to claim the
benefit of the "due process of law " clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, but inadvertently pitched his claim upon the Fifth
Amendment, which also contains a similar clause, but is only
applicable to proceedings in the Federal courts. The mistake
is so obvious I think the court should have disregarded it, and
passed upon the merits.

