OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

SIGAFUS v. PORTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 8.

Argued November 15, 16, 189.-Decided October 29, 1900.

The defendant in the court below moved to dismiss this case on the ground
that the contract in relation to the property in question was with Griffith
alone, and, that motion being denied, proceeded to offer evidence. Held
that he could not assign the refusal to dismiss as error.
In Smith v. Bolles, 132 U. S. 125, it was held that, "in an action in the nature
of an action on the case to recover from the defendant damages which
the plaintiff has suffered by reason of the purchase of stock in a corporation which lie was induced to purchase on the faith of false and fraudulent representations made to him by the defendant, the measure of
damages is the loss which the plaintiff sustained by reason of those representations, such as the money which he paid out and interest, and all
outlays legitimately attributable to the defendant's fraudulent conduct;
but it does not include the expected fruits of an unrealized speculation;
and further that, in applying the general rule that ' the damage to be recovered must always be the natural and proximate consequence of the
act complained of' those results are to be considered proximate which
the wrong-doer, from his position, muist have contemplated as the probable consequence of his fraud or breach of contract." In this case that
decision is affirmed and applied to the facts and issues here, and it is held
that, upon the assumption that the property was not worth what the
plaintiffs agreed to give for it, they were entitled, a verdict being rendered in their favor, and if the evidence sustained the allegation of false
and fraudulent representations upon which they relied and were entitled
to rely, to have a verdict and judgment, representing in damages the difference between the real value of the property at the date of its sale to
the plaintiffs and the price paid for it, with interest from that date, and,
in addition, such outlays as were legitimately attributable to the defendant's conduct, but not damages covering "the expected fruits of an unrealized speculation."

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Ar. Edmund Wetmore for plaintiff in error.
Johnson was on his brief.
Mr. Albert Stickney for defendants in error.

.A'r. Henry B.

SIGAFUS r. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought to recover damages for deceit alleged
to have been practiced by Sigafus, the plaintiff in error, upon
Porter, Hobson and Morse, the defendants in error, in the sale
by the former to the latter of a gold mine in California, known
as the Good Hope Consolidated Gold Lode Mining Claim (consisting of the San Jacinto and Good Hope Quartz locations),
and as the Annex, adjoining the Good Hope mine on the south.
The complaint alleged that the defendant Sigafus was president of the Good Hope Consolidated Gold Mining Company, a
corporation of California possessing the legal title to the property in question, and that with the exception of a few shares
standing in the name of his son-in-law he owned its entire capital
stock, and was in fact the sole beneficial owner of the mine and
the lands and property appurtenant thereto;
That prior to December 28, 1893, the defendant representing
his own interests.and those of the company as well as those of
his son-in-law, and acting by one William H. Griffith, entered
into negotiations with the plaintiffs for the sale of the mine,
mining claims and their appurtenances;
That in the course of such negotiations the defendant falsely
and fraudulently and with intent to deceive and defraud the
plaintiffs, represented to them that the lands and mines and
mining claims contained a large and valuable vein of goldbearing ore, large and valuable deposits of gold, and that all of
the gold-bearing quartz would average in milling more than $16
per ton;
That he laid before the plaintiffs a false and fraudulent report
or statement in writing in regard to the lands and mines and
mining claims, made by one Burnham, who was therein represented to be an independent and disinterested mining engineer
and expert, and to have made a careful and complete examination in the premises, which report or statement in substance
stated that the pay streak in the mine had an average width of
two feet, that 2431 tons of ore from the mine had been milled
and yielded an average value in gold of $23.78 per ton, that the
mine had been operated and the ore taken therefrom had been

OCTOBER TERMI, '1900.
Opinion of the Court.

milled for two years or more and had yielded, in gold, an average
of $23.78 per ton; that the value of the bullion produced from
the mine for the twelve months ending with January, 1892, inclusive, was $57,879.78, and the total expense of production
$15,500; that the estimated total bullion product from the mine
after its discovery down to on or about February 1, 1892, was
$317,879.78; that beyond all doubt the ore averaged at least
$18 per ton in gold;' that the mine contained 44,733 tons of
gold ore in reserve, of the net value of $805,186, and also 37,333
tons of gold ore in sight, of the net value of $761,094, and that
the mines and mining claims had a very large prospective value
in addition thereto; that the gold-bearing vein in the mine was
a permanent and lasting one, and that the property under energetic management should produce from $30,000 to $40,000 per
month net, and keep the development even with the output;
together with other statements of fact in regard to the property,
each and all of which were false and fraudulent, representing
said report to be just, accurate and true, although knowing the
same to be false and fraudulent;
That during the course of a mill run of the mine made by the
plaintiffs for the purpose of testing the value of the ores contained therein, the defendant' falsely and fraudulently, and with
intent thereby to deceive and defraud them, placed and caused
to be placed, in and among the ores to be reduced in the mill
run, exceptionally rich specimens of ore that were not part of
the ordinary production of the mine, and placed and caused to
be placed therein large quantities of exceptionally rich ore that
had been mined on the premises, but reserved by him over a
long period of time, and which contained gold far in excess of
the average amount carried by the ore produced from the mine,
and caused false and fraudulent representations to be made as
to the amount of ore run through the mill at that time, understating the same, with the intent and result, that a much larger
production of gold might seem to be produced from the ore reduced than was just and true; and,
That the defendant falsely and fraudulently, and with the
intent thereby to deceive and defraud the plaintiffi, represented
to them that certain portions of the mine, from which all the

SIGAFUS v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

valuable ore had been extracted, were still solid and untouched,
and blocked up the entrance to such excavations with timber,
which he falsely and fraudulently stated was placed in the mine
for the purpose of support, and that it was dangerous to remove
the same, with the intent and result of thereby preventing the
plaintiffs and their representatives from investigating the condition of the mine; and falsely and fraudulently, and with the
intent to thereby deceive and defraud the plaintiffs, changed
certain bullion returns as to past production, misstating the
quantities of ore producing the bullion so as to show a much
larger and richer production of gold from the ore mined than
had in fact been made.
It was alleged that all these representations were made and
all these acts were done and caused to be done i the full knowledge that they were false and fraudulent and calculated to deceive and defraud, and with the intent and result that the same
should be communicated to the plaintiffs, and thereby deceive
and defraud them, inducing the belief that the land, mine and
mining claim were worth at least the sum of $1,000,000.
The complaint further alleged that if said representations,
reports and mill run bad been true and accurate, the property
would have been reasonably worth $1,000,000, whereas, as the
defendants knew at the time, it was worth practically little or
nothing; that, relying upon the representations, reports and
mill run mentioned, the plaintiffs purchased the property for
the sum of $400,000, paying $150,000 in cash, and executing
notes and mortgages upon the property to the amount of
$225,000, as part of the price; and had paid, laid out and expended large sums of money on the property in the attempt to
develop it.
The plaintiffs therefore claimed that they had suffered damage to the amount of $1,000,000, for which they prayed judgment.
The defendant denied each and every allegation of the complaint. He specifically denied that he ever made any representations to the plaintiffs, directly or indirectly, through Griffith
or at all, in reference to the property, or that he ever sold it to
or received any money from them on account of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be here stated that there was evidence in the case
tending to show that the negotiations for the property were
between the plaintiffs and Griffith, and it was a question whether
Griffith was to be deemed in any sense an agent of Sigafus in
the sale of the property to the plaintiffs. It was also a question whether the defendant did or caused to be done anything
that was calculated to~mislead and deceive, or did in fact mislead and deceive the plaintiffs in their preliminary examination
of the property by an expert, whereby they were induced to
think that it had a value which, within the defendant's knowledge, it did not really possess.
There was a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs for $330,275.
A motion for new trial having been denied, judgment was entered for the amount of the verdict. The case was carried to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court, while sustaining
the rulings of the trial court on questions involving the admission and exclusion of evidence, left certain points undisposed of
in order that the question raised by them could be certified to
this court. The Circuit Court of Appeals-Judge Lacombe
delivering the opinion of the court-among other things said:
"The only remaining assignments of error are the twenty-sixth,
to so much of the charge as instructed the jury that the I measure of damages is the difference between the value of the property as it proved to be and as it would have been as represented,'
and the twenty-eighth, to the refusal to charge substantially
that the measure of damages is the money plaintiffs had paid
out for the mine with interest and any other outlay legitimately
attributable to defendant's fraudulent conduct, less the actual
value of the mine when plaintiffs bought it. In view of the
recent opinion in Smith v. Boles, 132 U. S. 125, this court desires the instruction of the Supreme Court for its proper decision
of the question arising upon these two assignments of error.
A certificate in the form required by the act of March 3, 1891,
has therefore been prepared and will be forwarded to the Supreme Court. The fact that instructions are thus desired as to
a single question out of the many arising upon this writ of error
affords no sufficient ground for withholding the decision of this
court as to the other questions in the cause. Compton v. Wabash

SIGAFUS i. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroad,31 U. S. App. 486. This opinion is therefore placed
on file, and when instructions are received as to the questions
certified the cause will be finally disposed of." 51 U. S. App.
693; 84 Fed Rep. 430, 439.
This case was heard here upon the question certified from
the Circuit Court of Appeals. But after it was argued and
submitted, this court directed the entire record to be sent up,
and the case is now before us upon writ of certiorari.
1. At the trial in the Circuit Court, the evidence in behalf of
the plaintiffs being closed, the defendant moved to dismiss the
complaint upon several grounds, one of which was that the contract in relation to the property in question was alone with
Griffith.. That motion was denied, and the defendant then introduced evidence in his behalf. The Circuit Court of Appeals
properly held that as the defendant did not rest upon the denial,
of his motion to dismiss, but introduced evidence, he could not
assign the refusal to dismiss as error. Columbia & Puget Sound
Railroadv. Hawthorne, 144 U. S. 202; Union Pacifle Railway v. Daniel, 152 U. S. 684; Runkle v. Burnham,153 U. S. 216.
2. After calling attention to the material issues of fact, and
after stating the general propositions of law upon which, when
applied to the evidence, the rights of the parties depended, the
Circuit Court charged the jury:
"The measure of damages in actions of this nature is the dif.
ference between the value of the property as it proved to be
and as it would have been as represented. You may find that
the plaintiffs were influenced by one or more and not by all.of
the representations, and to the extent that the plaintiffs have
been injured by one of several misrepresentations, they a~e
entitled to recover for that; that is, if you find the various issues of fact which I have left for your consideration in favor of
the plaintiffs."
To the giving of this instruction the defendant took an expeption.
The defendant asked that the jury be instructed as follows:
"If the jury find for the plaintiffs, they can only find as damages the direct pecuniary loss, if any, the plaintiffs suffered by
reason of the false and fraudulent representations and acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant, and the value of the mine, if the same had been
as represented, affords no proper element of recovery. The
value of the mine when plaintiffs bought it must be applied in
reducing and extinguishing the plaintiffs' loss."
The Circuit Court refused to give this instruction, and to such
refusal the defendant took an exception.
The question presented by the charge to the jury touching
the measure of damages has been heretofore determined by this
court in Smith v.Bolles, 132 U. S. 125,129. That was an action
to recover damages for alleged fraudulent representations in the
sale of four thousand shares of mining stock at the price of $1.50
per share, that is, $6000. The petition alleged that the stock
was wholly worthless, but would have been worth at least ten
dollars per share, that is, $40,000, if it had been as represented
by defendant. The prayer was for $40,000 as damages arising
from the sale of shares of stock for which only $6000 was paid.
The trial court instructed the jury that "the measure of recovery is generally the difference between the contract price and
the reasonable market value if the property had been as represented to be, or in case the property or stock is entirely worthless, then its value is what it would have been worth if it had
been as represented by the defendant, and as may be shown in
the evidence."
This court held that instruction to be errbneous. Speaking
by the Chief Justice we said: "The measure of damages was
not the difference between the contract price and the reasonable market value if the property had been as represented to
be, even if the stock had been worth the price paid for it; nor
if the stock were worthless, could the plaintiff have recovered
the value it would have had if the property had been equal to
the representations. What the plaintiff might have gained is
not the question, but what he had lost by being deceived into
the purchase. The suit was not brought for breach of contract.
The gist of the action was that .the plaintiff was fraudulently
induced by the defendant to purchase stock upon the faith of
certain false and fraudulent representations, and so as to the
other persons on whose claims the plaintiff sought to recover.
If the jury believed from the evidence that the defendant was

SIGAFUS v'. PORTER.
Opinion of the C6urt.

guilty of the fraudulent and false representations alleged, and
that the purchase of stock had been made in reliance thereon,
then the defendant was liable to respond in such damages.as
naturally and proximately resulted from the fraud. He was
bound to make"good the loss sustained, such as the moneys the

plaintiff had paid out and interest, and any other outlay legitimately attributable to defendant's fraudulent conduct; but this
liability did not include the expected fruits of an unrealized
speculation. The reasonable market value, if the property had
been as represented, afforded, therefore, no proper element of
recovery."
These principles have been applied in numerous cases in the
Federal courts. Atwater v. WTiiteman, 41 Fed. Rep. 427,428;
Glarpell v. NVorthern Pacijfc Railway Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 900,
904; The .ormannia, 62 Fed. Rep. 469, 481; Wilsor v. New
United States Cattle Ranch, Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 994, 997; .Rockefeller v. XAerritt, 40 U. S. App. 666, 674. In the case last cited
Judge Sanborn said: "The true measure of the damages suffered by one who is fraudulently induced to make a contract of
sale, purchase, or exchange of property is the difference between
the actual value of that which he parts with and the actual value
of that which: he receives under the contract. It is the loss
which he has sustained, and not the profits which he might have
made by the transaction. It excludes all speculation, and is
limited to compensation."
Substantially the rule announced in Smith v. Bolles has been
applied in the following cases in state courts: Reynolds v.
Franklin,44 Minnesota,. 30, 31; Redding v. Godwin, 44 Minnesota, 355, 358; Wallace v. Ilallowell, 56 Minnesota, 591, 507;
Woolenslagle v. Runals, 76 Michigan, 545, 553; Buschman &
Cook v. Codd, 52 Maryland, 202, 209 ; Greenwood v. Pierce, 58
Texas, 130, 133 ; Howes v. Axtell, 74 Iowa, 400, 402 ; High v.
Berret, 148 Penn. St. 261. In the last named case - which was
an action to recover damages for deceit in the sale of shares of
stock in a mining corporation - the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "The remainifig question is, what is the proper
measure of the plaintiff's damages. His damages should equal
the loss which the deceit, whioh the jury have found was prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ticed upon him, inflicted. The loss, in the transaction before
us, is the difference between the real value of the stock at the
time of the sale, and the fictitious value at which the buyer was
induced to purchase.

.

.

.

His actual loss does not include

the extravagant dreams which prove illusory, but the money be
has parted with without receiving an equivalent therefor."
The same principle was recognized by the English Court of
Appeal in the leading case of Peek v. Derry, 37 Ch.Div. 541,
591, 594. That was an action to recover damages for the fraudulent representations of the defendant whereby the plaintiff was
induced to take shares in a certain company at the price of
£4000. The question of the proper measure of damages in such
a case was directly presented and considered. Lord Justice
Cotton said: "The damage to be recovered by the plaintiff is
the loss which he sustained by acting on the representations of
the defendants. That action was taking the shares. Before
he was induced to buy the shares, he had the £4000 in his
pocket. The day when the shares were allotted to him, which
was the consequence of his action, he paid over that £4000, and
he got the shares; and the loss sustained by him in consequence
of his acting on the representations of the defendants, was having the shares, instead of having in his pocket the £.4000. The
loss, therefore, must be the difference between his £4000 and
the then value of the shares." Sir James Hannen, referring to
the question of damages, said in the same case: "The question
is, how much worse off is the plaintiff than if he had not bought
the shares ? If he had not bought the shares he would have
had his £4000 in his pocket. To ascertain his loss we must deduct from that amount the real value of the thing he got."
Lord Justice Lopes said: "The question in this case is, what is
the loss which the plaintiff has sustained by acting on the mere
representation of the defendants, and what is the true measure
of his damage ? In my opinion, it is the difference between the
£4000 he paid and the real value of the shares after they were
allotted." The case having been carried to the House of Lords,
the judgment therein was reversed, but not upon grounds at
all affecting the ruling made in the Court of Appeal upon the
question of the proper measure of damages. Perry v. Peek.
14 App. 337.

SIGAFUS v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

There are adjudged cases holding to the broad doctrine that
in an action for deceit, based upon the fraudulent representations of a defendant as to the property sold by him, the plaintiff
is entitled to recover, by way of damages, not simply the difference between its real, actual value at the time of purchase, and
the amount paid for it by the seller, but the difference, however
great, between such actual value and the value (in excess of
what was paid) at which the property could have been fairly
valued if the seller's representations concerning it had been
true. So, in the present case, (taking it to be as set out in the
plaintiff's pleadings,) although the defendant agreed to take,
and the plaintiff agreed to pay, $400,000 for the property in
question, the latter-according to some cases, interpreting literally the words used in them-could retain the property and
recover by way of damages the difference between its real value
at the date of purchase and the sum of $1,000,000, which the
plaintiff alleged it would have been worth at that time if the
representations of the defendant concerning it had been true.
We held in Smnith v. Bolles that such was not the proper measure of damages, that case being like this in that the plaintiff
sought damages covering alleged losses of a speculative character. We adhere to the doctrine of Smith v. Bolles. Upon
the assumption that the property was not worth what the
plaintiffs agreed to give for it, they were entitled to have-if
the evidence sustained the allegation of false and fraudulent
representations upon which they were entitled to rely and upon
which they in fact relied-a verdict and judgment representing
in damages the difference between the real value of the property at the date of its sale to the plaintiffs and the price paid
for it, with interest from that date, and, in addition, such
outlays as were legitimately attributable to the defendant's
conduct, but not damages covering "the expected fruits of an
unrealized speculation." If the plaintiffs were inveigled by the
fraud of the defendant into purchasing this mining property,
a judgment of the character just indicated would make them
whole on account of the loss they sustained. More they are
not entitled to have at the hands of the law in this action.
Many other questions have been discussed by counsel, but as

OCTOBER T.ERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

they may not arise upon another trial, we deem it unnecessary
now to consider them.
It results that the trial court erred upon, the question of the
measure of damages applicable to the case. Is judgment must be reversed with directionsfor a new trial and
forfurtherpoceedings consistent with the principles of
this opinion, and it is so ordered.
M~TR. JUSTIcE. BROWN and MR. JusTricE P EOK

dissented.

In re VIDAL.
ORIGINAL.
No Number. Submitted April 23,1900.-Decided November 12, 1900.

Section 716, Rev. Stat., does not empower this Court to review the proceedings of military tribunals by certiorari.
The act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, having discontinued the tribunal established under that act, and created a successor, authorized to take possession of its records and to take jurisdiction of all cases and proceedings
pending therein, this Court has no jurisdiction to review its proceedings.
Such tribunals are not courts with jurisdiction in law or equity, within
the meaning of those terms as used in Article Thrbe of the Constitution.

AfXr. Frederic 1). .feJenney, MIr. Francis H. Dexter and
.Mr. Wayne Mfac Veagh for petitioners.
.Mr. Solicitor Generalfor the United States.
MR.CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an application for leave to file a petition for certiorari to review the proceedings of a tribuhal established by a
General Order, numbered 88, of Brigadier-General Davis, of
the United States Army, then commanding the department of
Porto Rico and the supreme military authority in that island,
in the nature of a quo warranto to oust Vidal and others from

