OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION OF NEW ORLEANS v.
LOUISIANA.
DRAINAGE COMMISSION OF NEW ORLEANS v.
WILDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 114,119. Argued Detcember4, 5,1900.-Decided January 7, 101.

Without implying that the reasoning of the state court by which the conclusion was reached that under the statute of Louisiana both the Board of
Liquidation and the Drainage Commission occupied such a fiduciary relation as to empower them to asseit that the enfopcement of the provisions
of the constitution of the State would impair the obligations of the contracts entered into on the faith of the collection and application of the one per-cent tax, and of the surplus arising therefrom, this court adopts
and follows it, as the construction put by the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana on the statutes of that State, in a matter of local and nonFederal concern.
The proposition that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana rests upon an independent non-Federal ground, finds no semblance of support in the record.
Considering the many, and in some respects ambiguous statutes of the State
of Louisiana, this court concludes, as a matter of independent judgment,
that the contract rights of the parties were correctly defined by the Sil.preme Court of that State.
This court's affirmance of the judgment below is without prejudice to the
right of the Board of Liquidation and the Drainage Commission to hereafter assert the impairment of the contract right which would arise from
construing the judgment contrafy to its natural and necessary import,
so as to depiive the Board of Liquidation of the power, in countersigning
the bonds, to state thereon the authority in virtue of which they are issued.

IN 1890 the legislature of Louisiana enacted a law for the
refunding or retirement of certain outstanding debts of the city
of New Orleans, and for the further carrying out of a plan,
relating to a portion of the city debt, known as the Premium
•Bond Plan. The act specified the debts to be refunded or retired, and provided moreover substantially as follows:
The Board of Liquidation of the City Debt, which we shall

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

-623

Statement of the Case.

hereafter refer to as the Board of Liquidation, which had been
created by previous laws, in addition .to the powers which it
already possessed, was made a corporation and was authorized
to.execute the refunding law. The city was directd to deliver
to the Board of Liquidation municipal bonds not exceeding in
amount ten millions of dollars, the series to be known as the
"Constitutional Bonds of the City of New Oleans." The Board
,of Liquidation was directed to countersign and issue as many of
these bonds as might be required for the refunding or retiring
operations. To pay the interest on the bonds and'to provide
for a sinking fund, which the law directed should be accumulated, as well as for the execution of its other provisions, a
special ad valorem tax of one per cent was directed to be levied
by the municipality annually, upon, all the taxable property
within the city of New Orleans until "the principal and interest
of the bonds herein provided to be issued are fully paid"?' The
proceeds of this tax were directed to be paid over to the Board
of Liquidation day by day as collected, and the city was deprived of all control over or custody of the avails of the tax,
the disbursement thereof being solely vested in the Board of
Liquidation subject to its duty to account to the city for the
expenditure. It was recited (see. 16) "that all of the substantial
provisions of this act are hereby declared to be a contra:ht between the State of Louisiana, the city of New Orleans, the
taxpayers of said city, and each and every holder of the said
constitutional bonds." The law, (see. 8,) aftei limiting the purposes to which the funds arising from the one per cent tax
should be primarily disbursed by the Board of Liquidation, contained the following:
"After making, in each year, the provisions above required,
and after deducting the expenses incurred by such board, and
after paying any deficiency in the interest fund of any previous
year, one half of the surplus of said tax shall be passed to the
credit of a special fund, to be known as the '"permanent public
improvement fund,' to be disposed of as hereinafter provided.
The other half of said surplus shall be paid over to the school
board of the city of New Orleans, in addition to any fund ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

propriated by said city out of other funds, to be used in the
maintenance and support of the public schools in said city."
It was further provided (see. 10):
"That, the permanent public improvement fund, above provided for, shall be used exclusively for the construction of permanent public improvements in the city of New Orleans, such
as levees, canals, drainage stations, pavements, public buildings,
public parks and bridges, and an ordinance passed by the said
council to be paid out of this fund, shall first be approved by
said Board of Liquidation, who shall not draw any check on
said fund unless they are convinced, upon proper inquiry, that
said ordinance covers the construction of a permanent public
improvement within the purview of this act. The true intent
and meaning of this clause is not to give said board any authority to say to what permanent public improvement any fund
shall be applied, but only to see that said funds shall be applied
exclusively to the construction of improvements that are permanent."
The constitution of the State of Louisiana, at the time the
foregoing law was passed, contained restrictions upon the authority both of the legislature and the city of New Orleans,
with which many of the provisions of the refunding law were
in conflict. It was consequently provided that the main provisions of the law should not go into effect until they were ratified by the adoption of a constitutional amendment, which was
submitted by an act passed at the same session at which the refunding law was adopted. This amendment to the constitution
was ratified at a general election in 1892. The amendment to
the constitution, however, was not solely donfined to an approval of the refunding act, but contained a provision empowering the city of New Orleans "to examine into and assume the
payment of the claims or obligations of the board of school directors for the city and parish of Orleans -due for the years
1880, 1881, 1882, 1883 and 1884, now in the hands of original
owners, who have in nowise parted with their rights of ownership, or pledged the same, as may be found to be equitably due
by said board for services rendered, labor performed or materials furnished by authority of said board." The power of the

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

625

Statement of the Case.

city to exercise the discretion thus conferred depended upon the
adoption of the amendment to the constitution because the
school board was a distinct corporation from the city of New
Orleans, and its debts were not debts of the city; and without
the amendment the legislature could not have empowered the
city to assume to pavia sum which it did not owe, because the
amount was solely due by another and distinct corporation.
After the adoption of the amendment the city of New Orleans
contracted for various works of public improvement, and the
cost of these works, it was either expressly or impliedly agreed,
should be paid out of the permanent public improvement fund,
to arise from one half the surplus of the-one per cent tax, as
provided in the amendment of 1892 and the refunding law.
In July, 1895, a plan for the drainage of the city of New Orleans was devised by the municipality. In 1896 a law was en-.
acted creating the Drainage Commission of New Orleans, with
authority to execute the aforestated plan of drainage, with such
modifications as might be deemed necessary for its successful
accomplishment. The law provided (sec. 6) in order "to raise
funds for the purpose of doing such work speedily and on an
extensive scale, said Drainage Commission of New Orle ans shall
have power to issue and dispose of its negotia]ble bonds to an
amount not exceeding five millions of dollars. . . . All
moneys and funds dedicated and applied by this act to the purposes thereof are consecrated to the payment of the principal
and interest on said bonds." The funds thus referred to were
enumerated in the act (sec. 3) and consisted of the moneys in
the hands of the Board of LiquidaLion derived from one half the
surplus of the one per cent tax levied after January 1, 1898. In
other words, as the city had prior to 1896 contracted for public
improvements payable out of the surplus, so much of the surplus
fund as accrued from taxes levied prior to January 1, 1898, was
not transferred to the Drainage Commission, but was left to be
applied to the discharge of the sum due on the contracts which
the city had theretofore made on the faith of the surplus fund.
In addition, the act also "dedicated and applied" to the. purposes of the Drainage Cdmmission "all moneys and funds now
under the control of the city of New Orleans, and hereafter to
VOL. cLxxX-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

be received, arising from the sale of street railroad franchises
and other franchises." In 1898 the law just referred to was
amended in Various particulars, oie of these amendments reducing the amount of bonds which the Drainage.Commission was
authorized to issue from five millions to fifteen hundred thousand dollars.
The Board of Liquidation received from the city of New Orleans the series of ten millions of constitutional bonds and sold
or otherwise issued $8,998,500 thereof, leaving in its hands bonds
amounting to $1,001,500. There yet remained, however, certain
outstanding debts subject to be refunded or retired, amounting
to about $137,050.
The Drainage Commission, as it was authorized to do, caused
to be prepared fifteen hundred bonds -of $1000 each. Five
hundred of, these bonds were sold in June, 1898, realizing
$505,238. There was paid over to the commission the proceeds
of -the sale of certain street railroad franchises, amounting to
$579,582.12. Between May, 1897, and the 12th of May, 1898,
the commission- made contracts for the work of draining the
city to the.amount of $1,834,465.35, and prior to May 12, 1898,
had paid on account of these contracts, as the work progressed,
$797,363.06, leaving due the sum of $1,037,102.29, which was
payable as the Work proceeded.
In 1896 a convention to frame a new constitution for the
,State of Louisiana was assembled, and the instrument which
that body adopted was, subsequent to May 12, 18a8, declared
to be the constitution of the State without submitting the provisions thereof for ratification by a vote of the people. By
article 314 of this constitution the constitutional amendment
adopted at the electioh of 1892, relating to the retirement-or
the refunding of the city debt, was reiterated. The discretion,
however, which had been conferred upon the municipal government of the city of New Orleans by the constitutional amendment of 1892, to assume payment of certain claims against the
school board, apparently not having been availed of, article 315
of the new constitution imposed a positive duty on the city to
examine specified debts due by the school board, and to issue
certificates of indebtedness to the amount found to be due,

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

697

Statement of the Case.

These debts the constitution provided for in article 317, as follows: "The funds requisite to pay said claims shall be provided
by said Board of Liquidation, by the sale of a sufficient number
of the -constitutional bonds of the city of New Orlbans of the
issue provided for by act number 110 of the general assembly
for the year 1890, and by the amendment to the constitution
of the State submitted to the people by said act and adopted at
the general election in 1892."
The city of New Orleans ascertained the amount of the claims
to be $115,558.33, and issued certificates as required by the constitution. The Board of Liquidation, refusing to sell bonds for
the payment of the certificates, proceedings by mandamus to
compel it to do so were commenced. The return of the Board
of Liquidation to the alternative rule for mandamus denied the
right of the relators to the relief by them prayed, for various
reasons based. upon purely local and non-Federal contentions,
to which we need not refer. The return thereupon specially
set up and claimed that the carrying out of article 317 of the
new constitution, by selling any of the constitutional bonds to
provide the funds to pay the debt of the relators, would bring
about an impairment of the obligations of certain contracts, add
therefore would cause the article of the constitution to be repugnant to section 10, article I, of the Constitution of the United
States. The return besides alleged that the sale of the~bonds,
as required, would deprive the contract creditors of theii property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The
grounds upon which the protection of the Constitution of the
United States was invoked were stated in the return with much.
elaboration; all the averments on this subject, however, are
reducible to the following:
First. That under the powers conferred upon it the respondent board was qualified in every respect to enforce the rights of
all the bondholders and of each and every person having a coiltract claim to any portion of the one per cent tax.
Second. That as the refunding law and the amendment to the
constitution of 1892 had authorized a series of constitutional
bonds to be issued solely for certain specified debts, the sale of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statemenmt of the Case.

any such bonds, as required by the provision of the new constitution, to pay debts other than those originally contemplated,
,would impair the obligations of the contracts which had arisen
from. the refunding law and amendinent of 1892 in favor of
those to whom the constitutiojAal bonds had already been issued,
and would also impair the obligation of the contract in favor
of the premium bondholders and other creditors who had not
exchanged their claims for bonds of the constitutional series.
Third. That as the surplus of the one per cent tax had been
directed to be applied, one half to the school board and the
other half to a.permanent public improvement fund, the issue
of bonds payable out of the one per cent tax for any other
debts than those originally contemplated would necessarily, to
the extent of such issue, increase the payments to be made out
of the one per cent tax, and therefore diminish the sum of the
surplus. That -this decrease in the amount of the surplus would
impair the obligations of the contracts existing in favor of the
following classes of creditors: First, .hose who had contracted
with-the city to execute certain works of public improvement
on the -faith of the surplus. Second, those bondholders who
had taken the five hundred thousand dollars of bonds issued by
the Drainage Commission upon the faith of the surplus fund.
'Third, those who had contracted with the Drainage Commissidn
in reliance upon the surplus fund. The return in addition. alleged that the sale of the bonds as prayed would injuriously
affect the sale by the Drainage Commission of the million dollars bonds which that board had not yet disposed of, and therefore would further impair the obligation of the contracts existing in favor of all the creditors of the Drainage Commission,
as such creditors had contracted with the commission upon the
faith of the undiminished and unimpaired power to' sell the
bonds as originally provided for. It was besides alleged that
as one half of the surplus had been consecrated to the school
board, the diminution of the surplus which would be occasioned
by the sale of bonds for any other debts than those originally
provided for would impair the obligations of the contract which
had been engendered in favor 6f the school board as the result
of the provision dedicating the one half of that surplus to that
board.

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c.

LOUISIANA.

629

Statement of the Case.

The Drainage Commission intervened in the cause, -and after
asserting its right to protect its own interest so far as the further issue of bonds was concerned, and to champion the interest of thoseto whom bonds had been issued and with whom
contracts had been made, specifically charged that the provision of the new constitution was in violation of the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States and the Fourteenth Amendment upon grounds substantially identical with
those which had been alleged in the return of the Board of
Liquidation.
After hearing, the trial court dismissed the intervention of
the Drainage Commission, because it concluded that the commission had no capacity to stand in judgment for the purpose
of protec'ting either its own right to further issue bonds or in
order to protect the rights of the holders of drainage bonds already issued, and those who had contracted to do the drainage
work. On the merits, the trial court held that the return made
by the Board of Liquidation was insufficient, and it therefore
allowed a peremptory mandamus commanding the Board of
Liquidation to sell a sufficient quantity of the constitutional
bonds to provide the means for paying the sum of the certificates held by the relators, with five, per cent interest thereon
from the date of the application for mandamus. Both the,
Board of Liquidation and the Drainage Commission prosecuted
appeals to the Silpreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
That court, in deciding the appeals, delivered an elaborate
opinion. After holding that the school board.was a distinct
corporation from the city 6f New Orleans, and, therefore, the
debts of the school board were not those of the city, the court
determined -that it was within the power of the constitutional
convention to impose the duty on the city of assuming debts
of a different corporation. Having reached this conclusion,
the court approached the consideration of the power of the
convention to direct the Board of Liquidation to sell a sufficient
number of constitutional bonds to pay the debt thus assumed.
It considered this question, first, from the aspect of the authority of the convention over the Board of Liquidation and the
Drainage Commission, without reference to the limitations im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

posed by the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States, and then passed on the question of contract and its impairment. In the first aspect, it was decided that as the Board
of Liquidation and the Drainage Commission were but creatures of the lawmaking power of the State, both these bodies
were subject to and controlled by the imperative command of
the constitution. That, albeit by the original act of refunding
and the amendment which ratified it, the bonds of the constitutional series were only to be issued for particular classes of
debt, a subsequent constitutional requirement that certain of
the bonds should be sold to pay another class of debts was paramount, and, therefore, must be obeyed by the Board of Liquidation. It was held that although the Drainage Commission,
by the act creating it, was empowered to execute a general
plan of drainage for the city of New Orleans, its duty in this
regard was subject to future control, and hence that it was
within the power of a subsequent legislature to modify or
wholly suspend the drainage work by aiscontinuing the duties
of the board, and, a fortiori,it was within the power of the
constitutional convention to bring about the same result. Having established this premise, the learned court reached the conclusion that, even although the future execution of the drainage
work, under the plan originally conceived, might be wholly inpeded or seriously diminished by making, other charges against
the surplus than those originally contemplated, nevertheless it
was the duty of the board to comply with the state constitution, because whether or not the drainage work should be continued -as first designed was a question of public policy, which
the convention had a right to determine.
Whilst laying down the foregoing, when the court considered the question of the alleged impairment of contract rights,
it held that the propositions which it bad previously announced
were all qualified and restrained by the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States, and therefore the provision
of the constitution requiring the sale of the bonds to produce
the funds to pay the school debt would be relatively void if it
conflicted with o' impaired the contract rights of the following
classes of creditors, viz: The holder of the constitutional and of

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

631

Statement of the Case.

the premium bonds; those who'held debts subject to be funded
into constitutional bonds, but who had not yet exercised such
right; those who had contracted with the city for works of
public improvement on the faith of the surplus; those who held
the drainage bonds issued by the Drainage Commission; and
finally those who had contracted with that commission prior
to the adoption of the constitution.
In coming to consider the question of impairment the court
declared that the contract which had arisen with the holders
of the constitutional bonds was that no *bonds of that series
should be issued for any other than the debts specified in the
refunding and retiring act and in the conktitutional amendment
of 1892; that the surplus- fund contemplated by the act and
the amendment was not simply the surplus arising after applying the one per cent tax to the payment of a ten million issue
of bonds, but was the surplus which might arise from the application of the one per cent tax to the payment of such amount
of the ten million issue as had been and would be from time to
time required in the refunding or retiring of the debts specified
in the act and amendment. It was therefore decided that the
sale of any bonds of the series for the purpose of paying any
other debts than those specified and originally contemplated
would impair the obligation of the contract creditors having
a right to payment out of the one per cent tax and of the contract creditors having a right to be paid out of the surplus fund.
This -impairment, however, it was held could only arise in the
event the payment of the bonds -provided to be sold to pay the
school debts assumed by the city interfered in any way with
the funds required to discharge the claims of the contract creditors as above stated. But such interference, the court held,
did not and could not arise, inasmuch.as the bonds which the
constitution provided should be sold would be, when issued by
the Board of Liquidation, subordinate to all the contract rights
above stated. That is to say, thatit was the duty of the Board
of Liquidation to sell the bonds, but that when issued they
would not be entitled to payment out of either the one per cent
tax or the surplus fund, until all the contract rights had been
pfovided for, as above enumerated. Indeed, it was held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

if it was necessary for the Drainage Commission to sell the
bonds which it was authorized to issue for the purpose of paying for the work contracted for prior to the adoption of the
constitution, that these drainage bonds when thus sold would
also be entitled to a priority of application of the surplus of the
one per cent tax before any part thereof could be used to pay
the bonds which the Board of Liquidation was directed to sell
for the purpose of the retirement of the school certificates.
Whilst it was thus decided that the bonds to be sold for the
school purposes would be subordinate to all the contract rights,
and therefore, in the nature of things, could not interfere with
or impair such contra'ct rights, the bonds in question were yet
declared by the court to be entitled to be paid out of any of
the surplus fund which might remain after the discharge of the
contract claims, with the preference oyer any rights which might
arise from contracts made by the Drainage Commission after
the adoption of the new constitution for the further execution
of the drainage plan. This being predicated upon the conclusion that the state constitution, whilst it could not impair contract rights, could yet lawfully diminish or change the plan of
drainage in so far as its future execution was concerned. In
the margin I are excerpts from the opinion of the Supreme
'At page 1870 the court said:
"Defendants assume that the mere fact that constitutional bonds should
be sold for the purpose of paying the certificates held by relators or should
be. given in exchange for those certificates, would of necessity entitle the
holders of such bonds to prime the holders of permanent bonds, bonds
drawn against the 'surplus' of the one per cent tax dedicated to permanent public improvements, and also to necessarily come in on a footing of
equality with all the other holders of consolidated bonds, and they maintain, if this be true, the rights of contract creditors under the funding act,
would be impaired.
" Relators on the other hand insist that the only portion of the one per
cent tax ever set aside for permanent public improvements was one half of
the surplus produced by the tax which would remain after having retained
in the hands of the Board of Liquidation enough to meet the payment in
full of a ten million issue of consolidated bonds, and that, therefore, it
would be legally immaterial to creditors basing contracts on such surplus,
to whom the other portion of the fund would go; it would be enough for
them to know it would not go to them, and relators urge that other holders

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

633

Statement of the Case.

Court of Louisiana, (51 La. Ann. 1849,) which more elaborately
state the conclusions which we have ibove summarized.
of consolidated bonds would have no ground of complaint; that they should
be permitted to share equally with them from the tax fund, as they had
accepted their bonds on the expected basis of coming in concurrence with
an issue of. ten millions of bonds; that they might be interested that the
limit as to the amount of the bonds should not be passed, but that they
were without legal interest, when the limit should not have been passed,
as to who should be the holders of the bonds sharing the fund with them.
"In support of this last position they rely upon the decision of the Supreme Court of the United -States in Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92
U. S. Reports, 531. If the collection of the one per cent talc would suffice
to pay each year the holders of consolidated bonds issued in taking up or
retiring the bonds and claims such as were provided for by the Act No. 110
of 1890, and the constitutional amendment of 1892, without any conflict
with the bonds, ordered to be -sold by Article 317 of the constitution of
1898, the former, of course, would have no cause of complaint, but if from
any cause the amount of tax collected would be insufficient for that purpose, we do not think the holders of these latter bonds could force the
former to prorate with them the amount in hand.
"This condition of things is not existing. It may never arise, and should
it arise, the Board of Liquidation would doubtless have taken steps to distinguish bonds issued under Article 317 from those which had been other-

wise issued."
Again the court said (ib. p. 1872):
"There is no constitutional objection to the convention's ordering the
Board of Liquidation to sell bonds to take up the relators' certificates, but
there would be constitutional objection to be urged if the effect of the issu,ing of such bonds would be to place the holders thereof on an equality with
the holders of bonds issued to take up the bonds and claims provided for
as to their funding and payment by Act No. 110 of 1890, Act No. 114 of 1896,
and the constitutional amendment of 1892. Duperierv.Police Jury, 31 Ann.
710; Shields v. Pipes, 31 Ann. 765."
Yet further, in analyzing the rights of the drainage bondholders and contract creditors, the court said (ib. p. 1875):
"We do not take the same view that relators do as to what was meant
and intended to be conveyed by the ' surplus' ief erred to by Act 110 of 1890,
Act 114 of 1896, and the constitutional amendment of 1892. We think the
lawmakers intended that any portion of the one per cent tax provided for
in Act 110, not needed for the payment or retirement of the particular
bonds or claims therein specially provided for as to payment or retirement,
should constitute the surplus of the tax. That it was not contemplated
when these laws were passed, or the amendment of 1892 adopted, that in
order to exhaust any portion of the ten millions of dollars originally expected to be needed to pay the existing bonds andthe existing claims therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

And all the views which the court expounded were based on
a ruling by it made that the Board of Liquidation, under the
specially enumerated, which might not be necessary for the purpose, new
classes of claims should or would be thrown under the provisions of the
original funding law.
"We think the I surplus ' was intended to connect at once and follow immediately behind as to its appropriation the amount beyond that actually
needed to carry out the plan as originally mapped out and planned. The
surplus was provisionally ascertained each year in a manner particularly
specified to be readjusted the next in a manner also particularly specified.
All the surroundings and circumstances connected with the legislation
negative the idea that the surplus mentioned was to be only any surplus
over ten millions of dollars which might result from the collection of the
one per cent tax.
"We think the Board of Liquidation, the Drainage Commissioners, and
those with whom they contracted were justified in placing that interpretation upon the legislation, and that the contract rights based upon the same
should be protected from impairment. The convention, while ordering the
payment of the certificates held by the relators, through sales of consolidated bonds, could not confer upon the holders of such bonds rights which
in any way would come in competition with the contract rights of creditors
existing against the tax at the time of the adoption of the constitution.
Though there was no mention in the constitution as to the rank of the
bonds which would be issued to take up relators' certificates, that rank
resulted from legally existing conditions which could not be constitutionally
interfered with."
Summing up its conclusion, the court declared (ib. p. 1873):
"The consolidated bonds which relators seek to have issued upon their
prayer will really be drawn against (when issued) any surplus which will
remain of the one per cent tax after the payment of all the bonds issued
and to be issued by the Board of Liquidation, under Act No. 110 of 1890,
and the constitutional amendment of 1892, in order to fund and retire and
pay the bonds-and debts therein- specially enumerated, and also the bonds
issued and to be issued by the Drainage Commission under the provisions
and authority of Act No. 114 of 1890, to pay the contracts existing at the
date of the adoption of the constitution, which were entered into upon the
faith of the surplus directed to be set aside to the credit of the permanent
improvement fund by the Act No. 110 of 1890, Act No. 114 of 1896, and the
constitutional amendment of 1892.
"The effect of this will be to subordinate the rights of holders of bonds
issued by the Drainage Commission to pay for contracts entered into after
the adoption of the constitution of 1898 to those of the holders of consolidated bonds to be issued under the orders of article 317 of the congtitution of 1898. This may check and impede the work of public improvement,
bui it is a matter which we cannot control."

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

635

Statement of the Case.
provisions of the statutes of Louisiana, defining the powers of
that board, was invested with such a relation to the contract
creditors as empowered it to stand in judgment for the purpose
of protecting the contracts from impairment, and hence authorized it to plead the defences which it had asserted in its return
to the rule for mandamus. The judgment of the trial court
was affirmed.
The Board of Liquidation applied for a rehearing mainly on
the ground that although. the views expressed in the opinion
of the court had fully recognized the rights of the contract
creditors, nevertheless the decree had deprived the contract
creditors of the protection to which the opinion acknowledged
they were entitled under the Constitution of the United States.
This was on the assumption that as the decree of the trial court
directed the issue of bonds according to the refunding act, and
the amendment of 1892, therefore a compliance with its commands would compel the board to sell negotiable bonds undistinguishable from the other bonds of the same series, and hence
put those thus sold on exactly the same footing as the bonds
previously issued.
The Drainage Commission also applied for a rehearing on
grounds substantially identical with those urged by the Board
of Liquidation, and upon the further contention that an injustice
had been done it, since the court although it, in effect, in its
opinion, recogiz . the right of the commission to intervene,
had nevertheless affirmed the judgment of the trial court which
dismissed the Drainage Commissioners from the cause upon the
assumption that it had no capacity to stand in judgment and
champion the rights of the creditors. Both the applicants for rehearing complained of the affirmance of the decree below in so
far as it directed the payment of interest on the claims of the
certificate holders.
The court granted the rehearing to a limited extent, reversed
the judgment below in so far as it dismissed the intervention of
the Drainage Commission and to the extent that it allowed interest, and in other respects reiterated the affirmance. These
writs of error were then prosecuted. At a previous term of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

this court, motions to dismiss or afirm were made, and their
consideration was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
Mr. Branch K. .iller for the Board of Liquidation of the
City Debt.
Mr1'. Chester J. Thiard for the Drainage Company. .1r . Arthur AftoGuirk and .Mr. Henry L. Lazarus were on his brief.
Mr. William Wirt Howe and MrM. Walker A. iSencer filed a
brief for same.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement

of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss is without colorable support. The
contention that as public bodies charged with the performance
of ministerial duties, both the Board of Liquidation and the
Drainage Commission had not the capacity to plead that the
provisions of the state constitution impaired the obligations of
contracts in violation of the Constitution of the United States, is.
foreclosed by the decision of the court below. In that court, as
we have said in the statement of the case, the want of capacity
in both the bodies to Urge the defences in question was expressly
put at issue and 'was directly passed on, the court holding that
under the statutes of the State of Louisiana both the bodies
occupied such a fiduciary relation as to empower them to assert
that the enforcement of the provisions of the state constitution
would impair the obligations of the contracts- entered into on
the faith of the collection and application of the one per cent
tax and of the surplus arising therefrom. Without implying
that the reasoning by which this conclusion was deduced would
command our approval were we considering the matter as one
of original impression, and.without pausing to note the ulterior
consequences which may possibly arise from the ruling of the
court below on the subject, we adopt and follow it, as the construction put by the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana
on the statutes of that State in ,a matter of local and nonFederal concern.

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

637

Opinion of the Court.

Accepting, then, in this regard, the decision of the state court,
the propo-ition now pressed reduces itself to this: Although
under the state law both of the bodies in question bore such a
relation to the interests involved as to empower them to assert
that the contract rights were impaired, nevertheless they do not
possess the capacity to prosecute error to a decision if adverse
to the contract rights. This, however, is but to say at one and
the same time that there was capacity and incapacity to assert
and protect the contract'rights. The proposition that the judgment of the Supreme Cburt of the State of Louisiana rests upon an
independent non-Federal ground, finds no semblance of support,
in the record. It is true the court primarily considered the case
from the point of view of the duty and rights of the defendant
and intervenor as depending on the law of Louisiana irrespective
of the contract rights, but these considerations were by the
court declared to be merely a prelude to the decision of the
fundamental issue, that is, whether, if the relief prayed was allowed there would arise an impairment of the obligations of the
contracts as specifically alleged both in the return made by the
Board of Liquidation and in the petition of intervention of the
Drainage Commission. Indeed, the opinion of the learned court,
which we can consider, Eagan v. Hart, 165 U. S.188, expressly
announced that the defences asserted under the contract clause
of the Constitution of the United States were the real issues and
were essentially necessary to be decided in order to dispose of
the cause. The argument that no Federal question is presented
because the court below awarded to the contract creditors all
the rights to which they were entitled, involves the assumption
that jurisdiction to review the decision of a state court, disposing of a Federal question, depends upon the conception of the
state court or somd of the parties to the record as to the correctness of the decision rendered. This in effect denies the
power to review a decision disposing of a Federal question in
every case where, the state court assumes that such question has
been by it correctly disposed of. But this necessarily imports
that in no case whatever where a state court has decided a Federal question, can review in this court be had, since in every
case it must be assumed that a state court of last resort has de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cided, according to its understanding, the issues presented to it
for determination.
On the merits the errors assigned substantially raise all the
controversies which were below decided. They hence embrace
some subjects not essential to be considered in order to dispose
(if the Federal question.
The power of the constituent body to direct the Board of
Liquidation to sell the bonds and the right to diminish the fund
applicable to the drainage of the city of New Orleans, when
viewed apart from the contract rights, involve purely local and
non-Federal contentions. When the jurisdidtion of this court
is invoked because of the asserted impairment of contract rights
arising from the effect given to subsequent legislation, it is our
duty to exercise an independent judgment as to th6 nature and
scope of the contract. Nevertheless, when the contract, which
it is alleged, has been impaired, arises from a state statute, as
said in Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34, "for the sake of
harmony and to avoid confusion, the Federal courts will .lean
towards an agreement of views with the state courts, if the
question seems to them balanced with doubt."
It is indeed disputable as a matter of independent judgment
whether the rights of the contract creditors were as broad as
the court below held them to be. Board of Liquidation v.
.AlcComb, 92 U. S. 531. Considering the many and in some respects ambiguous statutes of the State of Louisiana which are
the sources of the contract rights, and permitting the opinion as
to those rights entertained by the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana to operate upon the doubt which must arise from
a review of the statutes alone, we conclude as a matter of inde-\
pendent judgment that the contract rights were correctly defined by the -Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. The
question- then is, taking the contract rights to be as thus declared, were they substantially impaired by the conclusions
reached by the Supreme Court of the State? If the answer to
this question is to be deduced from the opinion of that court, a
negative response'is plainly required, since, in the most explicit
terms, the opinion holds that the rights to arise in favor of the
purchasers of the bonds which the new constitution dfrected to

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION &c. v. LOUISIANA.

639

Opinion of the Court.

be sold, were subordinate in each and every respect, to all the
prior contract rights. In the natureof things it cannot be said
that subsequent rights which are so limited as to prevent them
in any degree from interfering with prior ones, can as a maiter
of legal conclusion be held to impair such previous contract
rights. But it is contended, and this is the controversy most
strenuously pressed in the argument at bar, although by the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana the
contract rights were protected, the decree of that coart in effect
brought about the destruction of the identical rights which the
opinion held could not be lawfully impaired. This proceeds on
the assumption that as the decree of the trial court which was
affirmed directed the Board of Liquidation to sell bonds under
the refunding act and constitutional amendment of 1892, it
therefore imposed the duty of offering bonds for sale exactly in
the form required by the prior legislation without affixing any
distinguishing statement to them, thereby causing the negotiable
bonds, when sold, to be exactly on the same footing of legal
right with those previously-used for the purpose of retiring or
refunding the 'debt. Under the law of Louisiana, it is asserted,
the judgment, and not the reasoning used in the opinion of the
court, is conclusive, and therefore the result above indicated
must necessarily flow from the judgment which is now under
review.
We do not stop to examine the Louisiana authorities cited to
sustain the abstract proposition relied upon, as we consider the
premise from which the contention is deduced to be unsound.
It is to be borne in mind that under the act of 1890 and the
amendment of 1892 the city of New Orleans was to issue a
series of ten millions of bonds, to be placed in the hands of the
Board of Liquidation for the retiring and refunding operations,
and these bonds, so delivered to the board for the purposes
specified, were required to be countersigned and issued by that
body before they became complete and perfect evidences of
debt against the city. Now, whilst it is true the mandamus,
which was awarded against the board, directed it to sell bonds
placed in its hands under the act of 1890, the ground for the
alowance of the writ was the duty imposed upon the board to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

do so by the new constitution. Indeed, the opinion of the Supreme Court negatives the assumption that there was any authority conferred on the board to issue the bonds for the school
debt by the act of 1890 or the amendment of 1892. Conceding,
arguendo only, that there be as contended an exceptional and
narrow rule in Louisiana excluding an examination of the pleadings for the purpose of elucidating the scope of a judgment rendered in a given cause-though the opposite doctrine is upheld
by this court, lornbuckle v. Staford, 111 U. S. 389, 393-we
do not think there is reason for the assertion that the effect of
the judgment below is to preclude the Board of Liquidation,
when countersigning the bonds in question for the purpose of
sale, from affixing to them a statement that they are issued in
virtue of the authority of the new constitution and as a result
of the command of the Supreme Court of the State. This being
done, beyond peradventure the takers of such bonds would be
afferted with notice of the legal authority under which they
were issued and of the nature of the rights conferred by that
authority, and therefore the inconvenience or possible wrong
suggested in argument could not in any event arise. It would
be beyond reason to assume that a judgment which commanded
the performance of a particular act, because of the existence of
a legal duty arising from a specified provision of a state constitution, should be construed as excluding the right and duty to
refer in issuing the bonds in obedience to its command to the
authority by which alone the power exercised could be brought
into play. i[{ot only does the reason of things require this conclusion, but so also does the respect which we entertain for the
learned tribunal below preclude the possibility of our accepting
the impossible and contradictory construction of the effect of
the opinion arid decree advanced in the argument which we are
considering. Of course, if the judgment below was susceptible
of the interpretation contended for, in view of the nature of
the contract rights as recognized by the Supreme Court of the
State and established by the opinion which we have just expressed, it would be our duty to reverse the judgment below
rendered.
Our affirmance, however, will be without prejudice
to the

SOUTHERN R'Y CO. v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH CO. 641
Statement of the Case.

right of the Board of Liquidation and the Drainage Commission to hereafter assert the impairment of the contract rights
which would arise from construing the judgment contrary to
its natural and necessary import so as to deprive the Board of
Liquidation of the power in countersigning the bonds to state
thereon the authority in virtue of which they are issued.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTiEPE OKHAm took no part in the decision of this

cause.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 64. Argued November 2, 1900.-Decided January 7,1901.

Luxton v. North Biver Bridge Company, 147 U. S. 3&7, is decisive of the
question raised in this case whether a final judgment or order has been entered by the Circuit Court which could be taken by writ of error to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
This court has jurisdiction to examine the proceedings in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and to reverse its order if its ruling is found erroneous,
or the r6verse if its ruling was correct.

THIS was a proceeding commenced by the Postal TelegraphCable Company (hereinafter called the telegraph company)
against the Southern. Railway Company (hereinafter called the
railway company) to acquire by condemnation the right to construct its telegraph line along and over the railway company's
right of way through the State of North Carolina. The peti
tion therefor was filed by the telegraph company in the office
of the clerk of the Superior Court of Guilford County, North
Carolina, on June 11, 1898. A summons was issued requiring
the railway company to appear before the clerk of the Superior
Court on June 22, 1898, and answer. On that day the railway
VOL. CLXXIX--41

