KNOTT r. B3OTANY MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

KNOTT v. BOTANY MILLS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 5. Argued October 12, 13, 1899.-Decided October 22, 1900.
Bales of wool were stowed on a steamship, with proper dunnage, between
decks and forward of a temporary wooden bulkhead. At a subsequent
port, wet sugar (from which there is always drainage) was stowed aft of
that bulkhead, with proper dunnage, but without any provision for carrying off the drainage in case it ran forward. The ship was then down
by the stern, and all drainage from the sugar was carried off by the scuppers. At a third port, other cargo was discharged, so as to trim the vessel two feet by the head; and the drainage from the sugar found its way
through the bulkhead, and damaged the wool, through negligence of
those in charge of the ship and cargo. Held: That the damage to the
wool was through fault in the proper loading or stowage of the cargo,
within section 1 of the act of February 13, 1893, c. 105, known as the
Hlarter Act, and not from fault in the navigation or management of the
vessel, within section 3 of that act.
The words, in section 1 of the Harter Act, "any vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of the United States and foreign ports," include a foreign vessel transporting merchandise from a
foreign port to a port of the United States; and such a vessel and its
owner are therefore liable for negligence in proper loading or stowage
of the cargo, notwithstanding any stipulations in the bill of lading that
they shallbe exempt from liability for such negligence, and that the contract shall be governed by the law of the ship's flag.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Afr. J. Parker Eirlinfor the petitioner.
Xr. Iilhelmu8 -uynderee for the respondents.
rence ZneeZand filed a brief for same.
MR.

JuSTIcE GRnAY

.r.

Law-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Botany Worsted Mills, a corporation of New Jersey, and
Winter and Smillie, a firm of merchants in the city of New York,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

respectively owners of two separate lots of bales of wool, shipped
*atBuenos Ayres for New York on board the steamship Portuguese Prince, severally filed libels in admiralty in personam in
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, against James Knott, the owner of the vessel,
to recover for damage caused to the wool by contact with drainage from wet sugar which also formed part of her cargo.
The Portuguese Prince was a British vessel, belonging to a
line trading between New York and ports in the River Plata,
Brazil, and the West Indies, loading and discharging cargo and
having a resident agent at each port. The bills of lading of the
wool, signed at Buenos Ayres, December 21, 1894, gave her
liberty to call at any port or ports to receive and discharge
cargo, and for any other purpose whatever; and purported to
exempt the carrier from liability for "negligence of masters or
mariners;" "sweating, rust, natural decay, leakage or breakage,
and all damage arising from the goods by stowage, or contact
with, or by sweating, leakage, smell or evaporation from them;"
"or any other peril of the seas, rivers, navigation, or of land
transit, of whatsoever nature or kind; and whether any of the
perils, causes or things above mentioned, or the loss or injury
arising therefrom, be occasioned by the wrongful act, default,
negligence, or error in judgment of the owners, masters, officers,
mariners, crew, stevedores, engineers and other persons whomsoever in the service of the ship, whether employed on the said
steamer or otherwise, and whether before, or after, or during
the voyage, or for whose acts the shipowner would otherwise be
liable; or by unseaworthiness of the ship at the beginning, or
at any period of the voyage, provided all reasonable means have
been taken to provide against such unseaworthiness." Eachbill
of lading also contained the following clause: "This contract
shall be governed by the law of the flag of the ship carrying
the goods, except that general average shall be adjusted according to York-Antwerp Rules, 190.',
The facts of the case are substantially undisputed. The bales
of wool of the libellants were tiken on board at Buenos Ayres,
December 21-24, 1894, and were stowed on end, with proper
dunnage, between decks near the bow, and forward of a tern-

KNOTT v. BOTANY MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

porary wooden bulkhead, which was not tight. The vessel,
after touching at other ports, touched on February 19, 1895, atPernambuco, and there took on board two hundred tons of wet
sugar, (from which there is always drainage,) which was stowed,
with proper dunnage, between decks, aft of the wooden bulkhead. At that time the vessel was trimmed by the stern, and
all drainage from the sugar, flowing aft, was carried off by the
scuppers, which were sufficient for the purpose when the vessel
was down by the stern, or on even keel in calm weather. There
was no provision for carrying off the drainage in case it ran forward. She discharged other cargo at Para; and on March.10,
when she left that port, she was two feet down by the head.
She continued in this trim until she took on additional cargo at
Port of Spain, where the error in trim was corrected, and she
left that port on March 18, loaded one foot by the stern. It
was agreed by the parties that there was no damage to the
wool by sugar drainage until she was trimmed by the head at
Para; that the wool was damaged, by sugar drainage finding
its way through the bulkhead and reaching the wool, at Para,
or between Para and Port of Spain, and not afterwards; that,
hfter she was again trimmed by the stern at Port of Spain,
none of the drainage from the sugar found its way forward;
and that the court might draw inferences.
The District Court entered a decree for the libellants. 76
Fed. Rep. 582. That decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 51 U. S. App. 467. The appellant then obtained
a writ of certiorari from this court. 168 U. S. 711.
Before the act of Congress of February 13, 1893, c. 105, (27
Stat. 445,) known as the Harter Act, it was the settled law of
this country, as declared. by this court, that common carriers,
by land or sea, could not by any form of contract exempt them.-.selves from responsibility for loss or damage arising from negligence of their servants, and that any stipulation for such ex,emption was void as against public policy; although the courts
iij England and in some of the States held otherwise. Railroad
Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phknix
Zn8. Co., 129 U. S. 397; Com..pania Za _Plecha v. Brauer, 168
U. S. 104, 117, 118. In many lower courts of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

it has been held, independently of the Harter Act, that a stipulation that a contract should be governed by the law of England in this respect was void, and could not be enforced in a
court of the United States; but the point has not been decided
by this -court. Nor is it necessary for us now to decide that
point, because these bills of lading were issued since the Harter
Act, and we are of opinion that the case is governed by the
express provisions of that act.
Upon the facts of this case, there can be no doubt that the
ship was seaworthy, and that the damage to the wool was
caused by drainage from the wet sugar through negligence of
those in charge of the ship and cargo. The questions upon
which the decision of the case turns are two:
First. Whether this damage to the wool was "loss or damage
arising from negligence, fault or failure in proper loading, stowage, custody, care or proper delivery" of cargo, within the first
section of the Harter Act; or was "damage or loss resulting
from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of
said vessel," within the third section of that act !
Second. Do the words, in the first section, "any vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of the
United States and foreign ports," include a foreign vessel transporting merchandise from a foreign port to a port of the United
States?
Section I of that act is as follows: "It shall not be lawful for
the manager, agent, master or owner of any vessel transporting
merchandise or property from or between ports of the United
States and foreign ports to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any clause, covenant or agreement whereby it,
he or they shall be relieved from liability'for loss or damage
arising from negligence, fault or failure in proper loading, stowage, custody, care or proper delivery of any and all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their charge. Any
and all Words or clauses of such import, inserted in bills of lading
or shipping receipts, shall be null and void and of no effect."
This section, in all cases coming within its provisions, overrides
and nullifies any such stipulations in a bill of lading. Calderon
v. Atlma Steamship Co., 170 U. S. 272.

KNOTT v. BOTANY MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 3, on the other hand, "if the owner of any vessel
transporting merchandise or property to or from any port in
the United States" shall exercise due diligence to make-her in
all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and supplied, neither the vessel nor her owner, agent or charterer "shall
become or be held responsible for damage or loss resulting from
faults or errors in navigation or in the management of said vessel," etc. This section does but relax the warranty of seaworthiness in the particulars specified in the section. The Carib Prince,170 U. S. 655; The Irrawaddy,171 U. S. 187.
We fully concur with the courts below that the damage in
question arose from negligence .in loading or stowage of the
cargo, and not from fault or error in the navigation or management of the ship-for the reasons stated by the District Judge,
and approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, as follows:
"The primary cause of the damage was negligence and -inattention in the loading or stowage of the cargo either regarded
as a whole, or as respects the juxtaposition of wet sugar and
wool bales placed far forward. The wool should.not have been
stowed forward of the wet sugar, unless care was taken in the
other loading, and in all subsequent changes, in the loading, to
see that the ship should not get down by the head. There was
no fault'or defect in the vessel herself. She was constructed in
the usual way, and was sufficient. But on sailing from Para
she was a little down by the head, through inattention, during
the changes in the loading, to the effect these changes made in
the trim of the ship and in the flow of the sugar drainage. She
was not down by the head more than frequently happens. It
in no way affected her sea-going qualities; nor did the vessel
herself cause any damage to the wool. The damage was caused
by the drainage of the wet sugaQr alone. So that no question
of the unseaworthiness of the ship arises. The ship herself was
as seaworthy when she left Para, as when she sailed from Pernambuco. The negligence consisted in stowing the wool far
forward, without taking care subsequently that no changes of
loading should bring the ship down by the head. I must, therefore, regard the question as solely a question of negligence in
the stowage and disposition of cargo, and-of damage consequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

thereon, though brought about by the effect of these negligent
changes In loading on the trim of the ship." "The change of
trim was merely incidental, the mere negligent result of the
changes in the loading, no attention being given to the effect on
the ship's trim, or on the sugar drainage." "Since this damage
arose through negligence in the particular mode of stowing and
changing the loading of cargo, as the primary cause, though
that cause became operative through its effect on the trim of the
ship, this negligence in loading falls within the first section.
The ship and owner must, therefore, answer for this damage,
and the third section is inapplicable." 76 Fed. Rep. 583-585;
51 U. S. App. 473.
In The Glenochil (1896) Prob. 10, on which the appellant much
relied, the negligence which was held to be within the third
section of the Harter Act was, as said by Sir Francis Jeune, "a
mismanagement of part of the appliances of the ship, and mismanagement which arose because it was intended to do something for the benefit of the ship, namely, to stiffen her, the
necessity for stiffening arising because part of her cargo -had
been taken out of her." He pointed out that the first and third
sections of the act might be reconciled by the construction,
"first, that the act pevents exemptions in the case of direct
want of care in respect of the cargo, and secondly, the exemption permitted is in respect of a fault primarily connected with
the navigation or management of the vessel and not with the
cargo." And he added that the court had had the same sort
of question before it in the case of The Ferro, (1893) Prob. 38,
and he adhered to what he there said, "that mere stowage
is an altogether different matter from the management of the
vessel." And Sir Gorell Barnes delivered a concurring opinion
to the same effect..
The like distinction was recognized by this court in the recent
case of The Silvia, 171 U. S.462, 466.
The remaining question is whether the first section of the
Harter Act applies to a foreign vessel on a voyage from a foreign
port to a port in the United States.
The power of Congress to include guch cases in this enactment
cannot be denied in a court of the United States. The point in

KNOTT v. BOTANY MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

controversy is whether, upon the proper constiuction of the act,
Congress has done so. That the third section does extend to
such a vessel on such a voyage has been already decided by this
court. The Silvia, above cited; The Chattahoochee,173 U.S.
540, 550, 551.
It is true that the words of that section are not .exactly the
same in this respect, being "any vessel transporting merchandise
or property to or from any port in the United States," whereas
the corresponding words in the first section are "any vessel
transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of
the United States and foreign ports."
But the two phrases, as applied to the subject-matter, are
precisely equivalent, and are both equally applicable to. a foreign voyage that ends, and to one that begins, in this country.
In their usual and natural meaning, the words "from any port
in the United States" include all voyages, whether domesticor foreign, which begin in this country; the words "to any port
in the United States" include all voyages, whether domestic or
foreign, which end in this country; and the words "between
ports of the United States and foreign ports" include all foreign
voyages which either begin or end here. The words of the
third section, "to or from any port in the United States" express in the simplest and most direct form the intention to include voyages hither as well as voyages hence. And we find
insuperable difficulty in the way of giving a different meaning
to the words of the first section, "from or between ports of
the Tnited States and foreign ports." The words "from ports
of the United States" would of themselves be sufficient to cdver
all. voyages which begin here, whether they end in a domestic
or in a foreign port; and the words "between ports of the
United States and foreign ports" no more appropriately designate foreign voyages beginning here, than such voyages beginning abroad. The phrase of the first section is slightly elliptical; but it appears to us to have exactly the same meaning as
if the ellipsis had been supplied by repeating the words "ports
of the United States," so as to read "any vessel transporting
merchandise or property from ports of the United States, or
between ports of the United States and foreign port'." And

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

no reason has been suggested why a foreign vessel should come
within the benefit of the third section relaxing the warranty
of seaworthiness, and not come within the prohibition of the
first section affirming the unlawfulness of stipulations against
liability for negligence.
Attention was called at the bar to the fact that in the act,
as originally passed by the House of Representatives, the
words of the third section were "any vessel transporting merchandise or property between ports in the United States of
America and foreign ports," and that for those words the Senate substituted the words as they now stand in the act; and it
was argued that the change'in this section, leaving unchanged
the corresponding clauses in the first and other sections of the
act, showed that those sections were not supposed or intended
to include vessels bound from foreign ports to ports of the
United States. But the argument fails to notice that the third
section, as it originally stood, did not contain the words "from
or," but covered only voyages "between ports in the United
States and foreign ports ;" and the more reasonable inference
is that the change was made for the purpose of bringing domestic voyages within this section. See 24 Congr. Rec. 147-149,
173, 1181, 1291, 1292.
Attention was also called to the fourth section of the act,
"whi~h makes it the duty of the owner, master or agent of "any
vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between
ports of the United States" to issue to shippers bills of lading
containing a certain description of the goods; and to the fifth
section, which provides that, "for a violation of any of the
provisions of this act, the agent, owner or master of the vessel
guilty of such violation, and who refuses to issue on demand
the bill of lading herein provided for, shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars," and the amount of the fine
and costs shall be a lien upon the vessel, and she may belibelled
therefor in any District Court of the United States within
whose jurisdiction she may be found. It was argued that this
provision imposing a penalty would cover a refusal to give a bill
of lading without the clauses prohibited by the first section;
and could not extend to acts done in a foreign port out of the

HUBBELL v. UNFED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

jurisdiction of the United States. But whether that be so or
not, (which we are not required in this case to decide,) it affords
no sufficient reason for refusing to give full effect, according to
what appears to us to be their manifest meaning, to the positive
words of the first section, which enact, as to "any vessel." transporting merchandise or property "between ports of the United
States and foreign ports," that all stipulations relieving the carrier from liability for loss or damage arising from negligence in
the loading or stowage of the cargo shall not only be unlawful,
but "shall be null and void and of no effect."
This express provision of the act of Congress overrides and
nullifies the stipulations of the bill of lading that the carrier
shall be exempt from liability for such negligence, and that the
contract shall be governed by the law of the ship's flag.
Decree afflrmed.

HUBBELL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMs.
No 19.

Argued January 9,10, 1899.-Decided October 22,1900.

An examination of the history of the appellant's claim shows that in order
to get his patent he was compelled to accept one with a narrower claim
than that contained in his original application; and it is well settled that
the claim as allowed mfist be read and interpreted with reference to the
rejected claim and to the prior state of the art, and cannot be so construed as to cover either what was rejected by the Patent Office, or disclosed by prior devices.
This court concurs with the court below in holding that the cartridges
made and used by the United States were not within the description'
contained in the appellant's claim.

ON December 28,7188, William Wheeler Hubbell filed, in
the United States Patent Office, a'n application for a patent
for an improvement in ftallic cartridges, and on.February 18, 1879, letters.patent No. 212,313 were granted and issued to him:

