STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Statement of the Case.

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 20. Argued October 16, 17,1900. -Decided December 3, 1900.
The constitution of Minnesota of 1858, still in force, provided that all taxes
should be as nearly equal as may be, and that the property taxed should be
equalized and uniform throughout the State. -It made provision for certain defined exemptions, and provided for uniform and, equal taxation
throughout the State. Before that time, namely, on September 28, 1850,
Congress had granted to the several States, Minnesota included, the
swamped and overflowed lands within each; and other grants were subsequently made, as stated in the opinion of the court, subject to be taxed
only as the land should be sold. There were also statutes passed in regard to the taxation of land granted to the Lake Superior and Pacific
Railroad Company, which are set forth ii the opinion of the court. In
1896 an act was passed, repealing all former laws exempting from taxa
tion, and providing for the taxation of the lands granted to railroads as
other lands were assessed and taxed. Held, that, in this legislation a
valid contract was created, providing for the taxation of all railroad property (lands included) on the basis of a per cent of the gross earnings,
which contract was impaired by the legislation of 1896, withdrawing the
lands from the arrangement, and directing their taxation according to
their actual cash value; that as to the St. Paul & Duluth Railroad Company a contract was made, and only Congress can inquire into the manner
in which the State executed the trust thereby created and disposed of the
lands; and that, as to the Northern Pacific Company, the legislation
changed materially the terms of the contract between the State and that
company.

THIS case comes on error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Minnesota, is brought here at the instance of certain railroad
companies, and involves the question whether the real estate
belonging to them, and not used in the operation of their roads,
is subject to taxation according to.its value, or is excepted from
such ordinary rule of taxation by virtue of a contract alleged to
have been made many years ago by legislation of the State, to
the effect that railroad companies should pay a certain per cent
on their gross earnings in lieu of taxes on all their property.
The facts are as follows, and first as to lands belonging to the
St. Paul and Duluth Company:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

The constitution of Minnesota, adopted in 1858, has always
contained these provisions (Article IX, sections I and 3):
"SEC. 1. All taxes to be raised in this State shall be as nearly

equal as may be, and all property on which taxes are to be levied
shall have a cash valuation, and be equalized and uniform
throughout the State."
"SEc. 3. Laws shall be passed taxing all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies, or otherwise,
and also all real and personal property according to its true
value in money; but public burying grounds, public school
houses, public hospitals, academies, colleges, universities, and all
seminaries of learning, all churches, church property used for
religious purposes, and houses of worship, institutions of purely
public charity, public property used exclusively for any public
purpose, and personal property to an amount not exceeding in
value two hundred dollars for each individual, shall, by general
laws, be exehpt from taxation."
On May 23, 185T, by the territorial legislature of Minnesota,
the Nebraska and Lake Superior Railroad Company was organized. Laws, Minn. 1857, c. 93, p. 323. By an act of the
state legislature, of date March 8, 1861, the name of this company was changed to the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad
Company. Laws, Minn. 1861, p. 201. By this act certain of
the swamp lands granted to the State by the act of Congress of
September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, were granted to that company
to aid in the construction of its railroad. The St. Paul and
Duluth Company is the successor in interest of that company,
and has succeeded to all its rights, privileges, immunities and
property. By act of Congress of date May 5, 1864, 13 Stat. 64,
as amended July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 93, lands were granted to
the State of Minnesota to aid in building a railroad from the
city of St. Paul to the head of Lake Superior. The first section
declaring the grant reads: "That there be, and there is hereby,
granted to the State of Minnesota for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of a railroad in such State from the city of
St. Paul to the head of Lake Superior, every alternate section
of public land," etc. Section 5 reads:
"That the said lands hereby granted when patented to said

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Statement of the Case.

State, shall be subject to the disposal of said State for the purposes aforesaid, and for no other; and the said railroad shall be
and remain a public highway for the use of the Government of
the United States, free from all toll or other charge, for the
transportation of any property or troops of the United States."
On February 23, 1865, the legislature of Minnesota passed an
act accepting the grant, and transferring the lands to the predecessor of the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company. Special
Laws, Minn. 1865, c. 2, p. 19. The first section, after accepting
the lands granted, reads:
"And the same are hereby granted, vested in, and transferred
to the Lake Superior and 'Mississippi Railroad Company, its
successors and assigns, to be held, used or sold and disposed of
by said railroad company, to aid in the construction of a railroad, as contemplated and provided by said act of Congress,
and for the equipment and operation of the same, and for no
other purpose whatever, the same to be held, used, and disposed
of upon and subject to the conditions in said act of Congress
provided, and upon the conditions in this act contained. That
in consideration of lauds granted by this act, and of the lands,
rights, privileges and franchises which have heretofore been
granted to said railroad company, the said company shall, on
or before the first day of March of each and every year after
said railroad is completed and in operation, pay into the treasury of the State three per cent on the gross earnings of said
railroad, which sum shall be in lieu and in full of all taxation
and assessments upon the said railroad, its appurtenances and
appendages, and all other property of said company, real, personal and mixed, including the lands hereby and heretofore
granted to said company, or so intended to be granted. Provided, however, that the lands hereby and heretofore granted
to said company shall be subject to like lands of individuals,
to be taxed as fast as the same are sold or conveyed, or contracted to be sold, or are ]eased by said company, or the stumpage upon any lands is sold or contracted to be sold by said
company; but no mortgage or trust deed executed by said company upon said lands shall, for the purpose of taxation, be construed as such sale, conveyance, lease or contract of sale."
VOL. CLXXIX-15

OCTOBER TERAI, lg00.
Statement of the Case.

Eight days thereafter, and on March 3, 1865, an act amendatory of this act was passed. Special Laws, 1865, c. 8, p. 45.
The first section of this act is as follows:
"1. That whenever any lands heretofore or hereafter granted
to the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company to aid
in the construction or completion of its road or branches shall
be contracted to be sold, conveyed or leased by said company,
the same shall be placed upon the tax list by the proper officer
for taxation as other real estate for the year succeeding that
in which such contract for a sale, conveyance or lease thereof
shall have been made, but in enforcing a collection of the taxes
thereon, the title or interest of the said company or of any trustee or mortgagee thereof shall be in nowise impaired or affected
thereby, but the improvements thereon and all the interest of
the purchaser or lessee therein may and shall in case of default
in the payment of taxes upon such land, be sold to satisfy the
same, and it shall be the duty of the proper officers to assess
and collect such taxes in accordance with the general laws relating to the assessment and collection of taxes, and that the
provisions of the several acts in relation to the taxation of the
lands of said company, so far as the mode of taxing such lands
conflict with the provisions of this act, shall be and they are
repealed. 'Provided, that said company shall, during the first
three years after thirty miles of said railroad shall be completed
and in operation, on or before the first day of March in each
and every year, pay into the treasury of the State one per cent
on the gross earnings of said railroad, the first payment to
be made on the first day of March next after thirty miles of
said railroad shall be completed and in operation, and shall,
during the seven years next ensuing after the expiration of
the three years aforesaid, pay into the treasury of this State,
on or before the first day of March of each and every year, two
per cent of the gross earnings of said railroad, and shall, from
and after the expiration of said seven years, on or before the
first day of March of each and every year, pay into the treasury
of this State three per cent of the gross earnings of said railroad; and the payment of such per centum annually, as aforesaid, shall be and is in full of all taxation and assessment what
ever."

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Statement of the Case.

The second section provided for acceptance of the provisions
of the act by the railroad company; that when accepted "the
same shall become obligatory upon the State and upon said
company;" and they were accepted. Thereafter, as admitted,
the railroad was constructed by the company "in reliance upon
said act." Taxes were paid by the railroad company on its
property in accordance with the terms of this -alleged contract
until 1895, and during those years the State made no attempt
to levy any taxes upon these lands. -In 1871 the following
amendment to the state constitution was by vote of the people
duly adopted (Laws, Minn. 1871, p. 41):
"Any law providing for the repeal or amendment of any
law or laws heretofore or hereafter enacted, which provides
that any railroad company now existing in this State or operating its road therein, or which may be hereafter organized, shall
in lieu of all other taxes and assessments upon their real estate,
roads, rolling stock and other personal property at and during
the time and periods therein specified, pay into the treasury of
this State a certain per centum therein mentioned of the gross
earnings of such railroad companies now existing, or hereafter
organized, shall, before the same shall take effect or be in force,
be submitted to a vote of the people of the State, and be adopted
and ratified by a majority of the electors of the State voting at
the election at which the same shall be submitted to them."
In November, 1896, this statute passed in 1895, Laws, 1895,
p. 378, was adopted by the people:
"SEc. 1. All lands in this State heretofore or hereafter granted
by the State of Minnesota or the United States or the Territory
of Minnesota to any railroad company shall be assessed and
taxed as other lands are taxed in this State, except such parts
of said lands as are held, used or occupied for right of way,
gravel pits, side tracks, depots and all buildings and structures
which are necessarily used in the actual management and operation of the railroads of said companies. Provided, that said
railroad companies shall continue to pay taxes into the state
treasury upon their gross earnings in the same manner and in
the same amount as is now provided by law, and that nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

in this act contained shall be construed to repeal said laws, except in so far as the same relate to the tax upon said lands.
"S1c. 2. Such portion or portions of any act or acts, general
or special, of the State or Territory of -Minnesota.heretofore
enacted which provides or attempts to provide for any etemption of lands hereby declared taxable, from taxation, or for any
other method of taxing said last mentioned lands different from
the method of taxing other lands in this State, or which are in
any manner inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are
hereby repealed.
"Sx.c. 3. If this act shall be held to be void, so far as it applies
to the land of any particular railroad company in this State, it
shall not be ground for declaring it void or inapplicable to any
other company not similarly situated."
Under these provisions the State proceeded to levy taxes upon
the lands of the St. Paul and Duluth Company, and the validity
of such taxation is the question involved.
Lands belonging to the Northern Pacific Railway Company
are also involved in this litigation, and the facts in reference to
those lands are these: On July 2, 1864, the iNorthern Pacific
Railroad Company was chartered by an act of Congress to
build a railroad from Lake Superior to the Pacific, and received
a grant of public lands to aid in the construction thereof. The
lands thus granted are those in respect to which the question of
taxability arises. 13 Stat. 365. By section 17 of that act the
company was authorized to accept "any grant, donation, loan,
power, franchise, aid or assistance which may be granted to or
conferred upon said company by the Congress of the United
States, or by the legislature of any State, or by any corporation,
person or persons; and said corporation is authorized to hold
and enjoy any such grant, donation, loan, power, franchise, aid
or assistance, to its own use, for the purpose aforesaid."
By section 18 it was required to obtain the consent of the
legislature of any State, through which, in the operation of its
road, it might pass previous to commencing work. Such consent was obtained from Minnesota by an act of the legislature
of that State, approved March 2, 1865. Laws, 1865, p. 48.
On March 4, 1870, the legislature of Minnesota passed an act,

STEARNS n. MINNESOTA.
Statement of the Case.

(Special Laws, Minn. 1870, p. 338,) the first and second sections
of which are as follows:
"Sxco. 1. That the lands, franchises, property, stock and capital of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company shall be liable
to assessment and taxation at the same rate and in the same
manner, and not otherwise, and shall be exempt from assessinent and taxation to the same extent and upon the same terms
and coiiditions as the lands, property and franchises of the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company, as is provided in
and by an act entitled 'An act in relation to the taxation of
lands granted to the Lake Superior and Mississippi :Railroad
Company,' approved March third, eighteen hundred and sixtyfive. Provided, however, That the gross earnings of said railroad company on which a percentage is to be paid to the State
shall include only the earnings of that portion of the Northern
Pacific Railroad constructed and operated by said company
within the limits of -this State.
"SEc. 2. That said Northern Pacific Railroad Company shall
have the right and authority to acquire and hold lands for right
of way, depot grounds and for all necessary purposes of said
company in all respects as provided by the general laws of this
State, as set forth in sections numbered consecutively thirteen to
twenty-seven, inclusive, of chapter thirty-four, title one, of General Statutes now in force. But where said company proceeds
to condemn private property in more than one county in the
same proceedings, the commissioners to be appointed shall be
residents of the county where the property to be taken is situated, or of the county to which such county is attached for
judicial purposes. And there is hereby granted to the Northerf
Pacific Railroad Company the right of way through and over
any lands of this State to the same extent as is granted by act
of Congress through and over the public lands to said company."
This act was duly accepted by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company. Thereafter its road was constructed, and up to the
act of 1895, 8uyra, taxes were levied and paid in the manner
prescribed. The validity of taxes levied upon the lands of this
company since the act of 1895, and under the authority of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

act, is challenged, and becomes in this litigation one of the questions involved.
Lands belonging to the Great Northern Railway Company
were also involved in the litigation in the state courts, but that
company is not' here making any contention for a reversal of
the judgment of the state Supreme Court.
After the act of 1895, approved by the vote of the people,
proceedings were instituted to enforce the levy of taxes on the
lands of these railroad companies, and the proceedings thus instituted are those which are now before us. The decision of
the Supreme Court of the State was adverse to the railroad companies, (72 Minnepota, 200,) and the case is here on error to that
judgment. M'. C. W: Bunn and X/r. William B. Hornblowerv for plaintiffs in error. XAr. Julien T. Davies and Xr..Emerson Hadley
were on Mr. Hornblower's brief.
AtX. H. W. Childs and X.r. W B. Douglas for defendant in
error. .7-&. A. Y. 2errill was on their brief.
MR. JusTiCE

Bn~wPR, after stating the case, delivered the

opinioni of the court.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota held that the contract
alleged to have been made with the railroad companies for a
per cent of the gross receipts in lieu of all taxation upon their
property was, in view of the provisions of sections I and 3 of
article 9 of the state constitution, one beyond the power of the
legislature to make. We quote from its opinion:
"The language of the constitution is clear, exact and imperative. It requires that all property not exempt must be taxed,
and that the basis of such taxation must be the cash value of
the property.
"It may be true, as claimed, that a gross earnings tax (if subject to amendment) is only another mode of arriving at equal
taxation, and that such a system of commuted taxation of the

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

property of railway companies and similar corporations is of
great practical and material advantage to the State; but the
fact remains that the taxation of all property upon the basis of
its cash value was the sole rule ordained by the constitution to
secure equality and uniformity of taxation.
"We hold that the statutes under which it is claimed that
the lands in question are exempt frofn taxation in the ordinary
way, upon the basis of their cash valuation, were unconstitutional when enacted, and remained so until validated by the
constitutional amendment of 1871. The legal effect of such
amendment was to validate them. State v. Luther, 56 Minnesota, 156.

1

-

"But this ratification or validation of the statutes was a qualified one, and the right to repeal or amend them was reserved
by necessary implication, provided such repeal or amendment
was adopted and ratified by a majority of the electors.
"Our conclusion is that Laws, 1895, chapter 168, does not
impair the obligation of any contract between the State and
railway companies, and that the lands here in question are taxable in the ordinary way, as other lands are taxable."
The Federal question thus suggested is the single -one for
consideration. Was there a valid contract created by the legislation providing for the taxation of all railroad property (lands
incluled) on the basis of a per cent of the gross earnings, which
was impaired by the legislation of 1895, withdrawing the lands
from this arrangement, and directing their taxation according
to their actual cash value? And, first, as to the St. Paul and
Duluth Company: That a contract was attempted to be made
is obvious. The State, as trustee, held certain swamp and railroad lands. It proposed to give them to the company, subject
to taxation in a certain way, if the company would cbnstruct
the railroad. The company accepted the proposition and constructed the road. Thus, if the parties were competent to enter
into such an arrangement, a contract was made. While some
of the lands, the swamp lands, were granted to the State for a
purpose other than railroad construction, they were granted in
trust, and it has long since been settled that Congress alone

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

can inquire into the manner in which the State executed that
trust and disposed of the lands. Emigrant Co. v. County of
Adams, 100 U. S. 61, 69.
With respect to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, the
facts are slightly different, but the state legislation in respect to
it was of a character to place its land grant in the same condition, so far as the question of contract is concerned. For the
land grant to the company became operative within the limits
of a State only when such State consented to the construction
of the road. The power to consent carried with it the power
to determine the conditions upon which such consent should be
granted, and when the State of Minnesota said that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company might construct its road through
the State, and might accept the-provisions of the congressional
grant, and prescribed the conditions upon which such road
should be constructed and such grant should be taken, the effect
of such legislation is the same as though the State received the
grant and transferred it to the company on those conditions.
It said in substance that, though the land was not given to the
State to be transferred to a railroad company, (and in that case
the State might have prescribed the conditions of the transfer,)
it was given to the company subject to the assent of the State,
and the State's assent to the gift was upon the conditions it
.named. The offer thus made by the State was accepted, and in
reliance thereon the road was constructed.
Of course, withdrawing any portion of the property protected
by the three per cent commutation, and subjecting that to ordinary taxation, leaving the three per cent still due from the
railroad companies, changes materially the terms of the alleged
contract, so that there can be no question that if there were a
. valid contract created by the earlier legislation, the act of 1895
impairs its obligation. The general rule of this court is to accept the construction of a state constitution placed by the state
Supreme Court as conclusive. One exception which has been
constantly recognized is when the question of contract is presented. This court has always held that the competency of a
State, through its legislation, to make an alleged contract, and
the meaning and validity of such contract, were matters which

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

in discharging its duty under the Federal Constitution it must
determine for itself; and while the leaning is towards the inter
pretation placed by the state court, such leaning cannot relieve"
us from the duty of an independent judgment upon the question
of contract or no contract.
In Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488, this question was
considered at length, and, by Mr. Justice Harlan, after a review
of some prior cases, the conclusion was thus stated (p. 502):
"The doctrine that this court possesses paramount auithority
when reviewing the final judgment of a state court upholding a
state enactment alleged to be in violation of the contract clause
of the Constitution, to determine for itself the existence or nonexistence of the contract set up, and whether its obligation has
been impaired by the state enactment, has been affirmed in
numerous other cases. Ohio Zife LJuh.
Co. v. Debolt, 16 How.
416, 452; WTfrght v. .. agle, 101 U. S. 791, 794; Louimille Gas
'Co. v. Citizens' Gas -0o., 115 U. S. 683, 697; . Vicksburg, Shreveport &o. Railroadv. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 667; K. 0. 1Waterworks Co. v. .Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S.18, 36; Bryan v.
Board of Education, 151 U. S. 639, 650; .Zobile & Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U. S.486, 493; Bacon v. Texcas, 163 U. S.
207, 219."

See also 3lCullough,v. Virginia,17, U. S. 102, 109 ; WalsA
v. Columbus, flocking Valley & Athens Railroad Company,
176 U. S.469.
As a prelininary matter, it is worthy of note that'the alleged
invalidity of this contract, in respect .to taxation, was not complained of for thirty years. Whether the revenues of the State
were benefited or injured by this method of taxation we are
not advised, but it does appear that neither party challenged it.
Both the railroads and the State' accepted and acted under it
for nearly a third of a century. It may be well to notice the
decisions of the iupreme Court of Minnesota prior to the one
challenged in this proceeding. In Railroad Company v. Parcher, 14 Minnesota, 224, it appeared that a railroad charter had
been granted by the territorial legislature, containing, among
other things, a provision similar to the one in question, commuting all taxes on the basis of three per cent on the gross earn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

Opinion of the Court.

ings. The company having defaulted in its contract, foreclosure
proceedings were had, and its property, franchises, etc., were
bought in by the State. All this was done in pursuance of express statutory provisions. Thereafter an act was passed transferring to a new corporation all the property, franchises, etc.,
acquired by this foreclosure, and the question presented was
whether this new company was entitled to the three per cent
commutation. And it was held that it was. The opinion of
the court was, that "by the foreclosure proceedings, the State
acquired, without any merger, all the franchises and privileges
held by the territorial corporation,. and that it could transfer
them to a new corporation of its own creation. We do not stop
to question the argument of the Supreme Court to the effect
that there was no merger. All that we deem necessary to
notice is that the State by the foreclosure proceedings acquired
title to property-railroad property, including lands granted to
aid in construction-and, having that property," "could dispose
of it free from any limitations imposed by the constitutional
provisions which are now referred to as invalidating the present
alleged contract. In other words, the State could take and
dispose of lands upon precisely the same terms" upon which it
took and disposed of the lands to the present plaintiffs in error.
This'decision was recognized and reaffirmed in St. PauZ v.
.Railroad'Company,23 Minnesota, 469, 475, in which it was
said;
. "Upon the renewal of the grant, in 18641, to the present company, it was therefore clearly competent for the legislature to
change and modify its terms and conditions, so as to require the
annual payment of a different rate per cent of the gross earnings
of the road, to commence upon the completion of thirty instead of
fifty miles, and, in consideration of such annual payment, to exem1pt the railroad, its appurtenances, and other property, from all
taxation, and from all assessments, both genezal and local. This
modification of the original contract was prohibited by no provision of the constitution; and the enactment of March 4, 1864,
in this regard, has not only been uniformly recognized and acted
upon ever since, as valid, by both the executive and legislative
departments of the state government, but, by an express consti-

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

tutional amendment, adopted in 1871, it has been placed beyond
the reach of any amendment or repeal, except by a law ratified
by a vote of the electors of the State."
See also County of Steven8 v. Railway Company,'36 Minne-

sota, 467, 470, in which is this declaration:
"That the exemption from ordinary taxation, created in 1857
in favor of the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, subsequently passed with the lands, and as a right appendant
thereto, to the St. Paul. and Pacific Railroad Company and to
the First Division of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company,
may be now accepted without question. It was so decided
eighteen years ago in the case of the last-named company v.
Parcher,14 Minn. 224, 297, which decision has been ever since
followed. State v. Finona & St. Peter R. 1?. Co., 21 Minn.
315; Xinnesota Central By. Co. v. Melvin, id. 339; Chicago,
.Afilwautee & St. Paul By. Co. v. Pfaender, 23 M[inn. 217;
'City of St. Paul v. St. Paul & Sioux' City R. B. Co., id. 475;
County of .Yoble v. Sioux City & St. Paul B. B. Co., 26 Minn.
394; State v. fYortherm Pacific B. B. Co., 32 Minn. 294."And also State v. Luther, 56 Minnesota, 156, 162, 163, 164,
decided 1894, in which the court said:
"The system of providing for the payment of a percentage
of the gross earnings of the road in lieu of all other taxes on
' railroad property ' and on the lands granted to aid in its construction, while owned by the company, was inaugurated by
the territorial legislatures, aid was universally in vogue at the
date of the adoption of the constitution.
"And after that date the state legislatures invariably assumed
that they continued to possess the power to adopt this system of
commuted taxation when granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad, whether such lands were the absolute property of the State, or were held by it in trust for that purpose
under an act of Congress. This was the practice, not only- as
to old grants made before the adoption of the constitution, but
also as to new grants, both state and congressional, made after
that date."
And then, after referring to a number of grants by Congress
and the State, added:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"In brief, the legislature assumed that when making a grant
of lands to aid the building of a railway, or in executing the
trust where lands had been granted to the State by Congress
for the same purp6se, (and which, while thus held by the State,
either as proprietor or in trust, were, of course, not subject to
taxation,) it had the power, in the furtherance of the object for
which the grant was made, to exempt such lands from ordinary
taxation, and to provide for commuted taxation of both the
railroad and the granted lands.
"There is not in the history of the State a sipgle grant, of
lands to aid in the building of a railway, where this system of
commuted taxation has not been adopted, and we have not
found an instance, prior to the adoption of the constitutional
amendment of 1811, (Const. Art. 4, sec. 32a,) where a commuted
system of taxation was provided that did not apply to a land
.grant as well as to the railroad property. This amounted to a
legislative construction of the constitution, which of itself would
be entitled to great weight."
It would seem from these decisions to have been the settled
law of the State that it could, after the adoption of the constitution of 1858, acquire title to lands and dispose of them
subject to the same conditions under which the lands in controversy were granted to the plaintiffs in error.
In .Acffenry v. Aford, 168 U. S. 651, legislation of the Territory of Dakota, providing for the taxation of the lands of the
:Northern Pacific Railroad Company on the basis of a percentage of thegross earnings of the railroad company, was held not
in conflict with the mandate in the organic act that no law
!Ishall be passed impairing the rights of private property; nor
shall any discrimination be made in taxing different kinds of
property; but all property subject td taxation shall be in proportion to the value of the property taxed." While the language of this organic act is not the same as that of the Minnesota
constitution, in that the Minnesota constitution by implication
requires the taxation of all property except that by its terms
specifically exempted, and this act makes no provision in respect
to the matter of exemption; yet in respect to property subject
to taxation it, like the Minnesota constitution, requires taxation

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

in proportion to the value of the property taxed. It is doubtless true that it has been held that forbidding an exemption
from taxation and requiring taxation according to the "true
value in money" forbids taxation otherwise than in accordance
with established general rules in respect to valuation and pre-'
vents a commutation on a different basis; yet there have been
rulings of the Supreme Court of Minnesota to the effect that
commutation is not the same as exemption, or forbidden by a
constitutional provision which forbids exemption, and that it
may sometimes be the surest wgy of reaching taxation according to the true value in money," and is, therefore, not necessarily an infringement of a constitutional provision requiring
such taxation. Thus, in County of Hennepin v. Railway Cornpany, 33 Minnesota, 534, 535, the court said:
"This is not an immunity from taxation, but a commutation
of taxes-another and substituted way prescribed by law, in
which the respondent, as the owner of this.land among other
property, is to contribute its share to the public revenue."
And in County of Ramsey v. Railway Company, 33 Minnesota, 537, 542:
"It was not/in reality a plan for exempting property from
taxation, but a substituted method of taxation. It must be supposed that it was contemplated that this system would, upon
the whole, fairly effect the objects of taxation with respect to
such corporations, and be equivalent in its results to taxation of
the property owned by them."
So also in County of Todd v. Railway Company, 38 Minnesota, 163, 165:
"It has been considered that the purpose of such statutes has
been, not to exempt property from taxation, but to provide a
substituted method of securing to the State its proper revenue
from the taxable property of these corporations. City of St..
City B. R. Co., 23 Minn. 469;
Paul v. St. Paul & S moux
County of Hennqpin v. St. Paul, . & f. By. Co., 33 Minn.
534, 535; County of Ramsey v. "CAieago, .Mil. & ,St. Paul Ry.
Co., 8upra."
And further, in St. Paulv. Railway Comlany, 39 Minnesota,
112, 113: .
*"

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"As was said in Ramsey County v. Chicago, Mil. & St. Paul
Railway, supra,these charters do not exempt the property from
taxes, but provide a substituted method of taxation, based upon
the assumption that the property of the companies will be used
for railroad purposes, and thereby an income be derived, the
percentage of which received by the State will be equivalent in
its results to taxation of the property."
And again, in State v. Luther, 56 Minnesota, 156, 160:
"It is a common error, in construing statutes like the present,
to assume that because the commuted tax is fixed with reference to, and is wholly derived from, the gross earnings of the
road, therefore the lands are exempted from taxation altogether.
The percentage of the gross earnings is paid as taxes on both
the railroad and the granted lands, and, although derived wholly
from the former, is a commutation tax alike on both."
The contract made in 1865 with the predecessor of the St.
Paul and Duluth Railroad Company, void at that time but made
valid by the constitutional amendment of 1871, (as by the Supreme Court of the State now affirmed,) commuted the taxes on
all railroad properties, including its lands not used for railroad
purposes, by the payment of three per cent on its gross earnings.
Confessedly after that amendment there existed a binding contract between the State and the railroad companies, by which
the taxes on all their property were to be commuted and discharged on the payment of three per cent of the gross earnings.
If nothing had since occurred that contract, under the decision
of the Supreme Court, would continue exempting lands not used,
as well as lands used for railroad purposes, from any other taxatibn than that which was expressed by three per cent on the
gross earnings of the companies. In other words, so far as the
railroad companies are concerned, that constitutional amendment did away with the restrictive features of sections 1 and 3
of Article IX in the state constitution, and permitted and endorsed a peculiar method of taxation of railroad companies.
The constitutional amendment of 1871 forbade any change by
repeal or amendment of laws respecting the taxation of railroad companies except upon a vote of the people. The converse
of that proposition may be accepted, to wit, that by a vote of

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

the people the tax provision concerning railroads might be repealed or amended. But is there no limitation upon the power
of amendment? The law of 1895'adopted by the people, does
not release railroad companies from the burden of paying three
per cent upon their gross earnings into the state treasury, but
simply operates to put certain properties belonging to thpm outside of the protection of that commutation. Was such an
-amendment within the contemplation of the constitutional provision of 1871? It may seem a not unreasonable modification
to exempt from the contract such property as is not used for
railroad purposes, but would-not the legislation assume a different aspect if it had subjected to ordinary taxaition'all the
railroad property, except locomotives, and upon them continued
the burden of the payment of three per cent of the gross earn:
ings? Of course, if there be no limitations in respect to the
scope of amendment it would be within the power of the State:
to subject the bulk of .the railroad property, whether used or
not used for railroad purposes, to the burden of ordinary state.
taxation; and taking a single item like locomotives, without
which the road could not-be operated, continue upon the cornparnies the duty'of paying three per cent of the gross earnings.
While it may be that no such inconsiderate action is to be expected, the possibility of sudh action suggests a query whether
the power of repeat or amendment, preserved by the constitutional amendment of 1871, has not some limitations.
Giving to that power full scope, it may be said that if the
prior legislation was unauthorized by the constitution, a repeal'
of the imendment would wipe out the whole provision in refeience to railroad ,taxation, and subject all railroad property
within the limits of the State to the ordinary rule in respect
to taxation.' So it may be that' the reserved- power of amendment carries with it the right to increase 'or diminish the rate
per cent of taxation. But a different question is presented when
it is insisted that tme" pbwer of amendment -carries with it the
right of continuing the -rate per cent as to part only, but 'not
all of the property covered by the original contract. For, as
stated, if the State can withdraw the lands not used for railroad
purposes from the scope of this contract commutation, can it

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not to-morrow likewise withdraw the lands which are used for
railroad purposes, including therein the right of way, the tracks
thereon, all the grounds occupied by station houses, etc., and
then, on the day thereafter, withdraw from it all the personal
property of the companies, except their locomotives, and still
hold the corporations to the burden of the contract? May it
not be fairly contended that the privilege of amendment reserved
was as to the rate, and not as to the property to be included
within the commutation? That the power of amendment has
its limitations, or rather that an amendment may not be whollyas to the right of the State, and absolutely ignoring the right
of the other party to the contract, has been adjudged by this
court in Lowuiville TWater Company v. Clarks, 143 U. S. 1. In
that case it was held that while under a statute the water company had been exempted from taxation on condition that it
supplied water free to the city of Louisville, an act withdrawing that exemption from taxation, although silent as to the
corresponding obligation of the water company, must be construed as releasing it from an obligation based upon such exemption. So it may well be said in the case before us that a
contractual exemption of the property of the railroad company
in whole, upon consideration of a certain payment, cannot be
changed by the State so as to continue the obligation in full,
and at the same time deny to the company, either in whole or
in part, the exemption conferred by the contract.
But there is another matter of significance. The lands in
controversy were granted by Congress to the State as trustee.
The act of 1865, by which the State offered the lands to the
predecessor of the St. Paul and Duluth Company, is entitled
"An act to execute the trust created by the act of Congress."
The right of a State to accept such a trust cannot now be
doubted. It has become a part of the judicial history of the
country. These lands were not donated by Congress to the
State, to be used by it for its own benefit and in its own way,
but were conveyed to the State in trust with the understanding that, as trustee, it should use them in the best possible
manner for accomplishing the purposes of the trust. Of course,
this implied that, except as restrained by its own powers, the

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

State should make the grant as valuable as possible for the
accomplishment of the purpose of the trust. Under those circumstances the peculiar nature of the trust created enabled the
State to determine the limits and mode of taxation to which
that property thus placed in its hands should be subjected. It
might have provided that the title be retained by the State,
that no conveyance be made to the railroad company, and that
the first and only conveyance should be when the railroad coinpany had made a contract with some individual for its purchase,
and that contract had been completed by full payment to the
company. Is it to be doubted that the State, retaining the
title, although authorizing the railroad company to sell, could,
while that title was so retained, hold it free from any kind of
taxation? Would it not be a legitimate and appropriate discharge of the trust -conferred if the State adjudged that such
property should be held in its own name free from all taxation
until such time as its full value in cash could be obtained from
some individual? If the State could retain the title free from
taxation until such time as its disposition to a private purchaser
enabled the railroad company to realize the full value of the
land, was it not also within its power to say that a temporary
transfer to the corporation charged with the duty of constructing the railroad should also be accompanied by a like exemption
from taxation? And if it could exempt from all taxation, it.
might with equal propriety say that it should be subjected to
taxation in only a limited way.
Of course, it may be said, and in a general way rightfully so,
that the powers of the legislature of a State are limited by its
constitutional provisions. It follows therefrom that in dealing
with property generally the legislature must, in respect to taxation, as in all other matters, keep within the express constitutional, limits as interpreted by the highest court of the State.
We would not weaken, even if we had authority so to do, the
full scope of this constitutional obligation. Whatever the people, frhming their organic act, have declared to be the limits of
legislative power, and the modes in which that power shall be
exercised, must always be recognized by the courts, state and
national, as obligatory. And if the property in controversy was
VOL. CLxxx-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that which passed directly into the mass of the general property
of the State it might properly be said that the construction placed
on constitutional limitations by the Supreme Court of the State
determined absolutely for all courts, state and national, the full
scope of the legislative power.
And in this. respect we may notice the suggestion of the Supreme Court of the State, that other lands than these might be
withdrawn~from the general rule of taxation provided by the
state constitution, and the statement made by counsel in argument that many corporations had received in the early days of
the State commutations based on a like principle. We quote
the language of the Supreme Court:
"It is further claimed on behalf of the appellants that the
mandates and inhibitions of the constitution as to the taxation
of all private property have no application to public lands which
passed into private ownership with the privilege of commuted
taxation created' with respect to them while they were yet publie lands. If this proposition is true, then the legislature, if
there are no other constitutional provisions prohibiting it, may
provide for exempting from taxation the school lands of the
State after their sale and after they have become absolutely
private property, or provide that the owners thereof may forever
pay a percentage on the gross or net income derived therefrom
in lieu of all other taxes.
"The mandate of the constitution applies to all property
which is the subject of private ownership, without reference to
the source of its acquisition. It would be a palpable evasion of
the constitution to permit the legislatur& to absolutely transfer public lands to private owners vested with the privileges
and immunities as to taxation which are prohibited by the constitution."

We think the apprehension of the Supreme Court is one more
of imagination than of fact. It is true that Congress might act
so as in effect to keep withdrawn a large area of the State from
taxation. Under the reservation in the act of admission and
the acceptance thereof by the State of Minnesota the right of
Congress to determine the disposition of public lands within
that State was reserved,-and, according to the decision in Van

243

STEARNS u. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

/

Brockin v. taM of Tennessee, infra, lands belonging to' the
United States are exempt from taxation by the State. So that
if Congress should determine that the great body of public lands
within the State of Minnesota should be reserved from sale for
an indefinite period it might, do so, and thus the lands be exempted from taxation; and yet it cannot be imputed to Congress that it would discriminate against the State of Minnesota
or pass any legislation detrimental to its interests. It had the
power to withdraw all the public lands in Minnesota from private entry or public grant, and, exercising that powe), it might
prevent the State of Minnesota from. taxing a large area of its
lands, but no"such possibility of wrong conduct on the part of
Congress can enter into the consideration of this question. It
is to be expected that it will deal with Minnesota as with other
States, and in such a way as to subserve the best interests of
the people of that State. That a power may be injuriously
exercised is no reason for a misconstruction of the scope and
extent of that power. So the fact that Congress might, if it
saw fit, withdraw the public lands in Minnesota from sale, and
thus prevent their taxation, furnishes no reason for denying the
efficacy of the power to grant such lands, subject to conditions
binding upon the State, or the right of the State, as its trustee,
to prescribe limitations upon taxation. And this must be said
bearing in mind that to the full extent .there is no question of
the duty of the legislature of Minnesota to subject any but trust
property to the absolute scope of its constitutional provisions in
respect to the matter of taxation. And in respect to the lands
in controversy it must be remembered that they were granted
to and accepted by the State in trust, and it cannot be doubted
that the State, has the power to compel its grantee to use the
lands in furtherance of the trust and prevent it from creating
a large and permanent ownership of lands.
When Minnesota was admitted into the Union, and admitted
on the basis of full equality with all other States, there was
within its limits a large amount of lands belonging to the national government. The enabling act, February 26, 1857, 11
Stat. 166, authorizing the inhabitants of Minnesota to form a
constitgtion and a state government, tendered certain proposi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the'Court.

tions to the people of the Territory, coupled in section 5 with
this proviso (11 Stat. 167):
"The foregoing propositions herein offered are on the condition that the said cofvention which shall form the constitution
of said State shall provide, by a clause in said constitution, or
an ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of the United
States, that said State shall never interfere with the primary
disposal of the soil within the same, by the United States, or
.with any regulations Congress may find necessary for securing
the title in said soil to bona flde purchasers thereof; and that
no tax shall be imposed on lands belonging to the United States,
and that in no case shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher
than residents."
And article 2, section 3, of the constitution, passed by virtue
of this enabling act, reads as follows (Gen. Stat. Minn. 1894,
p. lxxiv):
"The propositions contained in the act of .Congress entitled
An act to authorize the people of the Territory of Minnesota
to form a constitution and state goverhment preparatory to
their admission into the Union. on an equal footing with .the
original States,' are hereby accepted, ratified and confirmed,
and shall remain irrevocable without the consent of the United
States; and it is hereby ordained that this State shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil within the same,
by the United- States, or with any regulations Congress may
find necessary for securing the title to said soil to bona F&
purchasers thereof; and no tax shall be imposed on lands belonging to the United States, and in no case shall non-resident
proprietors be taxed higher than residents."
That these provisions of the enabling act and the constitution,
in form at least, made a compact between the United States
and the State, is evident. In an -inquiry as to the validity of
such a compact this distinction must at the outset be noticed.
There may be agreements or compacts attempted to be entered
into between two States, or between a State and the nation, in
reference to political rights and- obligations, and there may be
those solely in reference to property belonging to one or the
other. That different considerations may underlie the question

ST~VARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the validity of these two kinds of compacts or agreements
is obvious. It has often been said that a State admitted into
the Union enters therein in full equality with all the others,
and such equality may forbid any agreement or compact limiting or qualifying political rights and obligations; whereas, on
the other hand, a mere agreement in reference to property involves no question of equality of status, but only of the power
of a State to deal with the nation or with any other State in
reference to such property. The case before us is one involving simply an agreement as to property between a State and
the nation.
That a State and the nation are competent to enter into an
agreement of such a nature with one another has been affirmed
in past decisions of this court, and that they have been frequently made in the admission of new States, as well as subsequently thereto, is a matter of history. Section 10 of article 1
of the Constitution provides that "no State shall, without the
consent of Congress,

.

.

.

enter into any agreement or com-

pact with another State." It was early ruled that these negative words carried with them no denial of the power of two
States to enter into a compact or agreement with one another,
but only placed a condition upon the exercise of such power.
Thus in Green v. BiddMe, 8 Wheat. 1, a compact between Virginia and Kentucky was sustained, and it was held no valid
objection to it that within certain restrictions it limited the legislative power of the State of Kentucky. In Pooe v. Fleeger,
11 Pet. 185, an agreement between Kentucky and Tennessee as
to boundary was upheld, Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the
court, saying (p. 209):
"It cannot be doubted that it is a part of the general right
of sovereignty, belonging to independent nations, to establish
and fix the disputed boundaries between their respective territories ; and the b6undaries so established and fixed by compact
between nations become conclusive upon all the subjects and
citizens thereof, and bind their rights; and are to be treated, to
all intents and purposes, as the true and real boundaries. This
is a doctrine universally recognized in the law and practice of
nations. It is a right equally belonging to the States of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Union, unless it has been surrendered under the Constitution of
the United States. So far from there being any pretense of
such a general surrender of the right, that it is expressly recognized by the Constitution, and guarded in its exercise by a single limitation or restriction, requiring the consent of Congress.
The Constitution declares that '.no State shall, without the consent of Congress, enter into any agreement or compact with
another State,' thus plainly admitting that, with such consent,
it might be done, and in the present instance that consent has
been expressly given. The compact, then, has full validity, and
all the terms and conditions of it must be equally obligatory
upon the citizens of both States."
The same doctrine was announced in Tirginiav. Tennessee,
148 U. S.503, and in the opinion in that case it was.intimated.
that there were many matters in respect to which the differentStates might agree without the formal consent of Congress.
In this case the difference between the agreements which States
might enter into between one another and those from which
they were debarred without the consent of Congress was noticed, and it was said (p. 518):
"There are many matters upon which different States may
agree that can in no respect concern the United States. If, for
instance, Virginia should come into possession and ownership
of a small parcel of lahd in New York which the latter State
might desire to acquire as a site for a public building, it would
hardly be deemed essential for the latter State to obtain the
consent of Congress before it could make a valid agreement
with Virginia for the purchase of the land. If Massachusetts,
in forwarding its exhibits to the World's Fair at Chicago, should
desire to transport them a'part of the distance over the Erie
Canal, it would hardly be deemed essential for that State to
obtain the consent of Congress before it could contract with
New York for the transportation of the exhibits through that
State in that way. If the bordering line of two States should
cross some malarious and disease-producing district, there could
be no possible reason, .on any conceivable public grounds, to
obtain the consent of Congress for the bordering States to agree
to unite in draining the district and thus removing the cause of

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.

24:7

Ophinon of the Court.

disease. So in case of threatened invasion of cholera, plague, or
other causes of sickness and death, it would be the height of
absurdity to hold that the threatened States cofild not unite in
providing means to prevent and repel the invasion of the pestilence without obtaining the consent of Congress, which might
not be at the time in session. If, then, the terms 'compact'
or Iagreement' in the Constitution do not apply to every possible compact or agreement between one State and another,
for the validity of which the consent of Congress must be obtained, to what compacts or agreements does the Constitution
apply?
"Looking at the clause in Which the terms 'compact' or
'agreement' appear, it is evident that the prohibition is directed
to the formation of any cQmbination tending to the increase of
political power in the States, which may: encroach upon or interfere with the just supremacy of the United States. Story,
in'his Commentaries, sec. 1403, referring to a previous part of
the same section of the Constitution, in which the clause in question appears, bbserves that its language ' may be more plausibly
interpreted from the terms used, "treaty, alliance or confederation," and upon the ground that the sense of each is best known
by its association (noscitura sociis)to apply to treaties of a political character, such as treaties of alliance fdr purposes of peace
and war, and treaties of confederation, in which the parties are
leagued for mutual government, political coiperation, and the
exercise of political sovereignty, and treaties of cession of sovereignty, or conferring internal political jurisdiction, or external
political dependence, or general commercial privileges;' and
that ' the latter clause, "compacts and agreements," might then
very properly apply to such as regarded what might be deemed
mere private rights of sovereignty, sueh as questions of boundary, interests in land situate in the territory of each other, and
other internal regulations for the mutual comfort and convenience of States bordering on each other.' And he adds: IIn
such cases the consent of Congress may be properly required,
in order to check any infringement of the rights of the national
government; and, at the same time, a total prohibition to enter

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

into any compact or agreement might be attended with permanent inconvenience or public mischief.'"
If as "a part of the general right of sovereignty" to which
Mr. Justice Story refers in the quotation above made, the right
of agreement between one another belongs to the several States,
except as limited by the constitutional provisions requiring the
consent of Congress, equally true is it that a State may make a
compact with all the States, constituting as one body the nation,
possessed of general rights of sovereignty and represented by
Congress. That Congress has consented is shown by the fact
that it proposed the terms of the agreement and declared the
State admitted on its assent to those terms.
The Constitution, article 1, section 8, provides that"The Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceedihg
ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States and
the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government
of the United States, and to exercise like authority over all
places purchased by the consent of the legislature of the State
in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines,
arsenals, dock yards and other needful buildings."
By an act of February 22, 1875, the legislature of Kansas
ceded to the United States jurisdiction over the territory of the
Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation, reserving not only the
right to serve civil a-ad criminal process, but also the right to
tax railroad, bridge and other corporations, their franchises and
property, within the limits of the reservation. And in Fort
Leavenworth Railroad Company v. Lawe, 114 U. S. 525, that
cession was held valid, MNr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court, saying in reference to this question (p. 541):

"In their relation to the general government, the States of
the Union stand in a very different position from that which
they hold to foreign governments. Though the jurisdiction
and authority of the general government are essentially different
from those of the State, they are not those of a different country;
and the two, the state and general government, may deal wfith
each other in any way they may deem best to carry out the
purposes of the Constitution."

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

The act admitting Kansas into the Union contained in its
first section this provision (12 Stat. 127):
"That nothing contained in the said Constitution respecting
the boundary of said State shall be construed to impair the
rights of person or property now pprtaining to the Indians in
said territory, so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished
by treaty between the United States and such Indians,
or to affect the authority of the government of the United States
to make any regulation respecting such Indians, their lands,
property or other rights, by treaty, law or otherwise, which it
would have been competent to make if this act had never been
passed."
Under the provisions of the treaty of 1854, between the
Shawnee Indians residing within the territory of Kansas and
the United States, certain of their lands were allotted to individual members and patented to them, with the express restriction that " the said lands shall never be sold by the grantee,
or his heirs, without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior.In the case of The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, 757, this court,
holding a law of the State of Kansas subjecting these lands to
taxation invalid, said:
"There can be no question of state sovereignty in the case,
as Kansas accepted her admission into the family of States on
condition that the Indian rights should remain unimpaired, and
the general government at liberty to make any regulation respecting them, their lands, property or other rights, which it
would have been competent to make if Kansas had not been
admitted into the Union.

.

.

.

While the general govern-

ment has a superinitending care over their interests, and continues to treat with them as a nation, the State of Kansas is
estopped from denying their title to it. She accepted this status
when she accepted the act admitting her into the Union." See
also Beec er v. Tetherby, 95 U. S.517, 523.
But we need not go outside of the present case. The State
of 11innesota accepted the trust created by the act of Congress.
Acceptance by a trustee of the-obligations created by the donor
of a trust completes a contract. Such contracts, as we have
seen, have been frequent in the history of the nation, and their

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

validity has not only never been questioned but has been directly affirmed. Ttedr v. -Ferguson,22 Wall. 527.
There is nothing in the case of Van Brocklin v. State of Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, in conflict with these views. In that case
it was held that property of the United States, situated within
the limits of a State, was exempt by the Constitution of the
United States from taxation by that State; and while, referring
to the many exemption clauses in different acts of admission of
States, it was said that they were but declaratory of the law
and conferred no new right or power on the United States, it
was not held that if in the absence of such exemption clauses
the lands of the United States would have been subject to taxation, the compact thereby created would not have been operative
to relieve them. And it must be remembered that the question
here is not as to exemption, but as to full control over the matter of sale and disposal.
Returning, then, to the facts of the case before us, by the provisions quoted the Stite expressly agreed that no tax should be
imposed on lands belonging to the United States, that it should
never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil within the
State by the United States, or with any regulations Congress
might find necessary for securing the soil to bona fide purchasers
thereof. These provisions are not to be construed narrowly or
technically, but as expressing a consent on the part of the State
to the terms proposed by Congress; and among these terms
were that the full control of the disposition of the lands of the
United States should be free from state action. Whether Congress should sell or donate; what terms it should impose upon
the sale or donation; what arrangements it should make for
securing title to the beneficiaries-were all matters withdrawn
from state interference by the terms of the enabling act and the
Constitution. With this full reservation of Power in Congress
*it is not open to doubt that that body might have made such
disposition of the public lands of the United States within the
'State as would withhold them from the burdens of state taxation, not only until such time as all interest of the United States
in the lands had ceased, but also until they had been used to
fully accomplish the purposes for which Congress was selling or
donating them.

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true, as has been held in the ordinary administration of
the affairs of the land department, that wheiever full payment
has been made to the United States, and the full equitable title
has passed to an individual purchaser or homesteader, the mere
delay in furnishing to such purchaser or homesteader the legal
evidence of his title does not relieve the land from ordinary
state taxation. Carroll v. Sazford, 3 How. 441; Witherspoon
v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Wisconsin Central ?. 1?. Co. v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496; Northern Pacifc ?. ?. Co. v. Patterson,
154 U. S. 130.
But it has also been held that until the very last moment that
liens or equitable rights of the United States are extinguished,
no matter how trivial or small may be the right or the lien reserved, the land is not subject to state taxation. Railway Company v. Prescott,16 Wall. 603; Railway Company v. 3 Shane,
22 Wall.- 444; Colorado Company v. Commissioners, 95 U. S.
259; Northern Pacific ?. B. Co. v. Traill County, 115 U. S600; Wisconsin Central R. 1?. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S.
496.
But whatever may be the rule applicable in the ordinary administration of affairs in the land department, the provisions of
the enabling act and the state constitution, before referred to,
secure to the United States full control of the disposition of the
public lands within the limits of the State. Within the scope
of this reserved power Congress might grant to a railroad corporation public lands to aid in the construction of its road, withholding not only the legal title, but also exemption from state
taxation until such time as some one should pay into the treasury
of the company the full value of the land in money to be used
in the construction of its road. It would be a part of the power
reserved in Congress to determine the terms and conditions upon
which title should effectually pass from the government. If
Congress has a right to make a private corporation its agent to
thus utilize to the fullest extent the value of the land it is willing to give to aid a public enterprise, it may deal with a'State
upon the same basis. The State, accepting the trust given by
Congres , has all the powers of a trustee, and must have also allthe freedom of a trustee, and may determine in what way that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

trust may be most successfully carried out. The mere fact that
the legal title has passed by act of Congress from the nation to
the State is not the vital fact. Under section 3, article IX, of
the state constitution public property used exclusively for any
public purpose is exempted from taxation. It is undoubtedly
true as a general rule that a State does not tax its own property, but we do not rest on this express language of the state
constitution. We place our conclusion upon higher grounds.
Accepting this property as a trustee, as it had a right to do, it
was not compelled to weaken the full accomplishment of that
trust by subjection of the lands to taxation.
We do not mean to hold that it was bound to exempt the
land, either permanently or for any specified time, from taxation if in its judgment as trustee it believed that the purpose of
the trust could be otherwise fully and fairly accomplished; and
to that extent, and no further, goes the opinion in Tuscker v.
-Ferguson,supra. In that case the State saw fit to tax the land
after the lapse of a certain time, in respect to which Congress
had prescribed an exemption, and it was said by Mr. Justice
Swayne, on page 572:
"She was in nowise fettered, except as she had agreed to fulfil
all the terms and conditions which accompanied the grant. To
that extent she was clearly bound, and anything in conflict with
those conditions would be ultra tires and cannot be supported.
What were the terms to which she submitted herself? She was
to devote the lands to the accomplishment of the object which
Congress had in view, and there was an implied agreement on
her part .to take all the measures reasonably within her power
to make their application effectual to that end. The mode was
left entirely to herself. We see no ground upon which it can
be claimed she bound herself any further."
But, if in its judgment, as trustee, the trust could be most
effectually accomplished by transferring the lands to some corporation, subject to only a limited taxation until such time as
the full value of the lands could be secured for the purposes of
the trust, it was not prevented from so doing by any obligation
Nrhich it was under in respect'to the general mass of property
within the State. When the State accepted the position of

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
M

. JusTioB BROWN, concurring.

trustee it had all the freedom of judgment which belongs to a
trustee in respect to the best means of carrying the trust into
execution. The legislature was the body representing the State,
whose judgment was invoked as to such means, and its action
was taken not so much in discharge of its constitutional obligations to the people as of its contract obligations as trustee to
the grantor of the trust. In other words, the State either could
not accept the trust, or accepting it was entitled to all the freedom of judgment which attends the action of a trustee, and,
as we have seen, it is too late in the history of railroad aid
legislation in this country to hold that a State cannot accept the
position of trustee of such a grant.
Congress, acting for the United States-the owner of the
lands-could, by virtue of the compact with the State, have in
creating the trust provided specifically for an exemption, or for
taxation in a limited way. Having failed to so prescribe the
manner in which the trust should be executed, the power became.
vested in the trustee, the State, and it exercised it in the way
indicated by the legislation of 1865 and 1870. Having that
power as trustee, it could make a valid contract in respect
thereto with the corporations, and they, investing their money
in the construction of the road on the faith of the contract
tendered and accepted, are entitled to be protected against any
subsequent legislative impairment in respect thereto.
For these reasons we are of opinion that there was a valid
contract made with these companies in respect to the taxation
of these lands-a contract which it was beyond the power of
the State to impair; that this subsequent legislatioli does impair that contract, and cannot, therefore, be sustained.
The judgment of the Supreme aurt of Minnesota is reversed,
except as to lands belonging to the Great NorthernRailway
Company, and the case is remandedforfurtherproceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.

JusTcE BRowN concurred upon the ground that the le-

gality of commuting the payment of taxes upon railway proierty by a payment of a percentage upon the gross earnings,
having been recognized by the legislature and the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.'
JusTIcEs WHITE, HARLAw, GnAY and YcKENI-A, concurring.

Court of Minnesota for thirty years, and also having been recognized as valid in the constitutional amendment of 1871, it is
too late to set up its repugnance to the state constitution as
against railways which were built upon the faith of its validity.

MR. JUsTIcE Wirrm, with whom concurred MR. JusTicE HARLA N, MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUsTIoE McKENNA, assenting
to the judgment of reversal.
The act which was accepted by, the corporation, and which
is now decided to be an irrevocable contract protected from
impairment by-the Constitution of the United States, in substance provided that in lieu of all other taxes upon its property
of every kind and nature, whether real or personal, the railroad
company should annually pay a fixed gross receipt tax of three
per cent. It, however, provided that the, public lands which
the State had received from the United States, and which it
had given to the corporation to aid in the construction of its
railroad, might be taxed by the State in addition to the three
per cent gross receipt tax whenever the corporation had parted
with its title to such property. When this gross receipt tax
was enacted the constitution of the State commanded that taxation should be equal and uniform, and that property should be
assessed according to valuation. In addition express authority
was given to exempt from taxation certain enumerated classes
of property, such as uniyersities, schools, churches, burying
grounds, etc. From this it resulted. that the legislature was
deprived of the right to exempt persons or property in any case
unless embraced in the classes'as to which the power to exempt
was specifically granted as above stated. This is not disputed.
It follows then that if the gross receipt tax was an exemption
it was void, because repugnant to the constitution of the State.
If, so void, it did not create a contract, within the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States, for rights protected from impairment could not flow from an act which had
no legal existence. The conclusion then that the act which
imposed the gross receipt tax created a contract protected from
impairment by the Constitution of the United States must rest

STEARNS- v. MINNESOTA.
JUSTICES WEITE, HAMLAN, GRAY and MCXENwA,

concurring.

on the premise that such act was not an exemption. To this
proposition I cannot give my assent.
True it is that in fcfer~y v. Aford, 168 U. S. 651, a territorial legislative act, which taxed a railroad corporation by a
levy on its gross receipts, was decided not to be a violation of
the organic act of the territory which commanded that taxation
should be uniform, and that all property should be assessed by
a method of valuation. But in that case no question of contract
was involved, and the issue presented and the one decided was
that the territorial legislature, in selecting a gross receipt tax
as the method for reaching railroad property, did not necessarily violate the organic law of the territory as to uniformity and
valuation. ^But this ruling is inapposite to the present case,
where the question is not whether the legislature of Minnesota
was empowered by the constitution of that State to provide
that railroad property should be taxed by a gross receipt tax,
but whether, conceding the legislature had the authority to
enact such a tax as to railroads or any other class by it selected,
it possessed the additional power to enter into an irrevocable
contract, by which the method thus selected as to the persons
and property designated should be forever thereafter continued.
It seems to me the moment it is admitted that the gross receipt tax is an irrevocable contract, thereby it necessarily results
that an exemption from taxation was provided for. The object
of forbidding exemptions from taxation is not alone to secure
revenue, but is to preserve untrammeled by contract the fullness
of all the lawful power of taxation in the successive repositories
of such power. In other words, forbidding exemptions in terms
directs that no one legislature shall by contract limit the lawful rights of its successors, by taking particular property out of
the legislative authority to tax, on the assumption that such
persons or property are thereafter to be governed by a contract
which exempts from all future exercise of the legislative power
of taiation. This seems so obvious that I cannot find words to
express the thought that a particular person or property is irrevocably taken, by contract, beyond the reach of the legislative
right to tax by any lawful mode deemed from time to time to
be best for the public interest, without at the same time saying

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, HARLAN, GRAY and MCKENNA, concurring.

that by .such an irrevocable contract an exemption from taxation is created.
Nor does it seem to me that the decisions of the Minnesota
courts, which are referred to as showing that under the constitution of that State it was competent for the legislature to enact
a gross receipt tax law and provide for its continuance by an
irrepealable contract, sustain the proposition deduced from them.
In no single one of these cases was the question of irrepealable
contract presented, considered or decided in any form. Undoubtedly some of these decisions held that a gross receipt tax
-was valid, just as it was so held in 2ilcHenry v. Alford, supra.
But, as I have said, to decide that the general assembly of
Minnesota could select a gross receipt tax without violating the
rule of uniformity or the requirement of valuation, did not
involve the question whether one legislature in exercising its
discretion as to such subjects could in addition impose by an
irrepealable contract its action on the succeeding legislatures
of the State.
The first case which arose in Minnesota, in which the question
whether the levy of a gross receipt tax and the acceptance of
the terms of the act by a corporation made an irrepealable contract, is the one now here, and there can be no question that the
Supreme Court of Minnesota has declared unequivocally that
the-element of irrevocable contract, if upheld, would cause the
act or acts to become exemptions, and- therefore repugnant to
the constitution of the State. Even if, however, the Minnesota
decisions, prior to the one now before us, had the import which
is deduced from them, in my opinion they would not be decisive
of this controversy. The decisions in question were not rendered prior to the enactment of the gross receipt tax, which is
here in controversy, and therefore it cannot be argued that they
entered into and formed a part of such act. In adjudgigwhether a contract has been impaired by subsequent legislation,
it is elementary that this court determines for itself whether
there was a contract. Whilst it is true that in making such inquiry the persuasive power of state decisions will be taken into
view, nevertheless the duty ever remains to determine independently whether the contract existed which it is asserted has been

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
JUSTICES WHITE, HARLAN, GRAY and MCKENNA, concurring.

impaired. Discharging such duty in this case, in view of tlie
provisions of the constitution of the State of Minnesota, my
mind cannot be persuaded to the conclusion that an agreement
is not an exemption by which a particular person or property is
forever, as regards taxation, by irrevocable contract, exempted
from the general rules of taxation.
Nor can I agree because the State of Minnesota received public land from the United States to be used to aid in the construction of a railroad, the general assembly of that State was
thereby endowed with the attribute of dealing with such land
in violation of the constitution of the State. The constitution
of the State was the measure of the powers of the legislature
of Minnesota, and in our system of government I do not conceive that Congress can confer upon a state legislature the right
to violate the constitution of the State. True it is that in taking the land a relation of trust was engendered, by which the
obligation arose to devote the lands to the purpose for which
they had been entrusted by Congress to the State. But this it
seems to me can only signify that the State of Minnesota,
through its legislature, was obliged to use the lands in furtherance of the trust, in accordance with the powers and under the
restrictions imposed by the constitution of the State. Whilst
this reasoning is alone to my mind sufficient to refute the theory
that the gift by Congress could endow the general assembly
with power to disregard the constitution of the State, even if
Congress had so expressly directed, the conclusion is cogently
reinforced when it is considered that no provision was made by
Congress in giving the lands to the State, that in using such
lands for the purposes specified in the grant the State should
exempt them by irrevocable contract from taxation. Even if it
be conceded arguendo only that such a power could have been
lawfully imposed, its exercise ought not to- be implied in order
thereby to prevent the legislature of the State from using its
taxing authority free from the restraints of an irrevocable contract. But again, if it be conceded that Congress could lawfully have authorized the legislature of the State of Minnesota
to violate the constitution of that State, and even if it be granted
that Congress did so, these concessions should not affect the deVOL. OLXXIX-17

OCTOBER TER9, 1900.
JusTIcEs WRITE, HARLAN, GRAY and MIKExNA, concurring.

cision of this case. For if such power existed, it could only relate to lands given by the United States, and not to all the
other real and, personal property of the railroad, which came
not from the grant by the United States to the State. But the
irrevocable contract which 'is now decided to have been lawfully made by the general assefiably of the State of Minnesota
was not one dealing only with the lands given by the United
States, but was one relating to all the property of the railroad.
To enforce its obligations therefore, under the assumption of a
trust as to lands given by the ,United States, is to restrain the
power of the State by contract as to property within its borders, not received from Congress, not embraced by the trust,
and over which the plenary taxing power of the State extends.
Because the provision as to the lands given by Congress to
the State is indivisibly united with the other provisions contained in the gross receipt tax law, it does not follow that that
which is confessedly repugnant to the constitution of the State
should be held to be valid; but it should rathuer, I think, be decided that the vice which affects a part, and which cannot be
separated, operates upon the contract as an entirety and causes
the whole to be void.
Although I dissent, for the foregoing reasons, from some of
the grounds stated in the opinion of the court, I yet concur in
the judgment of reversal upon one ground expressed therein.
Conscious that nothing is needed to strengthen the conclusive
reasoning by which the proposition is sustained in the opinion
of the court, nevertheless, as the question presents itself to my
mind in a somewhat different aspect from that considered by
the court, the additional grounds which cause me to concur will
now be stated.
In 1871 an amendment to the constitution of Minnesota,
which is set out in the opinion of the court, was adopted by a
vote of the people. The opinion of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota in the case at bar holds that the effect of that amendment was to ratify and confirm the gross receipt tax laws and
to deprive the general assembly of all power to repeal or amend
such laws, unless the legislative act so doing was submitted to
and ratified by a vote of the people.' Accepting this construc-

STEARNS v. MINNESOTA.
JUSTICES WHITE, HABLAIN, GRAY and MoKENNA, concurring.

tion as conclusive, it follows that the gross receipt tax laws,
even if they contained a grant of exemption, were no longer in
violation of the constitution of the State, but did not evidence
irrevocable contracts, since they were subject to repeal or amendment by a legislative act approved and ratified by a vote of the
people. This suit rests upon an act of the general assembly of
Minnesota, approved by the people in 1896, which it is claimed.
was the first act which repealed or amended the gross receipt
tax law relating to the rights of the corporation now here, to
the extent that it provided that the public lands given to the
railroad should be taxed before the corporation had parted with
its title. Before examining the scope of the act relied upon, it
is important to bear in mind the relations which are engendered
when a contract is entered into by a State subject to the
reserved power to repeal alter or amend. In such case no
irrepealable contract, protected from impairment under the
Constitution of.the United States,'takes effect, because it is impossible to conceive that contract rights which are conferred
subject to the power of repeal, alteration or amendment are
protected from an impairment which under the terms of the
grant the State has reserved a right to make. Louisville v.
Bank of Louisville, 174 U. S. 439, 444 ; Citizens' Savings Bank
v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, 644, et-seg.
But whilst this is settled, it has also been equally determined
that the reserved right to repeal, alter or amend does not confer mere arbitrary power, and cannot be so exercised as to violate fundamental principles of justice by depriving of the equal
protection of the laws or of the constitutional guarantee against
the taking of property without due process of law. St. Louis,
Iron -Mountain&o. Railway v. Paul,173 U. S. 404, 408, and
cases cited. And an apt illustration of the application of this
doctrine is found in Louisville Water Co. v. Clark,143 U. S. 1.
Will, then, the enforcement of the amendatory act, which is
here relied upon, providing for the taxation of the lands, before
the corporation had .parted with its title to them, in spite of
the continued exaction of the gross receipt tax, deprive the corporation of its property without due process of law, dr deny to
it the equal protection of the laws? The repealing act says:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHIT,

HARLAX, GRAy.and MCKEIN-A, concurring.

"S1Ec. 1. All lands in this State heretofore or hereafter granted
by the State of linnesota or the United States or the Territory
of Minnesota to any railroad company shall be assessed and
taxed as other lands are taxed in this State, except such parts
of said lands as are held, used or occupied for right of way,
gravel pits, side tracks, depots, and all buildings and structures
which are necessarily used in the actual management and operation of the railroads of said companies."
But these provisions, which in and of themselves are clearly
an amendment of the gross receipt tax laws, are accompanied
by the following proviso:
"Provided, that said railroad companies shall continue to pay
taxes into the state treasury upon their gross earnings in the
same manner and in the same amount as is now provided by
law, and that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
'repeal said laws, except in so far as the same relate to the tax
upon said lands." [Italics are mine.]
Considering for a moment the ratified agreement which the
gross receipt tax law embodied, it is patent that the duties
which it imposed and the obligations to which it gave rise were'
in the strictest sense reciprocal or commutative; that is, that
the agreement to pay the gross receipt tax, and necessarily the
amount of those taxes, was predicated on the obligation on the
part of the State to regard the payment of said tax as the discharge by the corporation of all taxes due upon all its real or personal property. The amendatory act, therefore, whilst increasing the sum of the obligation of the corporation to the State to the
extent that the lands are no longer to be represented by the gross
receipt tax, yet at the same time retains in favor of the State the
right to take the whole amount of the stipulated payment of
the gross receipt tax in the same manner as theretofore, that is,
by the contract. That is to say, the amendatory act preserves
the contract in favor of the State as an entirety, by retaining
all the oliligations due by the railroad to the State, and yet
purports to repeal, alter or amend the contract by relieving the
State from its obligation to the corporation to include all the
property of the latter for the purpose of taxation by a gross receipt tax, which was the consideration upon which the obliga-

STEARNS r'. MINNESOTA.
JUSTICES WMTt, HARLAN", GRAY and McKEmA, concurring.

tion of the corporation to pay such tax rested. This consequence
is made certain by the provision that the gross receipt tax, despite the amendment, shall remain payable in the same amount,
and in the same manner as before the passage of the amendatory act, and is additionally made evident by the provision of
the amendatory act declaring that it "shall not be construed to
repeal" the gross receipt tax act. The situation created by the

amendatory act may be thus illustrated: The State leases a
building to it belonging for a term of years, conditioned on the
payment of a stipulated amount of rent annually. The consideration of the obligation of the lessee to pay in such case would
of course be the right of occupation granted by the State, and
the continued right of the State to collect the rent would depend upon the enjoyment by the tenant of the right of occupation which the contract granted. Now, then, if in such a
contract the power was reserved to repeal, alter or amend, and
it was exercised by declaring that the right of occupation should
cease, but that the duty to pay the rent should continue in the
same amount and in the same manner stated in the contract,
and that nothing in the amendatory act should be construed as
relieving the lessee from the duty to pay the whole of the stipulated rent, a condition strictly analogous to that which arises.
from the amending act relied on in the case at bar would be
presented.
My understanding does not permit me to doubt that to preserve in this case the contract in its entirety, so far as the rights
of the State are concerned, and at the same time to destroy the
reciprocal duty owed by the State to the other contracting
party, is not to repeal, alter or amend the contract at all, but,
whilst preserving it, to endeavor by an act of arbitrary power
to impose a burden incompatible with the very provisions and
terms of the amendatory act itself. As has been previously.
said, the consideration of the contract obligation of the corporation to pay the gross receipt tax was the duty on the part of
the State to consider such payment as a discharge of all taxes
upon all the real and personal property of the corporation.
The agreements being thus interdependent are of necessity indivisible, and to retain the entire duty or right of one party to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

the contract must lead to the preservation of the corresponding
* and reciprocal right or duty of the other. In reason, the argument comes to this, that the act purporting to amend, on its
face cannot be declared to have done so, without concluding at
the same time both that it did alter, repeal and amend, and that
it did not. Uiider these circumstances, to enforce the amendatory act would necessarily be to deny to the corporation the
equal protection of the laws, since it would leave the corporation subject to taxation, not by the general laws of the State
but by the provisions of a contract, and at the same time subject the corporation to a burden wholly incompatible with its
liability under the contract. It would be a denial of due process
of law to the corporation, since it would be but the recognition
of the right pf the State, without hearing and without process
of any kind, to condemn the corporation to the performance of
a duty alleged to be resting on it, and at the same time retain
in favor of the State as against the corporation an obligation
wholly at variance and in absolute conflict with the supposed
duty arbitrarily declared by the amendatory act to rest upon
the corporation.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK 'v. COHEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE N12UH
CIRCUIT.
No. 157. Argued March 14,15,1900.-

Decided December 3,1900.

The provision in the statutes of New York that "no life insurance company
doing business in the State of New York shall have power to declare
fQrfeited or lapsed any policy hereafter issued or renewed, by reason of
non-payment of any annual premium or interest, or any portion thereof,
except as hereinafter provided," does not apply to or control such a policy
issued by a corporation of New York in another State, in favor of a
citizen of the latter State, but is applicable only to business transacted
within the State of New York; and in such case the rights of the parties
,are measured by the terms of the contract.

