KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
Per Curiam.

KIMM v.. ROSENBERG, DISTRICT DIRECTOR,;
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION
SERVICE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139.

Argued May 16-17, 1960.-Decided June 13, 1960.

Petitioner, an alien whose deportation had been ordered, applied under
§ 19 (c) of the Immigration Act of 1917, as amended, for an order
suspending his deportation or permitting his voluntary departure.
In an administrative heating on his application, he was asked
whether he was a member of the Communist Party. He refused to
answer, claiming the Fifth Amendment privilege against selfincrimination. His application was denied on the ground that he
had failed to prove his eligibility under § 19 and the Internal
Security Act of 1950. Held: Denial of his application is sustained,
since § 19 (d) and the -Internal Security Act of 1950 make Communists ineligible for suspension of deportation, and the burden
was on petitioner to show that he was eligible for such suspension.
Pp. 405-408.
263 F. 2d 773, affirmed.

Joseph Forer argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was David Rein.
'John F.. Davis argued the cause for respondent. On
the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General Wilkey and PhilipR. Monahan..
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner applied for suspension of an brder directing his deportation to Korea or permitting his voluntary
departure. He does not question the validity of the
deportation order, blit contends that he is within the
eligible statutory .class whose deportation may be suspended at the discretion of the Attorney General.
§ 19 (c) of the Immigration Act of 1917, as.amended.
Relief on this score was denied on the basis that the Attorney General has no power to exercise his discretion in

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
363 U. S.

Per Curiam.

that regard since petitioner failed to prove his eligibility
under that section and the Internal Security Act of 1950.
Before the hearing officer, petitioner was asked if he
was a member of the Communist Party. He refused to
answer, claiming the Fifth Amendment privilege against
self-incrimination. The officer refused the suspension on
the grounds that petitioner had failed to prove that he
was a person of good moral character and that he had
not met the statutory requirement of showing that he
was n6t a member of or affiliated with the Communist
Party. The Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed on
the latter ground, as did the Court of Appeals. 263 F. 2d
773,
Petitioner contends that he presented "clear affirmative
evidence" as to eligibility which stands uncontradicted
and that the burden was on the Government to show his
affiliations, if any, with the Party. He contends that the
disqualifying factor of CommunistParty membership is
an exception to § 19 (c) which the Government must
prove. We think not. Rather than a proviso, it is an
absolute disqualification, since that class of aliens is
carved out of the section at its very beginning by the
words "other than one to whom subsection (d) of this
section is applicable." ' Subsection (d) ' referred to aliens
1 Section 19 (c) provided, in relevant part:

"In the case of any alien (other than one to whom subsection (d) of
this section is applicable) who is deportable under any law of the
United States and who has proved good moral character for the
preceding five years, the Attorney General may ... .(2) suspend
deportation of such alien if he is not ineligible for naturalization ...
if he finds .

.

. (b) that such alien has resided continuously in the

United States for seven years or more and is residing in the United
States upon the effective date of this Act ...

"

8 U. S. C. (1946

ed., Supp. II) § 155 (c).
2 Section 19 (d), as amended:
"The provisions of subsection (c) shall not be applicable in the case
of any alien who is deportable under (1) the Act of October 16,

KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
405

Per Curiam.

deportable under the Act of October 16, 1918. Section 22
of the Internal Security Act of 1950 amended the 1918
Act to include Communists,' and tlbus terminated the discretionary authority under § 19 (c) as to any alien who
was deportable because of membership in the Communist
Party. Petitioner offered no evidence on this point,
although the regulations place on him the burden of proof
as to "the statutory requirements precedent to the exercise
of discretionary relief." 8 CFR, 1949 ed., § 151.3 (e), as
amended, 15 Fed. Reg. 7638. This regulation is corn1918 (40 Stat. 1008; U. S. C., title 8, sec. 137), entitled 'An Act to

exclude and expel from the United States aliens who are members
of the anarchist and similar classes,' as amended

....

"

54 Stat. 672,

8 U. S.C. (1946 ed.) § 155 (d).
The Act of October 16, 1918, c. 186, 40 Stat. 1012, as amended by
the Internal Security Act- of 1950, c. 1024, § 22, 64 Siat. 1006-1008,
provided in pertinent part:
"Any alien who is a member of any one of the following classes shall
be excluded from admission into the United States:
"(2) Aliens who, at any time, shall be or shall have been members of
any of the following classes:
"(C) Aliens who are members of or affiliated with (i) the Communist Party of the United States, (ii) any other totalitarian party of
the United States, (iii) the Communist Political Association, (iv) the
Communist or other totalitarian party of any State of the United
States, of any foreign state, or of any political or geographical subdivision of any foreign state; (v) any section, subsidiary, branch,
affiliate, or subdivision of any such association or party; or (vi) the
direct predecessors or successors of any such association or party,
regardless of what uame such group or organization may have used,
may now bear, or may hereafter adopt,'
"SEc. 4. (a) Any alien who was at the time of entering the United
States, or has been at any time thereafter, ...a member of any
one of the classes of aliens enumerated in section 1 (2) of this Act,
shall, upon the warrant of the Attorney General, be taken into
custody and deported ....

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

pletely consistent with § 19 (c). The language of that
section, in contrast with the statutoryprovisions governing deportation, imposes the general burden of proof upon
the applicant.
It follows that an applicant for suspension, "a matter
of discretion and of administrative grace," Hintopoulosv.
Shaughnessy, 353 U. S. 72, 77 (1957), must, upon the
request of the Attorney General, supply such information
that is within his knowledge and has a direct bearing on
his eligibility under the statute. The Attorney General
may, of course, exercise his authority of grace through
duly delegated agents. Jay v. Boyd, 351 U. S. 345 (1956).
Perhaps the petitioner was justified in his personal refusal
to answer-a question we do not pass upon-but this didnot relieve him under the statute of the burden of establishing the authority of the Attorney General to exercise
his discretion in the first place.
Affirmed.
XR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BLACK concur, dissenting.
It has become much the fashion to impute wrongdoing
to or to impose punishment on a person for invoking his
constitutional rights.' Lloyd Barenblatt has served a jail
sentence for invoking his First Amendment rights. See
Barenblatt v. United States, 360 U. S. 109. As this is
written, Dr. Willard Uphaus, as a consequence of our
I Meiklejohn, Political Freedom (1960) pp. 154-155, after referring

to the efforts of legislative committees to compel Americans to give
testimony "about their political beliefs and affiliations," goes on to
say: ".

.

. in that field, the Fifth and the First Amendments are

joined together, as their motives have been joined for centuries, in
requiring of free citizens and of free institutions that they resist with
all their might the irresponsible usurpations of a legislature which
would attempt to tell men what they may believe and what they may
not believe, with whom they may associate and with whom they may
not associate."

KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
405

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

decision in Uphaus v. Wyman, 360 U. S. 72, is in jail in
New Hampshire for invoking rights guaranteed to him
by the First and Fourteenth Amendments. So is the
mathematician, Horace Chandler Davis, who invoked
the First Amendment against the House Un-American
Activities Committee. Davis v. United States, 269 F.
2d 357 (C. A. 6th Cir.). Today we allow invocation of
the Fifth Amendment to serve, in effect though not in
terms, as proof that an alien lacks the "good moral character" which he must have under § 19 (c) of the Immigration Act in order to become eligible for the dispensing
powers entrusted to the Attorney General.
The import of what we do is underlined by the fact
that there is not a shred of evidence of bad character in
the record against this alien. The alien has fully satisfied the requirements of § 19 (c) as shown by the record.
He entered as a student in 1928 and pursued'his studies
until 1938. He planned to return to Korea but the outbreak of hostilities between China and Japan in 1937
changed his mind. Since 1938 he has been continuously
employed in gainful occupations. That is the sole basis
of his deportability.' The record shows no criminal convictions, nothing that could bring stigma to the man.. His
employment since 1938 has been as manager of a produce
company, as chemist, as foundry worker, and as a member
of 0. S.S.during the latter part of World War II. He
also was self-employed in the printing business, publishing a paper "Korean Independence." No one came forward to testify that he was a Communist. There is not
a word of evidence that he had been a member of the
Communist Party at any time. The only thing that
stands in his way of being eligible for-suspensionof depor2Petitioner was admitted as a student pursuant to § 4 (e) of the
Immigration Act of 1924. 43 Stat. 155, 8 U. S. C. (1946 ed.)
§ 204 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

tation by the Attorney General is his invocation of the
Fifth Amendment.
The statute says nothing about the need of an alien to
prove he never was a Communist. If the question of
Communist Party membership had never been asked and
petiticner had never invoked the Fifth Amendment, can
it be that he would still be ineligible for suspension? It
is for me unthinkable. Presumption of innocence is too
deeply ingrained in our system for me to believe that an
alien would have the burden of establishing a negative.
What the case comes down to is simply this: invocation
of the Fifth Amendment creates suspicions and doubts
that cloud the alien's claim of good moral character.
Imputation of guilt for invoking the protection of the
Fifth Amendment carries us back some centuries to the
hated oath ex officio used both by the Star Chamber and
the High Commission. Refusal to answer was contempt.3
Thus was started in the English-speaking world the great
rebellion against ooths that either violated the conscience
of the witness or were used to obtain evidence against
3 See Maguire, Attack of the Common Lawye rs on the Oath Ex
Officio As Administered in the Ecclesiastical Courts in England,
Essays in History and Political Theory (1936), c. VII, p. 199, at 215,
where the procedure of the High Commission is described:
"Thus the defendant swore to answer fully and truly all questions
which might be put to him before he knew the charges in detail, and
in cases ex officio without knowing the accuser. Either party could
produce witnesses who gave their depositions on oath, but in the
most important cases ex officio mero the whole trial was based on the
answers of the defendant. A8 in the Star Chamber' the judges delivered their opinions seriatim and the decree accorded with the decision
of the majority.
"Thus the crux of the procedure was the.oath ex officio. Until the
defendant had been sworn, the articles for his examination could not
be produced; until he had been examined, the case could not proceed
to trial. Refusal or partial answers constituted contempt, followed
by imprisonment; perjury was a cardinal sin."

KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
405

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

him. 8ee Ullmann v. United States, 350 U. S. 422, 445449r (dissenting opinion).
I had assumed that invocation of the privilege is a
neutral act, as consistent with innocence as with guilt.
We pointed out in Slochower v. Board of Education, 350
U. S.551, 557-558: "The privilege serves to protect the
innocent who otherwise might be ensnared by ambiguous
circumstances." We re-emphasized that view in Grunewald v. United States, 353 U. S. 391, 421: "Recent
re-examination of the history and meaning of the Fifth
Amendment has emphasized anew that one of the basic
functions of the privilege is to protect innocent men."
We went further in Konigsberg v. State Bar, 353 U. S.
252, 267, and in Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners, 353
U. S. 232, 246, and held that even past membership in the
Communist Party was not by itself evidence that the
-person was of. bad moral character.
We therefore today make a marked departure from
precedent when we attach -apenalty for reliance on the
Fifth Amendment. The Court in terms does not, and
cannot, rest its decision on the ground that by invoking
the Fifth Amendment the petitioner gave evidence of bad
moral character. Yet the effect of its decision is precisely
the same. In so holding we disregard history and, in the
manner of the despised oath ex officio, attribute wrongdoing to the refusal to answer. It seems to me indefensible for courts which act under the Constitution to
draw an inference of bad moral character from the invocation of a privilege which was deemed so important to
this free society that it was embedded in the Bill of Rights.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom THECHIEF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join, dissenting.
Suspension of deportation may be "a matter of discretion and of administrative grace," United States ex rel.
Hintopoulos v. Shaughnessy, 353 U. S.72, 77, but eligi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

bility for suspension, for the exercise of that discretion,
is very much a matter of law. McGrath v. Kristensen,
340 U. S. 162, 169. The decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals was that petitioner was not, under the
governing statute, eligible for suspension; and on that
basis its order must stand or fall in court. Securities &
Exchange Comm'n v. Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80, 87.
The only basis of the Appeals Board's determination of
ineligibility that the Government seriously defends here
is the B6ard's finding that the petitioner had not shown
he was not deportable under §§ 1 and 4 of the Act of October 16, 1918, 40 Stat. 1012, as amended by § 22 of the
Internal Security Act of 1950, 64 Stat. 1006, 1008. Those
provisions retroactively made deportable an alien who had
been a Communist Party member at any time since his
entry into the United States; and § 19 of the 1917 Immigration Act, 39 Stat. 889, as later amended,' under which
petitioner's eligibility for suspension was determined,
made those aliens who were deportable on that basis ineligible for suspension of deportation.
It has not been, and scarcely could be, controverted that
the Government must in general bear the burden of demonstrating, in administrative proceedings, the deportability of an alien; whatever the exceptions to this rule
may be, ' it was established by the time relevant here that
1 The

suspension provisions, with their reference to deportability
under the 1918 Act as a disqualification, were added to the old § 19
through the amendments of 1940 and 1948, 54 Stat. 672, 62 Stat. 1206.
The validity of the proceedings here is to be tested under the law
as it stood as of the time of the administrative hearing and review
in 1951 and early 1952, before the passage of the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952, 66 Stat. 163, 8 U. S. C. § 1101 et seq., on
June 27, 1952. See § 405 (a) of the later Act, 66 Stat. 280.
2 Section 23 of the 1924 Immigration Act, 43 Stat. 165, placed the
burden on the alien in a deportation proceeding to show that he had
beenjlawfully admitted to the country. The current Act is to the
same effect. § 291, 66 Stat. 234, 8 U. S. C. § 1361. The courts in

KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
405

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

where post-entry misconduct is charged as the basis for
deportability, the burden is the Government's. Hughes
v. Tropello, 296 F. 306, 309; Werrmann v. Perkins, 79
F. 2d 467, 469. Here the Government never bore any
burden of showing that petitioner was deportable as having been, since his entry, a Communist. The determination of his deportability was made on entirely different
grounds; that (as was conceded) he had failed to maintain the student status on the basis of which he had been
admitted to the United States. At the hearing on suspension of deportation the Government introduced literally no evidence even remotely suggesting that petitioner.
had ever been a Communist; and much -evidence as to
petitioner's good character was introduced. But, apparently at random, and out of the blue, petitioner was asked
about membership in the Communist Party; and he
declined to answer, citing his constitutional privilege
against self-incrimination. On this basis the administrative officials found that he was ineligible for suspension of
deportation.
If the basis on which it was sought to deport petitioner
in the first place was that-he was deportable as a Communist or ex-Communist under §§ 1 and 4 of the 1918
Act, as amended, it could hardly be contended that this
would be evidence, let alone sufficient evidence, that he
was or had been a Communist, on which to base a finding
of deportability. Cf. Slochower v. Board of Higher Education, 350 U. S. 551. The provision in § 19 of the 1917
Immigration Act, as amended, which is relied on, disqualifies from suspension an alien who is "deportable"
under the other Act; and one would think the burden of
the cases cited in text drew a sharp distinction between this issue and
the matter of deportability owing to post-admission conduct. The
failure of Congress to specify other issues on which the alien has the
burden is confirmation of the correctness of these decisions. See
United State&ex rel. Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 153.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

proof of deportability in both circumstances should be the
same. The most obvious case, of course, for the appli- "
cation of § 19's disqualification from suspension is the one
in which the Government, in the deportation proceedings,
has already borne the burden of proving the alien deportable under the amended 1918 Act. It is an anomaly that
the burden of proof shifts, there ceases to be a requirement
of evidence of deportability as a Communist or ex-Communist, and the alien must prove a negative in order to
qualify for suspension, when the Government has chosen
to base deportation on some other ground. In support
of this the Court cites only a regulation which stated in
general terms that it was up to the alien to show his eligibility for suspension. 8 CFR, 1949 ed., § 151.3 (e), as
added, 15 Fed. Reg. 7638.
I would think it perfectly plain that such a regulation,
as applied in this case, would be contrary to the statutory
scheme, properly and responsibly construed.' In the first
place, as I have noted, it turns around the ordinary rules
as to the burden of proof as to which party shall show
"deportability." It requires the alien to prove a negative-that he never was a Communist since he entered-the
country-when no one has said or intimated that he was.
Such proof would necessarily lead to petitioner's bearing
the laboring oar, in showing that all his political or economic expressions in this country were independent of any
covert connection with the Communist Party. The effect
of imposing such a burden of exculpation on the exercise,
for example, of ncn-Communist. political action on behalf
of causes which Communists might also happen to favor
3Section 19 (c) in terms imposes a burden of proof on the alien as
to his good moral character, but is silent as to the burden of proof
otherwise. And it is in§ 19 (d) that the noneligibility of those deportable under the amended 1918 Act is provided for; and § 19 (d)
is inexplicit as to the burden of proof. Accordingly, no support for
this application of the regulation can be found in § 19 (c).

KIMM v. ROSENBERG.
405

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

is obvious. In fact, on this very basis, we not so long ago
struck down a state statute which placed on an individual
desiring a tax exemption the burden of proof to show that
his political activities were not of a proscribed nature--of
a nature, moreover, which we assumed the State had the
power directly to proscribe. Speiser v. Randall, 357
U. S. 513, 520. We have this Term reaffirmed the central principle of that case, its inhibition on procedural
devices which, though designed to reach legitimate ends,
impose burdens on the exercise of the freedom of -speech,
in a subsequent decision, by striking down another state
enactment. Smith v. California,361 U. S. 147. On such
a basis we declared the enactments of sovereign States
unconstitutional; I think we should hardly be less willing
to apply the same doctrine to set aside, as not statutorily
warranted, a federal administrative regulation which
anomalously turns about the ordinary state of the burden
of proof as to "deportability," and in fact so far dispenses
with the ordinary requirement of evidence of "deportability" that the alien must shoulder the burden of negating
it even where the Government has introduced no evidence
at all on the issue.
We are, apart from construction of the Constitution,
responsible for the proper construction of Acts of Congress, and for determining the validity of challenged
administrative regulations and procedures under them.
Here we are called upon only to put a rational construction upon a federal statute and the allocation of the burden
of proof under it, that will promote the statute's internal
consistency and minimize its frictions with the First
Amendment. One of the relevant enactments, § 22 of the
1950 Internal Security Act, is a harsh one whose constitutionality was upheld here only on historical grounds.
See Galvan v. Press, 347 U. S. 522, 530-532. By subscribing to the anomalous allocation of the burden of proof
here, we increase the statute's harshness, promote the pro-

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting.

363 U. S.

cedural restriction on the freedom of speech which we
condemned in Speiser and Smith, and in practical effect,
because of the allocation, let this petitioner's invocation
of his constitutional privilege be equated with a demonstration of his deportability as to the matters on which he
invoked the privilege. I cannot subscribe to a construction that has this effect, and accordingly dissent.

