OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE IN
CHAMBERS

SCHWEIKER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN

SERVICES,

ET AL.

v. McCLURE

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-961.

Decided June 12, 1981

An application to stay the District Court's judgment, which held that the
provisions of the Medicare Act for hearings by private insurance carriers concerning claimants' rights to reimbursements for medical services
under Part B of the Act violated claimants' due process rights, is
granted pending the filing and consideration of the applicants' jurisdictional statement challenging such judgment. Given the presumption
of constitutionality granted to Acts of Congress, there is a substantial
likelihood that four Justices of this Court will vote to note probable
jurisdiction of the applicants' appeal. In addition, because the District
Court's remedial order involves a drastic restructuring of the appeals
procedure designed by Congress, it will cause hardship to the applicants
which should not be imposed until this Court decides whether or not
to note probable jurisdiction.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants request that I stay a judgment of the District
Court for the Northern District of California pending a direct
appeal of that judgment to this Court pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
§ 1252. On May 5, 1981, applicants filed a notice of appeal.
This case involves the constitutionality of the hearing procedures available under Part B of the Medicare Act, 42
U. S. C. §§ 1395j-1395w, 1395ff (1976 ed. and Supp. III).
The Medicare Act is divided into two parts. Part A provides
insurance for hospital and related posthospital services. 42
U. S. C. §§ 1395c, 1395d (1976 ed. and Supp. III). Part B
provides a voluntary program of supplementary medical insurance covering, in general, 80% of the reasonable costs of
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

452 U. S.

certain other services, primarily physicians services and medical supplies. 42 U. S. C. §§ 1395k, 13951 (1976 ed. and Supp.
III). The Secretary determines whether an individual is eligible to enroll in the Part B program, and the individual is
entitled to an administrative hearing and judicial review of
that eligibility determination. 42 U. S. C. §§ 1395ff (a) and
(b) (1) (B). As to the implementation of Part B, Congress
authorized the Secretary to enter into contracts with private
insurance carriers under which the carriers would determine
and pay Part B benefits on a reimbursable basis. 42 U. S. C.
§ 1395u. Under these contracts, the carriers receive advances
of funds, which they then disburse to claimants in reimbursement for medical services found by the carriers to be covered
by Part B. § 1395u (c). If a claimant is dissatisfied with
the reimbursement allowed by the private carrier, the claimant is entitled to a "fair hearing" conducted by the private
carrier if the amount of the claim is $100 or more. § 1395u
(b) (3) (C). The Act does not provide for an appeal to the
Secretary of an adverse judgment by the carrier after a
hearing.
Respondents, a class of Part B beneficiaries, brought suit
challenging the constitutionality of that hearing procedure.
In a decision rendered May 19, 1980, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California concluded
that Congress' vesting of final decisionmaking authority in
the carrier violates the claimant's due process rights because,
in the court's view, hearing officers selected by the carrier
may be biased and because hearings conducted by administrative law judges employed by the Government may be more
reliable. In relief, the District Court ordered that any Part
B claimant whose claim was finally rejected after a full evidentiary hearing by the carrier's hearing officer on or after
May 1, 1980, be given the opportunity for a de novo evidentiary hearing before an administrative law judge of the Secretary. On May 1, 1981, the District Court denied the applicants' application for a stay of its order pending appeal.

SCHWEIKER v. McCLURE
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

In both form and substance, the District Court has declared
unconstitutional an important part of the Medicare statute.
Given the presumption of constitutionality granted to all Acts
of Congress, I believe that there is a substantial likelihood
that four Justices of this Court would vote to note probable
jurisdiction of the applicants' appeal. In addition, because
the District Court's remedial order involves a drastic restructuring of the appeals procedure carefully designed by Congress, it will cause hardship to the applicants. In the application for a stay, the applicants point out that the day-to-day
administration of the Part B program requires a determination of a vast number of individual claims for reimbursement.
Indeed, even the District Court noted that, in 1978 alone,
more than 124 million such claims were processed. McClure
v. Harris, 503 F. Supp. 409, 416 (1980).
The cost of
providing administrative law judge hearings to dissatisfied
claimants will be substantial even if a small percentage of
claimants seek such appeals. Indeed, administrative law
judges are already overloaded with cases arising under other
statutory provisions in which Congress has provided for administrative law judge hearings. I thus believe that the applicants should be relieved of the burden placed on them by
the District Court's order until this Court decides whether or
not to note probable jurisdiction of the applicants' appeal.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment of the District
Court in this case be stayed pending the filing and consideration of the jurisdictional statement challenging that judgment
by the applicants.

