OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

specified in the decree; and that Colorado has permitted
other diversions from the Laramie and its tributaries in
violation of the decree through the Bob Creek and other
designated ditches, none of which were recognized or
named in the findings or decree.
The contention that the bill fails to show with certainty
any violation of the decree or any damage to Wyoming
or her water users is largely refuted by the allegations
just noticed, and is further refuted by an allegation that
annually since the entry of the decree the amount of
water in the Laramie available to Wyoming- for its water
users has been less-than the 272,500 acre feet specified in
the Court's findings, and this shortage has been caused by
the excessive and otherwise unlawful diversions before
described. It is true that some of the allegations purporting to state violations of the decree are uncertain and
indefinite, but there are many which are not subject to
this criticism, and plainly there is enough in the bill to
require that the defendant be called upon to answer it.
An order will be entered overruling the motion to dismiss, permitting Wyoming to amend her bill within thirty
days by making some of its allegations more definite and
certain, if she be so advised, and permitting Colorado to
answer the bill or amended bill, as the case may be, on or
before the first day of September, next.
Motion to Dismiss Overruled.
COLORADO v. SYMES, JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO,
No. 19, Original.

ET AL.

Rule to show cause issued March 21, 1932.

Return to rule submitted April 11, 1932.-Decided May 31, 1932.
1. The protection of Jud. Code, § 33, by which criminal proceedings
begun in state courts against revenue officers on account of their

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

511

Argument for Petitioner.

official acts, etc., may be removed to federal courts, extends to
prohibition agents. 27 U. S. C., § 45. P. 517.
2. While this removal act should be construed liberally to effect its
purpose of maintaining the supremacy of the federal laws, it must
also be construed with the highest regard for the right of the
States to make and enforce, their own laws in the field belonging
to them under the Constitution. Id.
3. A federal officer claiming removal from a state court of a prosecution against him charging murder, must plainly set forth, by
petition made, signed and unequivocally verified by himself, all
the facts relating to the occurrence, as he claims them to be, on
which the accusation is based; and it must fairly appear from the
showing made that his claim is not without foundation and is made
in good faith. P. 518.
4. A federal prohibition agent who was charged by the State with
murdering one Smith by intentionally striking him on the head
with a gun, showed by his petition for removal that, in performance
of his official duties, he and another agent went to a place to observe whether federal law was being violated and that the deceased
entered and was about to take a drink of wine from a bottle; but
the crucial occurrences that followed were disclosed only in such
statements as that the petitioner "proceeded to take possession of
said bottle" and to "arrest . . . Smith" and that thereupon Smith

"did resist arrest" and attempt to destroy the bottle of wine and
"did proceed to assault your petitioner " and did " attempt to
escape " and that one Green did attempt to assist deceased to
ecape and that "in the scuffle that ensued" and while petitioner
was engaged in the discharge of his duties, etc., it became necessary
"in order to subdue . . . Smith for your petitioner to strike" him

"on the head with your petitionet's gun." Held too vague, uncertain and incomplete a disclosure. P. 520.
5. The district -judge, in his discretion, may permit a petition for
removal under Jud. Code, § 33, to be amended. P. 521.

MANDAMUS to determine the jurisdiction of a district
court to try a criminal prosecution removed from a state

court. The case here was heard upon the State's petition and the return of the District Judge to a rule to show
cause. See 284 U. S. 523, 528,.and 530.
Messrs. Clarence L. Ireland, Attorney General of Colorado, George A. Crowder,A~sistant Attorney General, and

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

Joel E. Stone, District Attorney, Arapahoe County, were
on the brief .of petitioner.
A writ of mandamus lies to compel the United States
District Court to remand a criminal prosecution to the
state court, in the absence of any other remedy. Jud.
Code, § 234; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Virginiav.
Paul, 148 U. S. 107; Kentucky v, Powers, 201 U. S. 1; Ex
parte Harding,219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall.
364; Maryland v. Soper (No. 1), 270 U. S. 9.
A petition for removal under § 33 of the Judicial Code
must set forth all the facts and circumstances, and show
that they constitute a defense or immunity from punishment by the State. Marylandv. Soper (No. 1), and other
cases supra.
Possession of intoxicating liquor is but a misdemeanor
under the laws of the United States and of the State of
Colorado.
What force may a federal prohibition agent or officer
use in arresting for an alleged misdemeanor? The defendant, Dierks, alleges that he was protecting himself
in the discharge of his duties when the act was committed,
which is not sufficient to constitute self-defense. There
is not an allegation of fact or circumstances to show that
he was compelled to and did take the life of Smith because
he believed he was in danger of receiving great bodily
harm or death at the hands of his assailant, or any harm
or injury. Colo. Comp. L., 1921, §§ 6675, 6676; Campbell
v. People, 55 Colo. 302; Starr v. United States, 153 U. S.
614.
An officer should not assault or beat any individual
under the color of his commission or authority without
lawful necessity. Colo. Comp. L., 1921, § 6793; People
ex rel. Little v. Hutchinson, 9 F. (2d) 275; Brown v.
Wyman, 224 Mich. 360; U. S. ex rel. McSweeney v. Fullhart, 47 Fed. 802; United States v. Kaplan, 286 Fed.
963; Castle v. Lewis, 254 Fed. 917; Scibor v. Oregon-

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

Argument for Respondents.

Washington R. & N. Co., 70 Ore. 116; State v. Lane, 158
Mo. 572; Meldrum v. State, 23 Wyo. 12; North Carolina
v. Gosnell, 74 Fed. 734; Harding v. State, 26 Ariz. 334;
Lane v. Butler, 225 Ill. App. 382; People v. Klein, 305
Ill. 141; Edward Foster's Case-Lewin's Crown Cases,
Vol. I, II, p. 187; Presley v. State, 75 Fla. 434.
A petition based upon mere recitals and conclusions is
insufficient in law to warrant the removal under § 33 of
the Judicial Code.
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Youngquist, and Messrs.Mahlon D. Kiefer, John J. Byrne,
and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief for respondents.
The removal petition is not open to the objections
found in Marylandv. Soper (No. 1), 270 U. S. 9.
Section 33 does not confine the right to remove to cases
where prosecution in the state court is for an act which
the officer was authorized or required to do by his federal
duty. That would require a complete justification by
the officer, whereas under the statute it suffices that the
act be done.." under color of his office," that is, in the
ostensible pursuit of his duties and within the apparent
scope of his authority. The phrase "color of office"
covers a claim which may later turn out to be groundless,
as well as a claim which full investigation will show to
have been well founded. See Bouvier, L. Dict., "Color
of Office." Virginia v. De Hart, 119 Fed. 626; Griffiths
v. Hardenburgh, 41 N. Y. 464; Wilson v. Fowler, 88 Md.
601; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.257.
That the phrase "color of office" includes acts which
are done outside the scope of the officer's authority, see
Swift Co. v. United States, 111 U. S.22; Cr. Code, § 85,
18 U. S. C., § 171; Alcock v. Andrews, 2 Espinasse 542;
Decker v. Judson, 16 N. Y. 439; Burrall v. Acker, 23
Wend. 606.
State courts are substantially unanimous in holding
that acts are done under "color of office when they are

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Corrt.

286 U.S.

done under a pretense or claim of right, even though they
are in* fact wholly unwarranted. See Mobile County v.
Williams, 180 Ala. 639; Luther v. Banks, 111 Ga. 374;
State v. Fowler, 88 Md. 601; Thomas v. Connelly, 104
N. C. 342; Smith v. Patton, 131 N. C. 396. Cf. McCain
v. Des Moines, 174 U. S. 168; Iowa v. Des Moines, 96
Iowa 521.
Where, therefore, an officer who is authorized
to arrest
for an offense committed in his presence, or to seize contraband property openly possessed in his view, is obstructed in arresting the offender or seizing the contraband, his act in overcoming such resistance to the exercise
of his lawful authority is done "under color of his office,"
within the meaning of § 33, regardless of Whether he used
more force than was reasonably necessary to carry out
his duty. Maryland v. Ford, 12 F. (2d) 289. See also,
Rhode Island v. Richardson, 32 F. (2d) 301, motion for
leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus denied,
Ex parte Rhode Island, 280 U. S. 530; New York v. Walsh,
40 F. (2d) 58.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

November 9, 1931, the prosecuting attorney of Arapahoe county, Colorado, filed an information in the state
court charging that on November 7 Henry' Dierks killed
and murdered Melford Smith. A warrant issued, the
accused was arrested thereon and admitted to bail. He
filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus cum causa in
'the United States district court alleging that he is a
United States prohibition agent and other facts on which
he claims ,immunity from prosecution in the state court
and prayed removal.of the case to the federal court under
Judicial Code, § 33 as amended. 28 U. S. C., § 76. The
district judge granted the writ, the marshal served it as
required. by the statute, and so the case was taken from
the state court. The prosecuting attorney promptly

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

Opinion of the Court.

moved to remand on the ground that the petition is not
sufficient to give the federal court jurisdiction. His motion was denied. 55 F. (2d) 371. Thereupon, leave
having been granted, the State acting through its governor filed a motion in this court for a rule requiring the
district judge to show cause why a writ of mandamus
should not issue to compel him to remand the case. The
motion was granted and the judge has made his response
to the rule in which he maintains that mandamus should
not be granted. The case is submitted by the State on
the brief of its attorney general. The Solicitor General
of the United States submits a brief in opposition.
As the prosecuting attorney did not join issue with any
of the allegations of the petition for removal, the jurisdiction of the federal court and the validity of its action
are to be deternmined upon the allegations of the petition.
Eliminating formal parts and much unnecessary verbi-.
age, we give its full substance. After showing that Dierks
was accused, arrested and admitted to bail the petition
represents:
He has long been a prohibition agent and the act for
which he was informed against was done by right of his
office and while he was engaged in the discharge of his
official duties "in making and attempting to make an investigation concerning a violation of the National Prohibition Act and other Internal Revenue laws, and reporting the results of said investigation, and in protecting himself in the discharge of his duty as follows ":
November 7, 1931, he and one Ellsworth, another prohibition agent, were directed by the administrator in
charge to investigate a complaint of violations of the prohibition act and revenue laws reported as being committed
at No. 3005 South Broadway, in.Englewood. About 9.30
in the evening they went to that place for the purpose of
investigating such violations. It was a hamburger stand
or restaurant. Petitioner exhibited his badge and in-

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U. S.

formed the man in charge that he was a prohibition agent
and had come to investigate reports of violations of the
Act and was given permission to search the premises.
While he "was in the act of observing and searching
said premises, one Melford Smith entered
seated
himself on an unoccupied stool at the counter . . . took
out a pint bottle of wine from his inside coat pocket, and
set the said bottle of wine on the counter . . .in full and
open view of your petitioner, and . . . then proceeded to
look for a drinking glass."
Upon seeing the bottle of wine and believing Snith
engaged in violating the prohibition act and revenue
laws; petitioner "proceeded to take possession of said
bottle of wine, and to arrest . . . Smith; that thereupon
. . . Smith did resist arrest, did attempt to destroy said
bottle of wine, and did proceed to assault your petitioner
and did attempt to escape, and that thereupon one Al
Green did attempt . . . to help . . . Smith to escape,
and that in the scuffle that ensued, and while your petitioner was engaged in the discharge of his official duties
as such Federal Prohibition Officer in making, and attempting to make, said arrest of said Melford Smith, and
in protecting himself in the discharge of his duties, and
in attempting to seize said bottle of wine, it became necessary in order to subdue . . . Smith for your petitioner
to strike, and he did strike, . . . Smith on the head with
your petitioner's gun; that thereupon... Ellsworth,
came to the assistance of your petitioner; "and that they
"did arrest the said Melford Smith, the said Al'Green,
and one Leonard Carpenter, and did convey them to the"
jail at Denver.
And the petitioner goes on to say that when Smith
was placed in the jail he did not appear to have received
injury, but that on the following day he became sick and
died and petitioner "alleges that the said Melford Smith

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

Opinion of the Court.

did die from an injury to his head caused by a blow given
. . . by your petitioner during the scuffle . . ." And
petitioner states "he is not guilty of the crime of murder,
or any other offense" and that the criminal proceeding
"arises out of and solely by reason of the acts performed
by your petitioner as an officer acting" under the authority of the revenue laws and the National Prohibition
Act.
The protection afforded by § 33* extends toprohibition
agents. 27 U. S. C., § 45. The various acts of Congress
constituting the section as it now stands were enacted to
maintain the supremacy of the laws of the United States
by safeguarding officers and others acting under federal
authority against peril of punishment for violation of
state law or obstruction or embarrassment by reason of
opposing policy on the part of those exerting or controlling state power. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
Maryland v. Soper (No. 1), 270 U. S. 9, 32. The Mayor
v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247, 253. Findley v. Satterfield, Fed.
Cas. No. 4,792. It scarcely need be said that such measures are to be liberally construed to give full effect to the
purposes for which they were enacted. See Venable v.
"When

any

. . .

criminal prosecution is commenced in any court

of a State against any officer . . . acting by authority of any revenue law of the United States . . . on account of any act done under
color of his office or of any such law, or on account of any right,
title, or authority claimed by such officer . . . under any such law
for or on account of any act done under color of his office or
in the performance of his duties as such officer . . . the said . . .
prosecution may at any time before the trial or final hearing thereof
be removed for trial into the district court next to be holden in the
district where the same is pending upon the petition of such defendant to said district court and in the following manner: Said petition
shall set forth the nature of the . . . prosecution and be verified by
aflidavit and, together with a certificate signed by an attorney or
counselor at law of some court of record of the State . . . or of the
United States stating that, as counsel for the petitioner, he has

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opifijon of the Court.

286 U.S.

Richards, 105 U. S. 636, 638. State v. Sullivan, 50 Fed.
593, 594. And it is axiomatic that the right of the States,
consistently with the Constitution and laws of the United
States, to make and enforce their own laws is equal to the
right of the federal government to exert exclusive and
supreme power in the field that by virtue of the Con:
stitution belongs to it. The removal statute under consideration is to be construed with highest regard for such
equality. Federal officers and employees are not, merely
because they are such, granted immunity from prosecution in state courts for crimes against state law. Congress is not to be deemed to have intended that jurisdiction to try persons accused of violating the laws of a
state should be wrested from its courts in the absence of
a full disclosure of the facts constituting the grounds on
which they claim protection under § 33.
Here the State of Colorado charges petitioner with deliberate murder.. While homicide that is excusable or
justifiable may be committed by an "officer in the proper
discharge of his duty, murder or other criminal killing
may not. The burden is upon him who claims the removal plainly to set forth by petition made, signed and
examined the proceedings against him and carefully inquired into
all the matters set forth in the petition, and that he believes them
to be true, shall be presented to the said district court, if in session, or if it be not, to the clerk thereof at his office, and shall
be filed in said office. The cause shall thereupon be entered on the
docket of the district court and shall proceed as a cause originally
commenced in that court . . . When it [the case] is commenced by
capias or by any other similar form of proceeding by which a personal arrest is ordered, he shall issue a writ of habeas corpus cum
causa . . . and thereupon it shall be the duty of the State court
to stay all further proceedings in the cause, and the .-. . prosecution
. . . shall be held to be removed to the district court. . . . If the
defendant'. . . be in actual custody . . . it shall be the duty of
the marshal, by virtue of the writ . . . to take the body of the
defendant into his custody, to be dealt with . . . according to law
and the order of the district court . .. ."

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

Opinion of'the Court.

unequivocally verified by himself all the facts relating to
the occurrence, as he claims them to be, on which the
accusation is based. Without such disclosure the court
cannot determine whether he is entitled to the immunity.
No question of guilt or innocence arises and no determination of fact is required, but it must fairly appear from the
showing made that petitioner's claim is not without foundation and is made in good faith.
As said by Chief Justice Taft speaking for the Court in
Maryland v. Soper, supra, 33: "It must appear that the
prosecution . . . has arisen out of the acts done by him
under color of federal authority and in enforcement of
federal law, and he must by direct averment exclude the
possibility that it was based on acts or conduct of his not
justified by his federal duty. .. . [p. 34]. In invoking
the protection of a trial of a state offense in a federal court
under section 33, a federal officer abandons his right to
refuse to testify because accused of crime, at least to the
-extent of disclosing in his application for removal all the
circumstances known to him out of which the prosecution
arose. The defense he is to make is that of his immunity
from punishment by the state, because what he did was
justified by his duty under the federal law, and because
he did nothing else on which the prosecution could be
based. He must establish fully and fairly this defense
by the allegations of his petition for removal before the
federal court can properly grant it. It is incumbent on
him, conformably to the rules of good pleading, to make
the case on which he relies, so that the court may be fully
advised and the state may take issue by a motion to remand." And the opinion pointed out (p. 35) that the
allegations of the petition for removal there under consideration did not negative the possibility that the accusedwere doing other than official acts at the time or on the
occasion of the alleged murder or "make it clear and
specific that whatever was done by them leading to the

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

prosecution was done under color of their federal official
duty .... In order to justify so exceptional a procedure,
the person seeking the benefit of it should be candid.
specific and positive in explaining his relation to the transaction growing out of which he has been indicted, and in
showing that his relation to it was confined to his acts
as an officer."
It appears from a mere inspection of the petition before
us that it does not measure up to the required standard.
The outstanding fact is that petitioner killed Smith by
intentionally striking him on the head with a gun. That
is the basis of the State's prosecution. The burden is on
the accused to submit a "candid, specific and positive"
statement of the facts so that the court will be able to
determine the validity of his claim for removal. It is
sufficiently shown that in performance of official duties
he and another agent went into the place described to
observe whether federal law was being violated and that
the deceased entered and was about to take a glass of
wine from a bottle that he carried in his pocket. These
facts led up to the crucial occurrences the principal of
which was the'death blow. And as to these the statements
are not such as would naturally be employed by one desiring fully to portray what happened. For example, it
is said petitioner "proceeded to take possession of said
bottle" and to "arrest . . . Smith " and that thereupon
Smith "did resist arrest" and attempt to destroy the
bottle of wine and "did proceed to assault your petitioner"
and did "attempt to escape" and that Green did attempt
to assist deceased to escape and that "in the scuffle that
ensued" and while petitioner was engaged in the discharge of his duties, etc., it became necessary "in order
to subdue . . .Smith for your petitioner to strike" him
"on the head with your petitioner's gun."
While phrases such as those quoted may appropriately
be used to characterize facts that have been disclosed,

COLORADO v. SYMES.
510

Opinion of the Court.

they are not calculated to give specific information as to
the details of the occurrence. The statements of the petition are so vague, indefinite and uncertain as not to commit petitioner in respect of essential details of the defense
he claims. They are not sufficient to enable the court to
determine whether his claim of immunity rests on any
substantial basis or is made in good faith. The narrative
is manifestly incomplete in respect of matters known to
the petitioner and which under the established construction of the statute he was bound to disclose. The motion
to remand should have been granted.
The district judge, should he deem it proper so to do,
may permit the accused by amendment to his petition
and additional evidence or otherwise to show that he is
entitled to removal authorized by § 33. If such permission be denied or if, leave being granted, petitioner shall
fail to meet the requirements of that section, the case is to
be remanded to the state court as upon a peremptory writ
of mandamus.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

rule should be discharged.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

think the

