REED -v. ALLEN.
165

Syllabus.

depreciation, etc., were required in cases arising under the
federal income tax law, it is safe to say that the revenue
from that source would be much curtailed. The law,
which is said not to require imposaibilities, must be satisfled, in many of its applications, with fair and reasonable
approximations. Compare Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co.,
282 U. S. 133, 150; Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co.,
282 U. S. 555, 563-566; Commonwealth v. People's Five
Cents Savings Bank, 87 Mass. 428, 436.
Decree affirmed.
REED ET AL. v. ALLEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 600.

Argued April 18, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The title to real estate and the right to rents collected from it
depended alike upon one and the same construction of a will. In
an interpleader over the rents, A got the decree. B appealed,
without supersedeas, and secured a reversal; but before his appeal
was decided, A had sued him in ejectment, invoking the decree,
and recovered a judgment for the real estate. B did not appeal
from this judgment, but after the reversal of the decree he. sued A
in ejectment for the land, relying upon the reversal. Held:
(1) That the judgment in the first action of ejectment was a bar
to the second. P. 197.
. (2) B's remedy was to appeal the first ejectment as well as the
interpleader and advise the appellate court of their relation. Butler
v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240. P. 198.
2. A suit by interpleader to determbine tle right to funds collected as
-rents from a piece of land, and an action in ejectment to determine
title to the land itself, are on distinct causes of action concerning
different subject-matters, even though both depend upon the Same
facts and law, and a decree .of reversal in the interpleader suit can
not be made to operate as a reversal of a judgment for the other
party, in the ejectment cae; the rule of restitution upon reversal
is irrelevant. P. 197.
3. Jurisdiction to review one judgment gives an appellate court no
power to reverse or modify another and independent judgment.
P. 198.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioners.

286 U.S.

4. Where a judgment in one case has successfully been made the basis
for a judgment in a second case, the second judgment will stand as
res judicata, although the first judgment be subsequently reversed.
P. 199.
5. A judgment, not set aside on appeal or otherwise, is equally effective as an estoppel upon the points decided whether the decision
be right or wrong. P. 201.
57 App. D. C. 78; 54 F. (2d) 713, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 615, to review the reversal of a
judgment of ejectment. See also, 17 F. (2d) 666.
Messrs. J. Wilmer Latimer, Walter C. Clephane, and
Gilbert L. Hall submitted for petitioners.
The common law doctrine which permitted successive
ejectment actions between the same parties involving the
same issue has been abrogated by ยง 1002 of the District
of Columbia Code. Cf. Barrows v. Kindred, 4 Wall. 399.
Whenever this Court has had occasion to speak of the
estoppel by judgment, it has spoken in no uncertain terms.
Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 252; Southern Pacific
R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1; Fayerweather v.
Ritch, 195 U. S. 276; Hart Steel Co. v. Railroad Supply
Co., 244 U. S. 294; Baldwin v. Iowa State Traveling Men's
Assn., 283 U. S. 522.
The appellate court's interpretation of the will, in the
interpleader suit, was not handed down fomany months
after the first ejectment judgment had been entered and
petitioners put in possession. The present decision of
the Court of Appeals is that, notwithstanding the acquiessence of respondent in the judgment in the first ejectment suit, he is. nevertheless ndt bound by it, but may
maintain this second ejectment suit because of that intervening ruling in the interpleader suit. In other words,
when (through the appellate court's subsequent ruling in
a wholly collateral suit) it appears that a final judgment
in ejectment, unappealed from and acquiesced in, was

REED v. ALLEN.
191

Argument for Petitioners.

erroneous, the losing party may again litigate the same
issue with the same parties in a second ejectment action.
Error does not at all affect the finality and conclusiveness of a judgment not reviewed. Oklahoma v. Texas,
256 U. S. 70.
Failure to assert rights in a suit in which a judgment
is obtained, either through ignorance of law or of facts,
or through negligence or misconduct of counsel, does not
affect the estoppel; and so long as the judgment remains
unappealed from and in full force, the fact that it may
have been erroneous does not detract from its effect as
a bar to further suits upon the same cause of action.
Wilson's Executor v. Deen, 121 U. S. 525; Cromwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351; Unitfed States v. Moser, 266
U. S. 236; Elliott v. Peirsol,1 Pet. 328, 340; Chicago,R. I.
& P. R. Co., v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 6i1, 617.
So important is the maintenance of the doctrine of res
judicata that this Court has declared that it must be enforced even when no review of the judgment by appeal
was available because of the small amount involved.
Johnson Co. v.- Wharton, 152 U. S. 252.
That the interpleader decree did not create or vest
title to the real estate is obvious. The only possible authority of the court in that suit was to determine who was
entitled to the money in Walker's hands. The, trial' court's
construction of the will gave the money to petitioners as
devisees under the will. The appellate court's construction gave itto respondent Allen as heir-at-law. In either.
view the title to the land must have vested at the testator's death (which occurred about 30 years before) or as
soon after his death as the claimants came into being.
Therefore the equity court could not have vested title
to the land by its decree in the interpleader suit; and the
fact is that neither the first decree nor the decree upon
mandate attempted to do so.

194-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

286 U.S.

Petitioners' ejectment action was based, as of course
it must have been, upon the title which they had long
asserted as devisees under the will. Manifestly the judgment therein could not have been based, nor in any way
dependent, upon a decree which vested no title to the real
estate in them. But even if petitioners in that action had
erroneously. relied upon the trial court's decree in the
eollateral suit, as their source of title, respondent could
not by a second action in ejectment attack the erroneous
judgment from which he omitted to appeal.
One judgment or decree is not dependent on another
merely because the same question was involved in both
cases. Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Watson v. Jones,
13 Wall. 679, 716.
Mr. George C.'Gertman,with whom Mr. Alvin L. Newmyer was on the brief, for respondent.
Th&equity suit was in no sense collateral to the ejectment suits; it was their foundation. It alone established
the title. In both cases: it was relied on as creating the
only evidence of title.
On reversal, the law raises an obligation in the party
who 'has received the benefit of an erroneous judgment
to make restitution to the other party for what he has lost.
The reversal gives a. new right or cause of action and
ceates a legal obligation to restore what was lost by
reason of the enforcement of the erroneous judgment; and,
aa between the parties to the judgment, there is all the
priyity necessary to sustain and enforce such right.
Unit.d States v. Bank of Washington, 6 Pet. 8, 19.
What t 1002 of the Code of the District of Columbia
accomplished was merely to codify and declare the
doctrine of res judicata applicable to ejectment actions.
In its last analysis the essence of the subject of the
equity suit was that of title; the rent was secondary.

REED v. ALLEN.
191

Argument for Respondent.

Golde Clothes Shop v. Loew's Buffalo Theatres, 236 N. Y.
465, 470.
The equity branch of the court having first obtained
jurisdiction of the subject, no co-ordinate branch of the
court could usurp jurisdiction. The branch of the court
that first obtained jurisdiction retained it until its final
decree was made. 'Mackenzie v. Engelhard Co., 266 U. S.
131.
The decree of July 24, 1925, adjudged the petitioners to
be the own ers of the property; but the defeasible quality
of their title by, reason of the appeal was ingrafted upoh
it by operation ,of law and propagated itself through all
subsequent stages. Chicago, etc..R. Co. v. Fosdick, 106
U. S. 47, 71; Marks v. Cowles, 61 Ala. 299.
The controversy could not be treated as res judicata
until it had been finally decided in the court of last resort.
EasternBldg. & Loan Assn. v. Welling, 103 Fed. 352, 355.
No title could be established by the ejectment suit, as
that was the question adjudged by and involved in the defeasible decree of July 24, 1925, upon which the ejectment
suit was based. Likewise no title is to be adjudicated in
the present ejectment suit.
To have decided that the first judgment in ejectment
was a barrier to respondent's suit would have been unconscionable.
The true test of the identity of causes of action is the
identity of the facts essential to their maintenance.
Pierce v. National Bank, 268 Fed. 487; Union Central
Life Ins. Co. v. Drake, 214 Fed. 536. See Barrows v.
Kindred, 4 Wall. 399; United.Shoe Machinery Corp. v.
United States, 258 U. S. 451 ;Cromwell V. County of Sac,
94 U. S. 351.
The judgment in the first ejectment suitwas not renT
dered on the same matters that are involved in the present
one. Bird v. Cross,-123 Tenn. 419.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

286 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Coutt.
In 1922 Thomas Walker filed a bill of interpleader ia
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, naming
as defendants these petitioners '(or their predecessors)
and this 'respondent, for the purpose of having determined, as between them, the ownership of money then
in the hands of Walker, which he had collected as rentals
from certain real property. The rights of the rival claimants to the funds depended upon the construction of the
will of Silas Holmes. The court construed the will in
favor of petitioners and against respondent, and thereupon entered a decree awarding the money to the former.
Thereafter, and pending an appeal from that decree to
the District Court of Appeals taken without a supersedeas, petitioners brQught an action in ejectment against
respondent to recover the real estate from which the rents
had been derived. The title which they asserted in that
action rested upon the same provisions of the Holmes
will as were involved in the interpleader suit; and petitioners pleaded and relied upon the decree in that suit
as having conclusively established the construction of
these provisions in their favor' See Lessee of Parrish v.
Ferris,2 Black 606, 608. Judgment was rendered for petitioners, and possession of the real property delivered to
them under a writ issued to carry the judgment into effect. From this judgment respondent did not appeal.
Thereafter, the District Court of Appeals reversed the
decree of the District Supreme Court in the interpleader
suit and remanded the cause for further proceedings not
inconsistent with its opinion. 57 App. D. C. 78; 17 F.
(2d) 666. Following the mandate issued thereon, the
trial court vacated its decree and directed payment of
the rental money to the respondent.

REED v. ALLEN.
191

Opinion of the Court.

Some months later a second ejectment action was
brought, this time by respondent against petitioners for
he repossession of the same real property. By way of
'stoppel petitioners pleaded the final judgment in the first
'jectment action, upon which the trial court gave judgment in their favor. Upon appeal to the District Court
of Appeals the latter judgment was reversed. 54 F. (2d)
713.
The appellate court thought that the first ejectment
action was merely in aid of the decree in the equity suit,
and that when that decree was reversed the judgment in
the first ejectment action fell with it. With that view we
cannot agree. The'interpleader suit and the decree made
therein involved only the disposition of the funds collected and held by Walker. The decree adjudged, and
could adjudge, nothing in respect of the real estate. It
is perfectly plain, therefore, that petitioners could not
have been put into possession of the real property by
force of that decree; and it is equally plain that respondent.could not have been put into such possession in virtue
of the reversal. So far as that property-is concerned, the
rule in respect of restitution upon reversal of a judgment
is irrelevant. The first action in ejectment was not
brought to effectuate anything adjudicated by the decree,
or, in any sense, in aid thereof. It was brought to obtain
an adjudication of a claim in respect of a different subject
matter. The facts and the lavi upon which the right to
the money and the title to the realty depended may have
been the same; but they were asserted in different causes
of action. The decree in the, interpleader suit no more
vested title to, or compelled delivery of possession of,
the realty than the judgment in the ejectment action required payment to one party or*the other of the money
surrendered by the stakeholder. Compare United States
v. Moser, 266 U. S. 236, 241.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U. S.

The judgment in the ejectment action was final and
not open to assault collaterally, but subject to impeachment only through some form of direct attack. The appelate court was limited to a review of the interpleader
decree; and it is hardly necessary to say that jurisdiction
to review one judgment gives an appellate court no power
to reverse or modify another and independent judgment.
If respondent, in addition to appealing from the decree,
had appealed from the judgment, the appellate court, having both cases before it, might have afforded a remedy.
Butler v. Eaton,141 U. S. 240. But this course respondent
neglected to follow. What the appellate court would or
could have done if an appeal from the judgment had been
takhi and had been heard in advance of the appeal from
the decree is idle speculation, since the probability that
such a contingency would have arisen is so remote as to
put it beyond the range of reasonable supposition. In the
first place, the appeal from the decree had been taken and
was pending when the judgment in the law action was
rendfed. It ivell may be assumed that the natural and
usual course, of hearing cases in the. order of their filing
would'have been followed. But, in addition to that, both
appeals necessarily would have been pending before the
appeal from the judgment possibly could have been heard,
and it rationally may not be doubted that upon application and a showing of their relationship the court would
have heard them, together, or at least not/ have disposed
of the appeal from the judgment withoit considering its
connection with the other appeal from the decree.
The predicament in which respondent finds himself is
of his own making, the result of an utter failure to follow
the course which the decision of. this court. in Butler v
Eaton, supra, had plainly pointed out. Having so failed,
we can not be expeQted, for his sole relief, to upset the
general and well established doctrine 'of res judicata, conceived in the light of the maximthat the, interest of the

REED v. ALLEN.
191

199,

Opinion of the Court.

state requires that there be an end to litigation-a maxim
which comports with common sense as well as public
,policy. And the mischief which would follow the establishment of a precedent for so disregarding this salutary
doctrine against prolonging strife would be greater than
the benefit which would result from relieving some case of
individual hardship. United States v. Throckmorton,
98 U. S. 61, 65, 68-69.
The rule has been settled for this court that where a
judgment in one case has successfully been made the
basis for a judgment in a second case, the second judgment will stand as res judicata, although the first judg-ment be subsequently reversed. Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499. There a federal court had upheld
a contract of exemption from taxation, basing its decision
upon the judgment of a state court of first instance.
Subsequently that judgment was reversed. On error to
the state court of appeals, it was held that under the
doctrine of res judicata the judgment of the federal court
estopped each party from again litigating the question.
Speaking for the court, Mr. Justice Day said (pp. 510511):
"It is urged that the state judgment upon which the
Federal decree of 1898 is based was afterward reversed.
by the highest court of Kentucky, and, -therefore, the
-foundation of the decree has been removed and the decree
itself must fall. But is this argument--seind? When a
plea of -res judicata is interposed based'iiri6n a former
judgment between the parties, the question is not what
were the reasons upon which the judgment proceeded, but
what was the judgment itself, was itwithin the jurisdiction of the court, between the same parties, and is it still in
force and effect? The doctrine of estoppel by judgment
is founded upon the proposition that all controversieg
and contentions involved are set at rest by a'judgment,
or decree lawfully rendered which ;in its terms em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

bodied a settlement of the rights of the parties. It would
undermine the foundation of the principle upon which it,
is based if the court might inquire into and revise the
reans which led the court to make the judgment ....
We are unable to find reason or authority supporting the
proposition that because a judgment may have been given
for wrong reasons or has been subsequently reversed, that
it is any the less effective as an estoppel between the
parties while in force.
"It is to be remembered," the court added (p. 512),
"that we are not dealing with the right of the parties to
get relief from the original judgment by bill of review or
other process in the Federal court in which it was rendered. There the court may reconsider and set aside or
modify its judgment upon seasonable application. In
every other forum the reasons for passing the decree are
wholly immaterial and the subsequent reversal of the
judgment upon which it is predicated Can have no other
effect than to authorize the party aggrieved to move in
some.proper proceeding, in the court of its rendition, to
modify it or set it aside. It cannot be attacked collater:ally, and in every other court must be given full force and,
effect, irrespective of the reasons upon which it is based."
Parkhurstv. Berdell, 110 N. Y. 386, 392; 18 N. E. 123,
is, cited with approval. In that case the Court of Appeals of "New York, rejected the contention that the
reversal of a judgment which had been given effect as an
estoppel in-a second action, would avoid the force of the
second judgment.
"If the judgment-roll was competent evidence when
received," the state court said, "its reception was not
rendered erroneous by the subsequent reversal of the
judgment. Notwithstanding its reversal, it continued in
this action to have the same effect to which it was entitled when received in evidence. The only relief a party
against whom a judgment which has been subsequently

REED v. ALLEN.

11l

CARwOZo, J., dissenting.

191

reversed has thus been received in evidence can have is to
move on that fact in the court of original jurisdiction for
,anew trial, and then the court can, in the exercise of its
discretion, grant or refuse a new trial, as justice may
require."
See also Gould v. Sternberg, 128 Ill. 510, 515-.516;
21 N. E. 628.
These decisions constitute applications of the general
and well settled rule that a judgment, not set aside on
appeal or otherwise, is equally effective as an estoppel
upon the points decided, whether the decision be right
or wrong. Cornett v. Williams, 20 Wall. 226, 249-250;
Wilson's Executor v. Deen, 121 U. S. 525, 534; Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 617. The indulgence of a contrary view would result in creating elements 'of uncertainty and confusion and in undermining
the conclusive character of judgments,. consequences
which it was the very purpose of the doctrine of res
judicata to avert.
Judgment reversed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDoZO,

dissenting.

The real estate belonging to Silas Holmes was devised
by his will, in the event of the death of his daughter
"without issue," to his nephew and to his brothers and
sisters then living, in equal shares.
Upon the death of the daughter a controversy arose between her grandson, Lorenzo Allen, who was the sole surviving descendant of the testator, and the nephew and
brothers and sisters.
An interpleader suit followed to determine the distribution of rents deposited as a fund in the Registry of
the Court.
In that suit the Supreme Court of the District adjudged
on July 24, 1925, that the true interpretation of the will
of Silas Holmes was that upon the death of his daughter'

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

"without leaving child her surviving," the real estate
described in the bill of complaint was devised to the
nephew and the brothers and sisters, and that the rents
accruing since her death should be divided in the same
way.
On appeal to the Court of Appeals that decree was
reversed (January 3, 1927) with the result that on May
27, 1927, a final decree was entered vacating the decree
of July 24, 1925, adjudging that the tryxe interpretation
of the will of Silas Holmes was that upon the death of
said decedent's daughter, Virginia Allen, leaving issue,
i. e., a grandson, but no child her surviving, "the said
will became inoperative as to the real estate therein described and the said testator therefore died intestate as
to the said real estate," and further adjudging that the
balance of the fund on deposit in the registry be paid to
Lorenzo Allen, the sole heir at law.
. In the meantime, the nephew and the brothers and
sisters, who for convenience will be spoken of as the collateral relatives, brought an action of ejectment against
the heir to recover the possession of the real estate adjudged to be theirs by the decree of July, 1925. In that
action they relied solely upon the will and the decree
establishing their ownership thereunder. The defendant,
admitting the decree, set up the plea that an appeal had
been taken from it and was still undetermined. A
demurrer to the plea w.s sustained, and the plaintiffs
recovered a judgment (August 21, 1926), under which
possession was delivered to them. From that judgment
the defendant did not prosecute an appeal..
In December, 1927, upon the entry of the final, decree
in the equity court the respondent, Lorenzo Aller (the
defendant in the first action of ejectment) brought this
action of ejeetment against the collateral relatives to recover the possession of the real estate from which they

REED v. ALLEN.
191

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

had ousted him. The defendants pleaded in-bar the judgment previously rendered in their favor in the first action
of ejectment. The plaintiff (the respondent here) filed a
replication showing the relation between .that judgment
and the equity decree and the reversal of the decree after
possession had been delivered. The Supreme Court of
the District sustained a demurrer to the replication and
ordered judgment for the defendants. The Court of Appeals reversed and gave the possession to the plaintiff.
.The case is here upon certiorari.
The respondent, in order to prevail, must uphold three
propositions. He must show: (1) that he is entitled to
restitution of any property interests lost to him by force
of the erroneous decree; (2) that in losing possession
under the judgment of ejectment he suffered a loss th't
was caused by the decree; (3) that the present action of
ejectment is, irrespective of its name, an action for restitution, and an appropriate remedy to put him back where
he was at the time of the ouster.
1. As to proposition number 1, there is hardly room for
controversy. The rule is abundantly settled both in this
court and elsewhere that what has been lost to a litigant
under the compulsion of a judgment shall be restored
thereafter, in the event of a reversal, by the litigants opposed to him, the beneficiaries of the error. Arkadelphia
Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134; Northwestern)
Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216; Uiited States Bank v.
Bank of Washington, 6 Pet. 8, 17; Haebler v. Myers, 132
N. Y. 363; 30 N. E. 963. Two remedies exist, the one by
summary motion addressed to the appellate court, the
other by a plenary suit. The books show that it has long
been the practice to embody in thre mandate of reversal a
direction that the plaintiff in error "be restored to all
things which he hath lost by occasion of the. said judgment," Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co!

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
CAPwozo, J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

supra; Haebler v. Myers, supra. What this was might
be ascertained through an order to show cause known
as a scire facias quare restitutionem habere non debet.
Haebler v. Myers, supra. Inquiry was then made whether.
anything had been taken "by colour of the judgment,"
(Sympson v. Juxon, Cro. Jac., 698), with an appropriate
mandate for the return of anything discovered. On the
other hand, the litigant who has prevailed on the appeal
is not confined to a motion for summary relief. He may
elect to maintain an action, or the court in its discretion
may remit him to that remedy. United States Bank v.
Bank of Washington, supra; Haebler v. Myers,, supra;
Clark v. Pinney, 6 Cowen 297. One form of remedy or
the other, however, is granted as of right. The remedy
in its essence like the one for money had and received is
for the recovery of benefits that in good conscience may no
longer be retained. "It is one of the equitable powers inherent in every court of justice, so long as it retains control of the subject matter and of the parties, to correct
that which has been wrongfully done by virtue of its
process." Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co.,
supra. Indeed, the correction may extend to cases where
the postulants for restitution are not even parties to the
record. Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co.,
sUpra, p. 146; Stevens v. Fitch, 11 Metc. 248. The whole
subject has heretofore been dealt with in a spirit of the
largest liberality. The judicial process has been moulded
with an anxious effort to put an end as speedily as may
-be to wrongs originating in judicial errors.
2. Our second inquiry must now be answered: Was the
loss of possession under the judgment of ejectment a
loss that was inflicted upon the respondent by force 'of the
decree in equity adjudging, and adjudging erroneously,
that the petitioners were the owners?
A question very similar was considered by the courts
of New York in the early case of Clark v. Pinney, 6

REED v. ALLEN.
191

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

Cowen 297 (cited by this court in United States Bank v.
Bank of Washington, supra). The plaintiffs lad given
a note in satisfaction of an execution issued on a judgment, and thereafter a second judgment was recovered
on the note. The first judgment having been reversed,
they sued to recover the money paid upon the second.
The decision was that the defendant had money in his
hands that ex aequo et bono was owing to the plaintiffs,
and that he should be compelled to pay it back. The
court was not deterred from this conclusion by the intervention of a second judgment, unappealed from, between
the first judgment and the payment. It looked to the
events in their combined significance, and viewed the
action for restitution as an instrument of justice. The
entry of a second judgment, instead of being a circumstance fastening the rivets of injustice, was merely an
additional reason why the rivets should be broken.
The problem now before us should be approached in
a like spirit.
If the decree had contained a provision that the petitioners were entitled to a deed to be executed by a trustee,
there can be no doubt that upon the reversal of the decree
they could have been required to execute a deed back. If
the trustee had refrained from executing a conveyance
and had been compelled by a separate decree to fulfill what
appeared to be his duty, only a narrow view of the remedial powers of equity would discover in the separate decree a decisive element of difference. The restitution that
would have been decreed if the auxiliary proceeding had
been one in equity, is equally available here where the
auxiliary remedy was one at law, an action of ejectment
for the recovery of possession. In every substantial sense,
the judgment in ejectment was the consequence and supplement of the erroneous adjudication that the petitioners
were the owners and entitled. to the rents. The respondent made no claim to, any right of possession except such
right as was his by virtue of ownership under the will.

OCTOBER TERM, 193t.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

The petitioners made no claim on their side apart from the
will and the decree adjudicating ownership in them.
Looking into the record of the trial, as we are privileged
to do, in order to ascertain the grounds upon which possession was awarded (Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U. S. 70,
88; National Foundry Co. v. Oconto Water-Supply Co.,
183 U. S. 216, 234; Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, 608),
we find that there was no opportunity for a consideration
upon the merits of the respondent's claim of title, and
that within the principle of res judicatathere was nothing
to be tried. Indeed, the respondent made no contention
to the contrary, but merely urged in his plea that judgment be deferred till the appeal from the decree could be
determined by the appellate court. The plea being overruled, judgment of ouster followed as an inevitable consequence. It was as inevitable, and as plainly the fruit
of the earlier decree in equity, as it would have been if
that decree had said upon its face that the respondent
was under a duty to surrender possession to the petitioners
if possession was demanded.
The argument for the petitioners is that the respondent
in this predicament had one remedy, and one only, an
appeal from the judgment giving effect to the decree, and
that failing to prosecute that remedy, he became helpless
altogether. I concede that an appeal was a remedy available to the respondent, but not that it was his only one,
or that the failure to pursue it brought down upon his
head a penalty so dire. Clark v. Pinney, supra. Consider the situation in which'he would have stood if the
appeal had been taken. The judgment of ejectment was
not erroneous when rendered. No other judgment could
properly have been rendered if there was to .be adherence
to the principle of res judicata. The Court of Appeals
would have been constrained to affirni it, whether they
believed the earlier decision to be correct or erroneous,

REED v. ALLEN.
191

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

if the accidents of the calendar had brought up the review
of the judgment before there had been opportunity to
pass upon the decree. Parkhurst v. Berdell, 110 N. Y.
386; 18 N. E. 123; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S.
499, 512. Even if the appeal from the decree had been
heard and decided first, the reversal of the second judgment would have followed, not for any error of the trial
court, but in furtherance of substantial justice by the
application of principles analogous to those that govern
the allowance or denial of a writ of restitution. The
subject was considered in Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240.
The ruling there was that the court in such a situation,
if it learns from its own records that the foundation judgment has been reversed, will set aside the second though
the trial be free from error. By a short cut to justice it
will relieve the litigant of the necessity of resorting to.
bills of review and motions for a new trial and all the
technical apparatus familiar to students of procedure.
Cf. Ballard v. Searls, 130 U. S. 50, 55; Walz v. Agricultural Ins. Co., 282 Fed. 646. On the other hand, there
are barriers to remedies so summary where the decree of
reversal has been rendered in the courts of another jurisdiction. Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, supra. In such circumstances the reversal is no longer cognizable without
proof, is no longer within the range of judicial notice.
There are, besides, other complications resulting from the
duty of a State to give effect and credit to the judgments
of the federal courts and those of other States. Deposit
Bank v. Frankfort, supra. The very fact, however, that
the second judgment will be reversed where the reversal
of the first judgment is known to the appellate court by
force of judicial notice is in itself a potent token that the
second judgment is understood to be the product of the
first, and hence within the equity and reason of the writ
of restitution. What was written in Butler v. Eaton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

supra, pp. 243, 244, can be applied with little variation
here. "The judgment complained of," it was there writSupreme
ten, "is based directly upon the judgment of the
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, which we have just
reversed. It is apparent from the inspection of the record
that the whole foundation of the part of the judgment
which is in favor of the defendant is, to our judicial
knowledge, without any validity, force or effect, and ought
never to have existed. Why, then, should not we reverse
the judgment which we know of record has become erroneous, and save the parties the delay and expense of taking ulterior proceedings in the court below to effect the
same object?" The respondent is in a worse plight than
was the plaintiff in error in Butler v. Eaton. He has no
remedy in the court of first instance, unless it be by an
action of this nature, for the time to move for a new trial
on the ground of newly discovered evidence expired with
the term. United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55; Realty
Acceptance Corp. v. Montgomery, 284 U. S. 547. If he
had appealed from the judgment in ejectment and the
appeal had been heard and decided before the reversal of
the decree, his position would be no better. Upon the
reversal of the decree afterwards he would still, in the
view of the petitioners, have been left without a remedy;
there -would even then have been no power in the court
to undo the wrong that had been perpetrated under color
of its mandate. I think we should hesitate long before
committing our procedure to so sterile a conclusion.
For the purpose of the case before us, no significance is
to be given to the provisions of the Code (Code of District of Columbia, ยง 1002) whereby "a final judgment
rendered in an action of ejectment shall be conclusive as
to the title thereby established as between the parties to
the action and, all persons claiming under them since the
commencement of the action." The object of that statute

REED v. ALLEN.
191

CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

was to abrogate anomalies as to the effect of a judgment
in ejectment that had grown up at common law when the
remedy was held to be one affecting possession only, and
not directed to the title. Cincinnati v. White, 6 Pet. 431,
443. The codifiers did not mean that a party who has recovered in ejectment shall be more immune from restitution than one in any other form of action. A different
question would be here if the persons resisting restitution
were not the immediate parties to the suit, but strangers
acquiring an interest in the property in reliance on
the judgment. As to strangers so situated the remedy
of restitution has been excluded since ancient days.
Matthew Manning's Case, 4 Coke 94; United States Bank
v. Bank of Washington, supra.
3. The third branch of the inquiry need not detain us
long. If I have been right in what has gone before, there
can be little room for controversy as to the fitness of the
remedy. An action for restitution has for its aim to give
back to a suitor what a judgment has taken from him.
What was taken from the respondent under the shelter
of this reversed decree and because of its coercive power
was the' possession of a tract of land. The- effect of a
judgment in this action of ejectment will be to re-establish his possession and put him where he Was before.
The quality of the remedy is to be determined by the end
to be achieved, and not by any label, whether restitution
or ejectment.
A system of procedure is perverted from its proper function when it multiplies impediments to justice without
the warrant of clear necessity. By the judgment about
to be rendered, the respondent, caught in a mesh of procedural complexities, is told that there was only one way
out of them, and this a way he failed to follow. Because
of that omission he is to be left ensnared in the web, the
processes of the law, so it is said, being impotent to set him

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

free. I think the paths to justice are not so few and
narrow. A little of the liberality of method that has
shaped the law of restitution in the past (Clark v. Pinney,
supra; Arkadelphia v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., supra)
is still competent to find a way.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

this opinion.
CHAMPLIN REFINING CO. v. CORPORATION
COMMISSION OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 122.

Argued March 23, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. In Oklahoma, as generally elsewhere, the owners of the land containing an oil and gas pool do not have absolute title to those
minerals as'they permeate below the surface; but each has the
right through wells on his own land to take all the oil and gas that
he may be able to reduce to possession, including that coming from
the land of the others. P. 233.
2. This right, however, is constitutionally subject to reasonable regulation by the State, to the end that the natural gas pressure available for lifting the oil to the surface, may not be unreasonably and
wastefully used, and that the common supply of gas and oil may not
be unreasonably and wastefully depleted to the injury of the others
who are entitled to take from the-same pool. Id.
3. Even though an operator' have facilities for making useful disposition of all the oil and gas that may naturally flow from his wells,
he has not a constitutional right to operate them at full production where such operation, by improvident use of natural gas pressure, would itself cause a serious diminution of the quantity of oil
ultimately to be recovered from the pool, and, by compelling other
* Together with No. 485, Champlin Refining Co. v.- Corporation
Commission of Oklahoma et al.; and No. 486, Corporation Commission of Oklahoma et al. v. Champlin Refining Co.

