SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. YOUNGBLOOD.

313

Opinion of the Court.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. YOUNGBLOOD,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 788. Submitted April 28, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.
1. A conductor on an engine had a definite written order to enter
on a certain passing track and there to await the passing of a train
coming from the opposite direction on the main line, but in disobedience of such order, proceeded beyond the meeting point and
thus brought about a head-on collision, in which he was killed.
Held, that his negligence was the proximate cause of his death,
and the fact that, through oversight of other employees, a duplicate of the same order and an oral confirmation of it were not
delivered to him when he arrived at the meeting point, did not
render the railroad company liable. P. 316.
2. Where, of two trains dispatched on the same track in opposite
directions, the one ordered 'to wait at a meeting point ran past it
and collided with the other, which had the right of way, held that
failure to deliver the passing instruction to the latter before it
reached the place of collision was not causal negligence. P. 317.
166 S.C. 140; 164 S. E. 431, reversed.
CERTIORARI,* to review the affirmance of a recovery un-.
der the Federal Employers' Liability Act.

Messrs. H. O'B. Cooper, Sidney S. Alderman, Frank G.
Tompkins, and S. R. Prince submitted for petitioners.
Mr. William C. Wolfe submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent brought this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover for the death of her intestate, a conductor in petitioners' employ, who was killed
in a head-on collision while riding on the engine of an
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

extra train. Petitioners operate a single track railroad
between Charleston and Columbia, South Carolina,
through Branchville, Orangeburg, St. Matthews, and
Fort Motte. Trains running from Columbia to Charleston are designated eastbound, and those from Charleston to Columbia westbound. On the morning of the
accident the engine of a westbound freight train became
disabled at Fort Motte, a station nineteen miles' west of
Orangeburg. A yard engine kept at Branchville, eighteen
miles east of Orangeburg, was ordered to go to its relief.
This locomotive, running light, was designated as Extra
483 West, and had a crew consisting of respondent's intestate as conductor, an engineer, and a fireman. A
freight train known as Extra 723. East was moving eastwardly from Columbia to Charleston, and it was necessary for the two to meet and pass somewhere on the line.
The train dispatcher at Charleston sent a telegraphic order to Branchville, the place of departure of Extra 483,
and to Orangeburg, the selected passing point, as follows:
"Extra 723 East get this order and meet Extra 483
West at Orangeburg. Engine 483 run extra Branchville
to Andrews."
Such an order is known as a form 31, which has to be
signed for by the conductor when delivered to him. The
order was transmitted and received by the operators at
Branchville and Orangeburg as a "three copy" order and
the operator at Branchville accordingly made three copies,
one for his file and two which he delivered to respondent's
intestate, who signed for the same and delivered one to the
engineer. They read it in the presence of the fireman
before leaving Branchville. There was nothing on the
face of the order to indicate that No. 483 would be given
additional copies of it, or would receive any other order, at
Orangeburg, the designated passing point. The Charleston dispatcher intended that this order as transmitted to
Orangeburg, and addressed at that point to "Extra 723

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. YOUNGBLOOD.
313

315

Opinion of the Court.

East and operator," should be what is known as a "fivecopy" order-that is, that the operator at Orangeburg
should make five copies, one for his file and two to be delivered to the conductor of each of the trains which were
to pass at that point. Through some oversight the
Orangeburg operator received the message as a three-copy
order, one of which would be retained for his file and the
other two given to the conductor of Extra 723 East.
Thus there were no copies for delivery, as intended, to
respondent's intestate, the conductor of Extra 483 West,
as there would have been had the order been received and
understood at Orangeburg as a five-copy one.
Under the rules of the company the eastbound train,
723, was the superior, and it was the duty of 483 to take
the siding at Orangeburg and permit the other to pass on
the main track. At that point the semaphore signal was
located in front of the operator's office about seventy-five
yards east of the east switch of the pass track, so that the
westbound 483 approaching Orangeburg would necessarily
have to pass this semaphore to reach the entrance of the
pass track, which is about three-fourths of a mile long.
As 483 was approaching the semaphore the Charleston
dispatcher called the Orangeburg operator and inquired
as to its whereabouts. The operator replied that it was
then approaching. The dispatcher -told the- operator to
"tell him to go to the west end of the pass track and
wait on Extra 723." Engine 483 stopped just east of the
semaphore and blew four blasts, a signal inquiring whether
the operator has any orders for the train. In response
the latter dropped the semaphore, which is an indication
to the crew that there are no further orders and that they
are to proceed under those they then have. The intended
verbal instructions were not given. After leaving Branchville the crew of No. 483, having receivea io further or
other orders with respect to passing Extra 723, were under
a duty to follow the written orders received at Branch-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

ville, which involved passing the semaphore at Orangeburg and going on the pass track to clear the main line
for No. 723. Instead the train went up the main line,
failing to enter the pass track at either the east or the west
switch. As it approached the west switch a yard locomotive blew a warning -blast and the engine stopped
momentarily. The fireman then inquired of the conductor and engineer whether they were not going to go in
on the pass track, to which the conductor replied that they
had time to reach the switch at Stilton, some two miles
beyond. They proceeded on the main track beyond Stilton, evidently missing the switch there because of a heavy
fog. The engine collided head-on with Extra 723, killing
respondent's intestate and the engineer, and three of the
crew of 723.
There was no allegation of negligence on the part of
the engineer of 483 or any member of the crew of Extra
723, the sole claims being with respect to the failure of
the pperator at Orangeburg to make a five-copy passing
order and deliver two copies of it to the respondent's intestate, and the failure of the same operator fo give the
verbal instructions to respondent's intestate to run to
the west end of the pass track and wait for 723. A request by petitioners for a binding instruction, on the
ground that there was no evidence of negligence on the
part of petitioners or their employee which in whole or
in part caused the accident, was refused. The trial court
submitted the case to the jury and a resulting verdict
and judgment in favor of respondent was affirmed by the
state supreme court.
Beyond peradventure respondent's intestate disobeyed
a definite order which was not revoked or superseded by
any other orders, verbal or written. By force of this
order and the rules of the company No. 483 was bound
to pass the semaphore at Orangeburg, run onto the pass

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. YOUNGBLOOD.
313

317

Opinion of the Court.

track, and not leave until 723 had passed on the main
track. Copies were found on the persons of both the conductor and engineer after the collision. This crass disobedience of operating orders was the sole cause of the
intestate's death. If the order respecting the passing of
the trains had been made as a five-copy order the operator at Orangeburg would merely have handed the crew
two copies in the same words as those of the order they
then held, which then governed their conduct. If the
operator at Orangeburg had verbally confirmed the order
that 483 was to run to the west end of the pass track
and wait there for 723 this verbal instruction would not
in any wise have altered the duty of respondent's intestate under his existing written orders.
The suggestion is made that the dispatcher was negligent in not communicating the passirjg: order to the crew
of Extra 723 at some point west of .Orangeburg, so that
they would have known they were to pass Extra 483 at
Orangeburg; But such a procedure would not have altered the running of Extra 723 in any particular. It
would still have had the right of way over 483 to and
through Orangeburg, and the accident occurred over three
miles west of that point.
The case come to this: that resp6ndont's intestate had
clear and definite orders which if obeyed would have
avoided the accident and the disobedience whereof was
the sole efficient cause of his death. As said in Unadilla
ValleylRy. Co. v. Caldine, 278 U. $. 139, 142:
"A failure to stop a man from doing what he knows
that he ought not to do, hardly can be called a cause of
his act. Caldine had a plain duty and he knew it. The
message would only have given him another motive for
obeying the rule that he was bound to obey."
The record is destitute of any evidence of negligence
on the part of the petitioners or their servants or agents

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

which was in any degree a cause of the death of respondent's intestate, and there was nothing to submit to the

jury.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion..

Reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. DANTZLER,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 787.

Submitted April 28, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
166 S. C. 148; 164 S. E. 434, reversed.

Messrs. H. O'B. Cooper, Sidney S. Alderman, Frank G.
Tompkins, and S. R. Prince submitted for petitioners.
Mr. William C. Wolfe submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to No. 788, Southern Ry. Co.
v. Youngblood, decided this day, ante, p. 313. The respondent's intestate was the engineer of the train known
as Extra 483 West. He had on his person after the accident his copy of the orders received at Branchville. The
negligence claimed is practically the same as in No. 788,
and none is alleged as against any member of the decedent's crew or that of the train tvith which his engine
collided. After the accident Dantzler was taken to a
hospital, where before his death he stated to two persons
that the accident was his fault-that he forgot his orders
and ran past the point where he was directed to pass the
other train.

