210

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

free. I think the paths to justice are not so few and
narrow. A little of the liberality of method that has
shaped the law of restitution in the past (Clark v. Pinney,
supra; Arkadelphia v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., supra)
is still competent to find a way.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

this opinion.
CHAMPLIN REFINING CO. v. CORPORATION
COMMISSION OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 122.

Argued March 23, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. In Oklahoma, as generally elsewhere, the owners of the land containing an oil and gas pool do not have absolute title to those
minerals as'they permeate below the surface; but each has the
right through wells on his own land to take all the oil and gas that
he may be able to reduce to possession, including that coming from
the land of the others. P. 233.
2. This right, however, is constitutionally subject to reasonable regulation by the State, to the end that the natural gas pressure available for lifting the oil to the surface, may not be unreasonably and
wastefully used, and that the common supply of gas and oil may not
be unreasonably and wastefully depleted to the injury of the others
who are entitled to take from the-same pool. Id.
3. Even though an operator' have facilities for making useful disposition of all the oil and gas that may naturally flow from his wells,
he has not a constitutional right to operate them at full production where such operation, by improvident use of natural gas pressure, would itself cause a serious diminution of the quantity of oil
ultimately to be recovered from the pool, and, by compelling other
* Together with No. 485, Champlin Refining Co. v.- Corporation
Commission of Oklahoma et al.; and No. 486, Corporation Commission of Oklahoma et al. v. Champlin Refining Co.

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

211

Syllabus.

owners to speed production in self-defense, would cause them to add
to that waste and cause them to waste oil on the surface by producing it in excess of their means of transport and proper storage
and their market demand. P. 233.
4. A statute of Oklahoma prohibits waste of petroleum. Section 3
defines waste to include, in addition to its ordinary meaning, economic, underground and surface waste, and waste incident to production in excess of transportation or marketing facilities or reasonable market demands; and it empowers a -commission to make
regulations for the prevention of such waste. Section 4 provides
that whenever full production from any common source of supply
"can only be had under conditions constituting waste as herein
defined" then any person having a right to produce from such
common source" may take therefrom only such proportion of all
crude oil and petroleum that may be produced therefrom, without
waste,, as the production of the well or wells of such person . . .
bears to the total production of such common source of supply."
Held, That in this case it is not shown that the rule of proration
prescribed in § 4, or any other provision involved, amounts to or
authorizes arbitrary interference with private business or property
rights or that such statutory rule is not reasonably calculated to
prevent the wastes specified in § 3. P. 234.
5. Section 2 of the statute, objected to as authorizing the regulation
of prices -of crude oil, is separable from-4he parts under which the
order of proration, to prevent waste, was'made in this Case; and
its constitutionality need not be considered, Id.
6. A declaration in a statute that invalidity of any part shall not
affect the validity of the other parts, creates a presumption that,
eliminating invalid parts, the legislature would have enacted the
remainder. - Id.
7. Proration orders applying to the production of oil but not to sales
or transportation, held consistent with the commerce clause of the
national Constitution. P. 235.
8. An -order of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission prorating the
production of oil from a c6mmon; source to prevent waste, will not
be set aside at the suit of one of the producers when not shown to
be arbitrary or discriminatory in- fact, merely because information
as to. production etc., upon which the Commission. acted, was procured by other producers in the'same field, serving the Commission
gidthout pay, and by an- umpire, whose salary "and expenses in
default of legislative appropriations, were paid by such -producers.
P. 236.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Statement of the Case.

286 U.S.

9. Since a proration order, though valid under the Oklahoma statute
at one time, may through change of conditions cease to be so and
may become unjust and arbitrary at a later time, denial of an injunction will not preclude the plaintiff from applying again on a
different state of facts. P. 236.
10. To warrant an injunction to restrain criminal proceedings under a
state statute as unconstitutionally affecting property rights, there
must be a present danger that such proceedings will be taken.
P. 237.
11. In a suit attacking the constitutionality of administrative orders
made under a state statute, held that the federal court had authority to stay their enforcement pending an appeal from its order
denying a temporary injunction. P. 239.
12. Section 9 of the Oklahoma statute, supra, provides that any person violating the Act shall be subject to have his producing property
placed in the hands of a receiver by a court of competent jurisdiction, at the suit of the State through the Attorney General, but that
such receivership shall only extend to the operating of producing
wells and the marketing of the production thereof under the provisions of the Act. Held:
(1) That .a proceeding under the section, taken in a state court
against the plaintiff in a pending suit in the federal court, was properly restrained by the latter pending its final decision on the validity
of provisions of the statute and orders made under it. P. 239.
(2) The fact that the Attorney General dismissed the proceeding
brought, though not required to do so, did not establish that prosecution under the section was no longer imminent. P. 240.
(3) The section considered with other parts of the Act, is plainly
a penal provision. Id.
(4) As such it is void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it ' purports to punish violations of
regulatory provisions of the Act, §§ 1, 3, 4, (not orders of the
Commission) which are too vague and indefinite to afford a standard
of conduct. P. 243.
51 F. (2d) 823, affirmed with modifications.

APPEAi,s in a suit brought by the Refining Company
for the purpose of enjoining the enforcement of certain
provisions of the Oklahoma "Curtailment Act," as to oil
and gas, and of certain orders made under it by the Corporation Commission. No. 122 was an appeal from an
order denying a temporary injunction. It is dismissed.

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

213

Argument for the Company.

The other two branches were cross-appeals from different
parts of the final decree.
Messrs. Harry 0. Glasser and James M. Beck, with
whom Messrs. George S. Ramsey, Horace G. McKeever,
and EdgarA. DeMeules were on the brief, for the Champlin Refining Co.
The business of producing and marketing crude oil is
not a public service business, nor does the producer devote
his property to a public use. He has the right to drill
on his land and take all the oil and gas he can get so long
as he does not waste it. If he devotes it to a useful purpose his right to take extends to any oil he can find under
his land wherever it comes from. All offset wells draw oil
from adjoining lands as well as the land upon which they
are located. This has long been the established rule of
property in Oklahoma. Kolachny v. Galbreath, 26 Okla.
772. See also, Rich v. Doneghey, 71 Okla. 204; Frank Oil
Co. v. Belleview Gas & Oil Co., 29 Okla. 719; Priddy v.
Thompson, 204 Fed. 955; Alexander v. King, 46 F. (2d)
235; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 209; West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S.229; Barnardv. Monongahela Natural Gas Co., 216 Pa. 362; People's Gas Co. v.
Tyner, 131 Ind. 277; Keh.:y v. Ohio Oil Co., 57 Oh. St.
317; Letts v. Kessler, 54 Oh. St. 73; Higgins Oil Co. v.
Guaranty Oil Co., 145 La. 233; Summers, Oil & Gas,
1927, pp. 72, 74.
The right of the producer to take and appropriate the
natural flow through his own wells can not be arrested
for the purpose of enabling an adjacent land owner either
to find capital with which to develop his property or a
market in which to dispose of his oil. This is very different from the statutes involved in Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,
177 U. S. 190, Natural Carbonic Gas case, 220 U. S.61,
and Midland Carbon Co. case, 254 U. S.300.
Admittedly plaintiff's control of pipe line facilities for
its own production, and the ownership of a refinery and

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Company,

286 U.S.

markets through its filling stations in Oklahoma and several States, gives it an qdvantage over the producers in
the same oil pool.who are without such facilities, for any
period during which the. pool as a whole is capable of
producing more-oil than can be sold and transported out
of it at prices satisfactory to the majority of 'the producers. But this advantage lies in the acquisition of
its markets, which involved- the expenditure of capital
vastly in excess of the non-integrated producer's investment and thus entailing a correspondingly greater hazard.
Does this advantage acquired by the hazard of large capital investment fall within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment, or is it subject to confiscation without compensation under the police power of thez State?
If an oil lessee is without capital to develop his lease,
can the legislature prevent the adjacent lessee, with capital, from drilling for oil until the other can find the money
to operate?. The bankrupt lessee has the same argument
to put forward as here, in substance, by the defendants,
to-wit, that it would be unfair and inequitable to let one
with finances penetrate the oil-bearing sand and remove
the oil-without waste-while he, the bankrupt, had not
the means to explore his property. See the dissenting
1
opinion below.
The case fall' within the principle of Pennsylvania
Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393. See Buchanan v.
Warley, 245 U. S. 74-75; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.
133-144.
Assuming that the legislature, in the exercise of the
police power, may limit the production of oil for useful
purposes without actual physical waste and authorize the
commission to make rules and regulations for enforcement,
nevertheless, § 2 of the Act is a price-fixing law and void
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Section 2 is an inseparable part of the statute, being the
very keystone of the whole legislative arch, and therefore

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

215

Argument for the Company.

either renders the entire Act void under the Fourteenth
Amendment or furnishes such key to the meaning and
effect thereof as to render the entire Act void. Dies v.
Bank, 100 Okla. 205; Parwal Inv. Co. v. State, 71 Okla.
122; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 239; Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
Without § 2, § 3 is void for uncertainty in that "economic waste . . .and waste incident to the production
of crude oil or petroleum in excess of transportation or
marketing facilities or reasonable market demands"
clearly refers to § 2 prohibiting the "taking of crude oil
or petro,eum from any oil-bearing sand or sands in the
State of Oklahoma at a time when there is not a market
demand therefor at the well at a price equivalent to the
actual value of such crude oil or petroleum," as determined
by the commission under its authority conferred by the
Aot. The prevention of actual physical waste is one thing
the ordinary man may understand, but "economic waste
. . .and waste incident to the production of crude oil
or petroleum in excess of transportation or marketing
facilities or reasonable market demands" means something else. That which constitutes economic waste is
a political question or business question about which many
may differ.
There is no method known to science for determining
underground waste, and in operating a given well or drilling into a given sand, one expert might prescribe the way
to do so to get the greatest recovery, and suffer the least
waste underground, while another set of experts would
say to operate in an entirely different manner.
What constitutes "reasonable market demands" is
inseparably connected with price, as .one might regard
the demand reasonable at a price of 50 cents per barrel
while another operator might regard anything less than
$1.00 a barrel unreasonable. Therefore, unless §§ 3, 4,
and 5 are construed together, § 3 must fall for want of

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Company:

286 U.S.

certainty. Construing them as a unit, the legislature declared the production of oil in Oklahoma to be "economic
waste" unless there was a "market demand therefor at
the well at a price equivalent to the actual value of such
crude oil or petroleum" as determined by the commission.
Even if § 2 is wholly disregarded, then the remaining
portions are too uncertain and indefinite to confer upon
the commission the authority it seeks to exercise through
its regulations, in that the Act does not define economic
waste or waste incident to the production of crude oil
or petroleum in excess of transportation or marketing
facilities or reasonable market demands, and does not
confer authority upon the commission to define such
waste; and if it does confer such authority then it is
Void because in violation of the state constitution, § 1 of
Art. 4, dividing the powers of government into three
separate departments and § 1 of Art. 5, vesting the
legislative power in the legislature. .
Assuming that § 2 is severable, the Act is nevertheless
unconstitutional for the reason that § 3 is plainly for the
purpose and has the necessary effect of authorizing an
agency of the State to control prices for the benefit of a
particular class,-the oil producers.
The theory of proratibn to meet an insufficient market
outlet necessarily presumes a proportionate right to such
market. . Such a conception is foreign to our jurisprudence, and that of the English speaking race. There is
no such thing as a right to a market. The only right
which anyone has to a market is that which is due to his.
skill, industry, foresight and capital, and that must be
protected by the working of natural forces.
But if proration is to berecognized in this case, 'there
must be an equitable system invoked for the measurement
of the relative equities which competing producers would
have in a market which is insufficient for all. Obviously
the ability to bring oil to the surface is no reasonable

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

217

Argument for the Company.

measure of any assumed right to a proportionate share
of the market; for such proportionate share must necessarily depend, if it be recoinized at all, upon the facilities
which each competitor has to find a market for his
products.
The plaintiff in this case has an abundant use for all
the crude oil that it can produce-without waste-and
with its facilities has no difficulty in getting a market
for all its production. The result is that, having had the
industry to create a market, the plaintiff is now obliged
to divide that market, or at least a portion of it, with
those who either are without a market, or at least without
an adequate market for their. products. Moreover, the
facts in this case show, as further illustrating the injustice
of the situation, that plaintiff with an abundant capacity
for production of crude oil in its wells, ample for the needs
of its refinery, and with an ample market demand for its
products, is actually obliged, in the practical working of
these proration orders, to buy both crude oil and gasoline
from the very competitors who, in the manner hereinbefore described, have imposed this unjust system upon it.
The production of oil is but an incident. Its chief
use
is in the manufacturing process of refining and selling it
in the form of a gasoline. As between different competitors there is a manifest difference in the ability of each to
get a market, if the law left the matter to the natural
forces of competition.
All the right of superior industry and capital to the
markets that have been thus earned are nullified by a
purely artificial and arbitrarily unreasonable basis of
proration.
If the scheme of proration is to be recognized as a valid
exercise of legislative power, in measuring relative rights
to a market, such scheme must be based upon the consideration of capital investment in meeting the demands of
the market. If, therefore, the commission had valued

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Company.

286 U.S.

the relative investments of different competitors in Oklahoma, and had said that each was entitled to a market in
proportion to his capital investment in the facilities for
meeting the market, something could be said for the fairness of thus apportioning markets, although its objectionable price-fixing character would remain.
The commission's rules vesting Collins and Bradford
with jurisdiction over gauges and the amount of oil to be
run by any operator are void because they involve unlawful delegation of the exercise of judgment and discretion.
The legislature had no power to delegate authority to
the commission to create the office of umpire and prescribe
the "qualifications and duties thereof and arrange for his
salary; and if § 5 of the Curtailment Act is construed to
vest that authority in the commission, it is void under § 1
of Art. 4 and § 1 of Art. 5 of the Oklahoma constitution.
The payment of salaries by the Operators' Committee
to Collins and. Bradford is against public policy, and vitiated all their alleged official acts. "The ox knoweth his
owner, and the ass his master's crib."
Without § 5, requiring the commission to gauge each
well, § 4, purporting to authorize proportionate taking,
would be void under the Fourteenth Amendment, in that
it would delegate to the commission.,an uncontrollable
discretion and arbitrary power over all oil operators in
the State-a power unlimited by any provisions of the
statute and unascertainable by any oil operator.
A gauge made in accordance with the rules of the
commission permitting the operator to gauge his own
wells in the presence of a representative of an adjoining
operator, although agreed to by a majority of the Operators' Committee or the umpire, is void in that private
parties are permitted to determine the basis (potential
production) for +he proration of production and consequently markets in which all operators are interested.

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

219

Argument for the Commission.

Gauges made under the supervision of Collins and Bradford are illegal and void because their appointment as
umpires was against public policy. They never subscribed to any oath of office. The proration orders and
regulations are all permeated with this inseparable, fatal
.vice. No one should be coerced under threatened penalties to recognize. such gauges.
The storage above ground of oil produced in conformity
with proration orders, without regard to quantity, has
never been forbidden or found objectionable by the commission -as physically wasteful.
The Complained of waste of gas energy is not in the
least prevented by the orders, but retarded only in time of
complete dissipation in the intermittent wide-open flushflow permitted by the orders.
The regulations are void in that they. interfere with
and constitute a burden upon interstate commerce.
. The commission had no power to interpose itself as a
shield between the operators and purchasers on the one
side and the Antitrust Laws on the other-the commission had no power to legitimate any such agreement or
conspiracy by adopting it and making it what appeared
to be its own. See letter, Atty. Gen., U. S., to Secy. Int.,
of March 29, 1929.
The penalties provided in §§ 8 and 9 are for violation
of the prohibitions of the Act, as distinguished from the
rules of the commission.
The Act is so indefinite that any penalty prescribed for
the violation thereof constitutes a denial of due process
of law.
Messrs. W. P. Z. German and John H. Miley, with
whom Messrs. J. Berry King, Attorney General of Oklahoma, Jess L. Ballard, Assistant Attorney General, and
E. S. Ratliff were on the brief, for the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma et al.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Commission.

286 U.S.

The purpose of the law was to secure a just distribution
to all persons having the right to produce from a common
source.
A police regulation which bears a reasonable relation
to an object within the governmental authority is valid.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561, 592;
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,177 U. S. 190; Bacon v. Walker,
204 U. S. 311; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220
U. S. 61.
The requirement for proportional production, a percentage of the potential capacity of each well in a pool,
is reasonable. Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, supra; Lindsley
v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., supra; West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co.,
254 U. S. 300; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365;
Bacon V. Walker, 204 U. S. 311. It places all producers
upon the same basis.
. The history of the times shows that the limitation was
necessary. Prior to the enactment the correlative rights
of some of the surface owners in certain oil pools in Oklahoma were being seriously injured, and in some cases practically destroyed, by excessive withdrawals by certain producers specially equipped to handle their own production.
Their conduct was the direct cause of untold surface waste
of oil, as well as underground waste. The chief offenders
were the integrated producers. These made excessive
drafts on the common sources of supply of oil, transporting their production through their own.pipe lines to their
own steel storage tanks for use in their own refineries.
It would be most unreasonable to expect individual non-.
integrated producers to store any of their own production, in excess of 'amounts they can market, in aboveground tanks in order to save their properties from drainage by the integrated companies like the plaintiff. They
might as well permit their estates to be destroyed by
drainage by others as to destroy them themselves by costly

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

221

Argument for the Commission.

storage of deteriorating and unsalable oil. Furthermore,
many of them can not possibly finance such storage. The
best and cheapest storage is in the natural reservoirs.
If correlative rights are to be protected, some limitation
on production must be imposed and ratable taking must
be required. And the only practicable method is to limit
production to the amount which the market will absorb.
Ratable taking based on market demand injures no
producer. No owner is thereby deprived of any part of
his fair share of the common supply of oil. In the absence of ratable taking, no one producer in the field will
sit supinely by and see his own right to draw upon the
store of oil destroyed or even seriously injured. It is a
question as to whether the State will allow property rights
to be destroyed, an irreplaceable natural resource to be
wasted, and fresh-water streams and farm lands to be
ruined, or whether it will extend its protecting hand to
maintain such rights.
It may be true that plaintiff individually commits no
waste nor threatens to do so, but the State nevertheless
has the power to regulate pools or common sources of
supply as unitsin order better to insure against waste by
an- one, and to require conformance to such reasonable
regulation. This is the policy of the statute.
Plaintiff's capital investment theory, if adopted, would
substitute for proration measured by the potential. production of the wells of the various land owners, a criterion
consisting wholly of investments extraneous to the pool
itself. If that theory were a reasonable one, then the
question of adopting it would ' be for the discretion of
the legislature.
'Proration, instead of dealing with those who are engaged in the business of refining and marketing the refined oil, regulates and protects the rights of the owners
of land in the pool. It is but a regulation of real property and operates to preserve and protect such rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Commission.

286 U.S.

Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190. It operates upon
land owners as producers, and not as refiners and marketers of the oil they may. produce.
Plaintiff's contention challenges the power of the State
to protect the public welfare against waste of an irreplaceable natural resource-clearly within the police
power; the suggestion is repugnant to the maxim sic utere
tuo.
. Section 2 of the Act is separable. The Corporation
Commission has never under it attempted to fix the value
of, crude oil, or to regulate -production with reference
thereto. No attempt has been made to enforce it. Moreover, the validity of the section is not involved in this suit.
Nor need it be resorted to as an aid to the construction
.of the other provisions.
Until an attempt is made to enforce the penalty clauses
of a statute, if severable from the remainder, there is no
occasion to pass upon their validity. Ohio River & W. R.
Co. v. Dittey, 232 U. S. 576, 594; Grdnd Trunk R. Co. v.
Michigan Railroad Comm., 231 U. S. 457, 473; Rail &
River Coal Co. v. Yaple, 236 U. S. 338, 350; Phoenix R.
Co.. :v. Geary, 239 U. S. 277; Grenada Lumber Co. v.
Mississippi,217 U. S. 433, 443; Western Union v.'Richmond, 224. U. S. 160, 172.
Under a proper construction of the Act as a whole,
the production of oil in excess of the statutory proportion
prescribed by the Act, when the number of barrels constituting the, respective .statutory factors has been determineodby the Commission, constitutes a violation of
the Act, and affords a sufficiently definite and. certain
standard of 'conduct for a penal statute.
Section 9 does not impose a penalty as punishment
but provides a civil remedy to secure compliance with the
law. Columbia Athletic Club v. State, 143 Ind. 98; 40
N. E. 914; Anton Caha v. United States, 152 U. S.
211, 218.

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

223

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Cicero I. Muriay, Warwick M. Downing, arid Kenner McConnell, on behalf of the Oil States Advisory Committee; and by Mr. Philip Kates.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The refining company by this suit seeks to enjoin the
commission, .atto'rney general and other state officers from
enforcing certain provisions of c. 25 of the laws of Oklahoma enacted February 11, 19t5,* and certain orders of
* C. O. S. 1921, §§ 7954-7963.

§ i.That the production of crude oil or petroleum in the State of
Oklahoma, in such a manner and umder such conditiois as to constitute waste, is hereby prohibited. [§ 7954.]
§ 2. That the taking of crude oil or petroleum from any oil-bearing
sand or sands in the State of Oklahoma at a time when there is not
a market demand therefor at 'the well at a price equivalent to the
actual value of such crude oil or petroleum is hereby prohibited, and
the actual value of such crude oil or petroleum at any time shall be
the average value as near as may be ascertained in the United States
at retail of the by-products of such crude oil or petroleum when
refined less the cost and a reasonable profit in the business of transporting, refining and marketing the same, and the Corporation Commission of this State is hereby investedwith the authority and power
to investigate and deternine from time to time the actual value of
such crude oil or petroleum by the standard herein provided, and
when so determined said Commission shall promulgate its findings
by its orders duly made and recorded, ind publish the same in some
newspaper of general circulation in the State. [§ 7955.]
§ 3. That the term "waste" as used herein, in addition to its ordinary meaning, shall include economic waste, underground waste,
surface waste, and waste incident to the production of crude oil or
petroleum in excess of transportation or marketing facilities or reasonable market demands. The Corporation Commission shall have
authority to make rules and regulations for the .prevention of such
wastes, and for the protection of all fresh water strata, and oil and
gas bearing strata, encountered in any well drilled for oil. [§ 7956.]
§ 4. That whenever the full production from any common source of
supply of crude oil or petroleum in this State can only be obtained
under conditions constituting waste as herein defined, then any per'-

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

the commission on the ground that they are repugnant
to the -due process and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment and the commerce clause. The
district court consisting of three judges, 28 U. S. C.,
§ 380, denied plaintiff's application for a temporary injunction, and No. 122 is plaintiff's appeal from such refusal. As final judgment has been entered, this appeal
will be dismissed. The final decree sustains certain reguson, firmor corporation, having the right to drill into and produce oil
from any such common source of supply, may take therefrom only
such proportion of ll crude oil and petroleum that may be produced
therefrom, without waste, as the production of the well or wells of
any such person, firm or corporation, bears .to the total production of
such common source of supply. The Corporation Commission is
authorized to so regulate the taking of crude oil or petroleum from
any or all such common sources of supply, within the State of Oklahoma,, as to prevent the inequitable or unfair taking, from a common
source of supply, of such crude oil or petroleum, by any person, firm,
or corporatidn, and to prevent unreasonable discrimination in favor of
any one such common source of supply as against another. [§ 7957.]
§ 5. That for the purpose of determining such production, a gauge of
each well shall be taken under rules and regulations to be prescribed by
the Corporation Commission, and said Commission is authorized and
directed to make and promulgate, by proper order, such other rules
and regulations, and to employ or appoint such agents with the consent
of the Governor, as may be necessary'fo enforce this act. [§ 7958.]
§ 6. That any person, firm, or corporation, or the Attorney General
on bahalf. of the State, may institute proceedings before the Corporation, Commission, or apply for a hearing before said Commission, upon
any question relating to the enforcement of this act, and jurisdiction
is hereby conferred upon said Commission to hear and determine the
same. Said Commission shall set a time and place, when and where
such hearing shall be had and give reasonable notice thereof to all
persons or classes interested therein, by publication in some newspaper
or newspapers, having general circulation in the State, and in-addition
thereto, shall cause reasonable notice in writing to be served personally on any person, firm or corporation complained against. In the
exercise and enforcement of such jurisdiction, said Commission is
authorized -to determine any question or fact, arising hereunder, and
to summon witnesses, make ancillary orders, and use mesne and final

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

25

Opinion of the Court.

latory provisions of the Act but declares invalid some
of its penal clauses. 51 F. (2d) 823. No. 485 is plaintiff's
appeal from the first mentioined portion. of the decree and
No. 486 is defendants' ajpeal from the other part.
'No. 485.
The Act prohibits the production of petroleum -in such
a manner or under such conditions as constitute waste.
process, including inspection and punishment as for contempt, analogous to proceedings under its control over public service corporations,
as now provided by law. [§ 7959.]
§ 7. That appellate -jurisdiction is hereby conferred, upon the
Supreme Court in this State to. review the action of said. Commission
in making any order, or orders, under this act. Such appeal jnay be
taken by any person, firm or corporation, shown by the record to be
interested therein, in the same manner and time as appeals are
-allowed by law from other orders of the Corporation Commission.
Said orders so appealed from shall not be superseded by the mere
fact of such appeal being taken, but shall be and remain in full force
and effect until legally suspended or set aside by the Supreme
Court. [§ 7960.]
§ 8. Th'at in addition, to any penalty that may be imposed by the
Corporation Commission for contempt, any person, firm, or corporation, or any officer,, agent or employee thereof, directly or indirectly:
violating the provisions of. this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, in a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00),. or by imprisonment in the county jail not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or by both fine and imprisonment. [§ 7961.]
§ 9. That in addition to any, penalty imposed under the preceding
section, any person, firm or corporation, violating the provisions of
this act, shall be subject to have his or its producing property placed
in the hands of a receiver by 'a court of 'competent jurisdiction, at
the 'suit -of the State through the Attorney General, or any county
attorney, but such receivership shall only extend to the operating
'of producing wells 'and the marketing of the production thereof,
under the provisions of this act. [§ 7962.]
§ 10. That ,the invalidity of any section, sub-division, clause or
sentence of this act shall not in any manner effect [sic] the validity
of the remaining portion thereof, [§ 7963.]

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

§ 1. Section 3 defines waste to include-in addition to
its Ordinary meaning--economic, underground and surface waste, and waste incident to production in excess
of transportation or marketing facilities or reasonable
market demands, and empowers the commission to make
rules and regulations for the prevention of such wastes.
Whenever full production from any common source can
only be obtained under conditions constituting waste, one
having the right to produce oil from such source may take
only such proportion of all that may be produced therefrom without *vaste as the production of his wells bears
to the total. The commission is authorized, to regulate
the taking of oil from common sources so as to prevent
unreasonable discrimination in favor of one source as
against others. § 4. Gauges are to be taken for the purpose of determining production of wells. And the Commission is directed to promulgate rules and regulations
and to appoint such agents as may be necessary to enforce the Act. § 5. Since the passage of the Act the
commission has from time to time made "proration
orders."
The court made its findings, which, so far as need be
given here, Are indicated below:
Plaintiff is engaged in Oklahoma in the business of
producing 'and refining oamde oil and transporting and
marketing it and its products in intrastate and interstat
commerce. It has oil and gas leases in both the Greater
Seminole and the Oklahoma City fields. In each field it
has nine wells. It owns a refinery having a daily capacity
of 15,000.barrels of crude and there produces gasoline and
other products. It has approximately 735 tank cars, operates about 470 miles-of pipeline including adequate facilities for the transportation of crude oil from the fields to
-its refinery, and has about 256 wholesale and 263 retail
gasoline stations in Oklahoma and other States which are
..supplied from its refinery. At the refinery it has gas-

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

227

Opinion of the Court.

tight steel storage tanks with a total capacity-of about
645,000 barrels. It does not use earthen storage or permit its crude to run at large or waste any oil produced at
its wells. All that it can produce will be utilized for commercial purposes. It also purchases much oil.
The Greater Seminole area covers a territory fifteen to
twenty by eight to ten miles and has eight or more distinct pools in formations which do not overlie each other.
The first pool was discovered in 1925 and by June 15, 1931,
there were 2141 producing wells having potential production of 564,908 barrels per day. The wells are separately
owned and operated by 80 lessees. About three-fourths of
them, owning wells with 40 per cent. of the total potential capacity . of the field, have no pipelines or refineries
and are entirely dependent for an outlet for their crude
upon others who purchase and transport oil. Five companies, owning wells with about 13 per cent. of the potential production, have pipelines or refinery connections
affording. a partial outlet, for -their,production. Nineteen
other companies own or control pipelines extending into
this area having_ a daily capacity of 468,200 barrels, and
most of them from time to time purchase oil from other'
producers in the field.-.
The Okliahoma City field, about 65 miles west of the
Seminole, is about six by three miles and part of it has
been divided into small lots All of plaintiff's leases are
in that portion of the field. Oil was discovered there in
December, 1928, and is being produced from four: different formations more- than 6,000 feet below the surface.
In some parts of the area two or more overlie each other,
and at many points the wells penetrate all overlying formations and are capable of producing from all of them.
The field is not. yet fully developed. June 15, 1931, theie
were 746 producing wells, having anestimated potential
of 2,987,993 barrels per day. These wells aro owned by
53 different lessees. Thirty-six of them are wholly, and

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opla vn of the Court.

286 U.S.

eight are partially, nonintegrated; they operate wells having about 90.per cent. of total potential production. The
ten producing companies control pipelines extending into
this area with a carrying capacity of only 316,000 barrels
per day. Most of them from time to time purchase oil
from other producers there.
Crude oil and natural gas occur together or in close
proximity to each other, and the gas in a pool moves the
contents toward the point of least resistance. When
wells are drilled into a pool the oil and gas move from
place to place. If some of the wells are permitted to produce a greater proportion of their capacity than others,
drainage occurs from the less active to the more active.
There is a heavy gas pressure in the Oklahoma City. field.
Where proportional taking from the wells in flush pools
is not enforced, operators who do not have physical or
market outlets are forced to produce to capacity in order
to prevent drainage to others having adequate outlets. In
Oklahoma prior to the passage of the Act, large quantities
of oil p roduced in excess of transportation facilities or
demand therefor ,were stored in surface tanks, and by
reason of seepage, rain, fire and evaporation enormous
waste occurred. Uncontrolled flow of flush or semi-flush
wells for any considerable period exhausts an excessive
amount of pressure, wastefully uses the gas and greatly
lessens ultimate recovery. Appropriate utilization of gas
energy is especially important in the Oklahoma City field
where, because of the great depth of the wells, the cost of
artificially recovering the oil would be very high.
The first of the present series of proration orders took
effect August 1, 1927, and applied to the then flush and
semi-flush pools in -the Seminole. Similar orders have
been in effect almost continuously since that time. Soon
afterthe discovery of oil in the Oklahoma City fieldi production exceeded market demand there. The first prora:tion order applicable in that field took effect October 15,

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.': 229
210

Opinion of the Court.

1929. Such orders usually covered short terms because of
rapidly changing potential production and, market demand from each of the pools.
All the proration orders attacked by plaintiff werie made
pursuant td"§§ 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of. the Act. Each, and the
findings that it contained, were made after-notice to all
interested persons and were based upon evidence adduced
at' the hearings. The allegations of the complaint that
the orders'were made by.the commission without having
heard the testimony of witnesses under oath or any legal
evidence were not sustained before the court.
The commission construes the Act as intended to empower it to limit production to the amount of the reasonable daily market demand and to require ratable production by 'all taking from the common source. In current orders it has found that waste of oil will result in
the prorated areas unless production is limited to such
demand. In order No. 5189, June 30, 1930, it found that
the potential production in the United States was approximately 4,730,000 barrels per day and that imports
amounted to about 300,000 barrels, creating a supply of
over 5,000,000 barrels as against an estimated domestic
and export demand of 2,800,000 barrels. And it found
that the existing stocks of crude in storage exceeded the
needs of the industry and that purchasers were unwilling
to buy in Oklahoma for storage in any.amount sufficient
to take the surplus of potential production in that State.
Similar findings are contained in the commission's
subsequent orders.
Based on findings of the daily potential of the Oklahoma City field and the amount of the market outlet for
oil there-that is, the amount that could be produced
without waste as defined by the Act-plaintiff at the time
of the trial was limited by the proration orders to about
six per cent. of the total production of its wells in that
field. And the orders also -operated to restrict plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

to much less than the potential production of its nine
wells in the Seminole pools.
The court found that at all times covered by orders inVoved there was a serious potential overproduction
throughout the United States and particularly in the flush
and semi-flush pools in the Seminole and Oklahoma City
fields; 'that, if no curtailment were applied, crude oil for
lack of market demand and adequate storage tanks would
inevitably go into earthen storage and be wasted; that
the full potential production exceeded all transportation
and marketing facilities and market demands; that accordingly it was- necessary, in order to prevent waste,
that production of flush and semi-flush pools should be
restricted as directed by the proration orders, and that
to enforce such curtailment, with equity and justice to
the several producers in each pool, it was necessary to
enforce proportional taking from each well and lease
therein and: that, upon the testimony of operators and
others, a comprehensive plan of curtailment and proration
conforming to the rul~s prescribed in the Act was adopted
by the commission and was set forth in its orders.
The commission, acting under § 5 of the' Act and with
the consent of the governor of the State, appointed one
Collins as its umpire and agent and constituted certain
producers in each pool an operating committee to assist
him in administering the prescribed rules and regulations.
Later, one Bradford was appointed assistant umpire and
agent. He spent all his time in the Oklahoma City field
leaving Collins to serve in the other prorated areas. They
supervised the taking of gauges, ascertained daily production of prorated wells, checked the same against quantities
transported and kept complete records to the end 'that
wells in each pool should be operated in accordance with
the commission's rules and that violations be detected and
reported. No appropriation had been made for the payment of umpires or agents. The commission did not have

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

231

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient regular help for the administration of the proration orders. Members of. operators comnittees served
,without pay. Collins's salary and expenses havebeen paid
by voluntary contributions of certain producers in the
Seminole field and Bradford's by voluntary contribution
of producers in the Oklahoma City field. In each field a
great majority of the producers joined to-raise such funds,
and contributions were prorated on the.bisisof production. This method of paying for-such help'has been, followed since 1927 and at all times has been known to the
commission, the governor and the public., In that period
there have been two sessions of the legislature, -and it has
not forbidden the practice or provided funds to pay for
the work. Neither the umpire nor, the members of the
committee are piublic officers; they are mere agents or
employees of the commission. The evidence does not es-tablish that they have been guilty of favoritism or dis.
honesty or that the commission has acted arbitrarily or
discriminated in favor of the groups paying such agents
or that the plaintiff has suffered any injury by reason
thereof.
The commission has not discriminated against the
Oklahoma City field or any other prorated area nor in
favor of the Seminole. The relation between potential
production of each pool and the amount of crude oil that,
without waste could be produced therefrom was not the
same. in -all prorated pools and therefore-the applicable
percentages of curtailment varied. The same pipelines
and purchasers did not serve or take oil from all the pools,
and in some the reasonable market demand was greater
in proportion to potential production -than in others.
Some were prorated longer and had purchasers whose
facilities do not extend to others. When oil was discovered in the Oklahoma City field the pools in the Seminole
area were quite fully developed and some had passed
flush production. The latter is a more favored location

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

in respect of trunk pipelines and has a larger market demand, although the daily production of the former is
greater. The constant bringing in of new wells in the
Oklahoma. City field has resulted in. a continuous and
rapid increase in the potential production of that field,
whereas market demand for oil there has increased very
slowly.
None of the commission's orders has been made for the
purpose of fixing the price of crude oil or has had that
effect. When the first order was made the price was more
.than two dollars per barrel, but it declined until at the
time, of the -trial it was only thirty-five cents. In each
case the commission has allowed to be p~roduced the full
amount of the market demand for each. pool. It has.
never entered any order under § 2 of the Act.
•It wks not shown that the commission intended to limit
the amount of oil entering interstate commerce for the
purpose of controlling the price of crude oil or its products
or of eliminating plaintiff or any producer or refiner from
competition, or that there was any combination among
plaintiff's competitors for the purpose of restricting inter,state commerce in crude oil or its products, or that any
operators' committee made up of plaintiff's competitors
formulated the proration orders.
The evidence before the trial court undoubtedly sustains the findings abpve referred to, and they are adopted
here.,
1. Plaintiff here insists that the Act is repugnant to the
due process and equal protectioni clauses olf the Fourteenth
Amendment.We need not consider its suggestion tbat the business
of production and sale of crude oil is'not a pUblic setvice
and that it does not devote its property to the public use.
The proration orders- do not' purport to have been made,
and in fact were not made, in respect of services or charges

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

233,

Opinion of the Court.

of any calling so affected with a public interest as to be
subject to regulation as to rates or prices.
Plaintiff insists that it has a vested right to drill wells
upon the lands covered by. its leases and to take all the
natural flow of oil and gas therefrom so long as it does so
without physical waste and devotes the production to
commercial uses. But if plaintiff should take all the flow
of its wells, there would inevitably result great physical
waste, even if its entire production should be devoted to.
useful purposes. The improvident use of natural gas
pressure inevitably attending such operations would cause
great diminution in the quantity of crude oil ultimately
to be recovered from the pool. Other lessees and owners
of land above the pool would be compelled, for self-protection against plaintiff's taking, also to draw from the
*common source and so to add to the wasteful use of lifting pressure. And because of the lack, especially on the
part of the non-integrated operators, of means of transportation or appropriate storage and of market demand,
the contest would, as is made plain by the evidence and
findings, result in surface waste of large quantities of
crude oil.
In Oklahoma, as generally elsewhere, land owners do
not have absolute title to the gas and oil that may permeate below the surface. These minerals, differing from
solids in place such as coal and iron, are fugagious and--of
uncertain movement within the limits of the pool. Every
person has the right to drill wells on his own land and
take from the pools below all the gas and oil that he may
be able to reduce to possession, including that coming
from land belonging to others; but the right to take and
ownership ,is subject to the reasonable
thus to acquire
exertion
of the power
of the State to prevent 'unnecessary
loss,' destruction or waste. And that power extends to
the taker's unreasonable and wasteful use of natural gas

234

OCTOBER TERM, .1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

pressure available for lifting the oil to the surface and the
unreasonable and wasteful depletion of a common supply
of gas and oil to the injury of others entitled to resort
to and take from the same pool. Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 61, 77. Bandini Co. v. Superior Court, 284
U: S. 8, 19 et seq.; Brown v. Spilman, 155 U. S. 665, 669.
Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300, 323. - Rich v.
Doneghey, 71 Okla. 204; 177 Pac. 86. People v. Associated Oil Co., 211 Cal. 93, 100 et seq.; 294 Pac. 717.
It is not shown that the rule for proration prescribed
in § 4 or any other pro rision here involved amounts to or
authorizes arbitrary interference with private business or
plaintiff's property rights or that such statutory rule is
not reasonably calculated to prevent the wastes specified
in § 3.
We put aside plaintiff's contentions resting upon the
claim that § 2 or § 3 authorizes or contemplates directly
or indirectly regulation of prices of crude oil. The commission has never made an order under § 2. The court
found that none of the proration orders here involved
were made for the purpose of fixing prices. The fact that
the commission never limited production below market
demand, and the great and long continued downward
trend of prices contemporaneously with the enforcement
of proration, strongly support the finding that the orders
assailed have not had that effect. And if § 2 were to be
held unconstitutional the provisions on which the orders
rest would remain in force. The unconstitutionality of a
part'of an Act does not necessarily defeat or affect the
validity of its remaining. provisions. Unless it is evident
that the legislature would not have enacted those ptovisions which are within its power, independently of that
which is not, the invalid part may be dropped if what is
left is fully operative as a law. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565. Pollock v. Farmers'Loan &

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

235

Opinion of the Court.

Trust Co., 158 U. S. 601,.635. Reagan v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co.; 154 U. S. 362, 395-396. Field y. Clark, 143
U. S.649, 695-696. Section 10 declares that the invalidity
of any part of the Act shall not in any manner affect the
remaining portions. That discloses an intention to make
the Act divisible and creates a presumption that, eliminating invalid parts, the legislature would have been satisfied with what remained and that the scheme of regulation derivable from the other provisions would have been
enacted without regard to § 2. Williams v. Standard Oil
Co., 278 U. S.235, 242. Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S.22,
63. Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, ante, p. -165. The
orders involved here were made under other sections
which provide a complete scheme for carrying into effect,
through action of the commission, the general rules laid
down in §§ 3 and 4 for the prevention of waste. See
Julian Oil & Royalties Co. v. Capshaw, 145 Okla. 237, 243;
292 Pac. 841. The validity of § 2 need not be considered.
2. Plaintiff contends that the Act and proration orderE
operate to burden interstate commerce in crude oil and
its products in violation of the commerce clause. It is
clear that the regulations prescribed and authorized by the
Act and the proration established by the commission
apply only to production and not to sales or transportation of crude oil or its products. Such production is
essentially a mining operation. and therefore is not a part
of interstate commerce even though the product obtained
is intended to be and in fact is immediately shipped in
such commerce. Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S.172,
178. Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S.284, 288. Foster
Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S.1, 10:,, Utah Power &
Light Co. v. Pfost, supra. No violation of the commerce
clause is shown.
3. Plaintiff assails the proration orders as unauthorized, lacking basis in fact and arbitrary. But it failed to
show that the orders were not based upon just and, rea-.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

sonable determinations of the governing facts: namely,
that proportion of all crude oil, which may be produced
from a common source without waste, that the production
of plaintiff's wells bears to the 'total production from such
source. Gauges were taken to determine the potential
production of each well under rules and regulations prescribed by the commission and not shown to be inappropriate or liable to produce arbitrary or discriminatory
results. It does not appear that the agents-umpires and
committees-employed by the commission with the consent of the governor to enforce the provisions of the Act,
did more than to make investigations necessary to secure
for the commission data required to make the proration
directed by § 4 or that they acted otherwise than as faithful subordinates. Plaintiff has not shown that any act
or omission of these agents subjected it to any disadvantage or that the prorations were arbitrary or discriminatory in any respect. Obviously the commission, without
agents and employees, could not make or enforce proration as directed by the Act. The plaintiff is not entitled
to have the commission's orders set at naught and the
purposes of the Act thwarted merely because, in the absence of legislative appropriations therefor, the salaries
and expenses of agents or employees were paid otit of
funds raised by operators interested in having proration
established under the statutory rule.
Proration, required to prevent waste defined in § 3
and to give effect to the rule prescribed by '§ 4, changes
aecording to conditions existing from time to time, and
percentages valid at one time may be inapplicable, unjust
and arbitrary at another. Bluefield Co. v. Public Service
Comm., 262 U. S. 679, 693. Knoxville v. Wtter Co.,' 212
U. S. 1, 19. As plaintiff has failed to prove that any order
in force at the time ofthe trial was not in accordance with
the rule prescribed by § 4 or otherwise invalid, the part of
the decree from which it appealed will be affirmed. But

CHAMPLIN RFG CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

237

Opinion of the Court.

such affirmance will not prevent it in an appropriate suit,
a different state of facts being shown to exist, from having
an injunction to restrain the enforcement of any order
proved to be not authorized by the Act or unjust and
arbitrary and to operate to plaintiff's prejudice. Cf.
Euclid v. Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365, 395.
No. 486.
This is defendants' appeal from that part of the final
decree that declares that § § 8 and 9 are not valid and enjoins the attorney general and county attorney from enforcing them. In its conclusions of law the court below
declares that these sections in terms impose penalties for
violation of the Act, and not for violation of the orders of
the commission; that §§ 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are too indefinite
and uncertain to warrant the imposition of the prescribed
penalties and that therefore both sections are invalid.
The opinion points out that the Act is a penal statute
and also a regulatory measure to be supplemented by
rules, regulations and orders of the commission. It suggests that an operator or producer of oil from a common
pool should not be required at the peril of severe penalties
to determine whether in the operation of his oil well he
is committing "economic waste" or producing in excess
of the "reasonable market demands" because these terms
are not defined in the Act and are of uncertain and doubtful meaning.
1. Defendants insist that no question concerning the
validity of § 8 was before the court.
We do not find any direct or definite allegation in
the record that defendants have threatened or are about
to cause plaintiff to be prosecuted under § 8. The court
found that no prosecution had been commenced against
plaintiff, its officers or employees under that section.
There is no finding, or evidence sufficient to require one,
that any such prosecution was imminent or contemplated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

And the opinion states in substance that § 9 was the only
provision of the Act as a penal statute that was before the
court.
Equity jurisdiction will be exercised to enjoin the
threatened enforcement of a state law which contravenes
the Federal Constitution whenever it is essential in order
effectually to protect property rights and the rights of
persons against injuries otherwise irremediable; and in
such a case a person, who as an officer of the State is
clothed with the duty of enforcing its laws and who
threatens and is about to commence proceedings, either
civil or criminal, to enforce such a law against parties
affected, may be enjoined from such action by a federal court of equity. Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197, 214, and cases cited. The burden was upon plaintiff
seeking to invoke that rule definitely to show that in
order to protect its property rights it was necessary to
restrain defendants from enforcing § 8. Indeed, the
record before us indicates that plaintiff did not show that
its rights were directly affected by any danger of prosecution under § 8 and therefore had no standing to invoke
equity jurisdiction against its enforcement. Oliver Iron
Co. v. Lord, supra, 180-181. Massachusetts v. Mellon,
262 U. S. 447, 488. Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275
U. S. 440, 446 et seq. Undoubtedly § 8, if invalid, may be
severed from other parts of the Aot without affecting the
provisions under which the prorations were made. Ohio
Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 594. It follows that the lower
court erred in passing upon the validity of that section,
and the decree will be modified to declare that no question as to § 8 was before the-court.
2. Defendants also maintain that no question as to the
validity of § 9 was before the court.
The record shows that plaintiff having taken crude oil
in excess of the quantities allowed by the orders, the at-

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

239

Opinion of the Court.

torney general, May 28, 1931, brought suit under § 9 in
a state court to have a receiver appointed for its wells.
And he procured that court to issue a temporary injunction restraining plaintiff from producing oil or violating
the Act or proration orders pending the appointment of
a receiver. On the next day plaintiff filed an amended
and supplemental bill applying for a stay of enforcement
of the proration orders pending the determination of the
appeal, No. 122, to this court.
June 13 the lower court, upon plaintiff's application and
affidavits submitted by the parties, found that plaintiff
would suffer irreparable loss and injury unless the stay
be granted. And it entered an order: restraining the
commission from instituting proceedings under § 6 of
the Act; restraining the attorney general and county
attorney from prosecuting under § 9 receivership proceedings against plaintiff; allowing. plaintiff, on conditions,
which need not be stated here, to produce up to 10,000
barrels daily, and requiring the attorney general immediately to have the state court injunction dissolved.
It is clear, if § 9 is invalid, that the enforcement of its
provisions pending the trial of this case would, as plaintiff claimed and the lower court found, have inflicted irreparable loss and damage upon the plaintiff. Defendants
do not show or claim that the evidence does not establish
that finding. The lower court had authority to stay the
enforcement of the assailed orders pending the determination of plaintiff's appeal from the denial of its motion
for temporary injunction. Hovey v. McDonald, 109
U. S. 150, 161. Cotting v. Kansas City 'Stock-Yards Co.,
82 Fed. 839, 857. Cumberland Tel. Co. v. Pub. Serv.
Comm., 260 U. S. 212.. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United
States, 272 U. S. 658, 669 et seq. The jurisdiction of the
court was properly invoked to determine whether plaintiff was entitled to protection against the shutting down

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

and seizure of its wells and the sale of its oil pending the
federal court's final decision.
The attorney general, though not required so to do,
dismissed the suit in the state court, and here insists that,
as no proceeding for a receiver was pending, the court
erred in construing or passing on the validity of §9. But,
when regard is had to the facts and circumstances, it is
clear that such dismissal did not require the court to hold
that thereby the purpose of the attorney general and
county attorney had changed or that prosecution under
that section was no longer imminent. The court was
therefore properly called upon to pass upon its validity.
3. Section 9 provides: "That in addition to any penalty
imposed under the preceding section, any person, firm or
corporation, violating the provisions of this act, shall be
subject to have his or its producing property placed in the
hands of a receiver by a court of competent jurisdiction,
at the suit .of, the State through the Attorney General,
or any county attorney, but such receivership shall only
extend to the operating of producing wells and the marketing of the production thereof, under the provisions of
this act." The language used applies to violations of the
Act and does not extend to violations of orders of the commission. It is plain and leaves no room for construction.
A direct and unambiguous expression would be required
to warrant an inference that the state legislature intended
to authorize the seizure of producers' wells and the sale
of their oil for a mere violation of an order.
The context and language used unmistakably show that
the section imposes a penalty and is not a measure in the
nature of, or in aid of remedy by, injunction to prevent
future violations. By § 6 the commission-which in respect of such matters is a court of record (state constitution, Art. IX, § 19)-is empowered to punish as for contempt violation of the commission's orders by fines up
to $500 per day during continuance of such violation.

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

241

Opinion of the Court.

§§ 3498, 3499, C. 0. S.1921. Planters' Cotton & Ginning
Co. v. West Bros., 82 Okla. 145, 147; 198 Pac. 855. And
§ 8 declares that, "in addition to any penalty" that may
be imposed by the commission for contempt, one directly
or indirectly violating the provisions of this act" shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished by fine or
imprisonment. And similarly the liability under § 9 is
for "violating the provisions of this act" and is "in addition to any penalty" imposed by § 8. Both deal with an
act already committed. Moreover, liability under § 9 is
not limited to seizure and operation of the offender's wells
but extends to the marketing of his oil. Absolute liability
arises from a single transgression, and prosecution therefor may be had after all occasion for restraint of production has ceased. There is nothing in the Act by which
the duration of the receivership may be determined. An
owner whose wells are so seized may not, as of right, have
production reduced or withheld to await a better demand,
or have any voice as to quantities to be produced, or continue to have his oil transported by means of his own
pipelines or other facilities, or have, it' sent to his own
refinery or delivered in fulfillment of his contracts.
Plainly such a taking deprives the owner of property without compensation even if 4tamoneys received for oil gold
less expenses are accounted for by the receiver. The suit
is prosecuted by the State to redress a public wrong denounced as crime. The provisions of § 9 are not consistent with any purpose other than to inflict punishment
for violation of the Act dand they must be deemed as intended to impose additional penalties upon offenders having oil producing wells. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616, 634. United States v. Reisinger, 128 U. S.398, 402.
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S.657, 667, 668.
As § 9 declares that one "violating the provisions of
this act shall be subject" to the prescribed penalties, it is
necessary to refer to the regulatory provisions here in-

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

volved.' Section 1 prohibits "production of crude oil
.in such manner and under such conditions as to constitute waste." Section 3 declres that, "in addition to
its ordinary meaning," "waste" shall include "economic
waste, underground waste, surface waste, and waste incident to the production of crude oil or petroleum in excess
of transportation or marketing facilities or reasonable market demands." Section 4 provides that whenever full production from any common source can only, be obtained
"under conditions constituting waste" then one having
the right to produce from such source may take therefrom only such proportion "that may be produced therefrom, without waste, as the production of the well or
wells" of such taker "bears to'the total production from
such common source of supply."
There is nothing to support defendants' suggestion that
the regulatory provisions of the Act do not become operative until the commission has defined permissible production. As shown above, § 9 does not cover violations
of orders of the commission. The validity of its provisions must be tested on the basis of the terms employed.
In Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385,
391, this court has laid down the rule that governs here:
"That the terms of a penal statute creating a new offense
must be sufficiently explicit to inform those who are subject to it what conduct on their part will render them
liable to its penalties, is a well-recognized requirement,
consonant alike with ordinary notions of fair play and
the settled rules of law. And a statute which either forbids or requires the doing of an act in terms so vague that
men of common intelligence must necessarily guess at its
meaning and differ as to its application, violates the first
essential of due process of law."
The general expressions employed here are not known
to the common law or shown to have any meaning in the

CHAMPLIN RFG. CO. v. COMMISSION.
210

243

Opinion of the Court.

oil industry sufficiently definite to enable those familiar
with the operation of oil wells to apply them with any
reasonable degree of certainty. The meaning of the
word "waste" necessarily depends upon many factors
subject to frequent changes. No act or definite course
of conduct is specified as controlling and, upon the trial
of one charged with committing waste in violation of the
Act, the court could not foresee or prescribe the scope of
the inquiry that reasonably might have a bearing or be
necessary in determining whether in fact there had been
waste. It is no more definite than would be a mere
command that wells shall not be operated in any way that
is detrimental to the public interest in respect of the production of crude oil. And the ascertainment of the facts
necessary for the application of the rule of proportionate
production laid down in § 4 would require regular gauging of all producing wells in each field, a, work far beyond
anything that reasonably may be required of a producer
in order to determine whether in the operation of his
wells he is committing an offense against the Act.
In the light of our decisions, it appears upon a mere
inspection that these general words and phrases are so
vague and indefinite that any penalty prescribed for
their violation constitutes a denial of due process of law.
It is not the penalty itself that is invalid but the exaction
of obedience to a rule or standard that is so vague and
indefinite as to .be really no rule or standard at all. United
States v. Cohen Grocery, 255 U. S. 81, 89. Small Co. v.
Am. Sugar Rfg. Co., 267 U. S. 233, 239. Connally v.
General Construction Co., supra.- Cline v. Frink Dairy
Co., 274 U. S. 445, 454. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553,
564.
No. 122, dismissed.
No. 485, affirmed.
No. 486, modified and as modified affirmed.

