McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
123

Syllabus.

hamper upon the effort of the United States to make the
best terms that it can for its wards." Id., p. 506. A similar result was reached in the recent ruling in relation to
what was deemed to be the correlative case of leases by
Oklahoma of lands held by the State for the support of
its schools. Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Company,
285 U. S. 393. These decisions are not controlling here.
The nature and purpose of copyrights place them in a
distinct category and we are unable to find any basis for
the supposition that a nondiscriminatory tax on royalties
hampers in the slightest degree the execution of the policy
of the copyright statute.
.We agree, however, with the contention that in this
aspect royalties from copyrights stand in the same position
as royalties from the use of patent rights, and what we
have said as to the purposes of the Government in relation to copyrights applies as well, mutatis mutandis, to
patents which are granted under the same constitutional
authority to promote the progress of science and useful
arts. The affirmance of the judgment in the instant case
cannot be reconciled with the decision in Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142, upon which appellant relies, and in
view of the conclusions now reached upon a re-examination of the question, that case is definitely overruled.
Judgment affirmed.
McCC MICK & CO., INC. ET AL. v. BROWN, STATE'
COMMISSIONER OF PROHIBITION OF WEST
VIRGINIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 599.

Argued April 22, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

Alcoholic preparations, made and sold for medicinal, mechanical,
toilet, and culinary purposes, held subject to provisions of the West
Virginia prohibi.tion statute, and regulations thereunder, by which

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

nonresident manufacturers and wholesalers, though holding federal
permits issued under the National Prohibition Act, are required to
obtain state permits 'and pay state license fees before shipping
such products, into the State, even to purchasers holding state
licenses as retail dealers.
1. The power of a State to prohibit sale of alcoholic liquor as a
beverage, carries with it the power to supervise the sale of other
alcoholic preparations which normally will be, but possibly may not
be, used legitimately. P. 139.
2. The Act of March 1, 1913, called the Webb-Kenyon Act, by
which interstate shipments and sales of intoxicating liquor were
stripped of their immunity from the prohibitory laws of the State
into which it is taken, was not repealed by the Eighteenth
Amendment or by the National Prohibition Act, but is still in
force. P. 140.
3. State prohil~ition laws derive their force from the power
originally belonging to the States and preserved to them by the
Tenth Amendment, and are not superseded by the Eighteenth
Amendment where they do not sanction what it forbids. P. 141.
4. The power of a State by administrative control to prevent
traffic in products of intoxicating alcoholic content unless so treated
as to render them unfit for beverages, was made applicable by the
Webb-Kenyon Act to interstate transactions. P. 141.
5. The Webb-Kenyon Act was not limited in that respect by the
provisions of the National Prohibition Act authorizing traffic in
certain articles containing alcohol, put up for non-beverage uses,
when manufactured and prepared for market under federal permits. P. 142.
6. The Webb-Kenyon Act prohibits the shipment or transportation of intoxicating liquor into a State when it "is intended, by
any person interested therein, to be received, possessed, sold, or in
any manner used . . . in violation of any law of such State." Held
that sales by wholesalers who have not the permits required by
West Virginia, to retailers having local permits to receive, store and
sell the kind of alcoholic products shipped, are directly within the
terms of the Act, since the state law does not make the permits
issued to the local dealers a substitute for those required of the
wholesalers. P. 143.
7. State legislation, though it can not give validity to acts prohibited by the Eighteenth Amendment, may provide additional
' instruments to make prohibition effective. Id.
Affirmed.

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
131
APPEAL

Opinion of the Court.

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges dismissing a bill for an injunction to restrain offi•cers of West Virginia from requiring the appellants to obtain state licenses and to pay license fees before shipping
into the State certain products containing alcohol.
Messrs. Philip C. Friese and H. D. Rummel for appellants.
Messrs. W. G. Brown and R. Dennis Steed, Assistant
Attorney General of West Virginia, with whom Mr. H. B.
Lee, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought by nonresident manufacturers
and wholesale dealers to restrain state officers of West
Viinia from requiring the complainants to obtain permits from the State Commissioner of Prohibition, and to
pay an annual license fee of $50, before shipping certainl
products into the State to purchasers there for resale.
The bill alleged that, while these products contained
ethyl alcohol, they were used and usable solely for medicinal, mechanical, toilet, and culinary purposes, and were
not intoxicating liquors or fit for beverage purposes within
the meaning of the laws of the United States; that the
products were covered by permits issued to the complainants respectively under the National Prohibition Act;
and that the shipment and sales in question were to dealers in West Virginia holding state permits. The bill
charged that the requirements of the state officers, purporting to act under state legislation, constituted an interference with interstate commerce in violation of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, and that the
complainants were without remedy at law. In their answer, defendants (appellees) denied that the products in
question were used and usable solely for the purposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

alleged and that none of the products were " intoxicating
liquors" and that they were non-intoxicating in fact; and,
while admitting that the complainants held permits under
the National Prohibition Act, defendants asserted the
validity of the state laws and regulations by which state
permits and the payment of the license fee were required.
The District Court, composed of three judges (Jud.
Code, § 266, U. S. C., .§ 380) heard and denied, upoti the
pleadings and affidavits, an application for an interlocutory injunction. Upon final hearing no further evidence
was introduced and from the final decree, dismissing the
bill, this appeal has been taken.
The Constitution of West Virginia (Art. VI, § 46) prohibits "the manufacture, sale and keeping for sale of
malt, vinous or spirituous liquors, wine, porter, ale, beer
or any intoxicating drink, mixture or preparation of like
nature," except "such liquors for medicinal, pharmaceutical, mechanical, sacramental and scientific purposes"
and "denatured alcohol for industrial purposes," dealings in which are permitted under legislative regulations.
The legislature was directed to enact such laws as might
be neessary to carry these provisions into effect.
The legislative act now in force is Chapter 60 of the
West Virginia Official Code (1931). The definition of
"liquors" in section one of Article one embraces "all
liquids, mixtures or preparations, whether patented or not,
which will produce intoxication."' By section four, sell-

. § 1. The word ' liquors,' as used in this chapter, shall be construed to embrace all malt, vinous or spirituous liquors, wine, porter,
ale, beer or anfy other intoxicating drink, mixture or preparation of
like nature; and all malt or brewed drinks, whether intoxicating or
not, shall be deemed malt liquors within the meaning of this chapter;
and all liquids, mixtures or preparations, whether patented or not,
which will produce 'ntoxication, and all beverages containing one-half
of one per cent or more of alcohol, by volume, shall be demed spirituous liquors, and all shall be embraced in the word 'liquors,' as used

in,this chapter."

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
131

135

Opinion of the Court.

ing or soliciting or receiving orders fqr "any liquors" is
penalized, "except as hereinafter provided."; and "in
case of a sale in which a shipment or delivery of such
liquors is made by a common or other carrier," the sale
is deemed to be made in the county of delivery.' Exceptions, found in section five,' include sales of wine for sacra§ 4. Except as hereinafter provided, if any person acting for himself, or by, for or through another, shall sell, keep, store, offer, or expose for sale, or solicit or receive orders for, any liquors, or absinthe or
any drink comPounded with absinthe, he shall be deemed guilty of a
2

misdemeanor for the first offense hereunder,

. . .

and in case of a sale

in which a shipment or delivery of such liquors is made by a commonor other carrier the sale thereof shall be deemed to be made in the
county' wherein the delivery thereof is made by such carrier to the
consignee, his agent or employee."
" § 5. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent . . the manufacture and sale of pure grain alcohol, at wholesale,
to druggists, hospitals, sariitariums, laboratories and manufacturers
for medicinal, pharmaceutical, scientific and mechanical purposes, or
of vine for sacramental purposes by religious bodies, or to prevent
the sale and keeping and storing for sale by druggists of wine for sacramental purposes by religious bodies, or any United States pharmacopoeia or national formulary preparation in conformity with the
West Virginia pharmacy law, or any preparation which is exempted
by the provisions of the national pure food law; or to prevent the

sale by druggists, through pharmacists, of pure grain alcohol for
medicinal, scientific, pharmaceutical and mechanical purposes; or to
prevent the use of such alcohol by physicians, dentists and veterinarians in the practice of their profession; or to prevent the medicatipn
and sale of pure grain alcohol according to formulae and under regulations of the national prohibition act; ...Provided, That no one
shall manufacture, sell, keep for sale, purchase or transport any
liquors, as defined in section one of this article and as herein excepted,
without first obtaining a permit Irom the commissioner of prohibition
so to do. Forms of application and permits shall be prepated by the
commissioner and a fee for each permit issued shall be collected by
him as follows:
"(a) All manufacturers of liquors and wholesale dealers therein
shall pay a fee of fifty dollars for each permit; (b) all purchasers-in
wholesale quantities of ethyl alcohol in any form, whether pure, medi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

mental purposes og of any United-States pharmacopeia
or national formulary preparation in conformity with the
West Virginia pharmacy law, or any preparation which
is exempted by the provisions of the national pure food
law," and this section contains a proviso that no one
"shall manufacture, sell, keep for sale, purchase or transport any liquors, as defined in section one of. this article
and as herein excepted, without first obtaining a permit'
from the commissioner 'of prohibition so to do." Permits
are to be issued for the calendar year, and fees for eachpermit are :prescribed, being fifty dollars in the case of
manufacturers and wholesale dealers, ten dollars in the
case of purchasers in wholesale quantities of ethyl alcohol,
whether pure, medicated or denatured, for use as provided,
,and two dollars in the case of purchasers, except licensed
druggists, in wholesale quantities of liquors, as defined in
section one, for sale at retail. By section nine, common
carriers are forbidden to carry into the State, or within
the State, intoxicating liquors except "pure grain alcohol
and wine, and such preparations as may be sold by druggists for the special purposes- and in, the manner as set
forth in sectioh five." '4 Section eleven makes it unlawful
cated, or denatured, for use as herein provided, shall pay a fee of ten
dollars for each. permit;*-(c) all purchasers in 'wholesale quantities of
liquors as defined in section one of this article for sale at retail, except
duly licensed 'druggists, shall pay a fee of two dollars for -each

permit;

...

"Permits shall be issued' for the calendar year and shall expire on
the. thirty-first day of December next following the issuance thereof.
,.. Provided further, That such liquors shall be 'manufactured, sold,
kept for'sale, transported ahd used under. permits issued by the federal prohibition -commissioner and in accordance with regultions
issued in pursuance of the national prohibition act."
"The provisi~il in Section 9 is as, follows: "Provided further, That

no common carrier, for hire, nor other person, for hire, ur without
hire, shall bring or carry into this State, or carry .from one place to
another within .this State, intoxicating liquors for another, even when

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

for nonresident dealers to sell to persons within the State
intoxicating liquors or any of the preparations described,
when they "are intended by any person interested therein
to be received, possessed, sold, or in any manner used,
either in the original package or otherwise, in violation
of the prohibition laws of this State "; and in case of shipment or delivery by a carrier, the county in which the
delivery is made is to be taken as the place of sale.'
Section three of Article two of Chapter 60 provides that
the manufacture and sale of "liquors" by wholesale druggists and other dealers shall be under the supervision of
the commissioner of prohibition and governed by the regulations he may from time to time prescribe. The com-,
missioner's regulations place nonresident manufacturers
in the category of "wholesale dealers" and define the
business of such dealers as "that of selling at wholesale
ethyl alcohol in any form . . . and wine as permitted and
supervised by the Federal Government; or selling...
any liquid, mixture, or preparation . . .which will produce intoxication, or coming within the definition of
intended for personal use; except a common carrier may, for hire,
carry pure grain alcohol and wine, and such preparations as may be
sold by druggists for the special purposes and in the manner as set
forth in section five of this article."
"§ 11..
"It shall be unlawful for any nonresident vendor, dealer or other
person to sell or furnish any malt, brewed, vinous, or fermented
liquors, intoxicating liquors, or any mixture, compound or preparation, whether patented or not and whether intoxicating or not, to any
person, corporation or firm within the territory of this State, when
such liquors, mixture, compound or preparation, or any of tl~em, are
intended by any person interested therein to be received, possessed,
sold, or in any manner used, either in the original package or otherwise, in violation of the prohibition laws of this State; and in case of
such sale or furnishing in which a shipment or delivery Of such liquors
is made by a common or other carrier, the sale and furnishing thereof
shall be deemed to be made inthe county wherein the delivery thereof
is made by such carrier to the consignee, his agent or employee."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

'liquors' in section one" of the statilte. These dealers,
it is provided, upon obtaining a permit from the state
commissioner, may sell such liquors at wholesale for medicinal, pharmaceutical, scientific and mechanical purposes to persons holding permits to purchase. The regulations also classify alcoholic preparations, as those regarded as beverages, the sale of which is forbidden, and
those which comprise articles having a recognized legitimate use and which can be sold under permits, the latter
including a large variety of preparations with a described
alcoholic content, such as proprietary medicines, tonics,
cordials, elixirs, lotions, extracts and flavors, and various
compounds bearing trade -names.
('mplainants' products fall within these regulations.
They contain ethyl alcohol ranging, according to the allegation of the bill as to the foodstuffs and toilet articles of
one of the complainants, ' from four per cent. to ninety
per cent. ethyl alcohol by Volume." There is no charge
that applications by complainants for permits have been
denied. On the contrary, the bill of complaint alleged
that complainants have either prnmired the required permits from the state commissioner, wi the payment of the
prescribed fee, or "have refused to procure such permits
and refrained from shipping said products into said State."
The question is simply one of the authority of the state
officers to demand that state permits be obtained.
The District Court found that the products in question
are "liquors " within the meaning of the state statutej and
we see no ground for a contrary conclusion. State v.
Muncey, 28 W. Va. 494; State v. Good, 56 W. Va. 215;
49 S. E. 121; State v. Durr, 69 W. Va. 251; 71 S. E. 767;
State v. Henry, 74 W. Va. 72; 81,S.E. 569: Nor do we
think that the regulations of the commissioner go beyond
the authority which the statute confers. No state decision to that effect has been cited; and examination of the
statutory provisions we have quoted gives no support to

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

the contention that the commissioner has misconceived
his duty. On the application for injunction the complainants presented affidavits to show that their products, as
required by Federal law and regulations, were unfit for
beverage purposes and that consumption of them as a
beverage "would involve serious gastric irritations or disorders, or nausea, and, in some cases, if persisted in, serious illness," and that the products were sold strictly "for
medicinal, toilet, and culinary purposes." Defendants
denied the unfitness for beverage use, and, in support,
submitted an affidavit of the chemist who had been employed by the state deparfment to examine preparations
covered by the commissioner's regulations, including products of this sort submitted by one of the complainants on
its application for a state permit. This witness testified
that these various preparations, falling within the abovementioned classes of the regulations, are such as "will
produce intoxication and drunkenness" and he based this
statement on the "alcoholic content, the potability and
the physiological effect of the final product, and upon his
actual experience and observation that said preparations
are intoxicating in fact."
We may lay the controversy of fact on one side, so far
as it relates to the particular products of complainants, as
the question is not merely that of the normal uses and
purposes of these preparations which have alcoholic content and come within the state law, but whether, in view
of that content and of possible abuses, the State has the
power to put the sale of such products under the prescribed administrative supervision. There is no basis for
objection because of any arbitrariness in the State's requirements, as they are appropriately directed to the en-forcement of its prohibitory legislation. Purity Extract
Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204; Eberle v. Michigan, 232
U. S. 700, 706; Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania, 258 U. S. 403,
407. The question before us is thus the narrower one

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion 'f the Court.

286 U.S.

whether the State's authority extends to the complainants' transactions in the light of their interstate character
and of the Federal legislation asserted to be applicable.
ZPrior to the adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment,
the Congress, exerting its constitutional power of regulation, had prohibited the movement in interstate commerce into any State of intoxicating liquors for purposes
prohibited by the state law. The Webb-Kenyon Act 6
(Mar. 1, 1913, c. 90, 37 Stat. 699; U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 122).
See, also, the Wilson Act (Aug. 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat.
313; U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 121) and the Reed Amendment
(Mar. 3, 1917, c. 162, § 5, 39 Stat. 1069; U. S. C., Tit. 27,
§ 123). With direct application to the prohibition law
of West Virginia (the predecessor of the present statute
and having a similar definition of "liquors," West Virginia Laws, 1913, c. 13), this Court held that the purpose
of the Webb-Kenyon Act "was to prevent the immunity
characteristic of interstate commerce from being used to
permit the receipt of liquor through such commerce in
States contrary to their laws, and thus in effect afford a
means by subterfuge and indirection to set such laws at
The Webb-Kenyon Act is entitled "An Act Divesting intoxicating

liquors of their interstate character in certain cases," and provides:
"That the shipment or .transportation,. in any manner or by any

means whatsoever, of any spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or

other intoxicating liquor of any kind, from one State, Territory, or
District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject

to the jurisdiction thereof, into any other State, Territory, or District
of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, or from any foreign country Into any State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, which said spirituous, vinous,
malted, fermented, or other intoxicating liquor is intended, by any
person interested therein, to be received, possessed, sold, or in any
manner used, either in the original package or otherwise, in violation
of any law of such State, Territory, or District of the United States,
or place noncontiguous -to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, is
hereby prohibited."

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

naught." The Act was said to operate " so as to cause the
prohibitions of the West Virginia law against shipment,
receipt and possession to be applicable and controlling."
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311, 324. See, also, Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. North
Carolina,245 U. S. 298, 303, 304; United States v. Hill,
248 U. S. 420, 424, 425; Williams v. United States, 255
U. S. 336; Rainier Brewing Co. v. Great Northern Co., 259
U. S. 150, 152. The appellants do not urge, and there
would be no ground for such a contention, that either the
Eighteenth Amendment or the National Prohibition Act
had the effect of repealing the Webb-Kenyon Act. The
Congress has not expressly repealed that Act, and there
is no basis for an implication of repeal. The Eighteenth
Amendment and the National Prohibition Act-have not
superseded state prohibitory laws which do not authorize
or sanction what the constitutional amendment prohibits.
Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania, supra. Such laws derive their
force not from that amendment but from power originally
belonging to the States and preserved to them by the
Tenth Amendment. United States v. Lanza, 260 U. S.
377, 381; Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 315; Van
Oster v. Kansas, 272 U. S.465, 469. As the prohibitory
legislation of the States may thus continue to have effective operation, there is no reason for denying to the WebbKenyon Act its intended application to prevent the immunity of transactions in interstate commerce from being
used to impede the enforcement of the States' valid prohibitions.
The appellants contend, however, that the products in
question are not "intoxicating liquors" within the meaning of the Webb-Kenyon Act. They insist that this term
as used in that Act must be defined in the light of the
terms of the subsequent National Prohibition Act. They
refer to the exemptions in the later Act with respect to
such articles as medicina and toilet preparations, pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286U.S.

prietary medicines and flavoring extracts, when manufactured and prepared for the market under required permits.
U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 13. But these provisions were not in
contemplation at the time of the, passage of the WebbKenyon Act and cannot operate to restrict the natural
significance of the terms of that Act as they were adopted
by the Congress and have been left unrepealed. That
Act did not attempt to establish a definition of intoxicating liquors. It expressly referred to the prohibitory laws
of the States, the enforcement of which it was intended
to aid. The Congress undoubtedly recognized, as this
Court had decided, that the State could prohibit the sale
of liquor absolutely or conditionally. It could prohibit
sale as a beverage and permit sale for medicinal and like
purposes. It could prohibit sale by merchants and permit it by licensed druggists. Eberle v. Michigan, supra;
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 19; Rippey v. Texas, 193
U. S. 504, 509; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307;
Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania, supra. If preparations by reason of their alcoholic content would be intoxicating, and
could be used for beverage purposes, unless so treated as
to render them unfit for such purposes, the States were
clearly at liberty to insist, within the range of their authority, upon being satisfied that such preparations had
been so treated and to establish administrative control to
that end. Seaboard -Air Line Ry. v. North Carolina,
supra. When the definition of intoxicating liquors, as set
forth in state legislation and as applied to such preparations, is not an arbitrary one-and it cannot be regarded
as arbitrary in the instant case-the Webb-Kenyon Act
must be taken as referring to the liquors which the state
legislation describes, or the plain purpose of the Act would
be frustrated. The same reasons which lead to the conclusion that the Webb-Kenyon Act was not repealed by
the National Prohibition Act, compel the view that the

McCORMICK & CO. v. BROWN
131

Opinion of the Court.

scope of the application of the former was in no way limited by the latter.
The appellants make the further point that the WebbKenyon Act applies only where there is an intent to violate the laws of the State into which the shipment is made.
The Act prohibits the shipment or transportation of intoxicating liquor into a State when it "is intended, by
any person interested therein, to be received, possessed,
sold, or in any manner used . . . in violation of any law
of such State." The argument is that no intent to violate the laws of West Virginia can be imputed to the appellants. It is said that they ship their products only to
licensed dealers in West Virginia, that is, to those who are
authorized by the state commissioner of prohibition "to
receive, store, and sell the same." The short answer is
that the state law does not make the permits issued to
local dealers a substitute for the permits required of
wholesale dealers. If the provisions of the state law, and
the regulations under it, which expressly require state permits for sales by wholesale dealers of the products in question, are valid, it necessarily follows that sales by appellants of these products without such permits would be in
violation of the state law within the meaning of the
Webb-Kenyon Act. The appellants in making the sales
are obviously interested persons, and the shipment of their
products into the State for the purpose of there consummating their sales without the described permits would
fall directly within the terms of that Act.
In determining the ultimate question of the validity,
not simply of the State's prohibitory legislation in its general features, but, in particular, of its requirement of permits as to products for which federal permits have been
issued, we need only refer to the criterion established by
the decisions of this Court. While state legislation cannot give validity to acts prohibited by the Eighteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Amendment, that legislation may provide additional instruments to make prohibition effective. That the State
may adopt appropriate means to that end was expressly
provided in section two of the Amendment in declaring
that "The Congress and the several States shall have
concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation." National Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S. 350,
387; Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania,supra. The Court said in
United States v. Lanza, supra: "In effect the second section of the Eighteenth Amendment put an end to restrictions upon the State's power arising out of the Federal
Constitution and left her free to enact prohibition laws
applying to all transactions within her limits. To be
sure, the first section of the Amendment took from the
States all power to authorize acts falling within its prohibition, but it did not cut down or displace prior state
laws not inconsistent with it. . . We have here two
sovereignties, deriving power from different sources, capable of dealing with the same subject matter within the
same territory. Each may, without interference by the
other, enact laws to secure prohibition, with the limitation
that no legislation can give validity to acts prohibited by
the Amendment. Each government in determining what
shall be an offense against its peace and dignity.,is exercising its own sovereignty, not that of the other." See, also,
Hebert v. Louisiana, supra. The mere fact that a state
statute has broader scope than a provision of the National
Prohibition Act upon the same subject does not affect its
validity. Van Oster v. Kansas, supra. Different and
higher penalties may be provided by the state law. Edwards v. Georgia, 150 Ga. 754; 105, S. E. 363, affirmed
258 U. S. 613; Chandler v. Texas, 89 Tex. Cr. 306; 232
S. W. 317, affirmed 260.U. S. 708. State legislation imposing punishment for the sale of liquor without a state
license may be enforced. Molinari v. Maryland, 141 Md.,

BRADFORD ELEC. CO. v. CLAPPER.
131

Syllabus.

565; 119 Atl. 291, affirmed 263 U. S. 685, 686; Weisengoff v. Maryland, 143 Md. 638; 123 Atl. 107, affirmed 263
U. S. 685, 686; Colora v. New Jersey, 97 N. J. Law 316;
117 Atl. 702, affirmed 267 U. S. 576. In Idaho v. Moore,
36 Idaho 565; 212 Pac. 349, affirmed 264 U. S. 569, Moore
was convicted of having intoxicating liquor in his private
dwelling in violation of the state law, notwithstanding
the stipulation that his possession was "permitted by and
lawful under the provisions of section 33 of the National
Prohibition Act." U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 50. See, also,
North Carolinav. Campbell, 182 N. C. 911; 110 S. E. 86,
affirmed 262 U. S. 728; Barnes v. New York, 266 U. S.
581;.ColonialDrug & Sales Co. v. Western Products Co.,
54 F. (2d) 216.
Applying the principle thus repeatedly declared, we
are of the opinion that the provisions of the National Prohibition Act relating to the issue of permits did not supersede the authority of West Virginia to require state permits, as in the instant case, in the appropriate enforcement
Decree affirmed.
of its valid legislation.
BRADFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., INC. v. CLAPPER, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 423.

Argued February 15, 16, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. A state statute is a "public act" within the meaning of the full
faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 154.
2. A federal court is bound equally with courts of the State in which
it sits to observe the command of the full faith and credit clause.

P. 15 5.
3. As regards the question whether a State is bound to recognize in
its courts an Act of another State which is obnoxious to its public
policy, "different considerations may apply where the right claimed

