TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U. S.
276

Argument for Petitioners.

U. S. 146, 159; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S.
114, 121; Brown-FormanCo. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563,
573; State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283
U. S. 527, 537.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents from so much of

the opinion as concerns the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO TIE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 634.

Argued April 14, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

The amount paid to a railroad by the Government under § 209 of
the Transportation Act to make up the minimum of operating income guaranteed for the six months next following the relinquishment of federal control, was neither a gift nor a subsidy, but was
income taxable under the Sixteenth Amendment and the Revenue
Act of 1918. Pp. 288-290.
72 Ct. Cls. 629; 52 F. (2d) 1040, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 616, to review a judgment rejecting a claim for refund of money collected by the Government as income tax.

Messrs. John W. Davis and Newton K. Fox, with whom
Messrs. Adrian C. Humphreys and Chester A. Gwinn were
on the brief, for petitioner.
The condition of the railroads at the termination of
federal control was such that rehabilitation was necessary
to insure an adequate transportation system. The purpose of the Transportation Act, 1920, was to remedy this
situation. United States v. Guaranty Trust Co., 280 U. S.
478.
Congress recognized the immediate need of the railroads for additional "capital." Without any obligation

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

286 U.S.

on the part of the Government, the Transportation Act
was passed providing for a "guaranty" payment.
The "guaranty" payment was not income from operation of the railroad. Birmingham Trust Co. v. Atlanta,
etc. Ry. Co., 300 Fed. 173. The payment was in fact and
was intended by Congress as a subsidy.
Being a subsidy, the " guaranty" payment is not income
within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment. Edwards v. Cuba R. Co., 268 U. S. 628. Every economic
advantage or receipt of money does not result in "income." Mutuality and consideration did not remove the
"guaranty" payment from the category of a subsidy or
convert it into "income." Edwards v. Cuba R. Co., supra;
United States v. Supplee-Biddle Hardware Co., 265 U. S.
189; Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U. S. 170. The
provision for payment by the railroads to the Government of any- excess over the "guaranty" was a limitation
or condition to eliminate carriers not in need of the subsidy. It was not inserted as a money producing provision
for the Government. It was designed primarily as an
administrative measure to eliminate applications by carriers not in need of financial assistance and to save auditing expenses and delay.
The nature of the "guaranty" payment, and not the
manner in which it might be spent, determines whether
United States v. Merriam, 263 U. S.
it is "income."
179. The "guaranty" payment was not derived from
capital or labor, or from both combined. It was not "income" within the definition which this Court has adopted
and consistently followed, Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, as a limitation upon the power of Congress under
the Sixteenth Amendment.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Joseph H. Sheppard, Bradley B. Gilman, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief,
for the United States.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U. S.
285

Opinion of the Court.

The purpose of § 209 was to reimburse railways like
the petitioner's on account of a decrease in their net railway operating income because of federal control. The
legislative history shows that it was the intention of Congress to extend this aid in recognition of their financial
necessities and to compensate for injury through federal
control.
The payments made were taxable income just as was
compensation paid under the Federal Control Act. The
payments were derived because of the operation of a railroad and consequently come within the definition of income as "gain derived from capital, from labor, or from
both combined."
.The payments here were not capital subsidies like those
involved in Edwards v. Cuba R. Co., 268 U. S. 628.
The payments are not exempt from the income tax as
"property acquired by gift." They were based upon
moral and contractual obligations. The United States
received consideration for the guaranty.
Congress could hardly have contemplated that the
amount paid should be exempt from income tax. Such
treatment would put the railroads receiving payments
under § 209 in a better position than the roads which had
no such reimbursement.
MR. JUsTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
During federal control of railways that of petitioner
was operated by the Director General under the act of
March 21, 1918. Pursuant to the Trahs-portation Act,
1920,2 the Government relinquished the property March
1, 1920; petitioner accepted the provisions of § 209 of
the act, and consequently received for the six months
C.25, 40 Stat. 451.
'Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456.
'41 Stat. 464; U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 77.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

period commencing March 1, 1920, an allowance awarded by the Interstate Commerce Commission to make good
the guaranty embodied in that section. The company
omitted this sum- from taxable income returned for the
year .1920. After audit the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue added the amount to the petitioner's income and
assessed a resulting additional tax, which was paid under
protest. Upon rejection of a claim for refund, suit was
brought in the Court of Claims to recover the portion
of the tax attributable to the inclusion of the guaranty
payment, petitioner asserting that the amount received
was a subsidy or gift and therefore not income within
the Sixteenth Amendment of the Constitution or § 213
of the Revenue Act of 1918.1 Recovery was denied. This
.court granted certiorari.
By the terms of § 209 of the Transportation Act railroad companies which, like petitioner, had made contracts
with the Director General for annual compensation during federal control, were guaranteed an operating income
for the ensuing six months of not less than one-half the
amount of such compensation. A minimum operating
revenue was also assured to carriers not having such contracts, which had been under federal control or adversely
affected thereby. Payment was conditioned on the carrier's acceptance of the provisions of the section, one of
which was the agreement that if operating revenue for
the period should exceed the guaranteed amount the excess should be paid into the Treasury. Petitioner signified its acceptance.
The statute in terms guarantees a "minimum operating income" for six months after relinquishment of fed'eral control. The situation in which the railroads of the
country were as a result of war-time Government opera-

'40 Stat. 1057, 1065. "That for the purposes of this title
term 'gross income' . . . (b) Does not include .
of property acquired by gift . . ."

.

. . .

the

. (3) The value

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U. S.
285

Opinion of the Court.

ion is well described in United States v. Guaranty Trust
Co., 280 U. S. 478, 484. During that period their expenses
had risen and there had been no commensurate increase
in rates. While the Government had either paid or was
obligated to pay just compensation for their requisition,
the amount of it was known to be insufficient fr rehabilitation of the roads as privately owned and oplrated organizations. Until rates could be adjusted to meet increased expenses, loans be negotiated, and operating forces
realigned and reintegrated, the credit of the carriers must
by some means be re-established. Thus the Government
had a real obligation, not readily susceptible of accurate
measurement, to assist in the restoration of normal conditions. The purpose of the guaranty provision was to
stabilize the credit position of the roads by assuring them
a minimum operating income. They were bound to operate their properties in order to avail themselves of the
Government's proffer. Under the terms of the statute no
sum could be received save as a result of operation. If
the fruits of the employment of a road's capital and labor
should fall below a fixed minimum then the Go'vernment'
agreed to make up the deficiency, and if the income were
to exceed that minimum the carrier bound itself to pay
the excess into the federal treasury. In the latter event
the carrier unquestionably would have been obligated to
pay income tax measured by actual earnings; in the former, it ought not to be in a better position than if it had
earned the specified minimum. Clearly, then, the amount
paid to bring the yield from operation up to the required
minimum was as much income from operation as -were
the railroad's receipts from fares and charges.
The sums received under the act were not subsidies or
gifts,-that is, contributions to the capital of the railroads,-and this fact' distinguishes cases such as Edwards
v. Cuba Railroad Co., 268 U. S.- 628,. where the piayments

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

were conditioned upon construction work performed.
Here they were to be measured by a deficiency in operating income, and might be used for the payment of
dividends, of operating expenses, of capital charges, or for
any other purpose Within the corporate authority, just
as any other operating revenue might be applied. The
Government's payments were not in their nature bounties, but an addition to a depleted operating revenue consequent upon a federal activity.
In a proper sense these payments constituted income to
the carrier not exempt from taxation under the Sixteenth
Amendment or the Revenue Act of 1918. The Court of
Claims was right in denying the claim and the judgment
must be

Affirmed.
CONTINENTAL TIE & LUMBER CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 560.

Argued April 14, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The payments provided by § 204 of the Transportation Act to
railroads wiich were not under federal control but which suffered
deficits of operating income in that period, were intended as reimbursements for losses consequential on government operation of
other railroads; they are neither subsidies nor bonuses, but are
income within the intent of the Sixteenth Amendment and § 213
of the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 293.
2. The right to- such an award. was fixed by the passage of the Transportation Act, 1920; the function of the Interstate Commerce Commission in ascertaining the amount is ministerial. P. 295.
3. An award under § :204 held taxable as income for 1920, although
it was not determined by the Commission and paid until 1923,
since the railroad kept its books upon the accrual basis and had
data, in 1920, from which it could have made a reasonably approximate estimate in its tax return for that year, subject to future
adjustm~nt by amended return, claim for refund, or additional

