U. S. v. THE RUTH MILDRED.
63

Statement of the Case.

the Mexican border. The cars libeled in this proceeding
were laden with the liquors, for all that the evidence
shows, on this side of the border line.
The difference is not one that exacts differing relief.
The circumstantial evidence justifies a finding that the
cars, wherever laden, were implements or links in a continuous process of carriage from Mexico into Texas.
This was unlawful importation as well as unlawful transportation. The two courts below are in agreement as to
the inferences fairly to be gathered from the facts, and
their findings are not to be disturbed unless clearly erroneous. Washington Securities Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 76, 78; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of
Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 558.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. THE RUTH MILDRED.
CERTIORARI/ TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
SECOND CIRCUIT.

.No. 795.

Argued April 15, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. Revised Statutes, § 4377, which provides that any licensed vessel
employed in any other trade than that for which she is licensed
shall be forfeited, applies to a vessel licensed only for the fishing
trade which carries a cargo of intoxicating liquors. P. 68.
2. Forfeiture under Rev. Stats., § 4377, is strictly in rem and (unlike
forfeiture under § 26 of the National Prohibition Act) is not
dependent upon a preliminary adjudication of personal guilt. P. 69.
56 F. (2d) 590, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 285 U. S.534, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court dismissing a libel brought

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

by the United States to forfeit a vessel for breach of
the navigation laws. Cf. the last two preceding cases.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Arthur TV. Henderson and Paul D. Miller were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Milton R. Kroopf, with whom Mr. Louis Halle was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. Jus'rICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The schooner "Ruth Mildred " was licensed to engage
in the cod and mackerel fisheries. On March 1, 1928, she
was observed by the Coast Guard in Long Island Sound
headed for New York. She was trailed by a patrol boat
till she docked in 'the East River. The master admitted
to the customs officers that his vessel was carrying intoxicating liquors, and upon the search that followed a stock
of liquors was discovered. A libel of information was
thereafter filed against the vessel praying a decree of forfeiture for breach of the navigation laws (R. S. § 4377;
U. S. Code, Title 46, "§325) in carrying on a business not
permitted by the license. The master intervened in the
suit, and pleaded that the remedy under § 26 of the National Prohibition Act was exclusive of any other. The
District Court, upholding that defense, dismissed the libel,
47 F. (2d) 336, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed,
56, F. (2d) 590. The case is here on a writ of certiorari
granted on the petition of the Government.
* Our decision in General Motors Acceptance Corp. v.
United States, ante, p. 49, would require a reversal of
this judgment if the vessel had been seized for unlawful
hn iortation in violation of the tariff act. Even more

U. S. v. THE RUTH MILDRED.
67

Opinion of the Court.

plainly that result must follow where the basis of the
seizure is a breach of the navigation acts growing.
out of a departure by the vessel from the conditions
of her license. Contrast With the. decision below the decision of the same court in United States v. American
Motor Boat K-1231, 54 F. (2d) 502. By § 4377 of the
Revised Statutes (U. S. Code, Title 46, § 325): ".Whenever any licensed vessel . . . is employed in any, other
trade than that for which she is licensed, . . . such -vesel
with her -tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the cargo
found on board her, shall be forfeited." The "Ruth
Mildred " was licensed for the fishing trade and not for
any other. She would have been subject to forfeiture if
her cargo had been wheat or silk or sugar. In a suit under
this statute, her guilt was not affected, was-neither enlarged nor diminished, by the fact that the cargo happened
to be one of intoxicating liquors. The Government made
out a case of forfeiture when there .was proof that the
cargo was something other than fish. Forfeiture under
§ 26 of the National Prohibition Act is one of the consequences of a successful criminal prosecution of a personal
offender, and is ancillary thereto. Forfeiture under the
Revised Statutes, § 4377, for breach of the-navigation
laws, is strictly in rem, and is not dependent upon a preliminary adjudication of personal guilt. United States v.
Stowell, 133 U. S. 1, 16, 17. In brief, the basis of the
charge of guilt directed against this vessel is not a breach
of the National Prohibition Act nor any movement of
transportation, lawful or unlawful. It is the act of engaging in a business other than the fishing trade in
contravention of a license.
The decree should be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

