RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
447

Syllabus.

ment of his age substantially affected the examining surgeon's conclusion that he was in good health and acceptable physical condition or that, if he had given his real
age, the surgeon would have found otherwise. Indeed
the surgeon's testimony ,shows that, save in exceptional
cases, defendant, in accordance with its established rules,
permits its switchmen to continue in the service until they
are 65 years old without any physical examination after
they are employed. Plaintiff's physical condition ivas not
shown to be such as to make his employment inconsistent
with the defendant's proper policy or its reasonable rules
to insure discharge of its duty to select fit employees.
The evidence indicates that, under its bwn interpretation
of rule 22 together with the schedule constituting the
agreement between defendant and its switchmen, defendant after the final acceptance of plaintiff's application was not free to discharge him on account of the false
statement as to his age.
It is clear that the facts found, when taken in connection with those shown by uncontradicted evidence, are
not sufficient to bring this case within the rule applied
in Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Rock, supra,
or-the reasons upon which that decision rests.
Judgment affirmed.
RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 736. Argued April 28, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.
Upon cross appeals from a decree dismissing a suit over a fund
deposited in escrow, Held1. The appellate court went beyond the record and the evidence
in holding that the plaintiff depositor was guilty of fraud and

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1931,
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

bad faith in bringing and maintaiing the suit and that the other
depositor shbuld therefore have a lien on the fund for his expenses,
including att6rneys' fees, in the litigation. P. 460.
2. Nice distinctions as to which of these two parties was the more
lacking in good faith or standards, towards others or towards each
other, are not sufficient to warrant putting upon one any part of
the expenses incurred by the other in waging the contest. P. 461.
3. By the granting of such a lien, when it was not applied for
and when the plaintiff had no reason to apprehend that it would
be considered, the plaintiff was denied an opportunity to be heard
in respect of the authority of the court to make such an allowance
and as to the facts touching the propriety or basis for making it.
P. 460.
4. Petition for rehearing and its denial upon a reasoned opinion
were not the equivalent of a hearing in advance of decision. Id.
5. The reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred
by the depositary in the suit and which are attributable to the discharge of its duty under the escrow agreement, properly may be
made a first charge against the fund. P. 461.
6. The depositary is not entitled, as against the plaintiff depositor, to any allowance of expenses or counsel fees incurred to
protect its own claim against the fund to secure a debt owing to
it by the other de'positor. Id:
54 F. (2d) 834,'modified and affirmed.

CERTmAw, 285 U. S. 535, to review the reversal of a
decree dismissing the bill in a suit by one of two depositors
of a fund to obtain judgment against the other and to
make it a lien on the fund. Claims of attorneys and of'
the depositary were also involved.
Mr. Ernest Morris, with whom Mr. Cass E. Herrington
was on the brief, for petitioner.
In decreeing, without any hearing or opportunity therefor, that the expenses of the litigation and attorney's fees
of Buchhalter and the bank shall be paid out of petitioner's share of the funds and bonds in escrow, the Circuit
Court of Appeals deprived petitioner of his property without due process' of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409; Reynolds v.
Stockton, 140 U. S. 254; Munday v. Vail, 34 N. J. L. 418.

RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
.451

453

Argument for Petitioner.

The decree awarding such fees and expenses is contrary to principle and to all precedent. "Fee bill" statute, 28 U. S. C., §§ 571-572.
In contemplation of law the fees prescribed in the fee
bill are full indemnity for the litigation and, while a
court of equity has discretion to award, withhold or
apportion costs, the amount of costs which the court may
award is limited by the statute. Henkel v. Chicago,St. P.,
M. & 0. R. Co., 284 U. S. 444; Arcambel v. Wiseman, 3
Dall. 306; Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; The
Baltimore, 8 Wall. 377; Motion Picture Co. v. Steiner,
201 Fed. 63; GuardianTrust Co. V. Kansas City Sou. Ry.
Co., 28 F. (2d) 233, reversed 281 U. S. 1.
Lack of good faith in bringing the action is not enough.
The case must be one where the plaintiff has made, but
failed to sustain, gross charges of fraud and misconduct.
Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co. v. Guardian Trust Co., 281
U. S. 1.
The rules of the High Court of Chancery of England
are no longer followed in this country. Hopkins, Fed.
Eq. Rules, 7th ed., p. 42. The new Federal Equity
Rules, adopted in 1912, no longer refer us to the English.
practice for any purpose. It was never the practice of
the High Court of Chancery. to allow "costs as between
solicitor and client where the litigation is false, unjust,
vexatious, wanton, or oppressive."
There is no American authority for the allowance of
expenses and attorney's fees, or either, in a case of this
character. Distinguishing: Danbury v. Robinson, 14 N.
J. Eq. 324; Thome v. Allen, 70 S. W. 410, 71 id. 431,
Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527.
The mere fact that the court has control over the 'fund
does not authorize the payment therefrom of counsel
fees and other expenses. Such payment is authorized
only where the expenses incurred have been for the benefit of all interested. 15 C. J. 105; Kimball v. Atlantic

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

286 U.S.

States Ins. Co., 223 Fed. 463; Gund v. Ballard, 80 Neb.
385; Ryckman v. Parkins, 5 Paige's Ch. (N. Y.) 543.
Where a court of equity grants relief upon conditions,
th conditions must not be arbitrary, but must be "war,ranted by settled principles of equity jurisprudence."
Lurton, J., in Compton v. Jesup, 68 Fed. 263, 316; Pomeroy, Eq. Jur., 4th ed., § 386; Mantermach v. Studt, 240
Ill. 464, 469; Lindell v. Lindell, 150 Minn. 295, 299; Alexander v. Shafer, 38 Neb. 812, 816.
Even where conditions are proper they may not be
absolute. The party should have his option to reject
the whole decree. 21 C. J. 688, Equity, § 849; 1 Pomeroy, Eq. Jur., 4th ed., § 385; Gage v. Thompson, 161 Ill.
403, 407; Alexander V. Merrick, 121 Ill. 606, 614.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that
petitioner had not brought his suit in good faith.
Findings of the trial court are presumptively correct
and will not be disturbed unless the trial court has either
misapprehended the evidence or gone against the clear
weight thereof. Medsker v. Bonebrake, 108 U. S. 66;
Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136; American Rotary
Valve Co. v. Moorehead, 226 Fed. 202; Fineup v. Kleinman, 5 F. (2d) 137.
Mr. Henry E. Lutz for respondent.
The Court of Appeals did no more than to apply to
-extraordinary facts the maxim "He who seeks equity
must do equity."
The fee bill has never been construed to interfere with
the free exercise of accepted jurisprudence or practice
in equity. Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527-528;
Guardian Trust Co. v. Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co., 28 F.
,(2d) 233; In re Schocket, 177 Fed. 583; United States v.
Equitable Trust Co., 283 U.U S. 738.
Rude himself sought equity in the Court of Appeals
on a hypothesis completely departing that sought to be

RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
451

455

Opinion of the Court.

utilized by him in the trial court. The Court of Appeals
did no more, no less, under the special facts, than to
exact what it conceived to be equity from him who
sought it.
State statutes allowing attorney's fees are enforced in
the federal courts, and no conflict has been found with
the fee bill statute. Sioux County v. National Surety
Co., 276 U. S. 238; Henkel v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0.
Ry. Co., 284 U. S. 444; Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U. S.
362-370.
It is submitted the federal statute relating to costs and
at torney's fees has no more relationship to the maxim
that "He who seeks equity must do equity," than it has
to cases involving the recovery or preservation of trust
funds or to any other instance of long established and
generally accepted equity jurisprudence. Cf. Ohio ex rel.
Popoviciv. Agler, 280 U. S. 379, 384.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of, the -Court.

This suit was brought in the federal court for Colorado
by petitioner against respondent, the First National Bank
of Denver, and the members of a law firm to obtain judgment against respondent on an oral promise to pay a
large sum and to establish and foreclose a lien therefor
upon certain bonds and cash held by the bank in escrow.
The principal controversy was between petitioner and
respondent. The bank claimed a lien on the fund to secure payment of a small sum owing to it by respondent.
The lawyers asserted a claim under an attachment to enforce payment of an amount to be fixed as their compensation for services in a proceeding in the state court.
After trial at which much evidence was heard the court
dismissed the complaint on the merits. Respondent appealed and petitioner took a cross appeal. On respondent's appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals remanded with

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

instructions for further proceedings in the district court,
and on petitioner's appeal affirmed. 54 F. (2d) 834.
This writ brings here for review the part of the decree
directing the district court to deduct from petitioner's
share of the fund in escrow the expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees to be fixed by the district court, to
which respondent and the bank have been put in this
litigation.
The evidence and findings disclose facts, occurring
before those alleged in petitioner's complaint, that shed
light upon the question presented. In June, 1929, at a
state court receiver's sale he and one Bronstine leach
bought an undivided half of the property of the Colorado
Pulp and Paper Company. The purchase price wa paid
in cash and in bonds of that company. Under an hgreement between petitioner and respondent the former furnished $61,000 and the latter $53,922, making the total required to pay for the half interest bought by petitioner.
It was transferred to petitioner and later a quarter interest was conveyed by him to respondent. Possession of
the property was given to Bronstine who carried on the
business for account of all concerned. Petitioner and
respondent wanted to sell their interest and, in order to
force Bronstine to buy them out, they pursued a course of
hostile and threatening criticism of his management.
And when a partition suit by Bronstine seemed imminent
they, conspiring to embarrass and delay him should he
seek relief by that means, falsely made it 'to appear of
record that a quarter interest in the property was subject
to a heavy incumbrance. For that purpose they caused
to be made and recorded a deed transferring petitioner's
quarter interest to respondent and also a trugt deed t6 the
public trustee purporting to secure a note made by respondent to petitioner for $67,500. Respondent soon
succeeded in selling the half interest to one Binstock, an
associate of Bronstine, for $28,080 in cash and $92,500 in

RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
451

Opinion of the Court.

bonds of the Colorado Paper Products Company. Petitioner, as a condition of clearing the title of record, required that all the cash and bonds should be delivered to
the bank to be held in escrow until he and respondent
should agree in writing as to the disposition of the same.
They promptly divided nearly all of the cash, but came
to no agreement for division of the remaining money or
the bonds.
Later, petitioner brought this suit claiming that the
fictitious note and trust deed were valid and alleging
that, when the cash was divided, respondent promised
to pay him the full amount of the note and $7,500 out of
the profits of the venture and that the bonds should be
held in escrow Until the balance alleged to be owing,
$59,699.61, should be paid. And the complaint alleges
that the lawyers had attached the interest of petitioner
and respondent and claimed a prior lien on the fund.
The prayer is that petitioner have judgment against respondent for the amount claimed; that the same be declared a lien upon the fund, and that the bank sell the
bonds and apply the fund to the payment of the judgment. Respondent's answer alleges that the note and
trust deed were fictitious, denies the alleged promise, avers
that he and petitioner had approximately equal interest
in the property and that the only agreement between
them was that the sale of their half interest be joint and
entire and the proceeds be equally divided between them,
and prays that the complaint be dismissed on the merits.
The lawyers' answer asserts that they have a lien upon
the fund, denies that petitioner has any, and prays that
he be denied relief. The bank's answer shows that the
cash and bonds were deposited with it to be held in escrow
until petitioner and respondent agree in writing as to the
disposition of the same,. sets forth the division of the
cash, alleges that respondent assigned his interest in the
fund to the bank as security for the payment of $1,250

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

and prays that it be declared to have a first lien on the
fund, be instructed as to disposition of the balance and
have costs and attorneys' fees incurred in this suit.
After hearing the evidence and before making findings
under Equity Rule 701/2, the district court filed a memorandum showing that petitioner had failed to make out
his case. Then respondent submitted requests for findings of fact and, in addition to those negativing petitioner's cause of action, asked the court to find that petitioner and he entered into a campaign against Bronstine,
including the making of the fictitious note and trust deed,
to create difficulties and to force Bronstine to buy their
interest in the property; that, by making the note the
basis of his suit, petitioner attempted to perpetrate a
fraud against respondent and to impose upon the court;
and that petitioner's testimony is unworthy of belief.
And respondent proposed as conclusions of law that petitioner by reason of the campaign against Bronstine did
not come into court with clean hands, and that the bank
should be directed to deliver the entire fund to respondent
subject to its lien and the claim of the lawyers. The
court, refusing to adopt any such condemnatory requests,
made findings merely showing the respective amouits invested in.the property by petitioner and respondent;
that the fictitious note had been canceled; that pursuant
to agreement the proceeds of the sale were to be held
by the bank in escrow until respondent and petitioner
agreed in writing as to the disposition of the same; that
cash had been divided and that the escrow agreement had
not been modified. As its conclusion of law the court declared that the complaint should be dismissed on the
merits as to all defendants with costs to be "taxed against
petitioner, and entered its decree accordingly.
On his appeal respondent prayed not for reversal of
any part of the decree but that it be made to declare that
as against petitioner he was the owner of the fund and

RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
451

Opinion of the Court.

to direct the bank to deliver it to him. The opinion of
the court clearly shows that claim to be devoid of merit.
Petitioner on his cross appeal merely prayed for the relief sought in his complaint. The decree was affirmed
and that ruling is not questioned here. In his brief in
that court, petitioner suggested that, if it held his suit
was rightly dismissed below, it should direct distribution
under the agreement.
First to be considered is the command of the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the district court deduct from petitioner's share the "court costs and expenses to which
Buchhalter" has "been put in this litigation including
reasonable attorneys' fees to be determined by the trial
court."
This is not a taxation of costs as between solicitor and
client. Cf. Guardian Trust Co. v. Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co., 28 F. (2d) 233; 281 U. S. 1. The only costs allowed to be included in the money judgment against petitioner are those taxable as between party and party;
counsel fees or other expenses not so taxable are not to be
included. The Circuit Court of Appeals found that, by
reason of petitioner's wrongful and fraudulent demands
and bad faith in bringing and maintaining this suit, he
prevented the distribution of the fund according to the
escrow agreement and put respondent and the bank to
the expense of making their defense against a groundless
claim. It concluded that, because of such inequitable
conduct, the decree should impose upon petitioner's share
a lien in favor of respondent and the bank for the expenses to which they were so put.
It is significant that the trial court, though specifically
requested by respondent so to do, declined to find that
petitioner in bringing this suit attempted to perpetrate a
fraud against respondent or to impose upon the court or
that he came with unclean hands or must have known
that the cause of action he alleged was without founda

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

tion in fact. Such refusal strongly suggests that the trial
court who saw and heard these antagonists upon the witness stand was of opinion that no such condemnation was
warranted by the evidence. Its findings appear to have
been diligently restrained to those merely sufficient to
show that petitioner failed to sustain the essential allegations of his complaint. Indeed, one of respondent's requests for findings reflects unwillingness on the part of
petitioner to accept other than cash for his share and
that there were reasons, other than matters of mere accounting, for the agreement that the cash and bonds
should be held in escrow until petitioner and respondent
"have agreed in writing concerning the disposition of
the proceeds."
The Circuit Court of Appeals went beyond the issues
presented by the record. Its opinion shows that determination of the appeals did not require findings as to the
good faith of petitioner. Respondent, claiming the entire
fund, necessarily opposed distribution under the agreement. A lar7ge part of the work of his attorneys is chargeable to the attempt to enforce his groundless claim to the
entire fund. He made no application for a lien upon
petitioner's share on account of expenses or attorneys'
fees. Such allowances are not made as of course. And
petitioner had no reason to apprehend that any such
matter would be considered on either appeal. He had
no opportunity to be heard in respect of the authority
of the court to make such an allowance or as to the facts
touching the propriety or basis of the same. Petition
for rehearing and denial, as here, upon a reasoned opinion
may not in such a matter fairly be regarded as the equivalent of a hearing in advance of decision.
The opinion below condemns the conduct of both parties in various details of the transaction out of which this
litigation arose. The record discloses that when acting
together in the pursuit of gain they were not governed by

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
451

Syllabus.

proper standards and that where their interests came in
conflict they disregarded considerations making for fair
play. Nice distinctions as to which disclosed the greater
lack of good faith are not sufficient to warrant a court
of .equity in putting upon one any part of the expenses
incurred by the other in waging such a contest. Assuming that the matter was properly before the court for consideration, we are of opinion that the record does not
warrant any such allowance in favor of respondent.
The bank is not entitled as against petitioner to any
allowance on account of expenses or counsel fees incurred
to protect its claim against the fund to secure the debt
owing by respondent to it. But under settled principles
applied in equity courts its reasonable expenses including
a fair amount to pay the fees of its attorneys incurred in
this suit and which are attributable to the discharge of its
duty under the escrow agreement properly may be made
a first charge against the fund as a whole. United States
v. Equitable Trust Co., 283 U. S. 738, 744. The decree
will be modified in accordance with this opinion, and the
costs in this Court will be taxed against respondent.
Modified, and as modified affirmed.
PORTER, AUDITOR, v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.

No. 627. Argued April 22, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.
1. The power conferred by the Montana "Blue Sky Law" upon the
Investment Commissioner to regulate investment companies and
revoke their permits to do business if they fail to comply, is legislative; and the power that the statute grants to the state courts
in actions brought within thirty days by any interested person
against the Commissioner, "to set aside, modify or confirm" his
decisions " as the evidence and the rules of equity may require,"
is likewise legislative. P. 468.

