WOOLFORD ,REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
318

319

Syllabus.

For the reasons given in the opinion in No. 788 the
judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
WOOLFORD REALTY CO., INC. v. ROSE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 682.

Argued April 19, 20, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The general principle underlying the income tax statutes ever since
the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment has been the computa-'
tion of gains and losses on the basis of an annual accounting for the
transactions of the year. P. 326.
2. A taxpayer who seeks an allowance for losses suffered in an earlier
year, must be able to point to a ipecific provision of the statute
permitting the deduction, and must bring himself within its terms.
Id.
3. The popular or received import oi words furnishes the general rule
for the interpretation of public laws. P. 327.
4. A construction that would engender mischief should be avoided.
P. 329.
5. Section 206 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, permitted any taxpayer who sustained a net loss in one year to deduct it in computing his net income for the next year and, if it exceeded -that net
income (computed without such deduction), to deduct the excess
in computing the net income for the next succeeding (" third ")
year. By other provisions of the. same Act, § 240 (a) and (b)
affiliated corporations could make consolidated returns of net income upon the -basis of which the tax was to be computed as a
unit and then be assessed to the respective corporations in such
proportions as they might agree upon or, if they did not agree, then
on the basis of the net income properly assi6nable to each. Held:
(1) Where one of two corporations which became affiliated in
1927 had no net income that year, its net losses for 1925 and 1926
were not deductible in their consolidated return of net income for
1927. P. 326.
(2) Each of the corporations joined in a consolidated return is
none the less a taxpayer. The deduction of net loss is not per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

mitted by § 206 (b) except from the net income of the corporation
suffering. the loss; and if there would be no net income for the
current year though the earlier loss were to be excluded, there is
nothing from which. a cfeducion. can be made. Id.
53 F. (2d) 821, affirmed.

CEkTIOpARI, 284 U. S...615, to review the affirmance of a
judgment,-44 F. (2d) 856, sustaining a demurrer to the
petition in an action to recover, money paid as income
taxes.
Mr. Win. A. Sutherland, with whom Mr. Joseph B.
Brennan was 61- the. brief, *for petitioner.
Each separate corporation remains the "taxpayer."
But the income b'f the affiliated corporations is consolidated and the tax is computed on this consolidated net
income as though it were the income of a single
corporation.
It is immaterial, so far as the practical result is concerned, whether the gross incomes are added together
and all the deductions then added together and subtracted, or whether the net income of each separate corporation is computed by taking the gross income of each
corporation and subtracting from it the deductions of that
particular corporation and then combining the plus and
minus figures thus obtained.
The only difficulty with the second view is that it requires the concept of "net income" as a minus quantity;
but that difficulty is apparent only. "Net income"
under the Act has the meaning defined by the Act, § 232.
It is not " commercial net income."
Whichever of the two methods above suggested for the
computation of consolidated net income is considered as
required by Art. 635 of Regulations 69, the Treasury
Department admits that none of the deductions under
§ 234 (a) is limited to the gross income of the particular
corporation on whose account the deduction arose, but

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
319

Argument for Petitioner.

that each of them is deductible in full in computing the
statutory "net income" of the consolidated group, regardless of whether they. would be deductible in computing commercial income or not.
The deduction allowable under § 206 is allowable in
computing consolidated net income upon exactly the same
terms and to the same extent as the deductions under
§ 234 and is not limited by the amount of the income of
the corporation previously sustaining the "net loss."
There is no provision in § 206 (b) to limit the deduction
in the "third year"; and there is no provision for carry:ing the "net loss" forward farther against the net income
of the particular corporation sustaining the "net loss";
is no possibility of any double deduction.
andThe
there
Government's
argument is unsound because it fails
to take into consideration the limitations placed upon the
carrying forward of net losses of an individual corporation
by its consolidation with other corporations, which in
effect are given the benefit of a loss in a consolidated return. Section 206 (b) does not as a matter of fact provide that only such portion of the "net loss" as shall be
necessary to eliminate the net income computed without
th6 benefit of the "net loss" shall be deducted in the
second year. It provides that the "net loss" shall be
deducted in computing net income for the second year,
but it goes ahead and provides that where a full benefit
is not received from the loss because of the smallness of
the taxpayer's income in the second year it may be carried
forward to the third 'year.
It would be very fanciful to say that the deduction
allowed by § 206 (b) to a " taxpayer" is personal to a
particular corporation, but that the deductions allowed by
§ 234 (a) to a " corporation subject to the tax imposed
by § 230" are not personal to the particular corporation.
Under the clear general terms of §§ 232, 234, 206 and 240,

322,'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

and Art. 635 of Regulations 69, there is absolutely no basis
for treating the deduction allowed by § 206 (b) differently
from the deductions allowed by § .234 (a) in computing
consolidated net income.
That the deduction here claimed is not inappropriate
to the general scheme of the income tax act is conclusively shown by regulations under the Revenue Act of
1928.
Equitable considerations impose no greater restriction
upon the deduction of "net losses" in consolidated returns than in the return of a single corporation into which
another corporation has been merged.
Losses currently realized are not limited by the Commissioner in consolidated returns because in substance
suffered in other years or prior to affiliation.
Results under the consolidated returns section and the
regulations thereunder, as under other provisions of the
revenue acts, are to be determined by language of the
statute and regulations and not by considerations of
"equity."
Petitioner does not contend that a "net loss" can be
deducted in computing a "net loks." A "net loss" from
a preceding year is not among the deductions provided in
§ 206. But this has no bearing upon the question as to
whether it can be deducted in computing "net income"
so as to give a minus figure to go into consolidated "net
income." "Net income," when a minus quantity, is not
in any sense under the statute synonymous with." net
loss."
Of course if the proper method of computing "consolidated net income" is to take the aggregate of the gross
income minus the aggregate of the deductions, a "net
loss" is not used to produce a minus quantity for any
purpose, and therefore no one would even suggest that
a "cnet loss" is being used in the computation of a "net
loss."

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
S19

Argument for the Collector.

Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, John H. McEvers, and Wilbur H.
Friedmanwere on the brief, for respondent.
Normal mode of computation for income-tax purposes
is on the basis of an annual accounting of the business
-transactions during the taxable year. Burnet v. Sanford& Brooks Co., 282 U. S. 359.
The privilege granted by § 206 (b), being in the nature
of an exemption from the regular scheme, should not be
extended. by implication. Deduction of net losses of
earlier years is limited to elimination of "the net income of the taxpayer . . . computed without such deduction " ; and if "the taxpayer" has no net income computed without such deduction, these net losses may not
be availed of in that taxable -year, but must be carried
forward to the next succeeding year.
Petitioner contends that the "net income" referred to
in § 206 may be a minus quantity and that therefore the
deduction may be taken even though "the taxpayer's"
deductions under § 234 are in excess of the gross income.
Congress could not have intended a meaning so repugnant
to the common understanding of the word "income."
It is well settled that the affiliated group may not take
a deduction in the consolidated return which is not available to the particular member corporations. First Nat.
Bank v. United States, 283 U. S. 142; Swift & Co. v.
United States, 38 F. (2d) 365; Commissioner v. Ginsburg
Co., 54 F. (2d) 238; Art. 635, Treas. Reg. 69. Corporations filing a consolidated return for a given taxable year
may take advantage of net losses sustained by a member
of the group before affiliation only to the extent that the
member has net income for that year.
We find no inconsistency between this position and
the fact, urged by petitioner, that all the deductions under § 234 may be taken upon the consolidated return

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

regardless of whether the particular corporations had net
income.
There is nothing to countenance the view that the affili ated group becomes "the taxpayer" within § 206. The
effect of the filing of the consolidated return is merely to
make the group a tax-computing unit. The group does
not itself become the taxable unit. The tax is assessed
" upon the respective affiliated corporations." It is well
settled that the members of the group remain the "taxpayers."
A basic reason for the enactment of § 240 was to prevent tax evasion. Sen. Rep. No. 617, 65th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 9; Handy & Harman v. Burnet, 284 U. S. 136.
The affiliation provisions were obviously not designed to
permit tax evasion by the purchase and sale of tax losses.
The primary purpose of the consolidated return provision was to require taxes to be levied according to the
true net income resulting from a single business enterprise, even though it was conducted by means of more
than one corporation. Handy & Harmarnv. Burnet, 284
U. S. 136.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows: By Messrs. Louis Titus and Henry M. Ward;
by Messrs. Frederick L. Pearce and George M. Morris;
by Messrs. Robert N. Miller and John G. Buchanan; by
Messrs. Alfred S. Weill, Hugh Satterlee, and Albert S.
Lisenby; by Mr. Rollin Browne; and by Messrs. Kingman
Brewster, James S. Y. Ivins, Percy W. Phillips, 0. R.
Folsom-Jones, and Richard B. Barker.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner and Piedmont Savings Company are separate
corporations organized in Georgia. They became affiliated
in 1927 when the petitioner became the owner of 96% of
'he Piedmont stock. In March, 1928, the two corporations

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
319

Opinion of the Court.

filed a consolidated income tax return for 1927 under § 240
of the Revenue Act of 1926. Revenue Act of, 1926, c. 27,
44 Stat. 9, 46. During 1927, the petitioner had a net taxable income of $36,587.62, and Piedmont had suffered during the same year a net loss of $453.80. Before its affiliation with the petitioner, it had suffered other and greater
losses. Its net loss in 1925 was $43,478.25 and in 1926
$410.82, a total for the two years of $43,889.07. In the
assessment of the tax for 1927, the commissioner deducted
from the petitioner's net income for .that year the loss of
$453.80 suffered by its affiliated corporation in the course
of the same year. The consolidated net taxable income
as thus adjusted was $36,133.82, on which a tax of
$5,026.22 was assessed and paid. On the other hand) the
commissioner refused to deduct the Piedmont losses suffered in 1925 and 1926 before the year of affiliation. The
deductions, if allowed, would have wiped out the tax. A
refund having been refused, the petitioner brought this
suit against the Collector to recover the moneys paid.
The District Court sustained a demurrer to the petition,
44 F. (2d) 856, and the Court of Appeals affirmed. 53
F. (2d) 821. The case is here on certiorari.
Section 240 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 provides
that "corporations which are affiliated within the meaning of this section may, for any taxable year, make separate returns.or, under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary, make a consolidated return of net income for the purpose of this title,
in which case the taxes thereunder shall be computed and
determined upon the basis of such return."
Section 240 (b) provides that "in any case in which a
tax is assessed upon the basis of a consolidated return, the
total tax shall be computed in the first instance as a
unit and shall then be assessed upon the respective affiliated corporations in such proportions as may be agreed
upon among them, or, in the absence of any such agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

ment, then on the basis of the net income properly assignable to each. ..

."

The general principle underlying the income tax statutes
evpr since the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment has
been the computation of gains and losses on the basis of
an annual accounting for the transactions of the year.
Burnet v. Sanford.& Brooks Co., 282 U. S. 359, 363. A
taxpayer who seeks an allowance for losses suffered in an
earlier year, must be able to point to a specific provision
of the statute permitting the deduction, and must bring
himself within its terms. Unless he can do this, the operations of the current year must be the measure of his
burden.
The only section of the revenue act that made allowance in 1927 for the losses of earlier years was § 206 (b),
upon which this controversy hinges. Its provisions are
as follows:
"If, for any taxable year, it appears upon the production of evidence satisfactory to the commissioner that any
taxpayer has sustained a net loss, the amount thereof
shall be allowed as a deduction in computing the net income of the taxpayer for the succeeding taxable year
(hereinafter in this section called 'second year'), and if
suchnet loss is in excess of such net income (computed
without such deduction), the amount of such excess shall
be allowed as a deduction in computing the net income
for the next succeeding taxable year (hereinafter in this
section called 'third year'); the deduction ih all cases to
be made under regulations prescribed by the commissioner
with the approval of the Secretary."
.Under that section of the statute, the losses suffered
by the Piedmont Company in 1925 might hh.ve been deducted from its net income in 1926, and might thereafter,
if not extinguished, have been deducted to the extentof-.the excess from its net income in 1927, the yenr in
which its shares were acquired by the petitionfer., But

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
319

Opinion of the Court.

the Piedmont Company did not have any net income in
1927. Its operations for that year resulted in a loss.
There was therefore nothing from which earlier losses
could be deducted, for the net income without any such
deductions was still a minus quantity. The tax for the
year was nothing, and the losses of other years could not
serve to make it less. The petitioner would have us hold
that the minus quantities for all the years should be
added together, and the total turned over by the company suffering the loss as an allowance to be 'made to
the company realizing the gain. In that view of the statute, a -net loss for a taxable year becomes for the purpose
of determining the burdens of affiliated corporations,
though not for any other, the equivalent of a net income,
and deductions which the statute has said shall be made
only from net income, may, none the less, by some process
of legerdemain, be subtracted from the loss.
There are two fundamental objections to this method
of computation. In the first place, an interpretation of
net income by which it is also a net loss involves the reading of the words of the statute in a strained and unnatural' sense. The metamorphosis is too great to be
viewed without a shock. Certainly the average man suffering a net loss from the operations of his business would
learn with surprise that within the meaning of the Congress the amount of his net loss was also the amount of
his net income. "The popular or received import of
words furnishes the general rule for the-interpretation of
public laws." Maillard v. Lawrence,.16 How. 251, 261;
Old Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 U. S. 552, 560.
In the second place, the statute has given notice to the
taxpayer that the aggregate of minus quantities is not to
be turned over as a credit to an affiliated company, but is
to be used in another way. If the loss for the first year is
more than the income for the second, the excess is to be
carried over to a third year, and deducted from the net

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

income, if any, returnable for that year, at which time the
process of carrying over is to end. Cf. report of Senate
Committee in charge of the revenue act of 1924, Senate
Report No. 398, 68th Congress, 1st Session, p. 20. Obviously, the direction to apply the excess against the income of a later year is inconsistent with a purpose to allow
it to an affiliated company as an immediate deduction
from income of the current year. Adherence to the one
practice excludes adherence to the other. Cf. Treasury
Regulations 69 promulgated under the act of 1926, Arts.
634, 635, 1622. The fact is not to be ignored that each
of two or more corporations joining (under § 240) in a
consolidated return is none the less a taxpayer. Commissioner v. Ginsburg Co., 54 F. (2d) 238, 239. By the express terms of the statute (§ 240 b) the tax when computed is to be assessed, in the absence of agreement to
the contrary, upon the respective affiliated corporations
" on the basis of the net income properly assignable to
each." "The term 'taxpayer' means any person subject
to a tax imposed by this Act." Revenue Act of 1922,
§ 2a (9). A corporation does not cease to be such a person by affiliating with another.
The petitioner insists that a construction of § 206 (b),
excluding the allowance of past losses except as a set-off
against the income of the company sustaining them, is
inconsistent with the accepted construction of § 234 of
the same act whereby the deductions there enumerated
are, made from the net income exhibited by the consolidated return without reference to their origin in the
business of one company or another. Section 234 provides that in computing the net income of corporations
subject to a tax there shall be allowed as deductions "(1)
All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred
during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business . . . . (2) All interest paid or accrued within the
taxable year on its indebtedness . . . ; (3) Taxes paid

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
319

329

Opinion of the Court.

or accrued within the taxable year ....
; (4) Losses sustained during the taxable year and not compensated for
by insurance or otherwise ....
; (5) Debts ascertained
to be worthless and charged off within the taxable year."
The points of difference between the allowances under
§ 206 (b) upon the one hand and those under § 234 upon
the other are important and obvious. The deductions allowable under § 234 represent expenses paid or accrued
or losses suffered during the same taxable year covered
by the return. They are thus included in the net income
according to the fundamental concept of such income reflected in the statute, instead of falling within an exception which, irrespective of its precise extension, is a
departure from the general scheme. Even .more decisive
is the consideration that there is nothing in § 234 prohibiting the allowance by one unit of its current losses
and expenses as a deduction for the benefit of the affiliated group, nor any statement that the use to be made
of them shall follow other lines. On the other hand,'
§ 206 (b) provides, as we have seen, that the excess of
loss remaining over the current net income of the taxpayer who has suffered it shall be carried over into the
next year and if need be into a third, and thereafter disregarded. Subtle arguments have been t:ddressed to us
in support of the contention that the loss of one, affiliated company suffered in earlier years may be allocated
to the other without infraction of the rule that the loss
shall be carried forward. They are not lacking in plausibility, but we cannot hold that they comport with the directions of the, statute "if we take words in their plain
popular meaning as they should be taken here." United
States v. Kirby Lumber Co., 284 U. S. 1, 3.
Doubt, if there can be any, is not likely to survive a
consideration of the mischiefs certain to be engendered
by any other ruling. A different ruling would mean that
a prosperous corporation could buy the shares of one that

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

had suffered heavy losses and wipe out thereby its own
liability for taxes. The mind rebels against the notion
that Congress in permitting a consolidated return was
willing to foster an opportunity for juggling so facile and
so obvious. Submission to such mischiefs would be necessary if the statute were so plain in permitting the deduction as to leave no room for choice between that construction and another. Expediency may tip the scales when
arguments are nicely balanced. True, of course, it is that
in a system of taxation so intricate and vast as ours there
are many other loopholes unsuspected by the framers of
the statute, many other devices whereby burdens can be
lowered. This is no reason, however, for augmenting
them needlessly by the addition of another. The petitioner was'prosperous in 1927, and so far as the record
shows for many years before. Piedmont was unfortunate
in 1927, and unfortunate in the years preceding. The
petitioner, affiliating in 1927, has been allowed the loss
suffered by Piedmont through the business of that year
as a permissible deduction from the consolidated balance.
What it claims is a right to deduct the losses that were
suffered in earlier years when the companies were separate. To such an attempt the reaction of an impartial
mind is little short of instinctive that the deduction is
unreasonable and cannot have been intended by the
framers of the statute. Analysis of the sections shows
that there is no gap between what they wrote and what
in reason they must have meant.
The petitioner refers us to the Revenue Act of 1928 (45
Stat. 791, 835) and to Treasury Regulations adopted
thereunder as supporting its position. These provisions
were adopted after the liability for the tax of 1927 had
accrued, and they can have little bearing upon the meaning to be given to statutes then in force. The Revenue
Act of 1928 (§ 141b) protects against unfair evasions in

WOOLFORD REALTY CO. v. ROSE.
319

Opinion of the Court.

the making of consolidated returns by increasing the disretionary power of the Commissioner in prespribing regu,lations. "The Commissioner, with the approval of the
Secretary, shall prescribe such regulations as he may deem
necessary in order that the tax liability of an affiliated
group of corporations making a consolidated return and
of each corporation in the group, both during and after
the period of affiliation, may be determined, computed,
assessed, collected, and adjusted in such manner as clearly
to reflect the income and to prevent avoidance of tax liability." Under the authority so conferred the Commissioner has adopted the following regulation (Treasufry
Regulations 75, art. 41), applicable only to the taxable
year 1929, and to taxable years thereafter:
"A net loss sustained by a corporation prior to the date
upon which its income is included in the consolidated return of an affiliated group (including any net loss sustained prior to the taxable year 1929) shall be allowed
as a deduction in computing the consolidated net income
of such group in the same manner, to the same extent, and
upon the same conditions as if the consolidated income
were the income of such corporation; but in no case in
which the affiliated status is created after January 1, 1929,
will any such net loss be allowed as a deduction in excess
of the cost or the aggregate basis of the stock of such cotporation owned by the members of the group."
The provision in this regulation limiting the deductions\
to the cost or value of the stock will make it profitless.
hereafter to purchase stock for the purpose of gaining the
benefit of deductions in excess of what is paid.
In holding that the Piedmont losses of 1925 and 1926
were properly excluded from the consolidated return, we.
are in accord with the preponderance of authority in the
other federal courts. Swift & Co. v. United States, 38 F.
(2d) 365; Sweets Co. v. Commissioner, 40 F. (2d) 436;

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

286 U.S.

Commissionerv. Ginsburg Co., 54 F. (2d) 238. Only one
decision has been cited to us as favoring a different view.
National Slag Co. v. Commissioner, 47 F. (2d) 846.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
ET AL. V. HOPKINS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

:PLANTERS COTTON OIL CO., INC.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 672.

Argued April 20, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

The owner of substantially all of the stock of two joint stock associations caused their assets to be transferred to three corporations
which he formed for carrying on the business and of which he
owned substantially all the, shares. Held that in a consolidated income tax return of all the companies net losses suffered by the joint
stock associations during the year preceding the affiliation were not
deductible. Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, ante, p. 319. P. 333.
53 F. (2d) 825, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

285 U. S. 533, to review the affirmance of

a judgment, 47 F. (2d) 659, dismissing the petition in
an action to recover an alleged overpayment of income
taxes.
Messrs. J. M. Burford and Win. A. Sutherland, with
whom Messrs. Joe A. Worsham and J. L. Gammon were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, and Win. H.
Riley, Jr., were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Frederick H. Wood, Hoyt A. Moore, and A.
James Slater, by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici
curiae.

