PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
451

Syllabus.

proper standards and that where their interests came in
conflict they disregarded considerations making for fair
play. Nice distinctions as to which disclosed the greater
lack of good faith are not sufficient to warrant a court
of .equity in putting upon one any part of the expenses
incurred by the other in waging such a contest. Assuming that the matter was properly before the court for consideration, we are of opinion that the record does not
warrant any such allowance in favor of respondent.
The bank is not entitled as against petitioner to any
allowance on account of expenses or counsel fees incurred
to protect its claim against the fund to secure the debt
owing by respondent to it. But under settled principles
applied in equity courts its reasonable expenses including
a fair amount to pay the fees of its attorneys incurred in
this suit and which are attributable to the discharge of its
duty under the escrow agreement properly may be made
a first charge against the fund as a whole. United States
v. Equitable Trust Co., 283 U. S. 738, 744. The decree
will be modified in accordance with this opinion, and the
costs in this Court will be taxed against respondent.
Modified, and as modified affirmed.
PORTER, AUDITOR, v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.

No. 627. Argued April 22, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.
1. The power conferred by the Montana "Blue Sky Law" upon the
Investment Commissioner to regulate investment companies and
revoke their permits to do business if they fail to comply, is legislative; and the power that the statute grants to the state courts
in actions brought within thirty days by any interested person
against the Commissioner, "to set aside, modify or confirm" his
decisions " as the evidence and the rules of equity may require,"
is likewise legislative. P. 468.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

286 U.S.

2. The capacity of the state court under this statute is none the less
administrative because the proceeding is by suit in equity instead
of an appeal from the Commissioner. P. 468.
3. In providing that "pending any such action" for review in the
state court, the findings and decision of the Commissioner shall
remain in full force and effect, the statute does not mean that the
state court may not stay the enforcement of his decision by interlocutory order. Pp. 469-470.
4. The word "pending," in this connection, is to be interpreted as
meaning "until," or while the time is running for bringing the
action. Id.
5. In construing a statute, unconstitutionality must be avoided, if
possible. P. 470.
6. One who would attack a decision and order of the Commissioner,
upon the ground that the statute is unconstitutional, must exhaust
the administrative remedy provided in the state courts before seeking an injunction from a federal court. Pp. 468, 471.
52 F. (2d) 189, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree enjoining the appellant, as In-

vestment Commissioner, from revoking the appellee's
permit to do business as an "investment company" for
failure to obey a rule regulating the substance and form
of its certificates.
Mr. T. H. MacDonald, Assistant Attorney General of
Montana, with whom Messrs. L. A. Foot, Attorney General, and James W. Freeman were on the brief, for
appellant.
Where a statute provides for an appeal to the courts
on the reasonableness of the action of an executive officer,
,and does not expressly provide for notice and hearing
before such officer before he takes action (such as the
revocation of a permit), such notice, if necessary to due
process, is an implied requirement.
" Due process" does not require that the legislature
set up a definite standard of equity to apply to all cases.
If the conditions were within the power of the legislature

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
461

Argument for Appellee.

to impose, they may in this case be ascertained by the
Commissioner.
Imposition on credulity and ignorance, as well as fraud
by active misrepresentation, may be prevented under the
police power.
The plan of business of the plaintiff, in requiring the
forfeiture shown on the certificate, is inequitable. Its
bill does not state a cause of action in equity.
Mr. M. S. Gunn for appellee.
The right to a judicial review of an order made by an
administrative board or officer, the effect of which is to
deprive a party of property, is essential to due process of
law. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418; Wadley S. R. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651; Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252 U. S. 331.
The due process clause is a protection against a temporary deprivation of property or of a right protected
thereby, the same as against a permanent deprivation.
Prendergastv. N. Y. Tel. Co., 262 U. S. 43; Love v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 185 Fed. 321.
If the corporation's permit were revoked, its agents
would, in view of the severe penalty provided in § 4049,
refuse to sell its certificates. The business would be destroyed, at least pending a judicial review. If the revocation order were ultimately to be set aside, the corporation would have no recourse for the damage sustained
through the suspension of its business, or for the injury
to its reputation and future business.
It is not within the legislative power to regulate or
prohibit the sale of securities, or the making of investment contracts, in order to protect the public against
making investments which may not, in the judgment of
the Investment Commissioner, promise or furnish a fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

return. The prevention of fraud is the purpose of Blue
Sky Laws, and the only purpose which will justify such
legislation.
If the Blue Sky Law is construed to authorize the
Commissioner to prescribe the terms and provisions of
contracts which investment companies may make, it is
a clear delegation of legislative power and violative of the
constitution of Montana..
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of a specially constituted district court enjoining the enforcement of an order
of the State Auditor, who is ex officio Investment Commissioner of Montana. Appellee is a Minnesota corporation engaged in the business of selling investment certificates for which the purchaser pays in instalments and
*which entitle him at a date therein named to receive their
face value. The assumption is that the instalments of
principal paid in will be augmented by interest thereon
compounded at five and one-half per cent, so that the
company will be able to pay the sum named in the
certificate before the holder's payments reach that total.
Appellee was licensed in 1930 to do business in Montana pursuant to c. 264, Revised Code of 1921, popularly
known as the Blue Sky Law, which defines investment
companies (§ 4026), forbids their engaging in business
without a permit from the state investment commissioner
(§ 4032), requires them to apply for such permit and
to submit certain information with the application
(§ 4033), directs the commissioner to examine the data
furnished and to issue or refuse a permit depending upon
his determination that the applicant is solvent and its
proposed plan of business fair, just and equitable,
(§ 4036), and to supervise and from time to time examine',
the affairs and business of all permittees (§ 4043). Sec-

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
461

Opinion of the Court.

tion 4045, which authorizes the revocation of permits, and
§ 4038 (as amended by c. 194, Session Laws 1931), which
gives an action against the commissioner by a party aggrieved by any finding or decision of that officer, are those
which affect the present litigation. They are quoted in
the margin.*
Operating under permit appellee has built up a large
business in Montana in the sale of its certificates. One
form of these provides that in case of default in current
payments during the first eighteen months, the purchaser
shall forfeit all Sums theretofore paid; for default after
eighteen months, where payment of $148 on a thousand
dollar certificate has been made, the holder is entitled to
withdraw $42; after four years and payment of $370, the
refund is $254; and after five years he is entitled to re* 4045. Revocation of Permits and Appointment' of Receiver.
Whenever it shall appear to the investment commissioner that the
assets of any investment company doing business in this, state are
impaired to the extent that such assets do not equal its lialilities,
or that it is conducting its business in an unsafe, inequitable, or
unauthorized manner, or is jeopardizing the. interests of its stockholders or the investors in stocks, bonds, or other securities by it
offered for sale, or whenever any investment company shall refuse
to file any papers, statements, or documents required under this
act, or shall refuse to permit an examination by said investment
commissioner, or his deputies or agents, as provided in this act,
without giving satisfactory reasons therefor, said investment commissioner shall at once cancel its permit, and if he shall deem advisable,
shall communicate such facts to the attorney-general, who shall
thereupon at once make an investigation, and if the facts as presented to him by the investment commissioner are substantiated,
he shall thereupon apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for
the appointment of a receiver to take charge of and conclude the
business and affairs of such investment company, and if such fact
or facts be made to appear, it shall be sufficient evidence to authorize
the appointment of a receiver and the making of such orders and
decrees in such cases as equity may require.
Section 4038. Any interested person, who has appeared, co-partnership, association or corporation being dissatisfied with any finding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

payment, without interest, of the whole amount theretofore paid.
On May 7, 1931, the appellant notified the appellee
and others similarly engaged to attend a hearing relative
to the proposed adoption of a rule applicable to their
business. Appellee appeared by an officer and counsel
and stated objections. As a result of the hearing a rule
was promulgated June 22, 1931, effective July 22, 1931,
forbidding the issuance of certificates extending the privilege of withdrawal before maturity unless they should
permit withdrawal at any time after the first year of their
findings or decision of the Commissioner made in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, may within thirty days from the making
thereof, commence an action in any court of competent jurisdiction
against said Commissioner as defendant, to vacate and set aside said
finding, findings or decision, on the ground that the said findings
or decision are unjust or unreasonable. The rules of pleading and
procedure in such action shall be the same as are provided by law
for the trial of equitable actions in the district courts of this state
and on the hearing the judge of said court may set aside, modify
or confirm said findings or decision as the evidence and the rules
or equity may require. Appeals may be taken from the decision
of the district court to the Supreme Court by either party in the
same manner as is provided by law in other civil actions. Pending
any such action, the said findings or decision of said Commissioner
shall be prima facie evidence that they are just and reasonable and
that the facts found are true, and pending any such action the
said findings or decision of the Commissioner shall remain in full
force and effect. If no action be brought to set aside said findings
or, decision within thirty days, the same shall become final and
binding.
Provided, however, that the original application with reference
to which an appeal is herein provided for shall not be heard by
the Investment Commissioner until notice of hearing on the same
has been published in some newspaper published at the capital city
daily, in at least seven issues of such paper, and provided further,
that upon such hearing on the original application, any person, copartnership, association or corporation interested in or opposed to
said application may appear.

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
461

Opinion of the Court.

existence, on ninety days' notice in writing, and thereupon entitle the holder to receive the total amount of all
instalments paid in, less a penalty not exceeding three and
one-half per cent of the matured or face value of the certificate, plus interest compounded annually, at the rate

at which the certificate was guaranteed to mature or represented to pay at maturity; and that the certificate and
the application should have prifited thereon the amount
to be paid in, the withdrawal or surrender value, and
the loan value, as of the end of each year after the date
of issuance.
The commissioner claimed authority to promulgate this
order under that portion of §4045 which empowers him to
revoke the permit of an investment company when it
shall appear to him to be " conducting its business in an
unsafe, inequitable or unauthorized manner." He asserted his intention to revoke appellee's permit if it
failed to obey the rule; whereupon the latter brought
action in the District Court to enjoin the appellant from
revoking or purporting or attempting to revoke its permit for failure to comply with the order. After the taking of evidence upon a motion for a temporary restraining order the case was by stipulation submitted as upon
final hearing. The court granted an injunction, holding
that the challenged statute was violative of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as lacking
any provision for notice or hearing before the revocation
of a license, and also because no rule or standard is'fixed
for the determination of adequate cause for revocation;
and further the act constituted a delegation of legislative
power contrary to the mandate of Section 1, Article V, of
the Constitution of Montana. The appellant assigns
these rulings as error, and in addition contends that there
was no jurisdiction in a federal equity court to entertain
the cause. If this position is sound we need not consider
the other alleged errors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

We are of opinion that the appellee failed to exhaust its administrative re- qedy before applying to the
District Court for injunctive relief. The granting and
revocation of permits is an exercise by the appellant of
delegated legislative power. Section 4038 of the Code
(supra) confers on any interested person dissatisfied with
a finding or decision by the commissioner, the right within
thirty days to bring an action against him in a state district court to vacate his order and set it aside as unjust or
unreasonable, and directs that on the hearing the judge
"may set aside, modify or confirm said . . . decision as
the evidence and the rules or (sic) equity may require."
The section confers the right to appeal to the State
Supreme Court from the judgment of the trial court.
Clearly the function of the state district court under the
statutory mandate is not solely judicial, that is, to set
aside a decision of the commissioner if arbitrary or unreasonable and hence violative of constitutional rights.
The duty is laid on the court to examine the evidence
presented and either to set aside or to modify or to affirm
the commissioner's order, as the proofs may require. The
legislative process remains incomplete until the action
of that court shall have become final. Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210, 229-230; Pacific Live Stock
Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440, 444, 450-451. And the
capacity in which the court acts is none the less administrative because the pr6ceeding is designated as a suit in
equity instead of by appeal. Keller v. Potomac Electric
Power Co., 261 U. S. 428, 438-442. When the appellee
was notified on June 22, 1931, that the rule adopted by
the appellant would become effective July 22nd of the
same year, an action could have been filed in the state
court and a hearing had upon all questions of fact and
Jlaw touching the propriety and legality of the order.

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
461

Opinion of the Court.

But we are told that the commissioner asserted his into enforce the order, and that the statute forbids
the state court to afford interlocutory relief. Thus, says the
appellee, though trial might result in a decision vacating
the commissioner's order, in the interval irreparable harm
would have been done by the revocation of the company's
permit, and its officers and agents rendered liable to
criminal prosecution. Such a state of the law, it is insisted, amounts to a denial of due process to which one
confronted with the possible loss of property is not bound
to submit but may at once, if there be the requisite diversity of citizenship and amount in controversy, apply to a
federal court for relief. Conceding the correctness of the
premises, the conclusion is sound. Pacific Telephone Co.
v. Kidykendall, 265 U. S.196. The appellant, however,
denies the asserted statutory prohibition, and says that
the plaintiff in an action attacking a decision by the commissioner may upon a proper showing obtain a stay of its
operation.
These opposing views require a construction of the act.
Section 4038 as amended provides, so far as applicable:
"The rules of pleading and procedure in such action
shall be the same as are provided 'by law for the trial of
equitable actions in the district courts of this state...
[and] pending any such action the said findings or decision of said Commissioner shall remain in full force and
effect. If no action be brought to set aside said findings
or decision within thirty days, the same shall become
final and binding."
We are cited to no case, nor have we found any, in
which the state courts have interpreted or applied the
section. The first clause would obviously permit the issuance of. an interlocutory injunction upon a proper
showing, especiajly in view of the provisions of the Code
tention

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

of Civil Procedure.* But it is said that the succeeding
clause precludes such a remedy. The argument is that
the words "pending any such action" mean that during
the continuance of the action and until its final decision
the commissioner's order must remain in full force and
effect. We think, however, that in this phrase the word
"pending" has the significance of "until," or while the
time is running for bringing such an action. This is one
of the recognized meanings of the word, and that it is so
used we think is made clear from the sentence immediately following, to the effect that if no action shall be
brought to set aside the finding or decision within thirty
days it shall become final and binding. When considered
together we are of opinion that the two phrases mean
that unless and until a person affected brings his action
he may not disregard the order. We are persuaded to this
view for the reason that it supports the constitutionality
of the act, and we are bound if fairly possible to construe
the law so as to avoid the conclusion of unconstitutionality. Bratton v. Chandler,260 U. S. 110. The construction thus adopted is consistent with the validity of the
act, whereas that pressed upon us by the appellee would
clearly render it unconstitutional.
Where as ancillary to the review and correction of administrative action, the state statute 'provides that the
§ 9243. Injunction Order-When Granted. An injunction order
may be granted in the following cases: 1. When it shall appear by
the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and such relief or, any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the.act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually; 2. When it shall appear by the complaint
or affidavit that the commission or continuance of some act during
the litigation would produce a great or irreparable injury to the
plaintiff; ....

See also §§ 9244, 9245, 9246, 9247, 9250, 9251 and 9252, dealing with
security to be entered on interlocutory injunction, motions to dissolve
the same before trial, etc.

PORTER v. INVESTORS SYNDICATE.
461

Opinion of the Court.

complaining party may have a stay until final decision,
there is no deprivation of due process, although the
statute in words attributes final and binding character to
the initial decision of a board or commissioner. Pacific
Live Stock Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440, 454. But where
either the plain provisions of the statute (Pacific Tel. Co.
v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196, 203, 204) or the decisions
of the state courts interpreting the act (Oklahoma Nat.
Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290) preclude a supersedeas
or stay until the legislative process is completed by the
final action of the reviewing court, due process is not
afforded, and in cases where the other requisites of federal
jurisdiction exist recourse to a federal court of equity is
justified.
The present case is not one in which the review of the
commissioner's action is judicial in character. If it were,
the authorities cited by appellee which hold that one
competent to invoke the jurisdiction of the federal courts
is not bound to pursue a judicial review in the state courts
would apply. See Bacon v. Rutland R. Co., 232 U. S.
134; Prendergast v. New York Tel. Co., 262 U. S. 43;
Railroad Commission v. Duluth St. Ry. Co., 273 U. S.
625. As we have seen, under the Montana statute the
administrative proceeding is not complete until the court
shall have acted in revision and correction of the commissioner's decision. It would be strange indeed* if the
commissioner's action thus subject to alteration were
nevertheless to be made as effective to harm the parties
in interest as if no further administrative procedure
existed. We can not so read the act in the absence of clear
and unambiguous phraseology requiring that course, or of
a decision of the state court so construing it.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

