MINNEAPOLIS, ETC., R. CO. v. BORUM.

447

Opinion of the Court.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILROAD CO. v. BORUM.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 585.

Argued April 18, 19, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

The rule that the term " employee" in the Employers' Liability Act
does not embrace one who entered the service of a railroad company by means of a fraudulent imposture in evasion of its health
rules, which he was physically unable to pass, held inapplicable
to the facts of the present case, where the plaintiff, in applying for
employment, falsely gave his age below the age limit set by the
rules respecting hiring, but where the actual difference of age had
no relation to his physical fitness; where the false representation
was not shown to have deceived the company or to constitute
under its rules a ground for discharge; and where the plaintiff,
at the time of his injury had worked for the company seven years
and was still -well under the age fixed by its rules for retirements.
Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Rock, 279 U. S. 410,
distinguished. P. 451.
184 Minn. 126; 238 N. W. 4, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

284 U. S.615, to review the affirmance of

a judgment on an award in an action under the Federal
Eihployers' Liability Act.
Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, with whom Mr. John E. Palmer
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ernest A. Michel, with whom Mr. Tom Davis was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In October, 1921, petitioner accepted respondent's application for work as a switchman, and the latter in December, 1928, was injured while employed in interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

transportation. He brought this action in the district
court of Hennepin county to recover damages under the
Federal Employers Liability Act (45 U. S. C., §§ 51-59)
and, after issue was joined, the parties made an agreement
for arbitration under a statute of Minnesota (G. S. 1923,
§§ 9513-9519) pursuant to which the company paid
plaintiff $12,500 to be retained by him in any event. And
it was agreed that, if the arbitrators found for plaintiff
on the merits, the award should be $12,500 in addition to
the amount so paid. The arbitrators made findings of
fact and held that plaintiff's injuries were caused by defendant's negligence and that he was entitled to recover
the stipulated amount. A motion made by defendant
to vacate having been denied, the district court entered
judgment for plaintiff in accordance with the award and
the supreme court affirmed. 184 Minn. 126; 238 N. W. 4.
Defendant's contention here is that the state court
erred in sustaining the finding that plaintiff was an employee within the meaning of the Act as construed in
Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Rock, 279 U. S.
410.

Plaintiff made application in writing to defendant for
employment as switchman. Then, and continuously
thereafter while plaintiff worked for it, defendant had a
rule, No. 16, promulgated to promote safety and efficiency
in the operation of its railroad, which declared that no
person over 45 years should be taken into the service.
.Another rule, No. 22, was to the effect that applications
for employment in the yard service not rejected within
30 days would be considered accepted. And there was
one, No. 4 (A), stating that all employees who attain the
age of 65 will be retired.
When plaintiff made his application he was 49 years old
and understood that defendant had a rule against accepting men over 45 to. work in its train service. He falsely
stated in his application that he was 38 years old and,

.MINNEAPOLIS,
447

ETC., R. CO. v. BORUM.

449

Opinion of the Court.

when submitting to a physical examination required of
applicants for employment, he again so misrepresented
his age. This statement was relied upon by the examining surgeon and was in part the basis of his finding and
report that plaintiff was in good health and acceptable
physical condition. It was a general practice of men,
over the age specified in the rule, when applying for such
work on the railroads of defendant and other carriers in
the Northwest, falsely to represent their ages to be within
the specified limit, and that practice was known to the
defendant. The arbitrators were unable to find whether
defendant knew plaintiff was over 45 years. They did
not find, nor does the evidence require a finding, that defendant was deceived by plaintiff's false statements or
that it accepted his application because of or in reliance
upon them. The application was not rejected within 30
days' and, under rule 22, must be deemed to have been
finally accepted. Under the terms of the contract of hiring, defendant did not, without more, have the right to
remove plaintiff from its service on account of such misrepresentation. Plaintiff worked for defendant as a
switchman for about seven years and when injured was
well under the age for retirement. His work was satisfactory. Neither his age nor his physical condition contributed to cause his injury.
In Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co.,v. Rock, supra,
this Court held that one who obtained employment as a
switchman for an interstate carrier by railroad by fraudulently evading the company's rule requiring ap- 1 ants
to submit to a physical examination and who suffered
injury in the course of employment in interstate transportation, while the company remained unaware of the
deception, was not as of right an employee within the
meaning, or entitled to the protection, of the Federal Employers Liability Act, and could not maintain an action
for injury under that statute.

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Rock was an impostor. He applied for work under his
true name and was rejected upon examination because his
physical condition was found unacceptable under the carrier's reasonable rule and practice. Later, representing
that he had not theretofore made application, he applied
again but under a different name and procured another
man to impersonate him and in his place to submit to the
required physicial examination. And, by means of the
surgeon's report upon that man's condition, Rock deceived the company and thereby secured the employment
in which, about a year later, he suffered injury. The
court said (p. 414): "The deception . . . set at naught
the carrier's reasonable rule and practice established to
promote the safety of employees and to protect comimerce. It was directly opposed to the public interest, because calculated to embarrass and hinder the carrier in
the performance of its duties and to defeat important
purposes sought to be advanced by the Act. . . [p.
415] While his physical condition was not a cause of his
injuries, it did have direct relation to the propriety of admitting him to such employment. It was at all iimes his
duty to disclose his identity and physical condition to petitioner. His failure so to do was a continuing wrong in the
nature of a cheat. The misrepresentation and injury may
not be regarded as unrelated contemporary facts. As a
result of his concealment his status was at all times
wrongf~il, a fraud upon the petitioner, and a peril to its
patrons and its other employees. Right to recover may
not justly or reasonably be rested on a foundation so
abhorrent to public policy."
Here, defendant could not have regarded the difference
between plaintiff's actual age and that stated in his application as having any material bearing upon the physical
condition it required. The arbitrators did not find, and
the evidence does not show, that plaintiff's false state-

RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
447

Syllabus.

ment of his age substantially affected the examining surgeon's conclusion that he was in good health and acceptable physical condition or that, if he had given his real
age, the surgeon would have found otherwise. Indeed
the surgeon's testimony ,shows that, save in exceptional
cases, defendant, in accordance with its established rules,
permits its switchmen to continue in the service until they
are 65 years old without any physical examination after
they are employed. Plaintiff's physical condition ivas not
shown to be such as to make his employment inconsistent
with the defendant's proper policy or its reasonable rules
to insure discharge of its duty to select fit employees.
The evidence indicates that, under its bwn interpretation
of rule 22 together with the schedule constituting the
agreement between defendant and its switchmen, defendant after the final acceptance of plaintiff's application was not free to discharge him on account of the false
statement as to his age.
It is clear that the facts found, when taken in connection with those shown by uncontradicted evidence, are
not sufficient to bring this case within the rule applied
in Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Rock, supra,
or-the reasons upon which that decision rests.
Judgment affirmed.
RUDE v. BUCHHALTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 736. Argued April 28, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.
Upon cross appeals from a decree dismissing a suit over a fund
deposited in escrow, Held1. The appellate court went beyond the record and the evidence
in holding that the plaintiff depositor was guilty of fraud and

