PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 299
Statement of the Case.

290

readily have been accomplished by an amended return,
claim for refund, or additional assessment, as the final
award of the Commission might warrant.
For these reasons the Court of Claims correctly held
that the amount awarded was taxable income for the
year 1920.
Judgment affirmed.
PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. IN-

TERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 664.

Argued April 22, 25, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. A railroad run by electricity, which carries its passengers in cars
housing their own motors, and connects with street railway systems
in different cities, but whose trackage, except in small part, is outside of the cities, on private rights of way, and whose freight cars
are of standard types and drawn in long trains by powerful electric
locomotives; whose business is pre-eminently interchange freight
business, national in character and in all essential respects conducted
like the freight business of steam railroads in the territory served,is not an " interurban electric railway " within the meaning of
par. 22 of § I of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 306.
2. The Transportation Act, being renedial legislation, shoulld be
liberally interpreted; but, for the same reason, exemptions from
its sweep should be limited to effect the remedy intended. P. 311.
51 F. (2d) 766 (D. C.), affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 285 U. S. 531, to review a decree of the
District Court enjoining the railway company from constructing an extension without a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the Interstate Cdrnxnerce
Commission. The Commission brought the suit ard several railway companies were permitted to intervene on: the
same side. See also, fiedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v.
United States, 280 U. S. 469. The appeal to the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Commicsion.

285 U.S.

Court of Appeals had not been heard when the certiorari
was granted.
Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., with whom Mr. H. J
Haynsworth was on the brief, for petitioner.
The District Court gave no consideration to the context
of those provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by the Transportation Act, in which the term
"interurban electric railways" appears. To confine its
meaning to carriers whose operations are of purely local
interest, as distinguished from carriers of national importance, is probably in conflict with Omaha & C. B.
Street Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 230 U. S.
324, and United States v. Village of Hubbard, 266
U. S. 474.
The court below carried the doctrine of Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, too far.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission, respondent.
The Piedmont & Northern, whose major operations are
identical with those'bf the steam roads, whose revenues
are 94 per cent. derived from freight, whose said freight
is mostly carload traffic, mostly interchanged with the
steam roads and mostly moving interstate, is not rendered
an interurban electric railway within the meaning of the
clause, which excludes street, suburban, or interurban electric railways not operated as part of a general steam system from Commission authority over the construction of
new lines of railroad, merely because its motive power
is electricity, because it operates between cities and' because a very minor part of its service has characteristics
peculiar to local electric railways.
The words "interurban electric railway" have no settled meaning at law, and they are not defined in the Act.

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 301
299

Argument for the Commission.

In determining whether new construction falls within
the class excepted from Commission authority, the surest
guide is furnished by the context and by the relation of the
specific provisions to the railroad policy introduced by the
Transportativn 'Act, 1920. "Compare Texas & Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266.
Under the terms of § 15a the Commission must include
the Piedmont & Northern with the steam roads when adjusting rates to yield a fair return on aggregate group
property value; and § 15a and paragraphs (18)-(22) of
§ 1, herein involved, are among the interrelated amendments added by the Transportation Act, 1920, with the
one objective of promoting a generally effective transportation service at just and reasonable rates, and the latter
provisions, namely, those placing restrictions upon competitive and unneeded new construction, are particularly
essential to the plan in order that the aggregate property
value upon which rates paid by the public are to be based
shall not be enlarged beyond the general transportation
needs, and that the financial stability of established systems of transportation shall not be endangered.
While the fact that the electric interurbans excepted
from the Commission's authority under § 15a to make
group adjustment of rates are limited to those not engaged in general transportation of freight shows that
uniformity of freight rates was regarded to be in all
cases essential, the fact that the electric interurbans excepted from the Commission's authority over new construction and over the issuance of new securities are not
so limited does not show that all railroads operating
between cities with electric locomotives, whatsoever their
character and purpose, are to be quit of the Commission's
authority, but merely demonstrates that Congress desired
to leave those matters to local authority, if such railroads
are principally designed for the usual local electric railway purposes, even though to some extent intended for

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

general freight transportation; to give the difference in
language a broader scope than this would frustrate the
plan of Congress in essential particulars and would be
contrary to the rule that excepting clauses should be narrowly construed so as not to destroy the remedial processes
intended to be accomplished.
The "dovetail" relationship of the provisions comprising the plan of Congress for an effective and co6rdinated general transportation system refutes the Piedmont
& Northern's position that it is permissiu. ... ,reunder
for it to avail itself of certain provisions, enabling it to
become an important link with the steam roads in the
general transportation chain, while at the same time
refusing to submit itself to the restrictive provisions,
essential to the good of the transportation system as a
whole.
Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. S. R.
Prince, F. B. Grer, Carl H. Davis, and E. S. Jouett were
on the brief, for the respondents other than the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1910 a charter was granted under the laws of North
Carolina for Piedmont Traction Company, as a street
railway corporation, authorized to construct street railways in and near Gastonia, with the limited powers of
such a company. In the same year the Greenville, Spartanburg and Anderson Railway Company was chartered
under the laws of South Carolina, as a street railway corporation, with power to run between fixed termini, Anderson on the south and Spartanburg on the north. A
syndicate was then formed which procured a charter for
petitioner as a railroad corporation under the law of South
Carolina, with full power of eminent domain and author-

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 303
299

Opinion of the Court.

ity to operate by electricity or otherwise. The Piedmont
Traction Company built certain lines in North Carolina,
put them into operation, acquired the street railway system of Charlotte and trackage rights over the street railway system of Gastonia. The Greenville, Spartanburg
and Anderson Railway Company acquired a line from Belton to Anderson; built one from Greenwood to Greenville, and afterwards on to Spartanburg; secured trackage rights over the street railway systems in Greenville
and Anderson and put all of them into operation in April,
1914. The Traction Company and the Railway Company
then conveyed their respective properties to the petitioner.
Until the close of 1926 the petitioner owned and operated two separate and disconnected lines of railway, one
in South Carolina extending from Greenwood to Spartanburg, about eighty-nine miles, with a branch from Belton
to Anderson of eleven miles, and the other in North Carolina extending from Gastonia to Charlotte, about twentythree miles, with a branch to Belmont, three miles.
In March, 1927, pursuant to corporate action, it proceeded to construct two extensions, one from Spartanburg,
the then northern terminus of the South Carolina line,
to Gastonia, the southern terminus of the North Carolina
line, a distance of fifty-three miles; the other an extension
from Charlotte northward to a new terminus at WinstonSalem, North Carolina, a distance of seventy-five miles.
The Interstate Commerce Commission notified the company that appropriate application should be made for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing
these extensions and that this might be filed without
prejudice to the petitioner's making a claim of exemption
as an interurban electric railway under § 1, par. 22, of the
Interstate Commerce Act. This course was followed.
The Commission overruled the claim of exemption and
denied a certificate on the merits. The company brought
suit in the United States District Court under the Urgent

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Deficiencies Act 1 to set aside and annul that portion of
the Commission's order which denied it exemption as an
interurban electric railway. A statutory court was convened, and after hearing dismissed the suit on the merits.!
Upon appeal this court held that the order of the Commission, being negative in substance as well as in form,
infringed no right of the petitioner, was beyond the scope
of the remedy afforded by the Urgent Deficiencies Act,
and therefore the suit should have been dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.'
Thereafter the board of directors by resolution reaffirmed the intention to build both extensions and authorized the construction of the connecting link between Spartanburg and Gastonia. The Commission, upon being advised that work had actually started, brought the present
suit in the District Court for Western South Carolina,
alleging that the construction was illegal, since no certificate had. been obtained as required by the Transportation Act of 1920, § 402, paragraph (18).'

It sought

an injunction pursuant to the terms of paragraph (20)
of the section. Several interstate railroads were permitted to intervene as parties in interest. (See Western
Pacific CaliforniaR. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S.

47.) The petitioner defended upon the grounds that
the work had been undertaken within ninety days of the
adoption of the Transportation Act and for that reason
no certificate for the proposed extensions was required,5
and that petitioner was within the exception to the Com1

U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 47.
'30 F. (2d) 421.
'Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469.
'Ch. 91, 41 Stat. 476.
'See § 402 (18) of the Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 477.
"After ninety days after this paragraph takes effect no carrier by
railroad subject to this Act shall undertake the extension of its line of
railroad, &c." The first eight words are omitted in U. S. C., Tit. 49,

§ 1 (18).

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 305
299

Opinion of the Court.

mission's jurisdiction over extensions and new construction, created by paragraph (22) of § 1 of the Act, as an
interurban electric railway not operated as a part of a
general steam railroad system of transportation. After
a hearing on pleadings and proofs the trial court overruled
both defenses and entered a decree enjoining the further
work of construction until a certificate of convenience and
necessity should be obtained. Petitioner appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, and we
granted certiorari prior to hearing by that. court."
The petitioner has abandoned its first contention and
stands only on the claimed exemption.
Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
by § 402 of the Transportation Act 7 provides:
"The authority of the commission conferred by paragraphs (18) to (21), both inclusive, shall not extend to
the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team,
switching, or side tracks, located or to be located wholly
within one State, or of street, suburban, or interurban
electric railways, which are not operated as a part or parts
of a general steam railroad system of transportation."
Paragraphs (18) to (21) authorize the Commission to
grant a certificate for extensions of line or constructions
of new line, or for the abandonment of lines, forbid such
action without such certificate, and give the Commission
or any party in interest the right to enjoin action in disregard of their provisions.
In support of the claimed exemption petitioner says its
lines are exclusively electric, are not operated as parts of
a general steam railroad system of transportation, were
constructed, equipped, and are maintained and conducted
as interurban electric railways, and that the proposed extensions would be of the same character and operated in
6 U.

S. C., Tit. 28, § 347.

'U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 1 (22).

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

the same manner. The concession is made that the company is engaged in the general transportation of freight
and passengers in interstate commerce, that the proposed
extensions would be so operated in connection with the
existing lines, and that petitioner is therefore subject to
the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by the Transportation Act, 1920, except those portions from the application of which interurban electric railways not operated
as a part or parts of a general steam railroad system of
transportation are expressly excluded. In summary the
argument is that paragraph (22) in unambiguous terms
excepts petitioner's road from the effect of paragraphs
(18) to (21) of § 1, needing neither construction nor interpretation in its application; but that if there be question regarding this contention, the facts with respect to
the railway bring it within the intent of the excepting
clause, and, finally, that various governmental agencies
have so classified it.
Emphasis is placed upon the aptness of the words used
in the paragraph as descriptive of petitioner's railway.
Thus it is said the road is "electric "; is "interurban,"
since it extends between cities; and is "not a part of any
system of steam railroads." But this literal application is
inconclusive, for it ignores the entire phraseology employed, which is, "street, suburban, or interurban electric
railways" . . . The descriptive adjectives show that
Congress had in mind a class of carriers differing essentially from those long recognized as the objects of national
concern and regulation. A few illustrations will demonstrate the impossibility of the proposed narrow construction. It would hardly be contended that if an interstate
steam railroad should electrify its entire system this
would place it beyond the reach of paragraphs (18) to
(21). Yet the road would become both electric and interurban in the etymological sense of the words, and would

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 307
299

Opinion of the Court.

not be operated as a part of a general system of steam railroad transportation. Should a new electric transcontinental system be projected, without question application
for a certificate under those paragraphs would be required,
though here again by mere verbal interpretation it would
be exempt from the necessity.
We must therefore seek further to ascertain the distinguishing features which the legislature had in mind. No
difficulty is encountered in defining a street or a suburban
electric railway. These are essentially local, are fundamentally passenger carriers, are to an inconsiderable extent engaged in interstate carriage, and transact freight
business only incidentally and in a small volume. The
record indicates that prior to 1920 such street or suburban
railways had grown in many instances so as to link distinct communities, and that in addition so-called interurban lines were constructed from time to time, to serve
the convenience of two or more cities. But the characteristics of street or suburban railways persisted in these
interurban lines. They also were chiefly devoted to passenger traffic and operated single or series self-propelled
cars. Many of them carried package freight, some also
transported mail, and still fewer carload freight picked
up along the line or received for local delivery from con-necting steam railroads. It is clear that the phrase "interurban electric railway" was not, in 1920, commonly
used to designate a carrier whose major activity was the
transportation of interstate freight in trains of standard
freight cars. It cannot be said, therefore, that if a railway is operated by electricity and extends between cities
paragraph (22) clearly and unequivocally exempts it from
the Commission's jurisdiction.
Petitioner, however, insists that examination of the facts
with respect to its road demonstrates that it falls into the
exempt class. The salient features to which reference is

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

made are that the lines connect and tie in with the street
railway systems in the cities and towns on the system;
that of the main line trackage fifteen miles are operated
jointly with street car lines; that the street railways
in the cities were acquired so that the interurban tracks
might be connected with them for urban terminal aid
trackage facilities; that the motive power is exclusively
electric; that the road is not a part of any steam railway system; that a lower voltage, a lighter overhead construction and power supply, and a smaller substation capacity are employed than those of standard steam railroad
electric lines; that the signal system would not be suitable for use on a main line steam railroad; that the locomotives are lighter than the standard engines used by
steam railroads which have electrified their systems; and
that the passenger cars are motivated by self-contained
0otor
units instead of being drawn by locomotives.
These alleged distinctions lose much of their significance when we consider other facts found by the trial
court, without exception or assignment of error. These
may be summarized. Only 2.9 miles of the present total
trackage, or about 2.25 per cent, is located in city streets.
The balance is built and operated on private right-ofway and goes around rather than through the cities.
The tracks are standard gauge and of standard railroad
construction, were, at the time they were laid, of higher
class than those of the Southern Railway Company in
the same territory, were intended for handling substantial interchange freight traffic in connection with steam
railroads, have the same ruling grades as the latter in
the same territory, and are of 6ighty pound rail. There
are 17 electric locomotives, ranging from 55 to 100 tons
weight; 287 freight cars are owned, which have no (lectric equipment, are the same in all respects as steam
railroad freight cars, are interchangeable with steam rail-

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 309
299

Opinion of the Court.

roads, and are and have been regularly so exchanged.
Foreign line freight equipment of every character flows
freely over the road. As of December 31, 1929, the total
investment in equipment since June, 1914, was $77,194,
approximately'85 per cent of which represented expenditures for locomotives and interchangeable freight cars
used exclusively in the carriage of freight. The electric
locomotives are used only for freight. The freight yards
are of standard steam railroad construction and equipment, and one of them is a joint facility with the Seaboard and Georgia & Florida, steam railroads. While
the locomotives are lighter than those employed on standard steam railroads, they are adequate for the petitioner's
traffic. By doubling, as many as 65 freight cars may be
drawn, and trains of 40 ahd 50 cars are usual. Through
and local freight trains are operated in the same manner as on steam railroads.
Methods of business solicitation, membership in traffic
organizations, and tariffs published and concurred in, are
national in scope. The road has filed seventeen general
individual tariffs under I. C. C. serial numbers, is a party
as initial carrier to 184 general tariffs, and as participating
carrier in 364 tariffs published under powers of attorney
given to the steam railroads. These tariffs embrace the
entire country and parts of Mexico and Canada. From
the beginning freight revenues have been large, while
.those from passenger traffic have progressively decreased.
The freight revenues have increased from $496,772.39 for
the year ending June 30, 1914, to $2,317,528.77 for 1929.
The total passenger revenues for the year ending June 30,
1914, were $324,045.21, but were only $71,562.72 for 1929.
For the latter year the freight revenues were 94.5 per
cent and the passenger revenues 2.9 per cent of the total
revenue. For 1929, 4.3 per cent of thetotal freight revenues were from local freight, and 95.7 per cent from inter-.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

line interchange freight. A comparison of interstate with
intrastate freight shows that in 1929, 80.7 per cent was
interstate and 19.3 per cent intrastate, the latter including freight interchanged with steam railroad connections
but originating and destined to points within the same
state. There is more than one loaded car of freight each
day on petitioner's line for every passenger carried. The
average interchange of carload freight with steam railroads of the territory is approximately 6,000 cars per
month.
The petitioner now has a connection at its southern terminus with the Georgia & Florida, a steam railroad. See
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S.
288, 291. If the proposed extensions were built it would
have a similar connection at its northern terminus with
the Norfolk & Western. Thus it would become a connecting link in a new through route and effective line
of connecting carriers which would be strongly competitive with existing trunk lines, leading from Florida and
the southeast to the northern gateways reached by the
Norfolk & Western. If only the proposed extension to
close the gap between Spartanburg, S. C. and Gastonia,
N. C. should be built the same result would follow, except that the route from Charlotte to Winston-Salem and
the connection there with Norfolk & Western would not
be entirely over petitioner's own lines, but over a joint
route on the Norfolk Southerm to Norwood, and WinstonSalem Southbound to Winston-Salem. Petitioner's own
estimate contained in its application to the Commission
is that the extensions would gain new business diverted
from steam railroads of 82,320 cars a year, including 12,300
cars of bridge traffic carried entirely over its lines as the
interior connecting link in joint through routes, resulting
in a gain of revenue of $3,890,000 for the first year. The
estimated loss of revenue to competing carriers is con.-

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 311
299

Opinion of the Court.

siderably greater. It thus appears that petitioner's business is pre-eminently interchange interstate freight traffic
of national character, in all essential respects conducted as
is the business of the steam freight carriers in the territory
served. The differences in construction, equipment, operation and handling are incidental merely to the use of
electric motive power in lieu of steam. The purely local
traffic in freight, passengers, baggage and express, is relatively inconsequential.
In Texas & P. R. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270
U. S. 266, 277-278, the court announced the guiding principles to be followed in construing the very paragraph
involved in the case at bar. A§ there indicated, the purpose of the statute to develop and maintain an .adequate
railway system for the people of the United States requires
a broader and more liberal interpretation than that to be
drawn from mere dictionary definitions of the words employed by Congress. Accordingly, a track seven miles in
length, proposed to be constructed to reach industries in
territory not theretofore served by the railroad, and which
would take away from a competitor much of the traffic
then enjoyed, was held not to be an "industrial track,"
as that phrase is used in paragraph (22), although by
strict construction it was such.
The petitioner's railway is of such importance in interstate commerce and renders a service so predominantly
devoted to the handling of interstate freight in connection with steam railroads, is in such relation to connecting
steam carriers, and competes with steam trunk lines in
such manner, that in view of the declared policy of the act
we cannot hold it an "interurban" railway within the
exemption of the same paragraph. The Transportation
Act was remedial legislation and should therefore be given
a liberal interpretation; but for the same reason exemptions from its sweep should be narrowed and limited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

effect the remedy intended. Spokane & Inland Empire
R. Co. v. United States, 241 U. S. 344. In cases where an
appreciation of the facts is requisite to proper classification it is not always easyto draw the line. Instances may
be supposed where great difficulty might be experienced
in determining whether an electric railway line falls
within or without the exception of paragraph (22). But
this is not such a case. The facts clearly require a holding that petitioner's railway is not within the true intent
and purpose of the exclusion intended by the paragraph.
Only a word need be said with respect to the contention that governmental agencies have heretofore classified the railway as an interurban electric line. It is true
that in connection with quite diverse administrative functions the United States Labor Board, the Postmaster
General, and the Interstate Commerce Commission have
classified petitioner's railway as an interurban electric
line in distinction to steam railroads. Neither the administrative nor the statutory classification has, however,
been uniform, and in any event is not controlling in this
litigation.
Attention is drawn to the fact that the same phraseology is used in other sections of the Interstate Commerce Act. But it is so used with other purposes in
view.
We are of opinion that the District Court correctly held
that petitioner falls within the terms of paragraphs (18)
to .(21) of § 1, of the Interstate Commerce Act, and was
properly enjoined from proceeding with the construction
of the proposed extensions in the absence of a certificate
of convenience and necessity. The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed

The CHIEF JUSTicE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

