482

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

286 U.S.

not sustained. They have failed to show that whatever
distinction there existed in form, there was any substantial discrimination in fact.
The same considerations, with respect to discrimination, apply to the claim that the statute in question violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The statement of this Court in General
American Tank Car Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S. 367, 373, is
apposite: "In determining whether there is a denial of
equal protection of the laws by such taxation, we must
look to the fairness and reasonableness of its purposes
and practical operation, rather than to minutedifferences
between its application in practice, and the application
of the taxing statute or statutes to which it is complementary."
The right of the City of Greenville (No. 245) to raise
the questions presented under the Federal Constitution
does not appear to have been challenged or passed upon
by the state court and has not been discussed at this bar.
Accordingly, that question has not been considered here.
Judgments affirmed.
EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 790.

Argued April 11, 1932.-Decided May 31, 1932.

Under ยง 7 of Art. I of the Constitution, a bill signed by the President
within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it was presented to him,

but after the final adjournment of the Congress that passed it,
becomes a law. Pp. 485, 494.
RESPONSE

to a question certified by the Court of Claims.

Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Rugg, and Mr.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

Argument for the United States.

Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for the United
States.
That the President may sign a bill during a short
recess of the Congress was settled in La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States,. 175 U. S. 423, but the question
arising at the end of a session was expressly reserved,
and no mention was made of the situation arising when
a Congress ends.
Respecting that situation there has been no long-continued practical construction of the Constitution which
can be accepted as controlling. President Lincoln signed
one bill after the final adjournment of the Congress which
passed it, but subsequent legislation prevented a definite
adjudication of the question. President Wilson approved a group of bills after the adjournment of a session in reliance on an opinion by Attorney General Palmer. 32 Op. Atty. Gen. 225. President Hoover, in
March, 1931, in reliance on an opinion by the present
Attorney General (36 Op. Atty. Gen. 403) approved
eighteen bills including the one here involved, after the
expiration of the 71st Congress. The question has been
frequently debated, but the general practice of Presidents
to sign bills during sessions of Congress has been induced
by a purpose to avoid rather than to decide the question.
The state of the precedents is such that the question is
an open one to be resolved by a consideration of the
constitutional provision.
Congress has no function to perform in respect of bills
which have been approved, so there is no good reason
why the President should not approve bills after adjournment. Public interest requires that he be given the full
ten days contemplated by the Constitution to consider
measures passed by Congress. In directing that every
bill shall be presented to the President, the Constitution
provides "if he shall approve, he shall sign it." It does

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

not expressly say when he shall sign it, or that he shall
sign it while Congress is in session. The argument that
if he may approve a bill after the adjournment he has an
indefinite time to act, finds no support in the Constitution. That he must sign within ten days is necessarily
implied; for, if he does not and Congress shall have adjourned, it is provided that the bill shall not become a
law.
The argument that the President is a part of the legislative branch when acting on legislation and that his
functions terminate when Congress finally adjourns is
merely a political theory without any support in the words
of the Constitution. Because of the large number of bills
presented to Presidents at the end of sessions of Congress
in modern times, public interest will be served by holding
that he may approve bills after adjournment.
The reasoning of the Court in Seven Hickory v. Ellery,
103 U. S. 423, supports these conclusions.
Mr. M. Walton Hendry, for Edwards, cited: 36 Op.
Atty. Gen. 403; Orange Car & Steel Co. v. United States,
Ct. Cls., Feb. 8, 1932 (op. withdrawn when the present
question was certified); United States v. Weil, 29 Ct.
Cls. 523.
Mr. Hatton'W. Sumners, by leave of Court, argued the
cause on behalf of the Judiciary Committee of the House
of Representatives, as amicus curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Private Bill No. 510 of the 71st Congress (c. 595, 46
Stat. 2163) provided that the Court of Claims should have
jurisdiction to adjudicate a certain claim of the plaintiff
against the Government. The court states that the bill
was approved by the President on March 5, 1931, that is,

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

Opinion of the Court.

within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it was presented
to him, but after the final adjournment of the Congress
which passed it. The following question is certified:
"Did the Act of March 5, 1931 (46 Stat. 2163), become
law when it was approved by the President on March 5,
1931, after the final adjournment on March 4, 1931, of
the Congress which had passed it ?"
No difference of opinion between the parties as to the
valility of the measure, as thus approved, is disclosed in
the argument at bar. The President approved the bill
upon the advice of the Attorney General (36 Op. A. G.
403) who, in accord with the plaintiff, submits that the
certified question should be answered in the affirmative.
In view of the opinion at one time expressed by the
Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives
(H. R. Report No. 10S, 38th Cong., 1st sess., June 11,
1864), the Attorney General advised the Judiciary Committee of that House of the pendency of the present
cause, and we granted to Mr. Sumners, the Chairman of
that Committee, at his request, leave to appear as amicus
curiae. He has stated to the Court that the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives is now of the
opinion that the President has the power asserted and he
has presented an argument in support of the President's
action. While no contention to the contrary has been
urged upon us in the instant case, our attention has been
directed to opposing views strongly held in the past, and
these-no less than those now advanced-we have carefully considered in reaching our conclusion.
The question arises under the second paragraph of
Section 7 of Article I of the Constitution, which reads as
follows:
"Every Bill which shall have passed the House of
Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a
Law, be presented to the President of the United States;
if he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it,

OCTOBER TERM,' 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

with his Objections to that House in which it shall have
originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their
Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such
Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to
pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections,
to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it
shall become a Law. . . . If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays
excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the
Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed
it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its
Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law."
The last sentence of this provision clearly indicates two
definite and controlling purposes: First.To insure promptness and to safeguard the opportunity of the Congress for
reconsideration of bills which the President disapproves;
hence, the fixing of a time limit so that the status of
measures shall not be held indefinitely in abeyance
through inaction on the part of the President. Second.
To safeguard the opportunity of the President to consider all bills presented to him, so that it may not be
destroyed by the adjournment of the Congress during the
time allowed to the President for that purpose. As this
Court said in The Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655, 677,
678: "The power thus conferred upon the President cannot be narrowed or cut down by Congress, nor the time
within which it is to be exercised, lessened, directly or
indirectly." The constitutional provision is explicit as
to the consequences in case the bill is not signed by the
President within the time fixed. The bill then becomes
a law, unless the Congress by adjournment has prevented
the return of the bill, and, in the latter event, it is not to
be a law. But the provision is not explicit as to the consequence in case the bill is approved by the President

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

Opinion of the Court.

within the time fixed and in the meantime the Congress
has adjourned.
I The proceedings and debates of the Constitutional Convention throw no light upon this question. See The
Pocket Veto Case, supra, at p. 675. Nor has the provision
received a practical construction so positive and consistent
as to be determinative. The general practice of Presidents, in being present at the Capitol for the purpose of
signing bills during the closing hours of the sessions of the
Congress, has indicated the existence of doubt and the
desire to avoid controversy.' It appears that the question
was. raised during the administration of President Monroe, and, in view of a difference of opinion among his
advisers, the bill in question was not signed. - President
'See Memoirs of John Quincy Adams (1875), vol. 7, pp. 233, 234.
'John Quincy Adams gives the following account of this incident:
"Another question discussed was, whether the President could now
sign the Act concerning the Florida wreckers, which was examined
and actually announced to the House as having been signed, but
accidentally, among forty or fifty other Acts approved the last
evening before the close of the session, remained without his signature.
Could the President sign an Act, Congress not being in session?
Wirt thought he could. So did I. The article of the Constitution
concerning the signature of the President to Acts of Congress was
read and analyzed. Nothing in it requiring that the President should
sign while Congress are in session.
"Calhoun said that uniform practice had established a practical
construction of the Constitution.
"I observed that the practice had merely grown out of the precedents in the British Parliament. But the principles were different.
The King was a constituent part of Parliament, and no Act of
Parliament could be valid without the King's approbation. But the
President is not a constituent part of Congress, and an Act of
Congress may be valid as law without his signature or assent.
"Calhoun still thought that the uniform practice made the law.
. . . And as the Act was to commence its operation only in October,
and was not of an urgent character, it was concluded to be the safest
course to leave thd Act unsigned, 'and state the facts to Congress

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Lincoln, on. March 12, 1863, approved a bill after the Congress had adjourned sine die on March 4, 1863, the bill
having been passed oft March 3, 1863 (c. 120, 12 Stat.
82Q). This action was not left unchallenged. The Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives made a
unanimous report, in response to a resolution of the
House, that the Act was not in force.' It does not appear
that the House acted upon this report. But the Congress
soon after passed an Act which referred to the Act of
at their next session?"-Memoirs of John Quincy Adams (1875),
vol. 6, pp. 379, 380.
'The, Committee said that the act had been approved by the
President "under the belief that the last clause of the section of the
Constitution, above quoted, was designed more especially to prevent
Congress from enacting laws without the approval of the Executive,
which might be done by the passage of bills by the two houses,
followed by an adjournment, before the President could examine and
return them, were it not for the declaration that in such cases the
bills shall not be laws; and did not relate to cases wherein the Executive should approve bills sent to him by Congress within ten days,
even though an adjournment should occur before the return of the
bills.
"That there is force and plausability in this position, a little
reflection will discover to any mind; but the committee cannot
receive it as a correct interpretation of the Constitution.
"The ten days' limitation contained in the section above quoted
refers to the time during which Congress remains in session, and has
no application after adjournment. Hence if the Executive can hold
a bill ten days after adjournment, and then approve it, he can as
well hold it ten months before approval. This would render the
laws of the country too uncertain, and could not have been intended
by the framers of the Constitution.
"The spirit of* the Constitution evidently requires the performance of every act necessary to the enactment and approval of laws
to be perfect before the adjournment of Congress.
"The committee, therefore, conclude that the act referred to,
approved March 12, 1863, is not in force; and in this conclusion
the committee are unanimous." H. R. Report No. 108, 38th Cong.,
1st Sess., June 11, 1864.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

Opinion of the Court.

March 12, 1863, as having been approved, and added to its
provisions. Act of July 2, 1864, c. 225,. 13 Stat. 375.4 The
Act of March 12, 1863, was the subject of several decisions
of this Court, and in these no question appears to have
been raised as to its validity in view of the time of its
approval by the President.' President Johnson.refused
to sign a bill which he received on April 1, 1867, as the
Congress had taken a recess from March 30, 1867, to
July 3, 1867'
It appears that President Cleveland was urged to approve a bill after the adjournment of the Congress, but
he did not do so. 7 President Harrison, acting on the advice of Attorney General Miller (20 Op. A. G. 503),
signed a number of bills during a recess of the Congress.
Upon the opinion of Attorney General Palmer that the
action was constitutional (32 Op. A. G. 225), President
Wilson signed several bills after the adjournment sine die
'Other references to the Act of March 12, 1863, as approved, are
found in the Act of July 28, 1866, c. 298, ยง 8, 14 Stat. 329; Act
of July 27, 1868, c. 276, ยง 3, 15 Stat. 243.
'Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall. 404, 420, 423; United States v.
Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 64; Ex parte Zeilner, 9 Wall. 244, 245; United
States v. Padelford,9 Wall. 531, 540;6 United States v. Klein, 13 Wall.
128; Carroll v. United States, id., 151; Armstrong v. United States,
id, 154; Pargoud v. United States, id., 156. See Hodges v. United
States, 18 Ct. Cls. 700; United States v. Weil, 29 Ct. Cls. 523.
aPresident Johnson filed the bill in the State Department with an
endorsement, stating his belief that approval in these circumstances
was not authorized by the Constitution. 4 Hinds' Precedents, ยง 3493.
A resolution directing the re-enrollment of the bill was passed- by
the House of Representatives but not by the Senate. Id.
'The statement has been made that Attorney General Garland
advised President Cleveland that he was without authority to sign
bills after Congress had adjourned (see 32 American Law Review,
p. 212), but we are informed that there is no record in the Department of Justice of any opinion by Attorney General Garland upon
the subject. See 36 Op. A. G. at p. 404.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

of the second session of the 66th Congress.' This precedent was followed in the instant case by President
Hoover, relying upon the opinion of Attorney General
Mitchell that there was no ground for a distinction as to
the President's power in this respect between the case of
adjournment at the close of A session and the final adjeurnment of the Congress.
The authority of the President to approve bills during
a recess of the Congress, but within the time fixed by the
Constitution, has been sustained by this Court. La Abra
Silver Mining Co. v: United States, 175 U. S. 423. It
appeared in that case that on December 22, 1892, two
days after presentation of the bill to the President, the
Congress had taken a recess until January 4, 1893. The
bill was signed by the President on December 28,1892. The
Court expressly reserved the question, as one not before
the court, whether the President could approve a bill
"after the final adjournment of Congress for the session."
But the reasoning of the opinion applies with as much
force to the case of an adjournment, whether it is at the
close of a session or is the final adjournment of the Congress, as to the case of a recess for a specified period.
The Court effectively answered the opposing contention based upon the legislative character of the President's
function in approving or disapproving bills. See Smiley
v. Holm, 285 U. S. 355. The fact that it is a legislative
function does not mean that it can be performed only
while Congress is in session. The President acts legislatively under the Constitution but he is not a constituent
part of the Congress.' In the La Abra case the Court said
'The session adjourned sine, die on June 5, 1920, 41 Stat: 363,
1639. The following bills were subsequently approved by the President: Act of June 10, 1920, c. 285, 41 Stat. 1063; Acts of June 14,
1920, c. 286, 2,7, 288, 289, 290 and 291; id., 1077-1079. See 30 Yale
Law Journal, 1.
'See Note 2.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

Opinion of the Court.

(id. p. 454): " It is said that the approval by the President of a bill passed by Congress is not strictly an executive function, but is legislative in its nature; and this
view, it is argued, conclusively shows that his approval
can legally occur only on a day when both Houses are
actually sitting in the performance of legislative functions.
Undoubtedly the President when approving bills passed
by Congress may be said to participate in the enactment
of laws which the Constitution requires him to execute.
But that consideration does not determine the question
before us. As the Constitution while authorizing the
President to perform certain functions of a limited number that are legislative in their general nature does not
restrict the exercise of those functions to the particular
days on which the two Houses of Congress are actually
sitting in the transaction of public business, the court
cannot impose such a restriction upon the Executive."
From this point of view, and so far as the character of
the President's function is concerned, it obviously makes
no difference whether the Congress has adjourned sine
die or to a day named.
The Court's reasoning in the case cited also meets the
objection that if the President may approve bills after
adjournment, his action would be free of any limitation
of time. The constitutional provision does not admit of
such a construction. The intention is clearly shown that
in any event the President must act within the prescribed
ten days, and the opinion in the La Abra case is explicit
as to the President's duty in this respect. The Court
said (id., pp. 453, 454): "The time within which he [the
President] must approve or disapprove a bill is prescribed.
If he approve a bill, it is made his duty to sign it. The
Constitution is silent as to the time of his signing, except
that his approval of a bill duly presented to him-if the
bill is to become a law merely by virtue of such approval-must be manifested by his signature within ten

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

days, Sundays excepted, after the bill has been presented
to him. It necessarily results that a bill when so signed
becomes from that moment a law. But in order that his
ref/usal or failure to act may not defeat the will of the
people as expressed by Congress, if a bill be not approved
and be not returned to the House in which it originated
within that time, it becomes a law in like manner as if it
had been signed by him." But if this limitation of time
applies to the President's action when the Congress is in
recess, it is apparent that the limitation equally governs
his action when the Congress has adjourned. The constitutional provision affords no basis for a distinction between the two cases.
There is nothing in the words of the Constitution which
prohibits the President from approving bills, within the
time limited for his action, because the Congress has
adjourned; and the spirit and purpose of the clause in
question forbid the implication of such a restriction.
The provision that a bill shall not become a law if its
return has been prevented by the adjournment of Congress is apposite to bills that are not signed, not to those
that are signed. There is no requirement that bills that
are signed should be returned. No further action is required by Congress in respect of a bill which has been
presented to the President, unless he disapproves it and
returns it for reconsideration as the Constitution provides.
We may quote again from the opinion in the La Abra case
(id.): "It has properly been the practice of the President
to inform Congress by message of his approval of bills,
so that the fact may be recorded. But the essential
thing to be done in order that a bill may become a law by
the approval of the President is that it be gigned within
the prescribed time after being presented to him. That
being done, and as soon as done, whether Congress is
informed or not by message from the President of the
fact of his approval of it, the bill becomes a law, and is

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
482

493

Opinion of the Court.

delivered to the Secretary of State as required by law."
Another objection has been raised that, if the authority
of the President to approve bills continues after adjournment of the Congress, an incoming President might approve bills passed during the official term of his predecessor. 11 But it does not follow that because an incoming
President, to whom a bill has not been presented by the
Congress, cannot approve it, that a continuing President,
to whom a bill hAs been presented by the Congress, must
be debarred of his opportunity to give his approval within
the time which the Constitution has prescribed.
Regard must be had to the fundamental purpose of the
constitutional provision to provide appropriate opportunity for the President to consider the bills presented to
him. The importance of maintaining that opportunity
unimpaired increases as bills multiply. The Attorney
General calls attention to the fact that at the time here in
question, that is, between February 28, 1931, and noon
of March 4, 1931, 269 bills were presented to the President for his consideration, 184 of which were presented
to him during the last twenty-four hours of the session.
No possible reason, either suggested by constitutional
theory or based upon supposed policy, appears for a construction of the Constitution which would cut down the
opportunity of the President to examine and approve
bills merely because the Congress has adjourned. No
public interest would be conserved by the requirement of
hurried and inconsiderate examination of bills in the closing hours of a session, with the result that bills may be
approved which on further consideration would be dis"Compare Seven Hickory v. Ellery, 103 U. S. 423; People v.
Bowen, 21 N. Y. 517; State ex rel. Belden v. Fagan,22 La. Ann. 545;
Solomon v. Commissioners, 41 Ga. 157; Lankford v. Commissioners,
73 Md. 105; 20 At. 1017; 22 At. 412.
"See opinion of Chief Justice Richardson in United States v. Weil,
29 Ct. Cls. 523, 549.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

286 U.S.

approved, or may fail although on such examination they
might be found to deserve approval.
In the instant case, the President, to whom the bill was
presented, approved it within the time prescribed by the
Constitution, and upon that approval it became a law.
The question certified is answered in the affirmative.
Question answered " Yes."
WYOMING v. COLORADO.
No. 15, Original.

Argued December 3, 1931.-Decided May 31, 1932.

1. The decree in the earlier suit between Wyoming and Colorado,
259 U. S. 419, 496; 260 U. S. 1, defined and limited the quantity
of water which Colorado and her appropriators may divert from
the Laramie River and its tributaries' and thus withhold from
Wyoming and her appropriators. Pp. 506-508.
2. In a suit between two States to determine the relative rights of
each and of their respective citizens to divert water from an
interstate stream, private appropriators are represented by their
respective States and need not be made parties to be bound by
the decree. Pp. 508-509.
3. The bill in the present case shows that the diversions in Colorado,
complained of as violating the former decree, are not merely the
acts of private corporations and individuals not parties to this
suit, but that they are acts done by or under the authority of
Colorado; and it shows with sufficient certainty to require answer
that the decree has been violated by diversions in Colorado to the
damnage of Wyoming and her water-users. Pp. 509-510.
Motion to dismiss bill, overruled.

ON motion to dismiss an original suit brought for the
purpose of enforcing a decree in an earlier suit between
the two States.

Mr. Paul W. Lee, with whom Messrs. Clarence L. Ireland, Attorney General of Colorado, Charles Roach,
Deputy Attorney General, FredA. Harrison,Assistant Attorney General, C. D. Todd, Win. R. Kelly, George H.

