290

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

were conditioned upon construction work performed.
Here they were to be measured by a deficiency in operating income, and might be used for the payment of
dividends, of operating expenses, of capital charges, or for
any other purpose Within the corporate authority, just
as any other operating revenue might be applied. The
Government's payments were not in their nature bounties, but an addition to a depleted operating revenue consequent upon a federal activity.
In a proper sense these payments constituted income to
the carrier not exempt from taxation under the Sixteenth
Amendment or the Revenue Act of 1918. The Court of
Claims was right in denying the claim and the judgment
must be

Affirmed.
CONTINENTAL TIE & LUMBER CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 560.

Argued April 14, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The payments provided by § 204 of the Transportation Act to
railroads wiich were not under federal control but which suffered
deficits of operating income in that period, were intended as reimbursements for losses consequential on government operation of
other railroads; they are neither subsidies nor bonuses, but are
income within the intent of the Sixteenth Amendment and § 213
of the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 293.
2. The right to- such an award. was fixed by the passage of the Transportation Act, 1920; the function of the Interstate Commerce Commission in ascertaining the amount is ministerial. P. 295.
3. An award under § :204 held taxable as income for 1920, although
it was not determined by the Commission and paid until 1923,
since the railroad kept its books upon the accrual basis and had
data, in 1920, from which it could have made a reasonably approximate estimate in its tax return for that year, subject to future
adjustm~nt by amended return, claim for refund, or additional

CONTINENTAL TIE & L. CO. v. U. S.
290

291

Argument for the United States.

assessment, as the final award of the Commission might warrant.
P. 295.
72 Ct. Cls. 595; 52 F. (2d) 1045, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 615, to review the denial of a
claim based on an alleged overpayment of income tax.

Mr. George E. H. Goodner, with whom Messrs. John G.
Buchanan and Paul G. Rodewald were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Payments under § 204 of the Transportation Act do not
constitute taxable income. Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189; Edwards v. CubaR. Co., 268 U. S. 628.
Section 204 placed no obligation on the railroads. The
obligation was on the Interstate Commerce Commission
to ascertain and certify to the Secretary of the Treasury
the amounts to be paid and on the Secretary of the Treasury to pay such amounts as were certified. If these payments had been obligations, the Government would
doubtless have hastened settlement and payment.
This amendment discloses an intent on the part of
Congress, not to fulfill an obligation of the Government,
but to fix a time when its generosity should cease.
Even if taxable income, the payment was not income
-within the year 1920. The Railway Company had no
enforceable claim against the United States in that year.
The events which fixed the amount payable had not all
occurred then.
No determination of any amount payable was made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission until 1923.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Joseph H. Sheppard, Bradley B. Gilman, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief,
for the United States.
The payment constituted income. The Government's
moral obligation to make such reimbursement was gen-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

erally recognized. Like the similar guaranty payments
to the trunk lines under § 209, these sums were. intended
as compensation to the carriers, and were not considered
gratuities by Congress. To hold those amounts tax-exempt would place the carrier with a low operating revenue during the federal control period in a better position
than that occupied by the stronger short line which had
no deficit.
The payment was income for the year 1920. The petitioner's books were on the accrual basis. The obligation
to pay the carrier became a legal liability hpon the passage of the Act in 1920. The petitioner, under the practice of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, should have accrued the gross amount, less estimated deductions, during
1920, when it was requested by the Interstate Commerce
Commission to file a report of its deficit. The fact that
the Commission was required to calculate the exact
amount of these deductions is not significant, since the
liability was already certain. It was possible for short
lines like the petitioner's to secure payment under § 204
during the year 1920 by filing their reports promptly.
That the reimbursement was not certified by the Commission until after 1920 was due to the tardy action of the
petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
For the year 1920 the petitioner filed a consolidated
income tax return for itself and the Cimarron and Northwestern Railway Company and paid the tax shown as
due. Subsequently a claim for refund was prosecuted,
whereupon the Commissioner made a reaudit and added
to the railway's income some $27,000. The refund
granted was diminished by the amount of the additional
tax resulting from the increase in income so determined.
-The petitioner objected to this reduction and brought suit

CONTINENTAL TIE & L. CO. v. U. S.
290

293

Opinion of the Court.

in the Court of Claims to recover the full amount claimed
to be refundable. The railway company is a short-line
carrier whose road was in possession and control of the
United States and operated by the Director General of
Railroads from December 28, 1917, to June 3, 1918, when
it was relinquished, and thereafter throughout the remainder of the period of federal control operated by its
owner. Approximately $25,000 of the additional income
determined by the Commissioner consisted of a payment
to the railway pursuant to an award of the Interstate
Commerce Commission under the terms of § 204 of the
Transportation Act, 1920.' This section provided for
such an award and payment to a railroad which during
any part of the period of federal control competed for
traffic, or connected, with one under federal control, and
sustained a deficit in operating income for that portion of
the period during which it operated its own railroad. The
act directed the Commission to compare the results of
such operation with those of the test period, defined as the
three years ending June 30, 1917; and, if less favorable
during the period of federal control than during the test
period, to award an amount calculated as prescribed by
the section. The Commission made an award and the
Secretary of the Treasury paid the railway.
The petitioner asserted (1) that the sum received was
not income within the intent of the Sixteenth Amendment or § 213 of the Revenue Act of 1918; (2) that if
income, it was not taxable for 1920, as held by the Coinmissioner, but for 1923, the year in which the amount
was determined and paid. The Court of Claims denied
recovery.

What we have said in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United
Statc.q, decide(] this lay, ante, p. 285, is determinative of
the first contention. Section 209 of the Transportation
Act guaranteed the payment of any deficiency below a
' Ch. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 460.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

fixed minimum of operating income for the six months
.ensuing the termination of federal control to railroads
which had been taken over by the United States. By
th terms of § 204 payment was to be made to railroads
not under federal control of a proportion of any operating deficit suffered in the period of such control. The
:underlying purpose of Congress was the same in both
cases. Railroads falling within § 204 were principally
short liles. They were known to have suffered serious
losses in income due to routing arrangements and other
administrative measures made necessary by Government
operation of the larger railroad systems. The Transportation Act did not contemplate that the payments to be
made pursuant to § 204 were in any sense just compensation for the taking of property. There was no room for
such reimbursement, as the short lines were during the
time to which the section applied in the possession and
management of their owners. Congress, nevertheless,
realized that federal operation had caused them consequential losses, at least partial redress for which was
the purpose of the section where actual deficits in income
had resulted. For the reasons set forth in Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, supra,we hold that these
Payments were not subsidies or bonuses, but were income
within the intent of the Amendment and the statute.
The petitioner kept its accounts upon the accrual basis.
The Government insists, and' the Court of Claims held,
that the right to payment having ripened in '1920 the taxpayer should have returned the estimated award under
§ 204 as income for thatyear. The petitioner replies that
a determination whether it would receive any award under
the section. and, if so, the amount of it depended on so
many contingencies that no reasonable estimate could
have been made in 1920, and that the sum ultimately
ascertained should be deemed income for 1923, the year of
the ,award and payment.

CONTINENTAL TIE & L. CO. v. U. S.
290

295

Opinion of the Court.

The Transportation Act took effect on February 28,
1920. On June 10 the Interstate Commerce Commission
issued general instructions governing the compilation and
submission of data by carriers entitled to awards under
§ 204. The petitioner correctly states that at the date of
the Act's adoption no railroad had a vested right in any
amount; until the Commission made an award nothing
could be paid, no proceeding was available to compel an
allowance, or to determine the elements which should enter into the calculation. In short, says the petitioner, the
carrier had no rights, but was dependent solely upon the
Commission's exercise of an unrestrained discretion, and
until an award was made nothing accrued. But We think
that the function of the Commission under the act was
ministerial, to ascertain the facts with respect to the carrier's operating income by a comparison of the experience
during the test period with that during the term of federal
control. The right to the award was fixed by the passage
of the Transportation Act. What remained was mere administrative procedure to ascertain the amount to be paid.
Petitioner's right to payment ripened when the act became law. What sum of money that right represented is,
of course, a different matter.
The petitioner says that at the date of the passage of
the act it was impossible to predict that any award would
be made to the railway, and, assuming one would eventuate, its amount could not be estimated, for the reason
that the principles upon which awards were to be made
had to be settled ly the Commission and were not finally
formulated until 1923. The Government insists that
while adjustments or settlement of principles by the Commission might vary the amount to be awarded, the petitioner's case presented probleirn, not differipiy from those
confronting many buisiness conmrns which keep accounts
on an accrual basis and have to estimate 'for the tax year
the amount to be received on transactions undoubtedly

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

allocable to such year. Admitting there might be differen.es and discrepancies between the railway's estimate
and the amount awarded by the Commission, these, says
th2 Government, could, as in similar cases, have been
adjusted by an additional assessment or a claim for refund after final determination of the amount due.
The case does not fall within the principle that where
the liability is undetermined in the tax year the taxpayer
is not called upon to accrue any sum (Lucas v. American
Code Co., 280 U. S. 445), but presents the problem
whether the taxpayer had in its own books and accounts
data to which it could apply the calculations required by
the statute and ascertain the quantum of the award within reasonable limits.
The carriers kept their accounts according to standards
prescribed by the Commission; and these necessarily were
the source of information requisite for ascertainment of
the results of operation in the two periods to be compared.
In the calculation for two such brief periods allowance
had to be made for the fact that certain operating charges
entered in the books would not accurately reflect true income. Such, for instance, were maintenance charges and
those to reserve accounts. The enormous increase in
labor and material costs after the expiration of the test
period had also to be considered in comparing charges for
costs of repairs and renewals in the two periods. Section 204 incorporated by reference the terms of § 209 applicable to the method of treating such items, and the
latter in turn referred to the relevant provisions of § 5 (a)
of the standard operating contract between the Director
General and the various railroads. As might have been
expected, the general principles thus formulated did not
cover in detail questions of fact, the solution of which
required in some degree the exercise of opinion and judgment. Thus difference might fairly arise as to when re-

CONTINENTAL TIE & L. CO. v. U. S.
290

297

Opinion of the Court.

serve accounts, ought to be closed out, as to how much of
the sum actually expended for maintenance within a given
time was properly allocable to that period, and how much
to later years; at what price renewals and replacements
should be charged in view of the rapidly mounting cost
of material; what factor of difference should be allowed
for the efficiency of labor in the pre-war and post-war
periods. The petitioner points to the fact that these
questions were raised by the railroads under § 209, that
the Commission gave extended consideration to them, and
that, as respects sundry of them, the applicable principles
were not settled until 1921, 1922 and 1923. Petitioner
might have added that the Commission, while attempting
as far as possible to formulate general principles applicable to large groups of carriers, found it necessary in addition to consider the peculiar conditions and special circumstances affecting individual carriers in order in each
case to do justice to the carrier and to the United States.2
But in spite of these inherent difficulties we think it was
possible for a carrier to ascertain with reasonable accuracy
the amount of the award to be paid by the Government.
Subsequent to its order of June 10, 1920, the Commission
made no amendment or alteration of the rules with respect to the information to be furnished under § 204. Obviously the data had to be obtained from the railway's
books and accounts and from entries therein all made
prior to March 1, 1920. These accounts contained all the
information that could ever be available touching relevant expenditures. Compare United States v. Anderson,
269 U. S. 422. "The petitioner was promptly informed by
the terms of § 209, as supplemented by the instructions
issued by the Commission, of the method to be followed in
allocating charges to operation during periods under in' Maintenance Expenses under Section 209, 70 I. C. C. 115.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

quiry. It does not appear that a proper effort would not
have obtained a result approximately in accord with what
the Commission ultimately found.
Much is made by the petitioner of the fact that as a
result of representations by the carriers the Commission
from time to time during 1921, 1922 and 1923 promulgated rulings respecting the method of adjusting book
charges to actual experience, and it is asserted that petitioner could not in 1920 have known what these rulings
were to be. But it is not clear that if the taxpayer had
acted promptly an award could not have been made during 1920, or at least the principles upon which the Commission would adjust the railway's accounts to reflect
true income have been settled during that year sufficiently to enable the railway to ascertain with reasonable accuracy the amount of the probable award. The
reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission show
that it was possible for a carrier whose claim arose under
§ 209 to obtain a final award early in 1921, prior to the
time for preparing its income tax return.' From the
record it would seem that in spite of the fact that its return was not made until November, 1922, the petitioner
made up its claim by taking maintenance charges as appearing in its books without attempt at allocation as between the limited periods in which they were entered and
the probable useful life of the installations. Petitioner
must have known that the entire amounts charged to
maintenance during the respective periods would not
be properly allowable in ascertaining true income for
each period. The books and accounts fixed the maximum
amount of any probable award, and if petitioner had endeavored to make reasonable adjustments of book figures
it could have arrived at a figure to be accrued for the
year 1920. Any necessary adjustment of its tax could
'Norfolk Southern R. Co., 65 I. C. C. 798.

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. v. COMM'N. 299
Statement of the Case.

290

readily have been accomplished by an amended return,
claim for refund, or additional assessment, as the final
award of the Commission might warrant.
For these reasons the Court of Claims correctly held
that the amount awarded was taxable income for the
year 1920.
Judgment affirmed.
PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. IN-

TERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 664.

Argued April 22, 25, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. A railroad run by electricity, which carries its passengers in cars
housing their own motors, and connects with street railway systems
in different cities, but whose trackage, except in small part, is outside of the cities, on private rights of way, and whose freight cars
are of standard types and drawn in long trains by powerful electric
locomotives; whose business is pre-eminently interchange freight
business, national in character and in all essential respects conducted
like the freight business of steam railroads in the territory served,is not an " interurban electric railway " within the meaning of
par. 22 of § I of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 306.
2. The Transportation Act, being renedial legislation, shoulld be
liberally interpreted; but, for the same reason, exemptions from
its sweep should be limited to effect the remedy intended. P. 311.
51 F. (2d) 766 (D. C.), affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 285 U. S. 531, to review a decree of the
District Court enjoining the railway company from constructing an extension without a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the Interstate Cdrnxnerce
Commission. The Commission brought the suit ard several railway companies were permitted to intervene on: the
same side. See also, fiedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v.
United States, 280 U. S. 469. The appeal to the Circuit

