PAGE v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
263

Counsel for Parties,.

The decree is reversed and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.

PAGE, TRUSTEE, v. ARKANSAS NATURAL GAS
CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No.,700.

Argued April 25, 26, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

Although the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to compel a conveyance of property of the bankrupt adversely claimed ordinarily may
be asserted only in a plenary suit, a proceeding to that end may
be had summarily before the referee if both parties consent. Bankruptcy Act, § 23 (a), (b); MacDonald v. Plymouth County Trust
Co., ante, p. 263. P. 271.
53 F. (2d) 27, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 285'U. S.532, to review the affirmance of a
decree quieting a title, which depended upon the jurisdiction of a referee, in an earlier bankruptcy proceeding,
to order a conveyance.

Messrs. Frank J. Looney and Yandell Boatner, with
whom Mr. Judson M. Grimmet was on the brief, for
petitioner.
The referee had no jurisdiction to make the order.
Daniel v. Guaranty Trust Co., 285 U. S.154; Harrison
v. Chamberlin, 271 U. S. 191; Taubel-Scott v. Fox, 264
U. S.426; May v. Henderson, 268 U. S.111; Louisville
Trust Co. v. Comingor, i84 U. S.18; Jacquithv. Rowley,
188 U. S.620; First Nat. Bank v. Chicago Title Co., 198
U. S.280; In re Blum, 202 Fed. 883; Weidhorn v. Levy,
253 U. S. 268; Galbraithv. Vallely, 256 U. S. 846.
The bankrupt did not have possession of the property.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Robert S. Sloan
was on the brief, for respondent.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONFE

286 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner brought this suit in the Arkansas Chancery
Court against respondent's predecessor in interest to quiet
the title to an oil and gas lease. The cause was removed
to the United States District Court for Western Arkansas,
where a trial of the issues resulted in a judgment for respondent, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit. 53 F. (2d) 27. Both courts held
that the issue with respect to the ownership of the lease
was res adjudicata by reason of a proceeding before a
referee in bankruptcy, sitting in the district, in which the
issues with respect to the title presented here, had been
decided against the predecessor of petitioner and in favor
of the trustee in bankruptcy, through whom respondent
acquired its title to the lease.
The receiver in the bankruptcy proceeding, later appointed trustee, had gone into possession of the leasehold,
claiming it as property of the bankrupt. Lyvers, petitioner's predecessor, filed a petition before the referee,
claiming title to the lease, asking that he be put in possession and that the trustee be ordered not to sell the lease.
The trustee answered, setting up that Lyvers was trustee
of the lease for the bankrupt, and asking that Lyvers
execute a deed of the property to the trustee. The matter was heard by the referee, who ordered Lyvers to execute the conveyance. The order was affirmed by the District Court and in conformity with it Lyvers then conveyed the lease to the trustee.
The attempt made in the present suit to relitigate the
issues involved in the bankruptcy proceeding, is justified
chiefly on the ground that the referee in bankruptcy was
without jurisdiction to try the issues presented in the
proceeding before him and that, for that reason, the order
was void and could not operate to adjudicate the issues
tendered in the present suit. This Court. granted cer-

PAGE v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
269

Opinion of the Court.

tiorari, to resolve the jurisdictional question. Many and
complicated questions of fact are involved and were
argued here, but as they have been found in favor of the
respondent by both courts below, we do not review them,
see Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281
U. S. 548, and we confine ourselves to the question of the
jurisdiction of the referee in bankruptcy.
The court below held that the referee in bankruptcy
had jurisdiction to decide the issues raised by the petition
and answer, by virtue of the fact that the trustee had
gone into possession of the leasehold, and that possession
gave the referee as a court of bankruptcy jurisdiction to
hear and determine all questions respecting the title, possesion, or control of the property. Murphy v. John Hofman Comhpany, 211 U. S.562. It also held that the referee
had power to make the order, since Lyvers had participated in the litigation without objecting to its summary
form until after the order had been made. We think that
the judgment should be affirmed.
The right asserted before the referee by the trustee
in bankruptcy to compel a conveyance to the bankrupt of
property adversely claimed, is one which may be asserted
by the trustee in a plenary suit. By § 23 (a) of the
Bankruptcy Act and § 291 of the Judicial Code, District
Courts of the United States, which by § 1 (8) of the
Bankruptcy Act are courts of bankruptcy, are given jurisdiction of all controversies in law or equity between
trustees and adverse claimants concerning the property
claimed by the trustee. And by § 23 (b), "suits by the
trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in the courts
where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered
by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them
if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted,
unless by consent of the proposed defendant . . ." For
reasons stated.at length in the opinion in MacDonald v.
Plymouth County Trust Co., decided this day, ante, p.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

263, we hold that,the referee is a court within the meaning
of § 23 (b) and that, respondent's predecessor having
consented to litigate the issues presented by the petition
and answer before the referee, the latter had, jurisdictionto decide tle issues presented. See Murphy v. Hofman
Co., supr. The order of the referee, in the bankruptcy
proceeding, affirmed by the District Court, therefore adjudicated those issues between the parties and they may not
be relitigated in the present suit by their successors in
Affirmed.
irterest.
BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO. v. BERRY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 703.

Argued April 26, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

When a freight train stopped at night to await the throwing of a
switch, the caboose, occupied by the conductor and the rear brakeman, was resting on.a trestle. The conductor ordered the brakeman
to get out and go ahead, to fix a hot-box in a forward car which
had demanded attention earlier in the trip; but he did not.require
him to alight from the caboose rather than 'from any of the other
cars which were not in as dangerous a position. Taking his lantern,
the brakeman stepped from the caboose, fell into a ravine and was
hurt. It did not appear that either man knew that the caboose
was on the trestle; their opportunities of observation were the
same; and there was no evidence of any rule or practice mak'ng it'
the duty of a conductor to find safe landing-places for trainmen
before requiring themto alight. Held, that there was no evidence
of any breach of duty by the railroad company, and that if negligence was the cause of the accident, it was the negligence of the
brakeman. P. 275.
43 S. W. (2d) 782, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 285 U. S. 532, to review a judgment sus-

taining a recovery from the railroad company in an action
for personal injuries under the Federal Employers' Liability. Act.
Mr. Rudolph J. Kramer, with whom Messrs- Bruce A.
Campbell,:Morimon R. Waite, and Win. A. Egger. were
on the brief, for petitioner.

