OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

an untenable position by repealing the earlier act, and
then declare the existence of party control over membership therein to the end that there might be orderly
conduct of party affairs, including primary elections.
The resolution of the Executive Committee was the
voice of the party and took from appellant no right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution or laws. It was incumbent upon the judges of the primary to obey valid
orders from the Executive Committee. They inflicted no
wrong upon Nixon.
A judgment of affirmance should be entered.

I am authorized to say that MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO. ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 568.

Argued March 17, 18, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. A court of equity has power to modify a continuing decree of injunction which is directed, not to the protection of rights fully
accrued upon facts substantially permanent, but to the supervision
of future conduct in relation to changing conditions. P. 114.
2. This power, if not reserved expressly in the decree, is still inherent;
and it is the same whether the decree was entered by consent or
after litigation. Id.
3. The decree in this case is to be treated as a judicial act, not as a
contract; the consent to it was directed to events as they then were
and was not an abandonment of the right to exact revision in the
future, if revision should become necessary in adaptation to events
to be. P. 115.
Together with No. 569, American Wholesale Grocers Assn. et al. v.
Swift & Co. et al.; and No. 570, National Wholesale Grocers Assn. v.
Same.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

107

Statement of the Case.

4. Mere size is not an offense against the Sherman Act unless it
amounts to a monopoly; but size carries with it opportunity for
abuse that is not to be ignored when the opportunity is proved to
have been utilized in the past. P. 116.
5. By- a decree entered on consent in a suit brought by the United
States under the Sherman Act, a monopolistic combination of meat
packers was dissolved and the units that composed it were individually enjoined from selling meat at retail and also from continuing
to trade, whether at wholesale or at retail, in " groceries," i. e., in
certain food-stuffs and other commodities not within the meat
industry. The reasons for this last provision, were (1) that, because of its great size and its ownership of refrigerator cars, branch
houses and other special facilities incident to its meat business, each
of the defendants was in a position to distribute groceries with
substantially no increase of overhead, and, by lowering prices
temporarily, could eliminate competition of rivals less fortunately
situated; and (2) that by their conduct they had proved their
disposition to do this. Upon an application, years later, to modify
the injunction so as to permit wholesaling of groceries, Held:
(1) The question is not of reviewing the decree to determine
whether it was right or wrong originally, but is whether, having
been made to include the collateral lines of trade with the consent
of each defendant, it should now be relaxed because of changed
conditions. P. 119.
(2) The changes that would justify removing this restraint
would be such as did away with the reasons upon which it was
founded. Id.
(3) In the absence of proof that the reasons for the restraint
have vanished, or that the hardships of the decree amount to
oppression, the injunction should not be modified. P. 117 et. seq.
Reversed. (For opinion below see U. S. Daily, Jan. 6, 1931.)
APPEALS from a decree modifying an injunction in a
suit under the Sherman Law. For other phases of the
same litigation, see.Swift & Co. v. United States, 276
U. S.311, and United States v. California Canneries, 279
U. S.553. One of the present appeals was by the United
States; the other two were by associations of, wholesale
grocers, which intervened to oppose the application.

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom

Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Charles H. Weston

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellees.

286 U.S.

and Hammond E. Chafletz were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Messrs. Mac Asbill
and Edgar Watkins, Jr., were on the brief, for the American Wholesale Grocers Assn. et al., appellants.
Mr. Win. C. Breed, with whom Messrs. Dana T. Ackerly, Sumner Ford, and Edward A. Craighill, Jr., were
on the brief, for the National Wholesale Grocers Assn.,
appellants.
Mr. 'Frank J. Hogan, with whom Messrs. Paul M.
Godehn, Henry Veeder, Charles J. Faulkner,Jr., and Nelson T. Hartson were on the brief, for Swift & Co. et al.,
appellees.
The Governn=aT consented to a modification of the
consent decree if there were a proper showing of changed
conditions.
Injunctive decrees are always _subject to modification
because of changed conditions, regardless of the expiration
of the time for taking .an appeal. Lowe v. Cemetery
.Assn., 75 Neb. 85; Larson v. Minnesota N. W. Elec. Ry.
Co., 136 Minn. 423; Emergency Hospital v. Stevens, 146
Md. 159; Ladner v. Siegel, 298 Pa. 487, s. c., 68 A. L. R.
1172, 1180. See also American 'Press Assn. v. United
States, 245 Fed. 91.
Consent decrees entered in antitrust proceedings may
be modified upon a proper showing of changed conditions
even if the Government expressly refuses to consent to
modification. United States v. New York, N. H. & H. R.
Co., D. C. S. D., N. Y., Equity Cause No. 11,301 (not
reported); United States v. Discher,255 Fed. 719; United
States v. Dupont Co., 273 Fed. 869. See also Marietta
Chair Co. v. Henderson, 121 Ga. 399.
The Court also has power to modify the decree because
of the reservation of this jurisdiction in the decree itself.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.311.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

The intervener-appellants were permitted t6 intervene
for a limited purpose long after the decree was entered and
are not in a position to urge that the decree can not be
modified without an unconditional consent by the Government.
Changed conditions have removed any danger of monopolistic control by the defendants.
The exclusion of the appellees as competitors in the
general food industry is unjust and inequitable to them
and injurious to the public.
Under present conditions the use of appellees' refrigerator cars to transport commodities other than meats will
not give them any unfair advantage over their competitors.
There is no foundation in fact for the claims of alleged
contumacious conduct and violation of the antitrust laws
by the appellees.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed: by
Mr. Dayton Moses on behalf of the Texas & Southwestern
Cattle Raisers' Assn. et al., and by Messrs. George A.
Clough and R. C. Fulbrig/it on behalf of the American
National Live Stock Assn. et al.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has modified an earlier decree of the same court which
enjoined the continuance of a combination in restraint
of trade and commerce.
Separate appeals, one by the United States of America,
and the others by associations of wholesale
grocers intervening by leave of court, have brought the case here,
Judicial Code, ยง 238; U. S. Code, Title 28, ยง 345.
In February, 1920, a bill was filed by the Government
under ยง 4 of the Act of July 2, 1890 (c. 647, 26 Stat. 209;

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

U. S. Code, Title 15), known as the Sherman Antitrust
Act, against the five leading meat-packers in the United
States to dissolve a monopoly. The packers joined as
defendants were Swift & Company, Armour & Company,
Wilson & Company, the Morris Packing Company, and
the Cudahy Packing Company, together with their subsidiaries and also their chief officers. The charge was
that by concert of action the defendants had succeeded
in suppressing competition both in the purchase of live
stock and in the sale of dressed meats, and were even
spreading their monopoly into other fields of trade. They
had attained this evil eminence through agreements
apportioning the percentages of live stock to which the
members of the combinations were severally entitled;
through the acquisition and control of stockyards and
stockyard terminal railroads; through the purchase of
trade papers and journals whereby cattle raisers were deprived of accurate and unbiased reports of the demand
for live stock; and through other devices directed to
unified control. "Having eliminated competition in the
meat products, the defendants next took cognizance of
the competition which might be expected" from what was
characterized as "substitute foods." To that end, so it
was charged, they had set about controlling the supply
of "fish, vegetables, either fresh or canned, fruits, cereals,
milk, poultry, butter, eggs, cheese and other substitute
foods ordinarily handled by wholesale grocers or produce
dealers." Through their ownership of refrigerator cars
and branch houses as well as other facilities, they were in
a position to distribute "substitute foods and other unrelated commodities" with substantially no increase of
overhead. Whenever these advantages were inadequate,
they had recourse to the expedient of fixing prices so low
over temporary periods of time as to eliminate competition by rivals less favorably situated. Through these and

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

other devices there came about in the view of the Government an unlawful monopoly of a large part of the food
supply of the nation. The prayer was for an injunction
appropriate to the case exhibited by the bill.
The defendants consented to dismemberment, though
answering the bill and traversing its charges. With their
answer there was filed a stipulation which provided for
the entry of a decree upon the terms therein set forth
and provided also that the decree "shall not constitute
or be considered as an adjudication that the defendants,
or any of them, have in fact violated any law of the
United States." The decree entered on February 27,
1920, enjoined the defendants from maintaining a monopoly and from entering into, or continuing any combination in restraint of trade and commerce. In addition
they were enjoined both severally and jointly from (1)
holding any interest in public stockyard companies,
stockyard terminal railroads or market newspapers, (2)
engaging in, or holding any interest in, the business of
manufacturing, selling or transporting any of 114 enumerated food products, (principally fish, vegetables, fruit
and groceries), and thirty other articles unrelated to the
meat packing industry; (3) using or permitting others
to use their distributive facilities for the handling of any
of these enumerated articles, (4) selling meat at retail,
(5) holding any interest in any public cold storage plant,
and (6) selling fresh milk or cream. No injunction was
granted in respect of the sale or distribution of poultry,
butter, cheese and eggs, though these had been included
in the bill among the substitute foods which the defendants were seeking to engross. The decree closed with
a provision whereby jurisdiction of the cause was retained for the purpose of taking such other action or adding at the foot such other relief "as may become necessary or appropriate for the carrying out and enforcement " thereof, "and for the purpose of entertaining at

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

any time hereafter any application which the parties may
make" with reference thereto.
The expectation would have been reasonable that a
decree entered upon consent would be accepted by the defendants and by those allied with them as a definitive adjudication setting controversy at rest. The events that
were to follow recount a different tale. In April, 1922,
the California Co-operative Canneries Corporation filed an
intervening petition alleging that the effect of the injulction was to interfere with the performance by Armour &
Company of a contract by which Armour had agreed to
buy large quantities of California canned fruit, and praying that the decree be vacated for lack of jurisdiction.
Leave to intervene was granted by the Court of Appeals
of the District, which ordered " that such further proceedings thereupon be had as are necessary to determine the
issue raised." In November, 1924, motions for like relief
were made by Swift and by Armour, their subsidiaries and
officers. The motions were denied by the Supreme Court
of the District, and thereafter were considered by this
court, which upheld the consent decree in the face of a
vigorous assault. Swift & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.
311. In the meantime, however, an order had been made
on May 1, 1925, by the Supreme Court of the District
at the instance of the California Canneries whereby the
operation of the decree as a whole was suspended "until
further order of the court to be made, if at all, after a full
hearing on the merits according to the usual course of
chancery proceedings" (see United States v. California
Canneries,279 U. S. 553, 555). This order of suspension
remained in force till May, 1929, when a decision of this
court swept the obstacle aside. United States v. California Canneries,supra.
The defendants and their allies had thus been thwarted
in the attempt to invalidate the decree as of the date of
its entry, and again the expectation would have been reasonable that there would be ac 4uiescence in its restraints.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

Once more the expectation was belied by the event. The
defendants, or some of them, discovered as they thought
that during the years that had intervened between the
entry of the decree and its final confirmation, conditions
in the packing industry and in the sale of groceries and
other foods had been transformed so completely that the
restraints of the injunction, however appropriate and just
in February, 1920, were now useless and oppressive. The
discovery or supposed discovery had its fruit in the proceeding now before us. On April 12, 1930, the defendants
Swift
& Company and Armour & Company and their
subsidiaries,
being no longer under the shelter of an order
suspending the injunction, filed a. petition to modify the
consent decree and to adapt its restraints to the needs of
a new day. The prayer was that the petitioners be permitted (1) to own and operate retail meat markets; (2)
to own stock in stockyard companies and terminal railroads; (3) to manufacture, sell and deal in the 144 articles
specified in paragraph fourth of the decree, which for
convenience will be spoken of as "groceries;" (4) to use
or permit others to use their distributive facilities in handling such commodities; and one of the defendants, Swift
& Company, asked in addition that the defendants be
permitted to hold interests in public cold-storage warehouses and to sell fresh milk and cream. Of the five
defendant4 named in the original suit, one, Morris &
Company, sold out to Armour & Company in 1923, and
discontinued business.
The two other defendants,
Wilson and Cu~lahy, did not join in the petition to modify
the decree, but stated in open court that they would consent to such modification as the court might order provided it be made applicable to the defendants equally.
All the requests for modification were denied except numbers 3 and 4, of which 4 is merely ancillary to 3 and
calls for no separate consideration. The modification in
rbspec* of number 3 gave permission to deal at wholesale

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U:S.

in groceries and other enumerated commodities, but maintained the injunction against dealing in them at retail.
In every other respect, the decree of February 27, 1920,
was continued in force as originally entered. The modifying decree, which was entered January 31, 1931, is the
subject of this appeal.
We are not doubtful of the power of a court of equity to
modify an injunction in adaptation to changed conditions though it was entered by consent. The power is
conceded by the Government, and is challenged by the
interveners only. We do not go into the question whether
the intervention was so limited in scope and purpose as
to withdraw this ground of challenge, if otherwise available. Standing to make the objection may be assumed,
and the result will not be changed. Power to modify the
decree was reserved by its very terms, and so from the
beginning went hand in hand with its restraints. If the
reservation had been omitted, power there still would be
by force of principles inherent in the jurisdiction of the
chancery. A continuing decree of injunction directed to
events to come is subject always to adaptation as events
may shape the need. Ladner v. Siegel, 298 Pa. St. 487,
494, 495; 148 Atl. 699;Emergency Hospital v. Stevens,
146 Md. 159; 126 Atl. 101; Larson v. Minn. N. Electric
Ry. Co., 136 Minn. 423; 162 N. W. 523; Lowe v. Prospect
Hill Cemetery Assn., 75 Neb. 85; 106 N. W. 429; 108
N. W. 978. The distinction is between restraints that give
protection to rights fully accrued upon facts so nearly
permanent as to be. substantially impervious to change,
and those that involve the supervision of changing conduct or conditions and are thus provisional and tentative.
Ladner v. Siegel, supra. The result is all one whether the
decree has been entered after litigation or by consent.
American Press Assn. v. United States, 245 Fed. 91. In
either event, a court does not abdicate its power to revoke
or modif-." its mandate if satisfied that what it has'been

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

doing has been turned through changing circumstances
into an instrument of wrong. We reject the argument for
the interveners that a decree entered upon consent is to
be treated as a contract and not as a judicial act. A different view would not help them, for they were not parties
to the contract, if any there was. All the parties to the
consent decree concede the jurisdiction of the court to
change it. The interveners gain nothing from the fact
that the decree was a contract as to others, if it was not
one as to them. But in truth what was then adjudged
was not a contract as to any one. The consent is to be
read as directed toward events as they then were. It was
not an abandonment of the right to exact revision in the
future, if revision should become necessary in adaptation
to events to be.
Power to modify existing, we are brought to the
question whether enough has been shown to justify its
exercise.
The defendants, controlled by experienced business
men, renounced the privilege of trading in groceries,
whether in concert or independeptly, and did this with
their eyes open. Two reasons, and only two, for exacting
the surrender of this adjunct of the business were stated
in the bill of complaint. Whatever persuasiveness the
reasons then had, is theirs with undiminished force today.
The first was that through the ownership of refrigerator cars and branch houses as well as other facilities, the
defendants were in a. position to distribute substitute
foods and other unrelated commodities with substantially
no increase of overhead. There is no doubt that they
are equally in that position now. Their capacity to make
such distribution cheaply by reason of their existing
facilities is one of the chief reasons why the sale of
groceries has been permitted by the modified decree, and
this in the face of the fact that it is also one of the chief
reasons why the decree as originally entered took the
privilege away.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The second reason stated in the bill of complaint is
the practice followed by the defendants of fixing prices
for groceries so low over temporary periods of time as to
eliminate competition by rivals less favorably situated.
Whether the defendants would resume that practice if
they were to deal in groceries again, we do not know.
They would certainly have the temptation to resume it.
Their low overhead and their gigantic size, even when they
are viewed as separate units, would still put them in a
position to starve out weaker rivals. Mere size, according to the holding of this court, is not an offense -against
the Sherman Act unless magnified to the point at which
it amounts to a monopoly (United States v. United States
Steel Corp., 251 U. S. 417; United States v. International
Harvester Co., 274 U. S. 693, 708), but size carries with it
an opportunity for abuse that is not to be ignored when
the opportunity is proved to have been utilized in the past.
The original decree at all events was framed upon that
theory. It was framed upon the theory that even after
the combination among the packers-had been broken up
and the monopoly dissolved, the individual units would
be so huge that the capacity to engage in other forms of
business as adjuncts to the sale of meats should be taken
from them altogether. It did not say that the privilege
to deal in groceries should be withdrawn for a limited
time, or until the combination in respect of meats had been
effectually broken up. It said that the privilege should
be renounced forever, and this whether the units within
the combination were acting collectively or singly. The
combination was to be disintegrated, but relief was not
to stop with that. To curb the aggressions of the huge
units that would remain, there was to be a check upon
their power, even though acting independently, to wage
a war of extermination against dealers weaker than themselves. We do not turn aside to inquire whether some of
these restraints upon separate as distinguished from joint
action could have been opposed with success if the de-

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

fendants had offered opposition. Instead, they chose to
consent, and the injunction, right or wrong, became the
judgment of the court. Groceries and other enumerated
articles they were not to sell at all, either by wholesale or
by retail. Even the things that they were free to sell,
meats and meat products, they were not to sell by retail.
The court below annulled the restraint upon sales of groceries by wholesale, but retained the prohibition in respect
of sale by retail both for groceries and for meats. The
one prohibition equally with the other was directed against
abuse of power by the individual units after the monopoly
was over; and the death of the monopoly, the breaking
up of the combination, if an adequate reason for terminating one of them, is an adequate reason for terminating
both.
We have said that the defendants are still in a position, even when acting separately, to starve out weaker
rivals, or at least that the fear of such abuses, if rational
in 1920, is still rational today. The meat monopoly has
been broken, for the members now compete with one another. The size of the component units is substantially
unchanged. In 1929, the latest year for which any figures are furnished by the record, the sales made by Swift
and Armour, each, amounted to over a billion dollars;
those made by all the defendants together to over $2,500,000,000; and those made by their thirteen chief competitors to only $407,000,000. Size and past aggressions induced the fear in 1920 that the defendants, if permitted
to deal in groceries, would drive their rivals to the wall.
Size and past aggressions leave the fear unmoved today.
Changes there have been that reduce the likelihood of a
monopoly in the business of the sale of meats, but none
that bear significantly upon the old-time abuses in the
sale of other foods. The question is not whether a modification as to groceries can be made without prejudice to
the interests of producers of cattle on the hoof. The
question is whether it can be made without prejudice

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

to the interests of the classes whom this particular restraint was intended to protect. Much is made in the
defendants' argument of the rise of the chain stores to
affluence and power, and especially of chains for the sale
of groceries and other foods. Nothing in that development eradicates the ancient peril. Few of the chain
stores produce the foods they have for sale, and then
chiefly in special lines. Much, indeed most, of what they
offer, they are constrained to buy from others. They
look to the defendants for their meats, and if the ban
of this decree is lifted, they will look to the defendants
for other things as well. Meats and groceries today are
retailed at the same shops, departments of a single business. The defendants, the largest packers in the country,
will thus hold a post of vantage, as compared with other
wholesale grocers, in their dealings with the chains. They
will hold a post of vantage in their dealings with others
outside the chains. When they add groceries to meats,
they will do so, they assure us, with substantially no increase of the existing overhead. Thus in the race of
competition they will be able by their own admission to lay a handicap on rivals overweighted at the start.
The opportunity will be theirs to renew the war of extermination that they waged in years gone by.
Sporadic instances of unfair practices even in the meat
business are stated in the findings to have occurred since
the monopoly was broken, practices as to which the defendants' officers disclaim responsibility or knowledge. It
is easy to make such excuses with plausibility when a business is so huge. They become less plausible when the size
of the business is moderate. Responsibility is then centered in a few. If the grocery business is added to the
meat business, there may be many instances of unfair
pressure upon retailers and others with the design of
forcing them to buy from the defendants and not from
rival grocers. Such at any rate was the rationale of the
decree of 1920. Its restraints, whether just or excessive,

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

were born of that fear. The difficulty of ferreting out
these evils and repressing them when discovered supplies
an additional reason why we should leave the defendants
where we find them, especially since the place where we
find them is the one where they agreed to be.
There is need to keep in mind steadily the limits of
inquiry proper to the case before us. We are not framing
a decree. We are asking ourselves whether anything has
happened that will justify us now in changing a decree.
The injunction, whether right or wrong, is not subject to
impeachment in its application to the conditions that
existed at its making. We are not at liberty to reverse
under the guise of readjusting. Life is never static, and
the passing of a decade has brought changes to the grocery
business as it has to every other. The inquiry for us is
whether the changes are so important that dangers, once
substantial, have become attenuated to a shadow. No
doubt the defendants will be better off if the injunction
is relaxed, but they are not suffering hardship so extreme
and unexpected as to justify us in saying that they are
the victims of oppression. Nothing less than a clear
showing of grievous wrong evoked by new and unforeseen
conditions should lead us to change what was decreed
after years of litigation with the consent of all concerned.
The case comes down to this: the defendants had
abused their powers so grossly and persistently as to lead
to the belief that even when they were acting separately,
their conduct should be subjected to extraordinary restraints. There was the fear that even when so acting they
would still be ready and able to crush their feebler rivals in
the sale of groceries and kindred products by forms of
competition too ruthless and oppressive to be accepted as
fair and just. Wisely or unwisely, they submitted to
these restraints upon the exercise of powers that would
normally be theirs. They chose to renounce what they
might otherwise have claimed, and the decree of a court
confirmed the renunciation and placed it beyond recall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

What was then solemnly adjudged as a final composition of an historic litigation will not lightly be undone
at the suit of the offenders, and the composition held
for nothing.
The decree should be reversed and the petitions
dismissed.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration

and
and

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

The facts on which the District Supreme Court allowed
modification of parts of the 1920 consent injunction are
set forth in its findings prepared in accordance with
Equity Rule No. 701/2. They are discussed and amplified
in a painstaking opinion contained in the record. I think
they are sustained by the evidence and are sufficient to
support the decree.
Conditions affecting competition in the lines of business carried on by defendants have changed since 1920.
Indeed, the Government, after the introduction of evidence by appellees, formally stipulated that they "are in
active competition with each other" etc.1 The facts negaCensus figures in respect of slaughtering and meat packing establishments in 1921 and 1927 are as follows:
Value of production per year:
1921
1927
$5,000 to $20,000 ............
142
64
$20,000 to $100,000 ............. 304
267
$100,000 to $500,000 ...........
360
429
$500,000 to $1,000,000 .........
112
163
$1,000,000 and over ...........
266
327
Total ....................... 1.184
1.250
The relations between each of the defendant packers' production of
meat and lard and total production of these articles in the United
States during the years 1920 and 1929 are as follows:

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
106

BUTLER,

121

J., dissenting.

tive any suggestion that danger of monopolistic control
now exists. Each of the principal packers has suffered
discouraging operating losses. One of them, retiring from
business, sold its plants to another. The purchaser, in
order to avoid failure, was compelled to refinance and has
not earned reasonable profits in any year. Another, being
embarrassed, passed into the hands of a receiver, was subsequently adjudged bankrupt and later reorganized.
Only two have continued able to sustain themselves. It
is shown without dispute that defendants' earnings,
whether considered in relation to sales or to the worth of
property invested, are low and substantially less than
those of others carrying on the same lines of business..
Since 1920 the manufacture and distribution of food
have grown greatly and to a large extent have come to
1920
Swift ......... .. .
....... 13.2%
Armour (including Morris) ...... 15.8%

1929
15.2%
14. 1%

Wilson .......................... 5.2%

4.3%

Cudahy ........................ 4.0%

4.7%

'The folloWing table groups the defendants' earnings and compares
them with the combined earnings of 15 competitors from 1920 to
1929:
Percentage of
defehdants'
earnings
eanisns
on eales

Percent- Percent- Percentage of
of
age
competi- defend competitors, ants'
tors'
earnings
earnings earnings
en s
on net
on net
on sas
worth
worth

1920 .........................................
0.18
0.76
1921 ---------------------------------------------3.05
-. 17
1922 ---------------------------------------------.10
2.72
1923 ---------------------------------------------1.58
3.40
1924 ---------------------------------------------1.77
3.39
1925 ---------------------------------------------1.44
2.03
1926_.
.
.
.
.
..--------------------------------------1.35
2.65
1927 ---------------------------------------63
2.07
1928 --------------------------------------------1.24
3.17
1929 ----------------------------------------------1.06
2.68
.LOSS.

0.88
-10.27
.35
5.65
6.46
5.82
5.03
2.49
5.13
4.51

2.48
'5.80
10.87
12.0
13.28
9.11
12.24
9.83
14.10
14.02

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

be carried on by integrated concerns in strong hands,
which have taken over and are handling many products
from the sources of production to consumers. More and
more, meat-formerly distributed through shops selling
little if anything else-is sold in stores carrying groceries
and other articles of food. The diversification of the business of defendants permitted by the modification of the
injunction is in harmony with present legitimate tendencies in the business of producing and selling meat, groceries and other articles of food. In all branches of such
activities there is strong and active competition. The use
by defendants of their employees and facilities for the
sale and distribution of groceries as well as meat would
not give them any undue advantage over their competitors. Under present conditions the relief granted below
would not enable them-to inflict the evils of monopoly
upon any part of the food industry. The denial of that
relief makes against competition intended to be preserved
by the Sherman Act. Defendants should be permitted
more efficiently to use their help and equipment to lessen
their operating expenses. That makes for lower prices
and so is in the public interest.
The wholesale grocers, represented here by objecting
interveners, are not entitled to the court's protection
against the competition of non-members or of defendants
carrying on separately and competing actively. They
may not avoid the burden of sustaining themselves in a
free and open market by protestation of fear that, if allowed to engage in the grocery business at all, defendants
will unfairly compete in violation of the federal antitrust laws. If and whenever shown necessary for the protection of the commerce safeguarded by the original decree, the Government may have the modified provisions
restored or new ones added.
There is nothing in the original complaint that makes
for reversal here. The Government's allegations were
denied by answer. The decree was entered without evi-

FOX FILM CORP. v. DOYAL.
Syllabus.

106

dence or findings pursuant to a written stipulation between the Government and the defendants expressly providing that "this stipulation shall not constitute or be
considered as an admission, and the rendition or entry
of the decree, or the decree itself, shall not constitute-or
be considered as an adjudication that the defendants, or
any of them, have in fact violated any law of the United
States." And that provision was in exact words incorporated in and made a part of the decree. Thus the Government consented to, and the court adopted, this provision
quite as much as the defendants consented to the other
parts of the decree.
The fact that defendants thereafter applied to have the
decree vacated upon grounds directed only to the power
of the court to enter it ought not to be regarded as militating against them or their good faith-particularly when
it is recalled that this court, when reviewing that proceeding, deemed the questions presented of sufficient importance to call for their argument a second time. 276
U. S. 311.
I am of opinion that the facts found, taken, with
those conceded or established by uncontradicted evidence,
justly entitle appellees to the measure of relief given
below, and that the modifying. decree should be affirmed.

I am authorized to say that MR.
concurs in this opinion.

JUSTICE VAN

DE-

VANTER

FOX FILM CORP. v. DOYAL

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 118. Argued January 12, 1932. Reargued March 15, 16, 1932.Decided May 16, 1932.
1. A privilege tax on a business of licensing copyrighted motion pictures, measured by the gross receipts of royalties, is in effect a
direct charge upon the royalties. EducationalFilms Corp. v. Ward,
282 U. S. 379, distinguished. P. 126.

