OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

RENO, ATTORNEY GENERAL v. BOSSIER PARISH
SCHOOL BOARD ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
No. 95-1455. Argued December 9, 1996-Decided May 12, 1997*
Appellee Bossier Parish School Board (Board) is subject to the preclearance requirements of § 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (Act) and
must therefore obtain the approval of either the United States Attorney
General or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
before implementing any changes to a voting "qualification, prerequisite,
standard, practice, or procedure." Based on the 1990 census, the Board
redrew its 12 single-member districts, adopting the redistricting plan
that the Attorney General had recently precleared for use in elections
of the parish's primary governing body (the Jury plan). In doing so,
the Board rejected a plan proposed by the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), which would have created
two majority-black districts. The Attorney General objected to preclearance, finding that the NAACP plan, which had not been available
when the Jury plan was originally approved, demonstrated that black
residents were sufficiently numerous and geographically compact to
constitute a majority in two districts; that, compared with this alternative, the Board's plan unnecessarily limited the opportunity for minority voters to elect their candidates of choice and thereby diluted
their voting strength in violation of §2 of the Act; and that the Attorney General must withhold preclearance where necessary to prevent
a clear §2 violation. The Board then filed this action with the District Court, and appellant Price and others intervened as defendants.
A three-judge panel granted the preclearance request, rejecting appellants' contention that a voting change's failure to satisfy §2 constituted
an independent reason to deny preclearance under § 5 and their related
argument that a court must still consider evidence of a §2 violation as
evidence of discriminatory purpose under § 5.
Held:
1. Preclearance under § 5 may not be denied solely on the basis that
a covered jurisdiction's new voting "standard, practice, or procedure"
violates §2. This Court has consistently understood §5 and §2 to com*Together with No. 95-1508, Priceet al. v. Bossier ParishSchool Board
et al., also on appeal from the same court.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Syllabus
bat different evils and, accordingly, to impose very different duties upon
the States. See Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 883 (plurality opinion).
Section 5 freezes election procedures in a covered jurisdiction until that
jurisdiction proves that its proposed changes do not have the purpose,
and will not have the effect, of denying or abridging the right to vote
on account of race. See Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.130, 140. It is
designed to combat only those effects that are retrogressive. Retrogression, by definition, requires a comparison of a jurisdiction's new voting plan with its existing plan, see Holder, supra, at 883 (plurality opinion), and necessarily implies that the jurisdiction's existing plan is the
benchmark against which the "effect" of voting changes is measured.
Section 2, on the other hand, applies in all jurisdictions and uses as its
benchmark for comparison in vote dilution claims a hypothetical, undiluted plan. Making compliance with §5 contingent upon compliance
with §2, as appellants urge, would, for all intents and purposes, replace
the standards for § 5 with those for §2, thus contradicting more than 20
years of precedent interpreting §5. See, e. g., Beer, supra. Appellants' contentions that their reading of §5 is supported by the Beer decision, by the Attorney General's regulations, and by public policy considerations are rejected. Pp. 476-485.
2. Evidence showing that a jurisdiction's redistricting plan dilutes minorities' voting power may be relevant to establish a jurisdictions "intent to retrogress" under § 5, so there is no need to decide today whether
such evidence is relevant to establish other types of discriminatory intent or whether §5's purpose inquiry ever extends beyond the search
for retrogressive intent. Because this Court cannot say with confidence
that the District Court considered the evidence proffered to show that
the Board's reapportionment plan was dilutive, this aspect of that court's
holding must be vacated. Pp. 486-490.
(a) Section 2 evidence may be "relevant" within the meaning of
Federal Rule of Evidence 401, for the fact that a plan has a dilutive
impact makes it "more probable" that the jurisdiction adopting that plan
acted with an intent to retrogress than "it would be without the evidence." This does not, of course, mean that evidence of a plan's dilutive
impact is dispositive of the §5 purpose inquiry. Indeed, if it were, §2
would be effectively incorporated into § 5, a result this Court finds unsatisfactory. In conducting their inquiry into a jurisdiction's motivation
in enacting voting changes, courts should look for guidance to Arlingtoi
Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U.S. 252,
which sets forth a framework for examining discriminatory purpose.
Pp. 486-489.
(b) This Court is unable to determine whether the District Court
deemed irrelevant all evidence of the dilutive impact of the redistricting

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Syllabus
plan adopted by the Board. While some language in its opinion is consistent with today's holding that the existence of less dilutive options
was at least relevant to the purpose inquiry, the District Court also
appears to have endorsed the notion that dilutive impact evidence is
irrelevant even to an inquiry into retrogressive intent. The District
Court will have the opportunity to apply the Arlington Heights test on
remand as well as to address appellants' additional arguments that it
erred in refusing to consider evidence that the Board was in violation
of an ongoing injunction to remedy any remaining vestiges of a dual
school system. Pp. 489-490.
907 F. Supp. 484, vacated and remanded.
O'CoNNoR, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and SCALIA, KENNEDY, and THOmS, JJ., joined in full, and in which
GINSBURG and BREYER, JJ., joined except insofar as Part III is inconsistent with the views expressed in the concurrence of BREYER, J.
THOmAS, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 490. BREYER, J., filed an
opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, in which GINSBURG, J., joined, post, p. 493. STEVENS, J., filed an opinion dissenting in
part and concurring in part, in which SOUTER, J., joined, post, p. 497.

Assistant Attorney General Patrick argued the cause for
appellant in No. 95-1455. With him on the briefs were Acting Solicitor General Dellinger, Deputy Solicitor General
Bender, Cornelia T L. Pillard,David K. Flynn, and Steven
H. Rosenbaum. John W. Borkowski argued the cause for
appellants in No. 95-1508. With him on the briefs were
Walter A. Smith, Jr., PatriciaA. Brannan,BarbaraR. Amwine, Thomas J. Henderson, Brenda Wright, and Samuel
L. Walters.
Michael A. Carvin argued the cause for appellee Bossier
Parish School Board in both cases. With him on the brief
were David H. Thompson, James J. Thornton, and Michael
P. McDonald.t
tLaughlin McDonald, Neil Bradley, Steven R. Shapiro, Elaine R.
Jones, Norman J Chackkin, and Jacqueline Berrien filed a brief for the
American Civil Liberties Union et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
Sharon L. Browne and Deborah J. La Fetra filed a brief for the Pacific
Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
Today we clarify the relationship between § 2 and § 5 of
the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 79 Stat. 437, 439, as amended,
42 U. S. C. H 1973, 1973c. Specifically, we decide two questions: (i) whether preclearance must be denied under § 5
whenever a covered jurisdiction's new voting "standard,
practice, or procedure" violates § 2; and (ii) whether evidence
that a new "standard, practice, or procedure" has a dilutive
impact is always irrelevant to the inquiry whether the covJUSTICE O'CONNOR

ered jurisdiction acted with "the purpose ...

of denying or

abridging the right to vote on account of race or color" under
§ 5. We answer both in the negative.
I
Appellee Bossier Parish School Board (Board) is a jurisdiction subject to the preclearance requirements of § 5 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, 42 U. S. C. § 1973c, and must
therefore obtain the approval of either the United States Attorney General or the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia before implementing any changes to a
voting "qualification, prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure." The Board has 12 members who are elected from
single-member districts by majority vote to serve 4-year
terms. When the 1990 census revealed wide population disparities among its districts, see App. to Juris. Statement 93a
(Stipulations of Fact and Law 82), the Board decided to
redraw the districts to equalize the population distribution.
During this process, the Board consjdered two redistricting plans. It considered, and initially rejected, the redistricting plan that had been recently adopted by the Bossier
Parish Police Jury, the parish's primary governing body (the
Jury plan), to govern its own elections. Just months before,
the Attorney General had precleared the Jury plan, which
also contained 12 districts. Id., at 88a (Stipulations 68).
None of the 12 districts in the Board's existing plan or in the
Jury plan contained a majority of black residents. Id., at

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

93a (Stipulations 82) (under 1990 population statistics in
the Board's existing districts, the three districts with highest
black concentrations contain 46.63%, 43.79%, and 30.13%
black residents, respectively); id., at 85a (Stipulations 59)
(population statistics for the Jury plan, with none of the
plan's 12 districts containing a black majority). Because the
Board's adoption of the Jury plan would have maintained the
status quo regarding the number of black-majority districts,
the parties stipulated that the Jury plan was not "retrogressive."

Id., at 141a (Stipulations

252) ("The ...

plan is not

retrogressive to minority voting strength compared to the
existing benchmark plan . . .").

Appellant George Price,

president of the local chapter of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), presented the
Board with a second option-a plan that created two districts each containing not only a majority of black residents,
but a majority of voting-age black residents. Id., at 98a
(Stipulations 98). Over vocal opposition from local residents, black and white alike, the Board voted to adopt the
Jury plan as its own, reasoning that the Jury plan would
almost certainly be precleared again and that the NAACP
plan would require the Board to split 46 electoral precincts.
But the Board's hopes for rapid preclearance were dashed
when the Attorney General interposed a formal objection to
the Board's plan on the basis of "new information" not available when the Justice Department had precleared the plan
for the Police Jury-namely, the NAACP's plan, which demonstrated that "black residents are sufficiently numerous and
geographically compact so as to constitute a majority in two
single-member districts." Id., at 155a-156a (Attorney General's August 30, 1993, objection letter). The objection letter asserted that the Board's plan violated §2 of the Act, 42
U. S. C. § 1973, because it "unnecessarily limit[ed] the opportunity for minority voters to elect their candidates of choice,"
App. to Juris. Statement, at 156a, as compared to the new
alternative. Relying on 28 CFR §51.55(b)(2) (1996), which

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

provides that the Attorney General shall withhold preclearance where "necessary to prevent a clear violation of
amended Section 2 [42 U. S. C. § 1973]," the Attorney General concluded that the Board's redistricting plan warranted
a denial of preclearance under § 5. App. to Juris. Statement
157a. The Attorney General declined to reconsider the
decision. Ibid.
The Board then filed this action seeking preclearance
under § 5 in the District Court for the District of Columbia.
Appellant Price and others intervened as defendants. The
three-judge panel granted the Board's request for preclearance, over the dissent of one judge. 907 F. Supp. 434, 437
(1995). The District Court squarely rejected the appellants'
contention that a voting change's alleged failure to satisfy § 2
constituted an independent reason to deny preclearance
under §5: "We hold, as has every court that has considered
the question, that a political subdivision that does not violate
either the 'effect' or the 'purpose' prong of section 5 cannot
be denied preclearance because of an alleged section 2 violation." Id., at 440-441. Given this holding, the District
Court quite properly expressed no opinion on whether the
Jury plan in fact violated § 2, and its refusal to reach out
and decide the issue in dicta does not require us, as JUSTICE

insists, to "assume that the record discloses a 'clear
violation' of §2." See post, at 499 (opinion dissenting in part
and concurring in part). That issue has yet to be decided
by any court. The District Court did, however, reject appellants' related argument that a court "must still consider
evidence of a section 2 violation as evidence of discriminatory purpose under section 5." Id., at 445. We noted probable jurisdiction on June 3, 1996. 517 U. S.1232.
STEVENS

II
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (Act), 42 U. S. C. § 1973 et
seq., was enacted by Congress in 1964 to "attac[k] the blight
of voting discrimination" across the Nation. S. Rep. No. 97-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

417, 2d Sess., p. 4 (1982); South Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383
U. S. 301, 308 (1966). Two of the weapons in the Federal
Government's formidable arsenal are § 5 and §2 of the Act.
Although we have consistently understood these sections to
combat different evils and, accordingly, to impose very different duties upon the States, see Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S.
874, 883 (1994) (plurality opinion) (noting how the two sections "differ in structure, purpose, and application"), appellants nevertheless ask us to hold that a violation of §2 is an
independent reason to deny preclearance under § 5. Unlike
JUSTICE STEVENS, post, at 502-503, and n. 5 (opinion dissenting in part and concurring in part), we entertain little doubt
that the Department of Justice or other litigants would
"routinely" attempt to avail themselves of this new reason
for denying preclearance, so that recognizing §2 violations
as a basis for denying § 5 preclearance would inevitably make
compliance with § 5 contingent upon compliance with §2.
Doing so would, for all intents and purposes, replace the
standards for §5 with those for §2. Because this would contradict our longstanding interpretation of these two sections
of the Act, we reject appellants' position.
Section 5, 42 U. S. C. § 1973c, was enacted as
"a response to a common practice in some jurisdictions
of staying one step ahead of the federal courts by passing new discriminatory voting laws as soon as the old
ones had been struck down.... Congress therefore decided, as the Supreme Court held it could, 'to shift the
advantage of time and inertia from the perpetrators of
the evil to its victim,' by 'freezing election procedures
in the covered areas unless the changes can be shown
to be nondiscriminatory."' Beer v. United States, 425
U. S. 130, 140 (1976) (quoting H. R. Rep. No. 94-196,
pp. 57-58 (1970)).
In light of this limited purpose, §5 applies only to certain
States and their political subdivisions. Such a covered ju-

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

risdiction may not implement any change in a voting "qualification, prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure" unless it first obtains either administrative preclearance of that
change from the Attorney General or judicial preclearance
from the District Court for the District of Columbia. 42
U. S. C. § 1973c. To obtain judicial preclearance, the jurisdiction bears the burden of proving that the change "does
not have the purpose and will not have the effect of denying
or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color."
Ibid.; City of Rome v. United States, 446 U. S. 156, 183, n. 18
(1980) (covered jurisdiction bears burden of proof). Because
§ 5 focuses on "freez[ing] election procedures," a plan has an
impermissible "effect" under § 5 only if it "would lead to a
retrogression in the position of racial minorities with respect
to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise." Beer,
supra, at 141.
Retrogression, by definition, requires a comparison of a
jurisdiction's new voting plan with its existing plan. See
Holder, supra, at 883 (plurality opinion) ("Under § 5, then,
the proposed voting practice is measured against the existing voting practice to determine whether retrogression
would result from the proposed change"). It also necessarily implies that the jurisdiction's existing plan is the benchmark against which the "effect" of voting changes is measured. In Beer, for example, we concluded that the city of
New Orleans' reapportionment of its council districts, which
created one district with a majority of voting-age blacks
where before there had been none, had no discriminatory
"effect." 425 U. S., at 141-142 ("It is thus apparent that a
legislative reapportionment that enhances the position of racial minorities with respect to their effective exercise of the
electoral franchise can hardly have the 'effect' of diluting or
abridging the right to vote on account of race within the
meaning of §5"). Likewise, in City of Lockhart v. United
States, 460 U. S.125 (1983), we found that the city's new charter had no retrogressive "effect" even though it maintained

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

the city's prior practice of electing its council members atlarge from numbered posts, and instituted a new practice of
electing two of the city's four council members every year
(instead of electing all the council members every two years).
While each practice could "have a discriminatory effect
under some circumstances," id., at 135, the fact remained
that "[s]ince the new plan did not increase the degree of discrimination against [the city's Mexican-American population], it was entitled to § 5 preclearance [because it was not
retrogressive]," id., at 134 (emphasis added).
Section 2, on the other hand, was designed as a means
of eradicating voting practices that "minimize or cancel out
the voting strength and political effectiveness of minority
groups," S. Rep. No. 97-417, at 28. Under this broader mandate, § 2 bars all States and their political subdivisions from
maintaining any voting "standard, practice, or procedure"
that "results in a denial or abridgement of the right ... to
vote on account of race or color." 42 U. S. C. § 1973(a). A
voting practice is impermissibly dilutive within the meaning
of §2
"if, based on the totality of the circumstances, it is
shown that the political processes leading to nomination
or election in the State or political subdivision are not
equally open to participation by [members of a class
defined by race or color] in that its members have less
opportunity than other members of the electorate to
participate in the political process and to elect representatives of their choice." 42 U. S. C. § 1973(b).
A plaintiff claiming vote dilution under §2 must initially establish that: (i) "[the racial group] is sufficiently large and
geographically compact to constitute a majority in a singlemember district"; (ii) the group is "politically cohesive"; and
(iii) "the white majority votes sufficiently as a bloc to enable
it... usually to defeat the minority's preferred candidate."

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court

Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30, 50-51 (1986); Growe v.
Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 40 (1993). The plaintiff must also
demonstrate that the totality of the circumstances supports
a finding that the voting scheme is dilutive. Johnson v. De
Grandy, 512 U. S. 997, 1011 (1994); see Gingles, supra, at
44-45 (listing factors to be considered by a court in assessing
the totality of the circumstances). Because the very concept
of vote dilution implies-and, indeed, necessitates-the existence of an "undiluted" practice against which the fact of
dilution may be measured, a § 2 plaintiff must also postulate
a reasonable alternative voting practice to serve as the
benchmark "undiluted" voting practice. Holder v. Hall, 512
U. S., at 881 (plurality opinion); id., at 950-951 (Blackmun,
J., dissenting).
Appellants contend that preclearance must be denied
under § 5 whenever a covered jurisdiction's redistricting plan
violates § 2. The upshot of this position is to shift the focus
of § 5 from nonretrogression to vote dilution, and to change
the §5 benchmark from a jurisdiction's existing plan to a
hypothetical, undiluted plan.
But §5, we have held, is designed to combat only those
effects that are retrogressive. See supra, at 477-479. To
adopt appellants' position, we would have to call into question more than 20 years of precedent interpreting §5. See,
e. g., Beer, supra; City of Lockhart, supra. This we decline
to do. Section 5 already imposes upon a covered jurisdiction
the difficult burden of proving the absence of discriminatory
purpose and effect. See, e. g., Elkins v. United States, 364
U. S. 206, 219 (1960) ("[A]s a practical matter it is never easy
to prove a negative"). To require a jurisdiction to litigate
whether its proposed redistricting plan also has a dilutive
"result" before it can implement that plan-even if the Attorney General bears the burden of proving that "result"--is to
increase further the serious federalism costs already implicated by §5. See Miller v. Johnson,515 U. S. 900, 926 (1995)
(noting the "federalism costs exacted by §5 preclearance").

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

Appellants nevertheless contend that we should adopt
their reading of § 5 because it is supported by our decision
in Beer, by the Attorney General's regulations, and by considerations of public policy. In Beer, we held that § 5 prohibited only retrogressive effects and further observed that "an
ameliorative new legislative apportionment cannot violate
§5 unless the new apportionment itself so discriminates on
the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution." 425
U. S., at 141. Although there had been no allegation that
the redistricting plan in Beer "so ...discriminate[d] on the
basis of race or color as to be unconstitutional," we cited in
dicta a few cases to illustrate when a redistricting plan might
be found to be constitutionally offensive. Id., at 142, n. 14.
Among them was our decision in White v. Regester, 412 U. S.
755 (1973), in which we sustained a vote dilution challenge,
brought under the Equal Protection Clause, to the use of
multimember election districts in two Texas counties. Appellants argue that "[b]ecause vote dilution standards under
the Constitution and Section 2 were generally coextensive
at the time Beer was decided, Beer's discussion meant that
practices that violated Section 2 would not be entitled to
preclearance under Section 5." Brief for Federal Appellant 36-37.
Even assuming, arguendo, that appellants' argument had
some support in 1976, it is no longer valid today because
the applicable statutory and constitutional standards have
changed. Since 1980, a plaintiff bringing a constitutional
vote dilution challenge, whether under the Fourteenth or
Fifteenth Amendment, has been required to establish that
the State or political subdivision acted with a discriminatory
purpose. See Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S.55, 62 (1980) (plurality opinion) ("Our decisions ... have made clear that action by a State that is racially neutral on its face violates the
Fifteenth Amendment only if motivated by a discriminatory
purpose"); id., at 66 ("[O]nly if there is purposeful discrimination can there be a violation of the Equal Protection

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment"); see also Arlington
Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429
U. S. 252, 265 (1977) ("Proof of racially discriminatory intent
or purpose is required to show a violation of the Equal Protection Clause"). When Congress amended §2 in 1982, it
clearly expressed its desire that §2 not have an intent component, see S. Rep. No. 97-417, at 2 ("Th[e 1982] amendment
is designed to make clear that proof of discriminatory intent
is not required to establish a violation of Section 2"). Because now the Constitution requires a showing of intent that
§2 does not, a violation of §2 is no longer a fortiori a violation of the Constitution. Congress itself has acknowledged
this fact. See id., at 39 ("The Voting Rights Act is the best
example of Congress' power to enact implementing legislation that goes beyond the direct prohibitions of the Constitution itself").
JUSTICE STEVENS argues that the subsequent divergence
of constitutional and statutory standards is of no moment
because, in his view, we "did not [in Beer] purport to distinguish between challenges brought under the Constitution
and those brought under the [Voting Rights] statute." Post,
at 504 (opinion dissenting in part and concurring in part).
Our citation to White, he posits, incorporated White's standard into our exception for nonretrogressive apportionments
that violate § 5, whether or not that standard continued to
coincide with the constitutional standard. In essence, JusTICE STEVENS reads Beer as creating an exception for nonretrogressive apportionments that so discriminate on the
basis of race or color as to violate any federal law that happens to coincide with what would have amounted to a constitutional violation in 1976. But this reading flatly contradicts the plain language of the exception we recognized,
which applies solely to apportionments that "so discriminat[e] on the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution." Beer, supra,at 141 (emphasis added). We cited
White, not for itself, but because it embodied the current

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

constitutionalstandard for a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. See also 425 U. S., at 143, n. 14 (noting that
New Orleans' plan did "not remotely approach a violation of
the constitutionalstandards enunciated in" White and other
cited cases (emphasis added)). When White ceased to represent the current understanding of the Constitution, a violation of its standard-even though that standard was later
incorporated in §2-no longer constituted grounds for denial
of preclearance under Beer.
Appellants' next claim is that we must defer to the Attorney General's regulations interpreting the Act, one of
which states:
"In those instances in which the Attorney General
concludes that, as proposed, the submitted change is
free of discriminatory purpose and retrogressive effect,
but also concludes that a bar to implementation of
the change is necessary to prevent a clear violation of
amended Section 2, the Attorney General shall withhold
Section 5 preclearance." 28 CFR § 51.55(b)(2) (1996).
Although we normally, accord the Attorney General's construction of the Act great deference, "we only do so if Congress has not expressed its intent with respect to the question, and then only if the administrative interpretation is
reasonable." Presley v. Etowah County Comm'n, 502 U. S.
491, 508 (1992). Given our longstanding interpretation of § 5,
see supra, at 477-479, 480-482 and this page, which Congress
has declined to alter by amending the language of § 5, Arkansas Best Corp.v. Commissioner,485 U. S. 212, 222, n. 7 (1988)
(placing some weight on Congress' failure to express disfavor
with our 25-year interpretation of a tax statute), we believe
Congress has made it sufficiently clear that a violation of § 2
is not grounds in and of itself for denying preclearance under
§ 5. That there may be some suggestion to the contrary in
the Senate Report to the 1982 Voting Rights Act amendments, S. Rep. No. 97-417, supra, at 12, n. 31, does not

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court

change our view. With those amendments, Congress, among
other things, renewed §5 but did so without changing its
applicable standard. We doubt that Congress would depart
from the settled interpretation of § 5 and impose a demonstrably greater burden on the jurisdictions covered by § 5,
see supra,at 480, by dropping a footnote in a Senate Report
instead of amending the statute itself. See Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552, 567 (1988) ("Quite obviously, reenacting
precisely the same language would be a strange way to make
a change"). See also City of Lockhart v. United States, 460
U. S. 125 (1983) (reaching its holding over Justice Marshall's
dissent, which raised the argument now advanced by appellants regarding this passage in the Senate Report).
Nor does the portion of the House Report cited by JUSTICE
STEVENS unambiguously call for the incorporation of §2 into
§ 5. That portion of the Report states:
"[M]any voting and election practices currently in effect are outside the scope of [§ 5] ... because they were
in existence before 1965 .... Under the Voting Rights
Act, whether a discriminatory practice or procedure is
of recent origin affects only the mechanism that triggers
relief, i. e., litigation [under §2] or preclearance [under
§ 5]." H. R. Rep. No. 97-227, p. 28 (1981).
The obvious thrust of this passage is to establish that pre1965 discriminatory practices are not free from scrutiny
under the Act just because they need not be precleared
under § 5: Such practices might still violate §2. But to say
that pre-1965 practices can be reached solely by §2 is not to
say that all post-1965 changes that might violate § 2 may be
reached by both §2 and § 5 or that "the substantive standards for §2 and § 5 [are] the same," see post, at 506 (opinion
dissenting in part and concurring in part). Our ultimate conclusion is also not undercut by statements found in the "postenactment legislative record," see post, at 506, n. 9, given
that "the views of a subsequent Congress form a hazardous

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

basis for inferring the intent of an earlier one." United
States v. Price, 361 U. S. 304, 313 (1960). We therefore decline to give these sources controlling weight.
Appellants' final appeal is to notions of public policy.
They assert that if the district court or Attorney General
examined whether a covered jurisdiction's redistricting plan
violates § 2 at the same time as ruling on preclearance under
§ 5, there would be no need for two separate actions and judicial resources would be conserved. Appellants are undoubtedly correct that adopting their interpretation of §5 would
serve judicial economy in those cases where a § 2 challenge
follows a §5 proceeding. But this does not always happen,
and the burden on judicial resources might actually increase
if appellants' position prevailed because §2 litigation would
effectively be incorporated into every §5 proceeding.
Appellants lastly argue that preclearance is an equitable
remedy, obtained through a declaratory judgment action in
district court, see 42 U. S. C. § 1973c, or through the exercise
of the Attorney General's discretion, see 28 CFR §51.52(a)
(1996). A finding that a redistricting plan violates §2 of the
Act, they contend, is an equitable "defense," on the basis of
which a decisionmaker should, in the exercise of its equitable discretion, be free to deny preclearance. This argument,
however, is an attempt to obtain through equity that which
the law-i. e., the settled interpretation of § 5-forbids. Because "it is well established that '[c]ourts of equity can no
more disregard statutory and constitutional requirements
and provisions than can courts of law,"' INS v. Pangilinan,
486 U. S. 875, 883 (1988) (citing Hedges v. Dixon County, 150
U. S. 182, 192 (1893)), this argument must fail.
Of course, the Attorney General or a private plaintiff remains free to initiate a § 2 proceeding if either believes that
a jurisdiction's newly enacted voting "qualification, prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure" may violate that section. All we hold today is that preclearance under § 5 may
not be denied on that basis alone.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

III

Appellants next contend that evidence showing that a
jurisdiction's redistricting plan dilutes the voting power of
minorities is at least relevant in a § 5 proceeding because
it tends to prove that the jurisdiction enacted its plan with
a discriminatory "purpose." The District Court, reasoning
that "[t]he line [between §2 and § 5] cannot be blurred by
allowing a defendant to do indirectly what it cannot do directly," 907 F. Supp., at 445, rejected this argument and held
that it "will not permit section 2 evidence to prove discriminatory purpose under section 5," ibid. Because we hold that
some of this " 2 evidence" may be relevant to establish a
jurisdiction's "intent to retrogress" and cannot say with confidence that the District Court considered the evidence proffered to show that the Board's reapportionment plan was
dilutive, we vacate this aspect of the District Court's holding and remand. In light of this conclusion, we leave open
for another day the question whether the §5 purpose inquiry ever extends beyond the search for retrogressive intent. See Kentucky Dept. of Correctionsv. Thompson, 490
U. S. 454, 465, n. 5 (1989) (declining to decide an issue that
"is not necessary to our decision"). Reserving this question
is particularly appropriate when, as in this suit, it was not
squarely addressed by the decision below or in the parties'
briefs on appeal. See Brief for Federal Appellant 23; Brief
for Appellant Price et al. 31-33, 34-35; Brief for Appellee
42-43. But in doing so, we do not, contrary to JUSTICE
STEVENS' view, see post, at 499 (opinion dissenting in part
and concurring in part), necessarily assume that the Board
enacted the Jury plan with some nonretrogressive, but nevertheless discriminatory, "purpose." The existence of such
a purpose, and its relevance to § 5, are issues to be decided
on remand.
Although § 5 warrants a denial of preclearance if a covered
jurisdiction's voting change "ha[s] the purpose [or] ...

the

effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

of race or color," 42 U. S. C. § 1973c, we have consistently
interpreted this language in light of the purpose underlying
§ 5--"to insure that no voting-procedure changes would be
made that would lead to a retrogression in the position of
racial minorities." Beer, 425 U. S., at 141. Accordingly, we
have adhered to the view that the only "effect" that violates
§ 5 is a retrogressive one. Ibid.; City of Lockhart, 460 U. S.,
at 134.
Evidence is "relevant" if it has "any tendency to make the
existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it
would be without the evidence." Fed. Rule Evid. 401. As
we observed in Arlington Heights, 429 U. S., at 266, the impact of an official action is often probative of why the action
was taken in the first place since people usually intend the
natural consequences of their actions. Thus, a jurisdiction
that enacts a plan having a dilutive impact is more likely to
have acted with a discriminatory intent to dilute minority
voting strength than a jurisdiction whose plan has no such
impact. A jurisdiction that acts with an intent to dilute minority voting strength is more likely to act with an intent
to worsen the position of minority voters-i. e., an intent to
retrogress-than a jurisdiction acting with no intent to dilute. The fact that a plan has a dilutive impact therefore
makes it "more probable" that the jurisdiction adopting that
plan acted with an intent to retrogress than "it would be
without the evidence." To be sure, the link between dilutive
impact and intent to retrogress is far from direct, but "the
basic standard of relevance . . . is a liberal one," Daubert

v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 509 U. S. 579, 587
(1993), and one we think is met here.
That evidence of a plan's dilutive impact may be relevant
to the § 5 purpose inquiry does not, of course, mean that such
evidence is dispositive of that inquiry. In fact, we have previously observed that a jurisdiction's single decision to choose
a redistricting plan that has a dilutive impact does not, with-

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of the Court

out more, suffice to establish that the jurisdiction acted with
a discriminatory purpose. Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S. 899, 914,
n. 6 (1996) ("[W]e doubt that a showing of discriminatory
effect under §2, alone, could support a claim of discriminatory purpose under § 5"). This is true whether the jurisdiction chose the more dilutive plan because it better comported
with its traditional districting principles, see Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S., at 922 (rejecting argument that a jurisdiction's
failure to adopt the plan with the greatest possible number
of majority black districts establishes that it acted with a
discriminatory purpose); Shaw, supra, at 912-913 (same), or
if it chose the plan for no reason at all. Indeed, if a plan's
dilutive impact were dispositive, we would effectively incorporate §2 into §5, which is a result we find unsatisfactory
no matter how it is packaged. See Part II, supra.
As our discussion illustrates, assessing a jurisdiction's motivation in enacting voting changes is a complex task requiring a "sensitive inquiry into such circumstantial and direct
evidence as may be available." Arlington Heights, 429
U. S., at 266. In conducting this inquiry, courts should look
to our decision in Arlington Heights for guidance. There,
we set forth a f-amework for analyzing "whether invidious
discriminatory purpose was a motivating factor" in a government body's decisionmaking. Ibid. In addition to serving
as the framework for examining discriminatory purpose in
cases brought under the Equal Protection Clause for over
two decades, see, e. g., Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S.630, 644 (1993)
(citing Arlington Heights standard in context of Equal Protection Clause challenge to racial gerrymander of districts);
Rogers v. Lodge, 458 U. S. 613, 618 (1982) (evaluating vote
dilution claim under Equal Protection Clause using Arlington Heights test); Mobile, 446 U. S., at 70-74 (same), the Arlington Heights fr-amework has also been used, at least in
part, to evaluate purpose in our previous §5 cases. See
Pleasant Grove v. United States, 479 U. S. 462, 469-470
(1987) (considering city's history in rejecting annexation of

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

black neighborhood and its departure from normal procedures when calculating costs of annexation alternatives); see
also Busbee v. Smith, 549 F. Supp. 494, 516-517 (DC 1982),
summarily aff'd, 459 U. S. 1166 (1983) (referring to Arlington
Heights test); PortArthur v. United States, 517 F. Supp. 987,
1019, aff'd, 459 U. S. 159 (1982) (same).
The "important starting point" for assessing discriminatory intent under Arlington Heights is "the impact of the
official action whether it 'bears more heavily on one race
than another."' 429 U. S., at 266 (citing Washington v.
Davis, 426 U.S. 229, 242 (1976)). In a § 5 case, "impact"
might include a plan's retrogressive effect and, for the reasons discussed above, its dilutive impact. Other considerations relevant to the purpose inquiry include, among other
things, "the historical background of the [jurisdiction's] decision"; "[t]he specific sequence of events leading up to the
challenged decision"; "[d]epartures from the normal procedural sequence"; and "[tihe legislative or administrative history, especially ... [any] contemporary statements by members of the decisionmaking body." 429 U. S., at 266-268.
We are unable to determine from the District Court's opinion in this action whether it deemed irrelevant all evidence
of the dilutive impact of the redistricting plan adopted by
the Board. At one point, the District Court correctly stated
that "the adoption of one nonretrogressive plan rather than
another nonretrogressive plan that contains more majorityblack districts cannot by itselfgive rise to the inference of discriminatory intent." 907 F. Supp., at 450 (emphasis added).
This passage implies that the District Court believed that
the existence of less dilutive options was at least relevant to,
though not dispositive of, its purpose inquiry. While this
language is consistent with our holding today, see supra, at
486-488, the District Court also declared that "we will not
permit section 2 evidence to prove discriminatory purpose
under section 5," supra, at 486. With this statement, the
District Court appears to endorse the notion that evidence

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
THOMlAS, J.,

concurring

of dilutive impact is irrelevant even to an inquiry into retrogressive intent, a notion we reject. See supra, at 486-488.
The Board contends that the District Court actually "presumed that white majority districts had [a dilutive] effect,"
Brief for Appellee 35, and "cut directly to the dispositive
question 'started' by the existence of [a dilutive] impact: did
the Board have 'legitimate, nondiscriminatory motives' for
adopting its plan[?]" Id., at 33. Even if the Board were
correct, the District Court gave no indication that it was
assuming the plan's dilutive effect, and we hesitate to attribute to the District Court a rationale it might not have employed. Because we are not satisfied that the District Court
considered evidence of the dilutive impact of the Board's redistricting plan, we vacate this aspect of the District Court's
opinion. The District Court will have the opportunity to
apply the Arlington Heights test on remand as well as to
address appellants' additional arguments that it erred in refusing to consider evidence that the Board was in violation
of an ongoing injunction "to 'remedy any remaining vestiges
of [a] dual [school] system,"' 907 F. Supp., at 449, n. 18.
The judgment of the District Court is vacated, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this decision.
It is so ordered.
concurring.
Although I continue to adhere to the views I expressed in
Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 891 (1994) (opinion concurring
in judgment), I join today's opinion because it is consistent
with our vote dilution precedents. I fully anticipate, however, that as a result of today's holding, all of the problems
we have experienced in § 2 vote dilution cases will now be
replicated and, indeed, exacerbated in the § 5 retrogression
inquiry.
I have trouble, for example, imagining a reapportionment
change that could not be deemed "retrogressive" under our
JUSTICE THOMAS,

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
THOMiAS,

J., concurring

vote dilution jurisprudence by a court inclined to find it so.
We have held that a reapportionment plan that "enhances
the position of racial minorities" by increasing the number
of majority-minority districts does not "have the 'effect' of
diluting or abridging the right to vote on account of race
within the meaning of § 5." Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.
130, 141 (1976). But in so holding we studiously avoided
addressing one of the necessary consequences of increasing
majority-minority districts: Such action necessarily decreases the level of minority influence in surrounding districts, and to that extent "dilutes" the vote of minority voters in those other districts, and perhaps dilutes the influence
of the minority group as a whole. See, e. g., Hays v. Louisiana,936 F. Supp. 360, 364, n. 17 (WD La. 1996) (three-judge
court) (noting that plaintiffs' expert "argues convincingly
that our plan, with its one black majority and three influence
districts, empowers more black voters statewide than does"
a plan with two black-majority districts and five "bleached"
districts in which minority influence was reduced in order to
create the second black-majority district); cf. Johnson v. De
Grandy, 512 U. S.997, 1007 (1994) (noting that dilution can
occur by "fragmenting the minority voters among several
districts ... or by packing them into one or a small number
of districts to minimize their influence in the districts next
door").
Under our vote dilution jurisprudence, therefore, a court
could strike down any reapportionment plan, either because
it did not include enough majority-minority districts or because it did (and thereby diluted the minority vote in the
remaining districts). A court could presumably even strike
down a new reapportionment plan that did not significantly
alter the status quo at all, on the theory that such a plan did
not measure up to some hypothetical ideal. With such an
indeterminate "rule," § 5 ceases to be primarily a prophylactic tool in the important war against discrimination in voting,
and instead becomes the means whereby the Federal Government, and particularly the Department of Justice, usurps

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
THOMAS, J., concurring

the legitimate political judgments of the States. And such
an empty "rule" inevitably forces the courts to make political
judgments regarding which type of apportionment best
serves supposed minority interests-judgments that the
courts are ill equipped to make.
I can at least find some solace in the belief that today's
opinion will force us to confront, with a renewed sense of
urgency, this fundamental inconsistency that lies at the heart
of our vote dilution jurisprudence.
Beyond my general objection to our vote dilution precedent, the one portion of the majority opinion with which I
disagree is the majority's new suggestion that preclearance
standards established by the Department of Justice are "normally" entitled to deference. See ante, at 483.* Section 5
sets up alternative routes for preclearance, and the primary
route specified is through the District Court for the District
of Columbia, not through the Attorney General's office. See
42 U. S. C. §1973c (generally requiring District Court preclearance, with a proviso that covered jurisdictions may obtain preclearance by the Attorney General in lieu of District
Court preclearance, but providing no authority for the Attorney General to preclude judicial preclearance). Requiring
the District Court to defer to adverse preclearance decisions
by the Attorney General based upon the very preclearance
standards she articulates would essentially render the independence of the District Court preclearance route a nullity.
Moreover, given our own "longstanding interpretation of
§ 5," see ante, at 483, deference to the particular preclearance
regulation addressed in this action would be inconsistent
with another of the Attorney General's regulations, which
provides: "In making determinations [under §5] the Attorney General will be guided by the relevant decisions of the
*Ido not address the separate question, not presented by this action,
whether the Department's interpretationof the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
as opposed to its articulation of standards applicable to its own preclearance determinations, is entitled to deference. The regulation at issue
here only purports to be the latter.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

Supreme Court of the United States and of other Federal
courts." 28 CFR §51.56 (1996). Thus, while I agree with
the majority's decision not to defer to the Attorney General's
standards, I would reach that result on different grounds.
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins,
concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.
I join Parts I and II of the majority opinion, and Part III
insofar as it is not inconsistent with this opinion. I write
separately to express my disagreement with one aspect of
the majority opinion. The majority says that we need not
decide "whether the §5 purpose inquiry ever extends beyond
the search for retrogressive intent." Ante, at 486. In my
view, we should decide the question, for otherwise the District Court will find it difficult to evaluate the evidence that
we say it must consider. Cf. post, at 508 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part and concurring in part). Moreover, the answer to the question is that the "purpose" inquiry does extend beyond the search for retrogressive intent. It includes
the purpose of unconstitutionally diluting minority voting
strength.
The language of §5 itself forbids a change in "any voting
qualification or prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice,
or procedure with respect to voting," where that change
either (1) has the "purpose" or (2) will have the "effect" of
"denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or
coloi" 42 U. S. C. § 1973c. These last few words reiterate
in context the language of the Fifteenth Amendment itself:
"The right of citizens ...to vote shall not be denied or
abridged ... on account of race [or] color .... ." This use
of constitutional language indicates that one purpose forbidden by the statute is a purpose to act unconstitutionally.
And a new plan enacted with the purpose of unconstitutionally diluting minority votes is an unconstitutional plan.
Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S.55, 62-63, 66 (1980) (plurality
opinion); ante, at 481-482.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of BREYER, J.

Of course, the constitutional language also applies to § 5's
prohibition that rests upon "effects." The Court assumes,
in its discussion of "effects," that the § 5 word "effects" does
not now embody a purely constitutional test, whether or not
it ever did so. See ante, at 478; City of Rome v. United
States, 446 U. S. 156, 173, 177 (1980). And that fact, here, is
beside the point. The separate argument about the meaning
of the word "effect" concerns how far beyond the Constitution's requirements Congress intended that word to reach.
The argument about "purpose" is simply whether Congress
intended the word to reach as far as the Constitution itself,
embodying those purposes that, in relevant context, the Constitution itself would forbid. I can find nothing in the
Court's discussion that shows that Congress intended to restrict the meaning of the statutory word "purpose" short of
what the Constitution itself requires. And the Court has
previously expressly indicated that minority vote dilution is
a harm that § 5 guards against. Allen v. State Bd. of Elections, 393 U. S. 544, 569 (1969).
Consider a hypothetical example that will clarify the precise legal question here at issue. Suppose that a covered
jurisdiction is choosing between two new voting plans, A and
B. Neither plan is retrogressive. Plan A violates every
traditional districting principle, but from the perspective of
minority representation, it maintains the status quo, thereby
meeting the "effects" test of § 5. See ante, at 478-479. Plan
B is basically consistent with traditional districting principles and it also creates one or two new majority-minority
districts (in a State where the number of such districts is
significantly less than proportional to minority voting age
population). Suppose further that the covered jurisdiction
adopts Plan A. Without any other proposed evidence or justification, ordinary principles of logic and human experience
suggest that the jurisdiction would likely have adopted Plan
A with "the purpose ... of denying or abridging the right
to vote on account of race or color." § 1973c. It is reason-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

able to assume that the Constitution would forbid the use of
such a plan. See Rogers v. Lodge, 458 U. S. 613, 617 (1982)
(Fourteenth Amendment covers vote dilution claims); Mobile, 446 U. S., at 66 (plurality opinion) (same). And compare id., at 62-63 (intentional vote dilution may be illegal
under the Fifteenth Amendment) and Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S.339, 346 (1960) (Fifteenth Amendment covers
municipal boundaries drawn to exclude blacks), with Mobile, supra, at 84, n. 3 (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment)
(Mobile plurality said that Fifteenth Amendment does not
reach vote dilution); Voinovich v. Quilter,507 U. S.146, 159
(1993) ("This Court has not decided whether the Fifteenth
Amendment applies to vote-dilution claims . . ."); Shaw v.
Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 645 (1993) (endorsing the Gomi~lion
concurrence's Fourteenth Amendment approach); and Beer
v. United States, 425 U. S.130, 142, n. 14 (1976). Then, to
read §5's "purpose" language to require approval of Plan A,
even though the jurisdiction cannot provide a neutral explanation for its choice, would be both to read §5 contrary to
its plain language and also to believe that Congress would
have wanted a §5 court (or the Attorney General) to approve
an unconstitutional plan adopted with an unconstitutional
purpose.
In light of this example, it is not surprising that this Court
has previously indicated that the purpose part of §5 prohibits a plan adopted with the purpose of unconstitutionally diluting minority voting strength, whether or not the plan is
retrogressive in its effect. In Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S.899
(1996), for example, the Court doubted "that a showing of
discriminatory effect under § 2, alone, could support a claim
of discriminatory purpose under §5." Id., at 914, n. 6 (emphasis added). The word "alone" suggests that the evidence
of a discriminatory effect there at issue-evidence of dilution-could be relevant to a discriminatory purpose claim.
And if so, the more natural understanding of § 5 is that an
unlawful purpose includes more than simply a purpose to

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of BREYER, J.

retrogress. Otherwise, dilution would either dispositively
show an unlawful discriminatory effect (if retrogressive) or
it would almost always be irrelevant (if not retrogressive).
Either way, it would not normally have much to do with unlawful purpose. See also the discussions in Richmond v.
United States, 422 U. S. 358, 378-379 (1975) (annexation plan
did not have an impermissible dilutive effect but the Court
remanded for a determination of whether there was an impermissible § 5 purpose); Pleasant Grove v. United States,
479 U. S. 462, 471-472, and n. 11 (1987) (purpose to minimize
future black voting strength is impermissible under § 5);
Port Arthur v. United States, 459 U. S. 159, 168 (1982) (a plan
adopted for a discriminatory purpose is invalid under § 5
even if it "might otherwise be said to reflect the political
strength of the minority community"); post, at 507-508 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part and concurring in part).
Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900 (1995), also implicitly assumed that § 5's "purpose" stretched beyond the purely retrogressive. There, the Justice Department pointed out that
Georgia made a choice between two redistricting plans, one
of which (call it Plan A) had more majority-black districts
than the other (call it Plan B). The Department argued that
the fact that Georgia chose Plan B showed a forbidden § 5
discriminatory purpose. The Court rejected this argument,
but the reason that the majority gave for that rejection is
important. The Court pointed out that Plan B embodied
traditional state districting principles. It reasoned that
"[tihe State's policy of adhering to other districting principles instead of creating as many majority-minority districts
as possible does not support an inference" of an unlawful
discriminatory purpose. Id., at 924. If the only relevant
"purpose" were a retrogressive purpose, this reasoning, with
its reliance upon traditional districting principles, would
have been beside the point. The Court would have concerned itself only with Georgia's intent to worsen the position of minorities, not with the reasons why Georgia could

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

have adopted one of two potentially ameliorative plans. Indeed, the Court indicated that an ameliorative plan would
run afoul of the § 5 purpose test if it violated the Constitution. Ibid. See also Shaw v. Hunt, supra, at 912-913.
In sum, the Court today should make explicit an assumption implicit in its prior cases. Section 5 prohibits a covered
State from making changes in its voting practices and procedures where those changes have the unconstitutional"purpose" of unconstitutionally diluting minority voting strength.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins,
dissenting in part and concurring in part.
In my view, a plan that clearly violates § 2 is not entitled
to preclearance under § 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
The majority's contrary view would allow the Attorney General of the United States to place her stamp of approval on
a state action that is in clear violation of federal law. It
would be astonishing if Congress had commanded her to
do so. In fact, however, Congress issued no such command.
Surely no such command can be found in the text of § 5 of
the Voting Rights Act.' Moreover, a fair review of the text
'As originally enacted, §5 provided:
"Sec. 5. Whenever a State or political subdivision with respect to
which the prohibitions set forth in section 4(a) are in effect shall enact or
seek to administer any voting qualification or prerequisite to voting, or
standard, practice, or procedure with respect to voting different from that
in force or effect on November 1, 1964, such State or subdivision may
institute an action in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia for a declaratory judgment that such qualification, prerequisite,
standard, practice, or procedure does not have the purpose and will not
have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of
race or color, and unless and until the court enters such judgment no person shall be denied the right to vote for failure to comply with such qualification prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure: Provided,That such
qualification, prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure may be enforced without such proceeding if the qualification, prerequisite, standard,
practice, or procedure has been submitted by the chief legal officer or
other appropriate official of such State or subdivision to the Attorney Gen-

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

and the legislative history of the 1982 amendment to § 2 of
that Act indicates that Congress intended the Attorney General to deny preclearance under §5 whenever it was clear
that a new voting practice was prohibited by §2. This does
not mean that she must make an independent inquiry into
possible violations of § 2 whenever a request for preclearance
is made. It simply means that, as her regulations provide,
she must refuse preclearance when "necessary to prevent a
clear violation of amended section 2." 28 CFR § 51.55(b)(2)
(1996).
It is, of course, well settled that the Attorney General
must refuse to preclear a new election procedure in a covered
jurisdiction if it will "lead to a retrogression in the position
of racial minorities with respect to their effective exercise of
the electoral franchise." Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.
130, 141 (1976). A retrogressive effect or a retrogressive
purpose is a sufficient basis for denying a preclearance request under § 5. Today, however, the Court holds that retrogression is the only kind of effect that will justify denial
of preclearance under § 5, ante, at 476-485, and it assumes
that "the § 5 purpose inquiry [never] extends beyond the
search for retrogressive intent." Ante, at 486. While I
agree that this action must be remanded even under the
Court's miserly interpretation of §5, I disagree with the
Court's holding/assumption that § 5 is concerned only with
retrogressive effects and purposes.
Before explaining my disagreement with the Court, I
think it important to emphasize the three factual predicates
that underlie our analysis of the issues. First, we assume
eral and the Attorney General has not interposed an objection within sixty
days after such submission, except that neither the Attorney General's
failure to object nor a declaratory judgment entered under this section
shall bar a subsequent action to enjoin enforcement of such qualification,
prerequisite, standard, practice, or procedure. Any action under this section shall be heard and determined by a court of three judges in accordance with the provisions of section 2284 of title 28 of the United States
Code [28 U. S. C. § 2284] and any appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court."
79 Stat. 439.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

that the plan submitted by the Bossier Parish School Board
(Board) was not "retrogressive" because it did not make matters any worse than they had been in the past. None of the
12 districts had ever had a black majority and a black person
had never been elected to the Board. App. to Juris. Statement 67a. Second, because the majority in both the District
Court and this Court found that even clear violations of §2
must be precleared and thus found it unnecessary to discuss
whether §2 was violated in this action, we may assume that
the record discloses a "clear violation" of §2. This means
that, in the language of §2, it is perfectly clear that "the
political processes leading to nomination or election [to positions on the Board] are not equally open to participation by
members of [the African-American race] in that its members
have less opportunity than other members of the electorate
to . . . elect representatives of their choice."

42 U. S. C.

§ 1973(b).2 Third, if the Court is correct in assuming that
the purpose inquiry under § 5 may be limited to evidence of
"retrogressive intent," it must also be willing to assume that
the documents submitted in support of the request for preclearance clearly establish that the plan was adopted for the
specific purpose of preventing African-Americans from obtaining representation on the Board. Indeed, for the purpose of analyzing the legal issues, we must assume that
Judge Kessler, concurring in part and dissenting in part,
accurately summarized the evidence when she wrote:
"The evidence in this case demonstrates overwhelmingly that the School Board's decision to adopt the Police
Jury redistricting plan was motivated by discriminatory
2

Although the majority in the District Court refused to consider any of
the evidence relevant to a § 2 violation, the parties' stipulations suggest
that the plan violated §2. For instance, the parties' stipulated that there
had been a long history of discrimination against black voters in Bossier
Parish, see App. to Juris. Statement 130a-140a; that voting in Bossier
Parish was racially polarized, see id., at 122a-127a; and that it was possible
to draw two majority-black districts without violating traditional districting principles, see id., at 76a, 82a-83a, 114a-115a.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

purpose. The adoption of the Police Jury plan bears
heavily on the black community because it denies its
members a reasonable opportunity to elect a candidate
of their choice. The history of discrimination by the
Bossier School System and the Parish itself demonstrates the Board's continued refusal to address the concerns of the black community in Bossier Parish. The
sequence of events leading up to the adoption of the
plan illustrate the Board's discriminatory purpose. The
School Board's substantive departures from traditional
districting principles is similarly probative of discriminatory motive. Three School Board members have acknowledged that the Board is hostile to black representation. Moreover, some of the purported rationales for
the School Board's decision are flat-out untrue, and others are so glaringly inconsistent with the facts of the
case that they are obviously pretexts." 907 F. Supp.
434, 463 (DC 1995).
If the purpose and the effect of the Board's plan were simply
to maintain the discriminatory status quo as described by
Judge Kessler, the plan would not have been retrogressive.
But, as I discuss below, that is not a sufficient reason for
concluding that it complied with §5.
I
In the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Congress enacted a complex scheme of remedies for racial discrimination in voting.
As originally enacted, §2 of the Act was "an uncontroversial
provision" that "simply restated" the prohibitions against
such discrimination "already contained in the Fifteenth
Amendment," Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S.55, 61 (1980) (plurality opinion). Like the constitutional prohibitions against
discriminatory districting practices that were invalidated in
cases like Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S.339 (1960), and
White v. Regester, 412 U. S.755 (1973), §2 was made applicable to every State and political subdivision in the country.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Section 5, on the other hand, was highly controversial because it imposed novel, extraordinary remedies in certain
areas where discrimination had been most flagrant. See3
South Carolinav. Katzenbach,383 U. S. 301, 334-335 (1966).
Jurisdictions like Bossier Parish in Louisiana are covered by
§ 5 because their history of discrimination against AfricanAmericans was a matter of special concern to Congress. Because these jurisdictions had resorted to various strategies
to avoid complying with court orders to remedy discrimination, "Congress had reason to suppose that [they] might try
similar maneuvers in the future in order to evade the remedies for voting discrimination contained in the Act itself."
Id., at 335. Thus Congress enacted § 5, not to maintain the
discriminatory status quo, but to stay ahead of efforts by the
most resistant jurisdictions to undermine the Act's purpose
of "rid[ding] the country of racial discrimination." Id., at
315 ("The heart of the Act is a complex scheme of stringent
remedies aimed at areas where voting discrimination has
been most flagrant").
In areas of the country lacking a history of pervasive discrimination, Congress presumed that voting practices were
generally lawful. Accordingly, the burden of proving a violation of §2 has always rested on the party challenging the
voting practice. The situation is dramatically different in
covered jurisdictions. In those jurisdictions, §5 flatly prohibits the adoption of any new voting procedure unless the
State or political subdivision institutes an action in the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia and obtains
a declaratory judgment that the change will not have a discriminatory purpose or effect. See 42 U. S. C. § 1973c. The
burden of proving compliance with the Act rests on the jurisdiction. A proviso to § 5 gives the Attorney General the
authority to allow the new procedure to go into effect, but
3Section 4 of the Act sets forth the formula for identifying the jurisdictions in which such discrimination had occurred, see South Carolinav.
Katzenbach, 883 U. S., at 317-318.

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

like the immigration statutes that give her broad discretion to waive deportation of undesirable aliens, it does not
expressly impose any limit on her discretion to refuse preclearance. See ibid. The Attorney General's discretion is,
however, cabined by regulations that are presumptively
valid if they "are reasonable and do not conflict with the
Voting Rights Act itself," Georgiav. United States, 411 U. S.
526, 536 (1973). Those regulations provide that preclearance will generally be granted if a proposed change "is free
of discriminatory purpose and retrogressive effect"; they
also provide, however, that in "those instances" in which the
Attorney General concludes "that a bar to implementation
of the change is necessary to prevent a clear violation of
amended section 2," preclearance shall be withheld.4 There
is no basis for the Court's speculation that litigants would so
"'routinely,'" ante, at 477, employ this 10-year-old regulation
as to "make compliance with § 5 contingent upon compliance
with §2," ibid. Nor do the regulations require the jurisdiction to assume the burden of proving the absence of vote
4Title 28 CFR § 51.55 (1996) provides:

"Consistency with constitutional and statutory requirements.
"(a) Considerationin general. In making a determination the Attorney General will consider whether the change is free of discriminatory
purpose and retrogressive effect in light of, and with particular attention
being given to, the requirements of the 14th, 15th, and 24th amendments
to the Constitution, 42 U. S. C. 1971(a) and (b), sections 2, 4(a), 4(f)(2),
4(f)(4), 201, 203(c), and 208 of the Act, and other constitutional and statutory provisions designed to safeguard the right to vote from denial or
abridgment on account of race, color, or membership in a language minority group.
"(b) Section 2. (1) Preclearance under section 5 of a voting change
will not preclude any legal action under section 2 by the Attorney General if implementation of the change subsequently demonstrates that such
action is appropriate.
"(2) In those instances in which the Attorney General concludes that,
as proposed, the submitted change is free of discriminatory purpose and
retrogressive effect, but also concludes that a bar to implementation of
the change is necessary to prevent a clear violation of amended section 2,
the Attorney General shall withhold section 5 preclearance."

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

dilution, see ante, at 480. They merely preclude preclearance when "necessary to prevent a clear violation of...
section 2." While the burden of disproving discriminatory
purpose or retrogressive effect is on the submitting jurisdiction, if the Attorney General's conclusion that the change
would clearly violate § 2 is challenged, the burden on that
issue, as in any §2 challenge, should rest on the Attorney
General. 5
The Court does not suggest that this regulation is inconsistent with the text of §5. Nor would this be persuasive,
since the language of §5 forbids preclearance of any voting
practice that would have "the purpose [or] effect of denying
or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color."
42 U. S. C. § 1973c. Instead the Court rests its entire analysis on the flawed premise that our cases hold that a change,
even if otherwise unlawful, cannot have an effect prohibited by §5 unless that effect is retrogressive. The two cases
on which the Court relies, Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.
130 (1976), and City of Lockhart v. United States, 460 U. S.
125 (1983), do hold (as the current regulations provide) that
proof that a change is not retrogressive is normally sufficient
to justify preclearance under §5. In neither case, however,
was the Court confronted with the question whether that
showing would be sufficient if the proposed change was so
discriminatory that it clearly violated some other federal law.
5

Thus, I agree with those courts that have found that the jurisdiction

is not required to prove that its proposed change will not violate §2 in
order to receive preclearance. See Arizona v. Reno, 887 F. Supp. 318, 321
(DC 1995). Although several three-judge District Courts have concluded
that §2 standards should not be incorporated into § 5, none has held that
preclearance should be granted when there is a clear violation of §2;
rather, they appear simply to have determined that a §2 inquiry is not
routinely required in a § 5 case. See, e. g., Georgia v. Reno, 881 F. Supp.
7, 12-14 (DC 1994); New York v. United States, 874 F. Supp. 394, 398-399
(DC 1994); cf. Burton v. Sheheen, 793 F. Supp. 1329, 1350 (SC 1992) (holding that although courts are not "obligated to completely graft" §2 standards onto §5, "[i]t
would be incongruous for the court to adopt a plan
which did not comport with the standards and guidelines of §2").

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

In fact, in Beer-which held that a legislative reapportionment enhancing the position of African-American voters did
not have a discriminatory effect-the Court stated that "an
ameliorative new legislative apportionment cannot violate
§ 5 unless the new apportionment itself so discriminates on
the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution." 425
U. S., at 141.6 Thus, to the extent that the Beer Court addressed the question at all, it suggested that certain nonretrogressive changes that were nevertheless discriminatory
should not be precleared.
The Court discounts the significance of the "unless" clause
because it refers to a constitutional violation rather than a
statutory violation. According to the Court's reading, the
Beer dictum at most precludes preclearance of changes that
violate the Constitution rather than changes that violate § 2.
This argument is unpersuasive. As the majority notes, the
Beer Court cites White v. Regester, 412 U. S., at 766, which
found unconstitutional a reapportionment scheme that gave
African-American residents "less opportunity than did other
residents in the district to participate in the political processes and to elect legislators of their choice." Because, in
1976, when Beer was decided, the §2 standard was coextensive with the constitutional standard, Beer did not purport
to distinguish between challenges brought under the Constitution and those brought under the statute. Rather Beer's
dictum suggests that any changes that violate the standard
established in White v. Regester should not be precleared.7
6In Lockhart the Court disavowed reliance on the ameliorative character of the change reviewed in Beer, see 460 U. S., at 134, n. 10. It left
open the question whether Congress had altered the Beer standard when
it amended §2 in 1982, 460 U. S., at 133, n. 9, and said nothing about the
possible significance of a violation of a constitutional or statutory prohibition against vote dilution.
7In response to this dissent, the majority contends that, at most, Beer
v. United States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976), allows denial of preclearance for
those changes that violate the Constitution. See ante, at 482-483. Thus,
the majority apparently concedes that our "settled interpretation," ante,

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

As the Court recognizes, ante, at 481-482, the law has
changed in two respects since the announcement of the Beer
dictum. In 1980, in what was perceived by Congress to be
a change in the standard applied in White v. Regester, a plurality of this Court concluded that discriminatory purpose is
an essential element of a constitutional vote dilution challenge. See Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S., at 62. In reaction
to that decision, in 1982 Congress amended §2 by placing in
the statute the language used in the White opinion to describe what is commonly known as the "results" standard for
evaluating vote dilution challenges. See 96 Stat. 134 (now
codified at 42 U. S. C. §§ 1973(a)-(b)); Thornburg v. Gingles,
478 U. S.30, 35 (1986).8 Thus Congress preserved, as a matter of statutory law, the very same standard that the Court
had identified in Beer as an exception to the general rule
requiring preclearance of nonretrogressive changes. Because in 1975 Beer required denial of preclearance for voting
plans that violated the White standard, it follows that Congress, in preserving the White standard, intended also that
the Attorney General should continue to refuse to preclear
plans violating that standard.
That intent is confirmed by the legislative history of the
1982 Act. The Senate Report states:
"Under the rule of Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.
130 (1976), a voting change which is ameliorative is not
objectionable unless the change 'itself so discriminates
on the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution.' 425 U. S. at 141; see also 142 n. 14 (citing to the
dilution cases from Fortson v. Dorsey[, 379 U. S. 433
(1965),] through White v. Regester). In light of the
amendment to section 2, it is intended that a section 5
objection also follow if a new voting procedure itself so
at 484, of §5 supports a denial of preclearance for at least some nonretrogressive changes.
sThe amended version of §2 tracks the language in White v. Regester,
412 U. S. 755, 766 (1973).

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

discriminates as to violate section 2."
417, p. 12, n. 31 (1982).

S. Rep. No. 97-

The House Report conveys the same message in different
language. It unequivocally states that whether a discriminatory practice or procedure was in existence before 1965
(and therefore only subject to attack under § 2) or is the
product of a recent change (and therefore subject to preclearance under § 5) "affects only the mechanism that triggers relief." H. R. Rep. No. 97-227, p. 28 (1981). This statement
plainly indicates that the Committee understood the substantive standards for § 2 and § 5 violations to be the same whenever a challenged practice in a covered jurisdiction represents a change subject to the dictates of §5.9 Thus, it is
reasonable to assume that Congress, by endorsing the "unless" clause in Beer, contemplated the denial of preclearance
for any change that clearly violates amended § 2. The majority, by belittling this legislative history, abrogates Con9The postenactment legislative record also supports the Attorney General's interpretation of § 5. In 1985, the Attorney General first proposed
regulations requiring a denial of preclearance "based upon violation of
Section 2 if there is clear and convincing evidence of such a violation."
50 Fed. Reg. 19122, 19131. Congress held oversight hearings in which
several witnesses, including the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights
Division, testified that clear violations of §2 should not be precleared.
See Oversight Hearings before the Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights of the House Committee on the Judiciary, Proposed Changes
to Regulations Governing Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, 99th Cong.,
1st Sess., 47, 149, 151-152 (1985). Following these hearings, the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights issued a Report in which it concluded "that it is a proper interpretation of the legislative history of the 1982 amendments to use Section 2 standards in the
course of making Section 5 determinations." Subcommittee on Civil and
Constitutional Rights of the House Committee on the Judiciary, Voting
Rights Act: Proposed Section 5 Regulations, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., Ser.
No. 9, p. 5 (Comm. Print 1986). Although this history does not provide
direct evidence of the enacting Congress' intent, it does constitute an informed expert opinion concerning the validity of the Attorney General's
regulation.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

gress' effort, in enacting the 1982 amendments, "to broaden
the protection afforded by the Voting Rights Act." Chisom
v. Roemer, 501 U. S. 380, 404 (1991).
Despite this strong evidence of Congress' intent, the majority holds that no deference to the Attorney General's regulation is warranted. The Court suggests that had Congress wished to alter "our longstanding interpretation" of
§ 5, Congress would have made this clear. Ante, at 483.
But nothing in our "settled interpretation" of § 5, ante, at
484, is inconsistent with the Attorney General's reading of
the statute. To the contrary, our precedent actually indicates that nonretrogressive plans that are otherwise discriminatory under White v. Regester should not be precleared.
As neither the language nor the legislative history of § 5 can
be said to conflict with the view that changes that clearly
violate § 2 are not entitled to preclearance, there is no legitimate basis for refusing to defer to the Attorney General's
regulation. See Presley v. Etowah County Comm'n, 502
U. S. 491, 508 (1992).
II
In Part III of its opinion the Court correctly concludes
that this action must be remanded for further proceedings
because the District Court erroneously refused to consider
certain evidence that is arguably relevant to whether the
Board has proved an absence of discriminatory purpose
under § 5. Because the Court appears satisfied that the
disputed evidence may be probative of an "'intent to retrogress,"' it concludes that it is unnecessary to decide
"whether the § 5 purpose inquiry ever extends beyond the
search for retrogressive intent." Ante, at 486. For two
reasons, I think it most unwise to reverse on such a narrow
ground.

First, I agree with JUSTICE BREYER, see ante, at 493,
that there is simply no basis for imposing this limitation on
the purpose inquiry. None of our cases have held that § 5's
purpose test is limited to retrogressive intent. In Pleasant

RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Grove v. United States, 479 U. S. 462, 469-472 (1987), for instance, we found that the city had failed to prove that its
annexation of certain white areas lacked a discriminatory
purpose. Despite the fact that the annexation lacked a retrogressive effect, we found it was subject to §5 preclearance.
Ibid.; see also id., at 474-475 (Powell, J., dissenting) (contending that the majority erred in holding that a discriminatory purpose could be found even though there was no intent
"to have a retrogressive effect"). Furthermore, limiting the
§ 5 purpose inquiry to retrogressive intent is inconsistent
with the basic purpose of the Act. Assume, for example,
that the record unambiguously disclosed a long history of
deliberate exclusion of African-Americans from participating
in local elections, including a series of changes each of which
was adopted for the specific purpose of maintaining the status quo. None of those changes would have been motivated
by an "intent to regress," but each would have been motivated by a "discriminatory purpose" as that term is commonly understood. Given the long-settled understanding
that §5 of the Act was enacted to prevent covered jurisdictions from "contriving new rules of various kinds for the
sole purpose of perpetuating voting discrimination," South
Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 335, it is inconceivable
that Congress intended to authorize preclearance of changes
adopted for the sole purpose of perpetuating an existing
pattern of discrimination.
Second, the Court's failure to make this point clear can
only complicate the task of the District Court on remand.
If that court takes the narrow approach suggested by the
Court, another appeal will surely follow; if a majority ultimately agrees with my view of the issue, another remand
will then be necessary. On the other hand, if the District
Court does not limit its consideration to evidence of retrogressive intent, and if it therefore rules against the Board,
appellees will bring the action back and the Court would
then have to resolve the issue definitively.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 471 (1997)

509

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

In sum, both the interest in orderly procedure and the fact
that a correct answer to the issue is pellucidly clear should
be sufficient to persuade the Court to state definitively that
§5 preclearance should be denied if Judge Kessler's evaluation of the record is correct.
Accordingly, while I concur in the judgment insofar as it
remands the action for further proceedings, I dissent from
the decision insofar as it fails to authorize proceedings in
accordance with the views set forth above.

