OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

LORDS LANDING VILLAGE CONDOMINIUM COUNCIL OF UNIT OWNERS v. CONTINENTAL
INSURANCE CO.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-1033.

Decided June 2, 1997

Petitioner, a condominium owners' association, filed suit in Maryland state
court to compel respondent insurer to pay a $1.1 million judgment it
had obtained against respondent's insured, the condominium developer,
for numerous defects in the complex. Under the insurance policy, only
property damage caused by an "accident" was covered. Respondent
removed the action to the Federal District Court based on diversity of
citizenship. That court granted respondent summary judgment, and
the Fourth Circuit affirmed, holding that, as a matter of Maryland law,
a negligent act does not constitute an "accident." When petitioner subsequently learned that Maryland's highest court had recently decided,
in Sheets v. Brethren Mutual Ins. Co., 342 Md. 634, 679 A. 2d 540, that
a negligent act constitutes an "accident" under a liability insurance policy when the resulting damage took place without the insured's foresight
or expectations, it asked the Fourth Circuit to recall or stay its mandate.
The court denied the request, finding it "without merit."
Held. In these circumstances, it is proper for this Court to grant the certiorari petition, vacate the lower court's judgment, and remand the case
(GVR) for further consideration. This order is in keeping with the
Court's longstanding practice of vacating a court of appeals' decision
based on a state-law construction that appears to contradict a recent
decision of the highest state court. Sheets' explicit disapproval of the
cases on which the Court of Appeals relied calls into question the correctness of that court's decision, and the ambiguous statement that petitioner's request to recall the mandate was "without merit" does not
establish that the court actually considered and rejected the Sheets argument. The most likely ground on which the Fourth Circuit rested its
denial of petitioner's motion is, as respondent contended, that it lacked
authority to recall its mandate. Moreover, this Court has previously
issued a GVR order where petitioners notified the Federal Court of
Appeals of an intervening State Supreme Court's opinion in a second
rehearing petition, which the Court of Appeals denied. See Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S.232, 235 (per curiam).
Certiorari granted; vacated and remanded.

894

LORDS LANDING VILLAGE CONDOMINIUM COUNCIL
OF UNIT OWNERS v. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.
Per Curiam

PER CURIAM.

In this diversity case, the holding of the federal appellate
court below has been called into question by a recent decision of the highest state court in Maryland. We must decide
whether it is appropriate, in these circumstances, for this
Court to grant the petition for certiorari, vacate the judgment of the lower court, and remand the case (GVR) for
further consideration.
Petitioner, an association of condominium owners, sued
respondent in Maryland state court, seeking to compel respondent to pay a $1.1 million judgment it had obtained
against respondent's insured, the developer of its condominium complex. In a previous action, a jury had held the
developer liable for numerous defects in the complex, finding that the developer had made misrepresentations and
breached various warranty obligations. Respondent had
issued a general liability insurance policy covering the developer. The policy provided that respondent would pay
"'those sums that [the developer] becomes legally obligated
to pay as damages because of . . . "property damage" to
which this insurance applies."' App. to Pet. for Cert. 2a.
Under the policy, "property damage" was covered only if it
was caused by an "accident."
Respondent removed the action to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, based on the parties'
diversity of citizenship. The District Court granted summary judgment in favor of respondent. On August 6, 1996,
the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed. The
Court of Appeals held that, as a matter of Maryland law, an
"accident" does not include the "natural and ordinary consequences of a negligent act." Id., at 4a (internal quotation
marks omitted) (citing IA Construction Corp. v. T&T Surveying, Inc., 822 F. Supp. 1213, 1215 (Md. 1993) (quoting Ed.
Winkler & Son, Inc. v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co., 51 Md. App.
190, 194-195, 441 A. 2d 1129, 1132 (1982))). Because the
damages awarded in the underlying action were for breach

Cite as: 520 U. S. 893 (1997)

Per Curiam

of warranties and misrepresentations relating to poor workmanship, the Court of Appeals concluded that the damages
were not caused by an "accident" within the meaning of respondent's insurance policy. The Court of Appeals denied a
petition for rehearing on September 3, 1996, and issued the
mandate on September 11, 1996.
On September 17, 1996, petitioner's counsel learned of
Sheets v. Brethren Mutual Ins. Co., 342 Md. 634, 679 A. 2d
540, a recent decision of the Maryland Court of Appealsthe highest court in Maryland. (Although Sheets was
handed down on July 26, 1996, 11 days before the Court of
Appeals' decision, the parties were not aware of the decision
until after the mandate was issued, and therefore had not
brought the case to the attention of the Court of Appeals.
Pet. for Cert. 11.) Sheets cast doubt on the soundness of the
Court of Appeals' decision because it held that "an act of
negligence constitutes an 'accident' under a liability insurance policy when the resulting damage was 'an event that
takes place without [the insured's] foresight or expectation."'
342 Md., at 652, 679 A. 2d, at 548 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). The Maryland Court of Appeals also
expressly disapproved Ed. Winkler & Son, supra, at 1132,
and IA Construction Corp., supra, at 1215, two decisions on
which the Court of Appeals had primarily relied. 342 Md.,
at 654-655, and n. 4, 679 A. 2d, at 549-550, and 550, n. 4.
On September 20, 1996, petitioner filed a motion asking
the Court of Appeals to recall or stay its mandate based on
this development in Maryland law. In its response, respondent argued in part that the Court of Appeals lacked authority to recall an already issued mandate. In a brief order,
the Court of Appeals denied petitioner's request, ruling only
that "the said petition and motions are without merit."
App. to Pet. for Cert. Ila. Petitioner now asks us to grant
certiorari, vacate the judgment below, and remand the case
to the Court of Appeals for further consideration in light of
Sheets. Pet. for Cert. 13-14.

896

LORDS LANDING VILLAGE CONDOMINIUM COUNCIL
OF UNIT OWNERS v. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.
Per Curiam

This case fits within the category of cases in which we
have held it is proper to issue a GVR order. "Where intervening developments, or recent developments that we have
reason to believe the court below did not fully consider, reveal a reasonable probability that the decision below rests
upon a premise that the lower court would reject if given
the opportunity for further consideration, and where it appears that such a redetermination may determine the ultimate outcome of the litigation, a GVR order is ... potentially
appropriate." Lawrence v. Chater,516 U. S. 163, 167 (1996)
(per curiam). The situation here is virtually identical to
that in Thomas v. American Home Products,Inc., 519 U. S.
913 (1996), a state-law case from earlier in this Term.
There, after the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
ruled against petitioners, the Georgia Supreme Court overruled the holding that was the basis for the federal appeals
court's holding. Id., at 914 (SCALIA, J., concurring). The
appellate court nevertheless denied a petition for rehearing,
and we GVR'd. As JUSTICE SCALIA wrote in concurrence,
our order was in keeping with our "longstanding practice"
of vacating a court of appeals' decision based on a construction of state law that appears to contradict a recent decision
of the highest state court. Id., at 915. "[A] judgment of a
federal court ruled by state law and correctly applying that
law as authoritatively declared by the state courts when the
judgment was rendered, must be reversed on appellate review if in the meantime the state courts have disapproved
of their former rulings and adopted different ones." Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S.232, 236 (1944) (per curiam).
Given Sheets' explicit disapproval of the cases on which
the Court of Appeals based its decision, there is reason to
question the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision.
It is true that petitioner brought Sheets to the attention of
the Court of Appeals in a motion to stay or recall its mandate
and that the Court of Appeals denied this motion. But the
Court of Appeals' ambiguous statement that petitioner's re-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 893 (1997)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

quest was "without merit" does not establish that it actually
considered and rejected petitioner's Sheets argument. In
opposing petitioner's motion, respondent argued that a court
of appeals lacks authority to recall its mandate, and the
Court of Appeals may have rested its denial of petitioner's
motion on this procedural ground. Respondent does not
argue otherwise. Indeed, the procedural ground is by far
the most likely, given Sheets' explicit repudiation of the precedent on which the Court of Appeals' original judgment
hinged. Moreover, we have at least once before issued a
GVR order where petitioners notified the Federal Court of
Appeals of an intervening State Supreme Court's opinion in
a second petition for rehearing, which the Court of Appeals
denied. See Huddleston, supra, at 235.
In these circumstances, we now grant certiorari, vacate
the judgment below, and remand the case to the Court of
Appeals for further consideration.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE BREYER
joins, dissenting.
In Thomas v. American Home Products, Inc., 519 U. S.
913 (1996), the Court granted, vacated, and remanded a decision of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
for reconsideration in the light of a decision of the Georgia
Supreme Court that was handed down after the Court of
Appeals had denied a petition for rehearing. The lower
court there had had no opportunity to consider the impact
of the new state-law decision.
Here, by contrast, Sheets v. Brethren Mutual Ins. Co., 342
Md. 634, 679 A. 2d 540 (1996), was expressly considered by
the court below. Although Sheets was not brought to the
attention of the Fourth Circuit until after it had rendered its
decision and denied rehearing, petitioner raised it nonetheless before that court in a motion to recall or stay the mandate. Petitioner's motion did not fall on deaf ears; indeed,
the Fourth Circuit went to the unusual lengths of requesting

898

LORDS LANDING VILLAGE CONDOMINIUM COUNCIL
OF UNIT OWNERS v. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

a response to the motion and then, after the response was
received, issuing a written order rejecting the claim. The
only question discussed in that order is whether "Sheets
should have required a different disposition of this case than
the [original] disposition." App. to Pet. for Cert. 10a. And
the court resolved that question, concluding "[w]e are of [the]
opinion the said petition and motions are without merit."*
Id., at Ila.
If this Court has, without any briefs on the merits, concluded that the Court of Appeals' refusal to alter its opinion
in the light of Sheets was wrong, it should either set the
case for argument or summarily reverse. True, this would
require the investment of still more time and effort in a case
that is in the federal courts only by reason of diversity of
citizenship, see Thomas, supra, at 917 (REHNQUIST, C. J.,
dissenting), but it would have the virtue of explicitly telling

the Court of Appeals how to dispose of the case. The
Court's decision to grant, vacate, and remand in the light of
Sheets, on the contrary, is muddled and cryptic. Surely the
judges of the Court of Appeals are, in fairness, entitled to
some clearer guidance from this Court than what they are
now given.

*Although it is possible to construe this statement as being based on
the procedural impropriety of raising such an issue on a motion to recall
the mandate, such a construction is nowhere suggested in the order, nor
is it the natural implication of the language ("without merit") used by the
court below. I see no reason for us not to take the Fourth Circuit's order
at face value.

