OCTOBER TERM, 1996

Per Curiam

IN RE VEY
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 96-8005. Decided April 14, 1997
Pro se petitioner seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis and requests
this Court to issue a writ of habeas corpus vacating her 13-year-old
convictions. In the past 6/2 years, she has filed 11 petitions for certiorari, 12 petitions for extraordinary relief, and 2 applications for bail, all
of which have been denied. While her first 14 motions to proceed in
forma pauperis were granted, she has since been denied leave to proceed in forma pauperisfive times under this Court's Rule 39.8.
Held. Petitioner's motion to proceed in forma pauperis is denied. For
the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (per curiam), she is barred from filing any further
petitions for extraordinary writs unless she first pays the docketing fee
and submits her petition in compliance with Rule 33.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Eileen Vey seeks leave to proceed in
forma pauperis and requests this Court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus vacating her 13-year-old convictions.
This is not Vey's first filing in this Court. In the past 6
years, she has filed 11 petitions for certiorari, 12 petitions
for extraordinary relief, and 2 applications for bail. All of
these have been denied. For the first 14 of those submissions, we granted her motions to proceed informa pauperis.
Since then, we have five times denied her leave to proceed
informa pauperisunder this Court's Rule 39.8.*
We again deny petitioner's motion to proceed in forma
pauperis. Her various allegations are supported by nothing
other than her own conclusory statements that they are true.
*Rule 39.8 provides: "If satisfied that a petition for a writ of certiorari,
jurisdictional statement, or petition for an extraordinary writ is frivolous
or malicious, the Court may deny a motion for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis."

IN RE VEY
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

Petitioner is allowed until May 5, 1997, within which to pay
the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit her
petition in compliance with Rule 33.1. In light of her history of frivolous,'repetitive fflings, we direct the Clerk of the
Court not to accept any further petitions for extraordinary
writs from petitioner unless she first pays the docketing fee
required by Rule 38 and submits her petition in compliance
with Rule 33.
We enter the order barring future in forma pauperis
filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam).
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

