OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Per Curiam

VEY v. CLINTON, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 96-8796.

Decided June 9, 1997

Pro se petitioner seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis so that she
may file a petition for certiorari from a Third Circuit decision dismissing
her appeal as frivolous. In the past 61/ years, she has filed 26 submissions in this Court, all of which have been denied; and eight weeks ago,
the Clerk of the Court was instructed not to accept any further petitions
for extraordinary writs from her absent the required fees, see In re Vey,
ante, p. 303.
Held: Petitioner's motion to proceed in forma pauperis is denied. For
the reasons stated in Martin v. Districtof Columbia Court of Appeals,
506 U. S. 1 (per curiam), she is barred from filing any further certiorari
petitions in noncriminal matters unless she first complies with this
Court's Rules.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Eileen Vey seeks leave to proceed in
forma pauperis so that she may file a petition for certiorari
from a decision of the Third Circuit dismissing her appeal as
frivolous under 28 U. S. C. ยง 1915(e)(2)(B)(i) (1994 ed., Supp.
II). Her underlying claims below, various alleged civil rights
and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act violations by the President of the United States, the First Lady,
and numerous Senators, judges (including THE CHIEF JUSTICE), foreign officials, and private citizens, are patently frivolous. In the past 6 years, she has filed 26 submissions in
this Court, all of which have been denied. Just eight weeks
ago, we went even further, instructing the Clerk of the Court
not to accept any further petitions for extraordinary writs
from her unless she first paid the required fees. See In re
Vey, ante, p. 303 (per curiam). Since that order has proved
insufficient to deter petitioner's abusive conduct, we again

VEY v. CLINTON
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

deny her motion to proceed in forma pauperis and now instruct the Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari from petitioner in noncriminal matters unless she first
complies with this Court's Rules. Petitioner is allowed until
June 30, 1997, within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit her petition in compliance
with Rule 33.1.
We enter the order barring future in forma pauperis
filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam).
It is so ordered.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of this

case.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

