ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 493
Syllabus.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STATE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF
ILLINOIS ET AL.
STATE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF ILLINOIS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 416, 448. Argued October 8, 9, 1917.-Decided January 14, 1918.
Suits brought by carriers to restrain state officials from interfering
with the establishment and maintenance of intrastate rates which
the carriers have adopted in pursuance of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring the removal of discrimination
against interstate commerce, are not suits to "enforce" the order
in the sense of the jurisdictional provision of the Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219, and need not be brought in the district
"wherein is the residence of the party or any of the parties upon
whose petition the order was made." They come within the provision in § 1 of the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 5397repeated
in Jud. Code, § 207, by which the general jurisdiction over cases not
therein enumerated is preserved.
In such a suit neither the United States nor the Commission is a necessary party, either by statute or under the rules governing suits in
equity.
As, by the jurisdictional provision of the Act of October 22, 1913,
supra, a suit to set aside an order of the Commission, relating to
transportation and made upon petition, may be brought only in the
district of the petitioner's residence, and as the United States has
not consented to be thus impleaded in any other district, and its
immunity from suit recognizes no distinction between cross and
original bills, or ancillary and original suits, it follows that the District Court of another district, in a suit by a carrier against state
officials in aid of such an order, cannot entertain a cross bill seeking
to have the order declared void and to enjoin the United States and
the Commission from enforcing it and the carrier from complying
with it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

Nor may such cross bill be entertained as against the Commission and
the carrier only; under Jud. Code, §§ 208, 211, the United States is a
necessary party, as the representative of the public.
When, in the exercise of the power constitutionally reposed in it by
the Act to Regulate Commerce, the Commission finds that a disparity in interstate and intrastate rates is resulting in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce, and also determines what
are reasonable rates for the interstate traffic and directs the removal
of the discrimination, the carrier is not only entitled to put in force
the interstate rates found reasonable but is free to remove the forbidden discrimination by bringing the intrastate rates (though fixed
by state authority) to the same level. The Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.
342; Adams Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617.
In such case, the Commission may make the order as broad as the
wrongful discrimination, but the extent of the discrimination found
and of the remedy applied must be gathered from the reports and
order of the Commission; and, to be effective in respect of intrastate
rates established and maintained under state authority, the order
must have a definite field of operation and not leave uncertain the
territory or points to which it applies. Such an order should not be
given precedence over a state rate statute, otherwise valid, unless,
and except in so far as, it conforms to a high standard of certainty.
Affirmed.

THESE cross appeals present a controversy over the
validity, scope and effect of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission dealing with discrimination found
to result from a disparity in interstate and intrastate
passenger rates. The facts and proceedings to be considered are these: The Mississippi River forms the boundary
between the States of Missouri and Iowa on the west and
the State of Illinois on the east. East St. Louis, in southwestern Illinois, is directly across the river from St. Louis,
Missouri, and Hamilton, in western Illinois, is directly
across the river from Keokuk, Iowa. At both places the
river is spanned by railroad bridges whereby the lines of
railroad on one side are connected with those on the other.
For some years prior to December 1, 1914, interstate passenger rates between St. Louis and Keokuk on the one
hand and points in Illinois on the other were on a sub-

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 495
493.

Statement of the Case.

stantial parity with intrastate rates between East St.
Louis and Hamilton, respectively, and points in Illinois.
All were on a basis of 2 cents per mile, save that the rates
to and from St. Louis and Keokuk included a bridge toll
over the river. All other rates between points in Illinois
were also on the same basis, any intrastate rate in excess
of 2 cents per mile being prohibited by a statute of that
State. On December 1, 1914, the rates between St. Louis
and Keokuk, respectively, and points in Illinois were increased by the carriers to 2 2 cents per mile, plus bridge
tolls, the parity theretofore existing being thereby broken.
Following this increase the Business Men's League of
St. Louis, a corporate body of that city engaged in fostering its interests, filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission a petition against the carriers charging that
the rates between St. Louis and points in Illinois were unreasonable in themselves, and, in connection with the lower
intrastate rates, worked an unreasonable discrimination
against St. Louis and in favor of Illinois cities, particularly East St. Louis and Chicago, and a like discrimination against interstate passenger traffic to and from St.
Louis and in favor of intrastate passenger traffic to and
from East St. Louis and Chicago. An association representing interests in Keokuk, Iowa, intervened and urged
that any relief granted with respect to St. Louis be extended to Keokuk, so the former would not have an undue advantage over the latter. The State of Illinois, the
Public Utilities Commission of that State, an association
representing interests in Chicago and another association representing interests in East St. Louis, also intervened and opposed any action contemplating or requiring an increase in intrastate rates. After a hearing, in
which all the parties and intervenors participated, the
Interstate Commerce Commission filed a report (41 I. C.
C. 13) finding that the existing bridge tolls at St. Louis
and Keokuk were unobjectionable, that rates between

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

either of those cities and points in Illinois were reasonable when not in excess of 2.4 cents per mile, plus bridge
tolls, and that the service, equipment and accommodations provided for intrastate passengers to and from
East St. Louis, Hamilton, and Chicago, were the same
as those provided for interstate passengers to and from
St. Louis and Keokuk. In that report the Commission
also found that the contemporaneous maintenance between East St. Louis I and Hamilton, 2 respectively, and
other points in Illinois, of rates on a lower basis than
those maintained via the same routes between St. Louis
and Keokuk, respectively, and the same points in Illinois, bridge tolls excepted, gave an undue preference
to East St. Louis and Hamilton and to intrastate passenger traffic to and from the latter points, and subjected St. Louis and Keokuk and interstate passenger
traffic to and from those cities to an unreasonable disadvantage; that the existing disparity in interstate and intrastate rates worked an unjust discrimination against
St. Louis and in favor of Chicago in so far as the rates
between St. Louis and points in Illinois approximately
equidistant from those cities exceeded, by more than
the bridge toll, the rates between Chicago and the same
points; that the disparity worked a like discrimination
against Keokuk and in favor of Chicago; and that the
existence on the reasonably direct lines of the carriers
in the territory between Chicago on the one hand and
St. Louis and Keokuk on the other of intrastate rates
on a lower basis per mile than the rates between that
territory and St. Louis and Keokuk, bridge tolls excepted, operated to subject interstate traffic to an unreasonable disadvantage.
'The report similarly speaks of other towns across the river from
St. Louis, East St. Louis being here mentioned as representative of all.
2The report refers to a plurality of points opposite Keokuk, but

it suffices here to mention Hamiliton.

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 497
493.

Statement of the Case.

The Commission then made an order intended to
result in the installation of rates not exceeding 2.4 cents
per mile between St. Louis and Keokuk, respectively,
and points in Illinois and to remove the discrimination
shown in the report; but shortly thereafter the Commission recalled that order and filed a supplemental
report (41 I. C. C. 503) indicating that lawful interstate rates between St. Louis and Keokuk on the one
hand and Illinois points on the other could be defeated
by the use of two tickets, one purchased at the interstate rate for a part of the journey and the other at the
lower intrastate rate for the remainder, and therefore
that the order should be so framed as to cover the rates
between the intermediate points. In this connection
it was said that the discrimination against interstate
traffic resulting from the lower intrastate rates "would
not be removed merely by an increase in the intrastate
fares to and from the east bank points," and that "any
contemporaneous adjustments of fares between St. Louis
or Keokuk and Illinois points, and generally within Illinois, which would permit the defeat of the St. Louis,
Keokuk, East St. Louis, or any other east side city fares
by methods such as described above, and which would
thereby permit the continuance of the undue prejudice which we have found is suffered by St. Louis and
Keokuk, and continue to burden interstate commerce,"
would not comply with the order about to be entered.
An order was then made, which is copied in the margin.'
'The order is dated October 17, 1916, and, omitting the caption,
reads as follows:
"It appearing, That on July 12, 1916, the Commission entered
its report and order in this proceeding, and on the date hereof a supplemental report, which reports are hereby referred to and made a
part hereof:
"It is ordered, That the said order of July 12, 1916, be, and it is
hereby, vacated, and that the following be substituted therefor:
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, accord-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

In obedience to that order the carriers-of whom
there were 29-took the requisite steps to establish and
put in force interstate rates on a basis of 2.4 cents per
mile between St. Louis and Keokuk, respectively, and
points in Illinois, and those rates became effective. Then,
ing as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to cease and desist, on or before January 15,
1917, and thereafter to abstain, from publishing, demanding, or collecting passenger fares between St. Louis, Mo., and points in Illinois upon a basis higher than 2.4 cents per mile, bridge tolls excepted,
which basis was found reasonable in said report, or higher than the
fares contemporaneously exacted for the transportation of passengers
between East St. Louis, Ill., and the same Illinois points, by more
than a reasonable bridge toll; or fares constructed upon a higher basis per mile, bridge tolls excepted, than fares contemporaneously
maintained between Illinois points intermediate between St. Louis,
Mo., and points in Illinois, as such fares have been found in said report to be unlawfully discriminatory.
. "It is further ordered, That the above defendants, according as
they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby, notified and required to cease and desist, on or before January 15, 1917,
and thereafter to abstain, from publishing, demanding, or collecting fares for the transportation of passengers between St. Louis, Mo.,
and points in Illinois, the basis of which per mile, bridge tolls excepted, is higher than the basis per mile for fares contemporaneously maintained between Chicago and the same Illinois points, as
such fares have been found in said report to be unlawfully discriminatory.
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to cease and desist, on or before January 15,
1917, and thereafter to abstain, from publishing, demanding, or collecting passenger fares between Keokuk, Iowa, and points in Illinois
upon a basis higher than 2.4 cents per mile, bridge tolls excepted,
which basis was found reasonable in said report, or higher per mile
than the fares contemporaneously exacted for the transportation of
passengers between Illinois points directly opposite to Keokuk and
the same Illinois points, by more than a reasonable bridge toll; or
fares constructed upon a higher basis per mile, bridge tolls excepted,
than fares contemporaneously maintained between Illinois points

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 499
493.

Statement of the Case.

believing the order required all intrastate rates in Illinois to be on a level with those interstate rates, bridge
tolls excepted, the carriers proceeded to establish and
put in force new rates between all points in that State
on a basis of 2.4 cents per mile. This met with opposiintermediate between Keokuk, Iowa, and points in Illinois, as such
fares have been found in said report to be unlawfully discriminatory.
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,notified and required to cease and desist, on or before January 15,
1917, and thereafter to abstain, from publishing, demanding, or collecting fares for the transportation of passengers between Keokuk,
Iowa, and points in Illinois, the basis of which per mile, bridge tolls
excepted, is higher than the basis per mile for fares contemporaneously maintained between Chicago and the same Illinois points, as
such fares have been found' in said report to be unlawfully discriminatory.
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to establish and put in force on or before January 15, 1917, upon notice to this Commission and to the general
public by not less than 30 days' filing and posting in the manner prescribed in section 6 of the act to regulate commerce, and thereafter
to maintain and apply to the transportation of passengers between
St. Louis and points in Illinois fares upon a basis not in excess of the
fares between East St. Louis, Ill., and the same points by more than
a reasonable bridge toll; nor upon a higher basis per mile, bridge tolls
excepted, than fares contemporaneously maintained between Illinois points intermediate between St. Louis and points in Illinois, as
such fares have been found in said report to be unlawfully discriminatory.
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to establish and put in force on or before January 15, 1917, upon notice to this Commission and to the general
public by not less than 30 days' filing and posting in the manner prescribed in section 6 of the act to regulate commerce, and thereafter
to maintain and apply to the transportation of passengers between
St. Louis, Mo., and points in Illinois fares, the basis of which per mile,
bridge tolls excepted, is not higher than the basis per mile for fares

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

tion on the part of the state authorities and the carriers
severally brought suits against them, in the District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, to enjoin
them from interfering, by civil or criminal proceedings,
or otherwise, with the establishment and maintenance
of such intrastate rates under the Commission's order.
contemporaneously maintained between Chicago and those same
Illinois points.
"It is further ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to establish and put in force on or before January 15, 1917, upon notice to this Commission and to the general publie by not less than 30 days' filing and posting in the manner prescribed in section 6 of the act to regulate commerce, and thereafter
to maintain and apply to the transportation of passengers between
Keokuk, Iowa, and points in Illinois fares upon a basis not in excess
of 2.4 cents per mile, bridge tolls excepted, which basis has been found
reasonable in the said report, nor in excess per mile of the fares between points in Illinois directly opposite to Keokuk and the same
points by more than a reasonable bridge toll; nor upon a higher basis per mile, bridge tolls excepted, than fares contemporaneously effective between Illinois points intermediate between Keokuk, Iowa,
and points in Illinois.
"It is furt/,r ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as
they participate in the transporation, be, and they are hereby, notified
and required to establish and put in force on or before January 15,
1917, upon notice to this Commission and to the general public by
not less than 30 days' filing and posting in the manner prescribed in
section 6 of the act to regulate commerce, and thereafter to maintain and apply to the transportation of passengers between Keokuk,
Iowa, and points in Illinois fares, the basis of which per mile, bridge
tolls excepted, is not higher than the basis per mile for fares contemporaneously maintained between Chicago and those same Illinois
points.
"It is further ordered, That said defendants, according as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby, notified and
required to cease and desist, on or before January 15, 1917, and thereafter to abstain, from the undue preferences and the undue and unreasonable prejudices and disadvantages found in said report to result
from the contemporaneous maintenance between Illinois points of

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PU3LIC UTILITIES COMM. 501
493.

Counsel for Parties.

The suits were consolidated and the present appeals
are from decrees dismissing the bills for want of equity
and dismissing cross bills of the state authorities for
want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Silas H. Strawn, with whom Mr. Robert Bruce
Scott and Mr. Andrew P. Humburg were on the briefs, for
the railroad companies.
Mr. Robert Bruce Scott for Illinois Central Railroad Co.
Mr. Sydney R. Prince, Mr. Edward C. Kramer and Mr.
Alexander Pope Humphrey filed a brief for Southern Railway Co. and Mobile & Ohio Railroad Co.
Mr. George T. Buckingham and Mr. James H. Wilkerson,
Assistant Attorneys General of the State of Illinois, with
whom Mr. Edward J. Brundage, Attorney General of the
State of Illinois, was on the briefs, for State Public Utilities Commission of Illinois et al.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The Solicitor General, for the United States, submitted
upon a brief, contending that the court below had no
jurisdiction over the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
passenger fares, which fares, in combination with other fares rerequired or permitted by this order, -would produce the discrimination against interstate commerce and the undue preferences in favor
of intrastate commerce condemned in the report of the Commission.
"And it is further ordered, That this order shall continue in force
for a period of not less than two years from the date when it shall

take effect."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

The questions to which attention is first invited relate to the power of the District Court in the Northern
District of Illinois to entertain the" suits and the cross
bills, in view of the jurisdictional provision in the Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219, that a suit "to
enforce, suspend, or set aside, in whole or in part," an
order of the Commission relating to transportation and
made upon petition may be brought only in the district
"wherein is the residence of the party or any of the
parties upon whose petition the order was made."
It was objected in the District Court that the suits
were brought to enforce the Commission's order and
therefore could be entertained only in the Eastern District of Missouri, which embraces the residence of the
party upon whose petition the order was made. But
the court sustained its jurisdiction, ruling that the suits
were not of the nature indicated by the objection.
In common acceptation a suit to enforce an order of
the Commission is one which seeks to compel the carrier to whom the order is directed to yield obedience
to its command. Nothing in the jurisdictional provision suggests that this is not what is intended, and that
it is is shown by the provision in § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, c. 309, 36 Stat. 554, that, if an order
respecting transportation be not obeyed by the carrier,
the same may be enforced at the suit of the Commission, an injured party, or the United States, by an appropriate writ or process restraining the carrier from
further disobedience and - enj oing upon it due compliance with the order. A reading of both provisions
leaves no room to doubt that the suit to enforce so
clearly outlined in one is the suit intended by the
other.

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 503
493.

Opinion of the Court.

But these were not suits of that type. They were
begun by the carriers, not against -them, and proceeded
upon the theory, not that the carriers were in default,
but that they were proceeding to obey the order. What
was alleged and sought to be enjoined was threatened
action on the part of the defendants, the state authorities, whereby obedience on the part of the carriers
would be obstructed and made the occasion for subjecting them to divers criminal proceedings, suits for
penalities and the like. In other words, the suits were
brought to prevent complete obedience by the carriers
from being wrongfully obstructed and embarrassed, but
not to enforce the order in the sense of the jurisdictional provision. Therefore that provision was not applicable to them. They properly came within the provision in § 1 of the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat.
539, repeated in Jud. Code, §207, which preserves and
continues the general jurisdiction of the District Courts
over cases and proceedings not therein enumerated.
At this point it will be convenient to dispose of another
objection relating to the principal suits, but not turning on the jurisdictional provision. Shortly after the
carriers' bills were filed the court, acting upon a motion of the defendants, ruled that the United States and
the Commission were necessary parties, ordered that
they be made defendants, and directed the issue of process against them. After they were thus brought in, the
matter was considered again and the bills were dismissed
as to them for want of jurisdiction. The defendants
now say that after this dismissal the court did not have
before it the requisite parties to enable it to entertain
the bills. But the point is not tenable. There was no
statute making the United States or the Commission
a necessary party to bills of that nature, nor was the
relief sought such as to render the presence of either
essential under the rules applicable to suits in equity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917,,
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

It well may be that either or both, if desiring to intervene, would have been permitted to do so, but there
is no warrant for thinking that without their presence
the bills could not be entertained.
The cross bills assailed the validity of the Commission's order on various grounds and concluded with a
prayer that it be set aside and annulled and that the
United States and the Commission be enjoined from
enforcing it and the carriers from complying with it.
Passing the fact that they were presented as cross bills,
it is apparent that in subject-matter and purpose they
were suits to set aside the order. By statute such suits are
required to be brought against the United States, Jud.
Code, §§ 208, 211; c. 32, 38 Stat. 219-220, and the jurisdictional provision before mentioned permits them to be
brought only in designated districts. Here the Eastern District of Missouri was the one designated, the order being
one that was made upon the petition of a resident of that'
district. The United States had consented to be sued
there, but not elsewhere, and, being suable only by its
consent, could not be sued in a district not within the
consent given. See Finn v. United States, 123 U. S.
N227, 232-233; Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S.
163, 166. It therefore is certain that the cross bills
could not be entertained in the Northern District of
Illinois, unless in this regard there be, as is asserted, a
valid distinction between a cross bill and an original
bill. No doubt there are situations in which a cross bill
against an ordinary suitor may be considered and dealt
with in virtue of the jurisdiction over the principal suit,
even though as an original bill it could not be entertained (see Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S.
123, 135, and cases cited); but it is otherwise where
the cross bill is against the United States, for no suit
.against it can be brought without its consent given by
law. Its immunity recognizes no distinction between cross

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 505
493.

Opinion of the Court.

bills and original bills, or between ancillary suits and
original suits, but extends to suits of every class. United
States v. McLemore, 4 How. 286; Hill v. United States,
9 How. 386; Reeside v. Walker, 11 How. 272, 290; DeGroot v. United States, 5 Wall. 419, 431-433; Carr v.
United States, 98 U. S. 433, 437; Belknap v. Schild, 161
U. S. 10, 16. Thus the cross bills as such had no better
standing than they would have had as original bills.
The claim is made that in any event the cross bills
should have been retained as to the defendants therein
other than the United States. But this is not an admissible view. As before indicated, the United States
is made by statute a necessary party to a suit to set
aside an order of the Commission, and this means that
it is to stand in judgment as representing the public.
If the state authorities thought the order should be set
aside and wished to test their right to affirmative relief
along that line they should have resorted to the court
empowered by law to entertain a suit of that nature.
It follows that the District Court rightly disposed of
the jurisdictional questions by entertaining the principal suits and declining to entertain the cross bills.
Whether the suits by the carriers were rightly dismissed on the merits is the principal question, and its
solution turns on the power of the Commission to deal
with discrimination arising out of a disparity in interstate
and intrastate rates, and on the scope and effect of the
order made.
In their answers the state authorities took the position that in so far as the order purports to authorize or
require a removal of the discrimination found to exist
by a change in intrastate rates it is in excess of any
power that has been or can be conferred on the Commission, and therefore neither relieves the carriers from
full compliance with the state rate law nor prevents
that law from being fully enforced against them. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the premise were sound the conclusion doubtless would
follow, for where the Commission makes an order which
it has no power to make the order is necessarily void,
not merely voidable. But that the premise is not sound
is settled by the Shreveport Case (Houston, East & West
Texas Ry. Co. v. United States) 234 U. S. 342. Upon
full consideration it there was held:
1. Under the commerce clause of the Constitution
Congress has ample power to prevent the common instrumentalities of interstate and intrastate commerce,
such as the railroads, from being used in their intrastate operations in such manner as to affect injuriously
traffic which is interstate.
2. Where unjust discrimination against interstate commerce arises out of the relation of intrastate to interstate rates this p6wer may be exerted to remove the discrimination, and this whether the intrastate rates are
maintained under a local statute or by the voluntary act
of the carrier.
3. In correcting such discrimination Congress is not
restricted to an adjustment or reduction of the interstate rates, but may prescribe a reasonable standard to
which they shall conform and require the carrier to adjust the intrastate rates in such way as to remove the
discrimination; for where the interstate and intrastate
transactions of carriers are so related that the effective
regulation of one involves control of the other, it is Congress, and not the State, that is entitled to prescribe the
dominant rule.
4. It is admissible for Congress to provide for the execution of this power through a subordinate body such
as the Interstate Commerce Commission, and this it
has done by the Act to Regulate Commerce.
5. Where in the exercise of its delegated authority the
Commission not only finds that a disparity in the two
classes of rates is resulting in unjust discrimination

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 507
493.

Opinion of the Court.

against interstate commerce but also determines what
are reasonable rates for the interstate traffic, and then
directs the removal of the discrimination, the carrier
not only is entitled to put in force the interstate rates
found reasonable but is free to remove the forbidden
discrimination by bringing the intrastate rates to the
same level.
Upon further consideration that decision was approved and followed in American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617.
The parties differ widely about the scope of the order.
The carriers assert that it covers every intrastate passenger rate in Illinois, is addressed to the rerhoval of discrimination found to be state-wide, and gives ample
authority for increasing all rates between points in Illinois from 2 cents to 2.4 cents per mile. On the other
hand, the state authorities assert that it is not state-wide
and that the extent to which it is intended to affect the
state-made rates is so indefinitely and vaguely stated
as to make it inoperative and of no effect as to them.
Of course, the Commission could adjust the remedy to
the evil and make the order as broad as the wrongful
discrimination; and not improbably it would intend to
go that far and no farther. But the extent of the discrimination found and of the remedy applied must be
gathered from the reports and order of the Commission,
for they constitute the only authoritative evidence of
its action. The reports show that the only discrimination found relates to the passenger traffic between Illinois and two cities outside that State-St. Louis and
Keokuk. There is no finding that this traffic extends
in appreciable volume to all sections of Illinois. As to
some sections its volume may be very large and as to
others almost or quite negligible. At best the reports leave
the matter uncertain. Obviously this traffic is only a
small part of the interstate passenger traffic moving over

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the railroads in Illinois, and yet the finding is merely
that there was discrimination against this part. Had
the Commission regarded the discrimination as state-

wide it is but reasonable to believe that it would have
said so in its findings. And had it intended to require
or authorize a state-wide readjustment of the intrastate
rates it doubtless would have given direct expression to
that purpose, which easily could have been done in a
few lines. But neither in any part nor as a whole does
the order plainly manifest such a purpose. In harmony
with the reports it deals with the intrastate rates in so
far only as they result in discrimination against interstate traffic to and from St. Louis and Keokuk. Its
most comprehensive paragraph-the next to the lastdeclares that the carriers must "abstain from the undue
preferences and the undue and unreasonable prejudices
and disadvantages found in said report to result from
the contemporaneous maintenance between Illinois points
of passenger fares, which fares, in combination with
other fares required or permitted by this order, would
produce the discrimination against interstate commerce
and the undue preferences in favor of intrastate commerce condemned in the report of the Commission."
But even here the general terms are so far restrained
by the reference to the reports as to show that nothing
more is intended than to command the removal of the
discrimination to which the traffic to and from St. Louis
and Keokuk is subjected. Besides, this paragraph evidently proceeds upon the theory that some of the intrastate rates are not affected by the other paragraphs, and
ought not to be disturbed save where their use in connection with rates sanctioned by the order will be productive of the discrimination which it is intended to
correct.
But while the order shows that it is not intended to
require or authorize a readjustment of all the intrastate

ILL. CENT. R. R. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM. 509
493.

Opinion of the Court.

rates, the description of those to which it applies is at
best indefinite. There may be less uncertainty in some
parts of the order than in others, but when each is read
in the light of the rest and all in the light of the reports
it is apparent that none has a certain or definite field
of operation. The uncertainty arises out of a failure to
designate with appropriate precision the territory or
points to and from which the intrastate rates must or
may be readjusted, and this omission accords with the
absence from the reports of any finding showing definitely the territory or points where those rates operate
prejudicially against the interstate traffic which the order
is intended to protect.
To be effective in respect of intrastate rates established and maintained under state authority an order
of the Commission of the kind now under consideration
must have a definite field of operation and not leave the
territory or points to which it applies uncertain. Upon
this point we said in American Express Co. v. Caldwell,
supra, p. 625:
"Where a proceeding to remove unjust discrimination presents solely the question whether the carrier has
improperly exercised its authority to initiate rates, the
Commission may legally order, in general terms, the removal of the discrimination shown, leaving upon the
carrier the burden of determining also the points to and
from which rates must be changed, in order to effect a
removal of the discrimination. But where, as here, there
is a conflict between the federal and the state authorities,
the Commission's order cannot serve as a justification for
disregarding a regulation or order issued under state authority, unless, and except so far as, it is definite as to the
territory or points to which it applies. For the power of
the Commission is dominant only to the extent that the
exercise is found by it to be necessary to remove the existing discrimination against interstate traffic."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

In construing federal statutes enacted under the power
conferred by the commerce clause of the Constitution
the rule is that it should never be held that Congress
intends to supersede or suspend the exercise of the reserved powers of a State, even where that may be done,
unless, and except so far as, its purpose to do so is clearly
manifested. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, 430; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harris, 234 U. S. 412, 419. This being true of an act of Congress, it is obvious that an order of a subordinate agency,
such as the Commission, should not be given precedence
over a state rate statute otherwise valid, unless, and except so far as, it conforms to a high standard of certainty.
We conclude that the uncertainty in this order is such
as to render it inoperative and of no effect as to the intrastate rates, established and maintained under a law
of the State, and therefore that the suits by the carriers
were rightly dismissed on the merits.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

KETCHAM v. BURR ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 114.

Submitted January 2, 1918.-Decided January 14, 1918.

Appellant, having been for a time confined in an asylum as an insane
person after due proceedings in a state probate court, took no appeal
or other proceedings in the state courts, but long after his escape

