ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
463.

Syllabus.

statement of reasons, that the Commission was without
power to enter the order or that the court erred in denying
the relief prayed for. Many of the assignments of error
are not now insisted upon. None deserves detailed discussion. All are unsound. The decree dismissing the
bill is
Affirmed.

ROSEN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
PAKAS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 365, 438. Argued December 12, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.
Under the modern rule; supported both by legislation and by the very
great weight ofjudicial authority, all persons of competent understanding are permitted to testify to relevant facts within their knowledge, and the former common-law rule disqualifying witnesses convicted of crime will no longer be followed, but such conviction will
be given due consideration in determining the credibility and weight
of their testimony.,
In a criminal trial in a United States District Court in New York, a
witness, previously sentenced and imprisoned under the law of that
State for the crime of forgery in the second degree, was competent
to testify for the United States against his co-defendant§, irrespective
of whether he would have been disqualified by the rules of competency as they were in New York at the date of the Judiciary Act
of 1789. United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361, is to this extent disapproved.
Under Rev. Stats., § 161, which authorizes the head of each Department "to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the
government of his Department, the coDduct of its officers and clerks,
the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody,
use, and preservation of the . . . property appertaining to it,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

and under and in supplement of § 194 of the Criminal Code, the Postmaster General by a general order may designate as letter boxes for
the receipt or delivery of mail matter all letter boxes and other receptacles which are so used or intended on city delivery or other
mail routes; a privately owned box coming within such designation
is an "authorized depository for mail matter" within the meaning
of the penal section, and a theft of letters from such a box is punishable as the section prescribes. So held where the letters were stolen
from boxes placed by tenants for receipt of mail in the halls of buildings in which they had their places of business. The boxes bore the
names of the owners and were not locked. Mail was deposited in
them by the carriers, but not collected from them.
Mail matter which has not reached the manual possession of the
addressee, but lies in a private letter box, designated as an authorized
depository under the federal law, where it has been placed by the
delivering carrier, is still subject to the protective power of the Government.
237 Fed. Rep. 810; 240 Fed. Rep. 350, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Terence J. McManus, with whom Mr. Meier Steinbrink was on the briefs, for petitioners:
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fitts for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases present precisely the same questions
for decision. They were argued and will be decided together.
In No. 365 Rosen and Wagner were indicted in the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York with one Broder for conspiring to buy
and receive certain checks and letters which had been
stolen from "duly authorized depositories for mail matter
of the United States," and which were known to the
accused to have been so stolen. Broder pleaded guilty,
and when he was afterwards called as a witness for the

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
467.

Opinion of the Court.

Government the objection was made that he was not
competent to testify for the reason that, as was admitted
by the Government, he had theretofore pleaded guilty
to the crime of forgery in the second degree, in the Court
of General Sessions, in the County and State of New
York, had been sentenced to imprisonment, and had
served his sentence. The objection was overruled and
Broder was permitted to testify. This ruling was assigned as error in the Circuit Court of Appeals, where
it was affirmed, and it is now assigned as error in this
court.
The second claim of error is that the trial court erred
in refusing the motion of the defendants to direct a verdict of acquittal on the ground that no crime had been
committed, for the reason that the box from which the
mail was taken was not "an authorized depository of
the mail," and that it was taken therefrom after it had
left the possession of the Government.
Broder testified, and it was not disputed, that the
letters were stolen from boxes placed by tenants for the
receipt of mail in the halls of buildings in which they
had their places of business. The boxes bore the names
of the owners and were not locked, and while mail was
deposited in them by the carriers no mail was collected
from them.
In No. 438 Pakas and Broder, the same Broder as in
No. 365, were jointly indicted for buying and receiving
three designated checks, knowing the same to have been
stolen from letters which had been deposited in the United
States mail for delivery by the Post Office establishment
of the United States. The same questions are presented,
raised in the same manner, as in No. 365.
For the validity of the claim that Broder was disqualified as a witness by his sentence for the crime of
forgery, the plaintiffs in error rely upon United States v.
Reid, 12 How. 361, decided in 1851. In that case it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

held that the competency of witnesses in criminal trials
in United States courts must be determined by the rules
of evidence which were in force in the respective States
when the Judiciary Act of 1789 was passed, and the
argument in this case is, that by the common law as it
was administered in New York in 1789 a person found
guilty of forgery and sentenced was thereby rendered
incompetent as a witness until pardoned, and that, therefore, the objection to Broder should have been sustained.
While the decision in United States v. Reid, supra, has
not been specifically overruled, its authority must be
regarded as seriously shaken by the decisions in Logan v.
United States, 144 U. S. 263-301, and in Benson v. United
States, 146 U. S. 325.
The Benson Case differed from the Reid Case only in
that in the former the witness whose competency was
objected to was called by the Government while in the
latter he was called by the defendant. The testimony of
the witness was admitted in the one case but it was rejected in the other, and both judgments were affirmed
by this court-however forty years had intervened between the two trials. In the Benson Case, decided in 1892,
this court, after determining that the Reid Case was not
decisive of it, proceeded to examine the question then
before it "in the light of general authority and sound
reason," and after pointing out the great change in the
preceding fifty years in the disposition of courts to hear
witnesses rather than to exclude them, a change which
was "wrought partially by legislation and partially by
judicial construction," and how "the merely technical
barriers which excluded witnesses from the stand had
been removed," proceeded to dispose of the case quite
without reference to the common-law practice, which it
was claimed should rule it.
Accepting as we do the authority of the later, the
Benson Case, rather than that of the earlier decision, we

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.

467.

Opinion of the Court.

shall dispose of the first question in this case, "in the
light of general authority and sound reason."
In the almost twenty years which have elapsed since
the decision of the Benson Case, the disposition of courts
and of legislative bodies to remove disabilities from witnesses has continued, as that decision shows it had been
going forward before, under dominance of the conviction
of our time that the truth is more likely to be arrived at
by hearing the testimony of all persons of competent
understanding who may seem to have knowledge of the
facts involved in a case, leaving the credit and weight of
such testimony to be determined by the jury or by the
court, rather than by rejecting witnesses as incompetent,
with the result that this principle has come to be widely,
almost universally, accepted in this country and in Great
Britain.
Since the decision in the Benson Case we have significant
evidence of the trend of congressional opinion upon this
subject in the removal of the disability of witnesses convicted of perjury, Rev. Stats., § 5392, by the enactment
of the Federal Criminal Code in 1909 with this provision
omitted and § 5392 repealed. This is significant, because
the disability to testify, of persons convicted of perjury,
survived in some jurisdictions much longer than many.
of the other common-law disabilities, for the reason that
the offense concerns directly the giving of testimony in a
court of justice, and conviction of it was accepted as
showing a greater disregard for the truth than it was
thought should be implied from a conviction of other crime.
Satisfied as we are that the legislation and the very
great weight of judicial authority which have developed
in support of this modern rule, especially as applied to
the competency of witnesses convicted of crime, proceed
upon sound principle, we conclude that the dead hand
of the common-law rule of 1789 should no longer be
applied to such cases as we have here, and that the ruling

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of the lower courts on this first claim of error should be
approved.
There remains the claim that the boxes from which the
letters were stolen were not "authorized depositories for
mail matter," and that, therefore, the stealing of the
letters from them did not violate § 194 of the Federal
Criminal Code, of March 4, 1909, under which petitioners
were indicted.
Section 194 provides that:
"Whoever shall steal, take, or abstract . . . from
any . . . authorizeddepositoryfor mail matter
any letter . . . or shall abstract or remove from any such letter . . . any article," etc.,

shall be fined, etc.
Section 161 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States provides:
"The head of each Department is authorized to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the
government of his Department, the conduct of its officers
and clerks, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of the
S.property appertaining to it."
A regulation promulgated as an order of the Post Office
Department prior to the dates on which the defendants
are charged with having committed the crime for which
they were indicted was introduced in evidence and reads
as follows:
"Any letter box or other receptacle intended or used
for the receipt or delivery of mail matter on any city
delivery route

.

.

.

or other mail route is hereby

designated a letter box for the receipt or delivery of mail
matter, within the meaning of the Act of March 4, 1909."
This regulation was obviously intended to supplement
§ 194 of the Criminal Code, under which the defendants
were indicted, by supplying the detail which Congress
contemplated should be so supplied when it left unde-

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.

467.

Dissent.

fined "or other authorized depository for mail matter."
Such a regulation, if fairly within the scope of the authority given by Congress to make it, has the force and
effect of law, and violations of it are punishable under
the act which it supplements.
That § 194 contemplates that its general language
shall be made definite by such order is plain, and that
the order is well within the authority conferred upon the
Postmaster General by Rev. Stats., § 161, cannot be
doubted, prescribing, as it does, a rule for the conduct of
carriers in the discharge of their duties in the delivery of
mail and for safely preserving the property committed
to the care of the Department until it shall reach the
persons to whom it is addressed. This satisfies the law.
Searight v. Stokes, 3 How. 151-169; Ex parte Reed, 100
U. S. 13, 22; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506;
Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523; Utah Power & Light
Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389.
The suggestion that when the mail was deposited in a
privately owned box it passed out of the custody of the
Government and beyond the protection of the law does
not deserve extended notice. The letters which were
stolen did not reach the manual possession of the persons
to whom they were addressed, but were taken from an
authorized depository over which the act of Congress,
by its express terms, extended its protection until its
function had been served.
It results that the judgments of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MC-

dissent from so much of the opinion as departs
from the rule settled in United States v. Reid and Logan v.
United States, which they think is in no way modified by
what actually was decided in Benson v. United States.
REYNOLDS

