OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

ments therein of intoxicating liquors from another by a
common carrier although intended for the consignee's
personal use where such use is not actually forbidden.
Plainly, therefore, after that enactment, nothing in the
laws or Constitution of the United States restricted North
Carolina's power to make shipment of intoxicants into
Wake County a penal offence irrespective of any personal
right in a consignee there to have and consume liquor of
that character.
The challenged act instead of interposing an absolute
bar against all such shipments, as it was within the power
of the State to do, in effect permitted them upon conditions intended to secure publicity, to the end that public
policy might not be set at naught by subterfuge and indirection. The greater power includes the less.
The provisions of ยง 15, Act to Regulate Commerce, here
relied on were intended to apply to matters within the
exclusive control of the Federal Government; and when
by a subsequent act Congress rendered interstate shipments of intoxicating liquors subject to state legislation,
those provisions necessarily ceased to be paramount in
respect of them.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents.

CRANE v. CAMPBELL, SHERIFF OF LATAH
COUNTY, IDAHO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 53.

Argued November 15, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A State may prohibit and punish the possession of intoxicating liquor
for personal use. Idaho Laws, 1915, c. 11, p. 41, sustained.
27 Idaho, 671, affirmed.

CRANE v. CAMPBELL.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. H. Forney and Mr. A. H. Oversmith for plaintiff
in error, submitted.
Mr. T. A. Walters, Attorney General of the State of
Idaho, with whom Mr. Frank L. Moore and Mr. Wayne B.
Wheeler were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
An Act of the Legislature of Idaho, approved February 18, 1915, "defining prohibition districts and regulating and prohibiting the manufacture, sale
transportation for sale or gift, and traffic in intoxicating
liquors &c." (Session Laws of Idaho, 1915, c. 11), provides:
"Sec. 2. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company or corporation, its officers or agents, to sell, manufacture or dispose of any intoxicating liquor or alcohol of any
kind within a prohibition district or have in his or its
possession or to transport any intoxicating liquor or alcohol
within a prohibition district unless the same was procured
and is so possessed and transported under a permit as
hereinafter provided: Provided, That so long as the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes shall
not be prohibited within the State by the Constitution or
by general law applicable by its terms to the State as a
whole, it shall not be unlawful for any person, company
or corporation to manufacture intoxicating liquors for
beverage purposes in a prohibition district for transportation to and sale outside of the prohibition district: Provided, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to apply
to the manufacture, transportation or sale of wood or
4lenatured alcohol."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

"Sec. 15. It shall be unlawful for any person to import,
ship, sell, transport, deliver, receive or have in his possession any intoxicating liquors except as in this Act provided."
"Sec. 22. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, corporation or agent to have in his or its possession any intoxicating liquors of any kind for any use
or purpose except the same shall have been obtained
and is so possessed under a permit .authorized by this
Act."
Plaintiff in error was arrested and held in custody by the
sheriff, in default of bail, solely because charged with
having "in his possession a bottle of whiskey for his own
use and benefit and not for the purpose of giving away or
selling the same to any person" within Latah County,
Idaho-a prohibition district-on May 16, 1915, in violation of the quoted sections. He sued out a writ of habeas
corpus from the State Supreme Court and sought discharge
upon the ground that those sections were in contravention
of the Fourteenth Amendment, Federal Constitution, and
therefore void. The court held: "The only means provided by the act for procuring intoxicating liquors in a
prohibition district for any purpose relates to wine to be
used for sacramental purposes and pure alcohol to be used
for scientific or mechanical purposes, or for compounding
or preparing medicine, so that the possession of whiskey,
or of any intoxicating liquor, other than wine and pure
alcohol for the uses above mentioned, is prohibited."
And further, "we have reached the conclusion that
this act is not in contravention of Section one of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States . . . ; that it was passed by the legislature
with a view to the protection of the public health, the
public morals and the public safety; that it has a real and
substantial relation to those objects and that it is, therefore,. a reasonable exercise of the police power of the

CRANE v. CAMPBELL.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

State." (In re Ed. Crane, 27 Idaho, 671.) The writ was
accordingly quashed and the petitioner remanded to
custody.
The question presented for our determination is
whether the Idaho statute, in so far as it undertakes to
render criminal the mere possession of whiskey fori personal use, conflicts with that portion of the Fourteenth
Amendment which declares "No State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law." Its validity under the state constitution is not open for our consideration; with its wisdom
this court is not directly concerned.
It must now be regarded as settled that, on account of
their well-known noxious qualities and the extraordinary
evils shown by experience commonly to be consequent
upon their use, a State has power absolutely to prohibit
manufacture, gift, purchase, sale, or transportation of
intoxicating liquors within its borders without violating
the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment. Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Beer Company v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.25, 33; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 662;
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 91; Purity Extract
Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201; Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 320, 321; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. North Carolina,ante, 298.
As the State has the power above indicated to prohibit,
it may adopt such measures as are reasonably appropriate
or needful to render exercise of that power effective, Booth
v. Illinois, 184 U. S.425; Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S.31;
Murphy v. California, 225 U. S. 623; and Rast v. Van
Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S.342, 364. And, considering
the notorious difficulties always attendant upon efforts
to suppress traffic in liquors, we are unable to say that the
challenged inhibition of their possession was arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

and unreasonable or without proper relation to the legitimate legislative purpose.
We further think it clearly follows from our numerous
decisions upholding prohibition legislation that the right
to hold intoxicating liquors for personal use is not one of
those fundamental privileges of a citizen of the United
States which no State may abridge. A contrary view
would be incompatible with the undoubted power to prevent manufacture, gift, sale, purchase or transportation

of such articles-the only feasible ways of getting them.

An assured right of possession would necessarily imply
some adequate method to obtain not subject to destruction
at the will of the State.
The judgment of the court below must be

Affirmed.

DUNCAN TOWNSITE COMPANY v. LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO

THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 51.

Argued November 15, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

An allotment certificate issued under the Choctaw-Chickasaw agreement of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, passes the equitable title
only; the legal title remains in the United States until conveyed by
patent, duly recorded, as provided by ยง 5 of the Act of April 26,
1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, and the allotment in the meantime is
subject to be set aside, by the Secretary of the Interior, for fraudulent procurement.
The doctrine of bona fide purchase will not aid the holder of an equity
to overcome the holder of both the legal title and an equity.
Mandamus is a discretionary remedy, largely controlled by equitable
principles; it will not be granted to promote a wrong-to direct an
act which will work public or private mischief, or which, whil within

