CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

UNITED STATES v. LEARY ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS OF LEARY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 194. Argued October 4, 1917.-Decidtd October 15, 1917.
Where a defendant, under indictment for defrauding the United States
of money, deposited stocks with a representative by whom another
person was induced to execute the defendant's bail bond on the
faith of the deposit as indemnity, and neither surety nor depositary
had notice of any defect in the depositor's title, the surety's equity
in the deposit was superior to that of the United States, though the
stocks were procured with the proceeds of the fraud.
In such case, where, after the first bond, the surety executed several
renewals in removal and habeas corpus proceedings, the parties repeatedly treating the proceedings and the indemnity agreement as
continuing matters, held, by inference that the same understanding
attached to a further bond for appearance at trial, and that the depositary's conduct in retaining only shares constituting the deposit,
while settling with the defendant for others, confirmed such intention.
During the proceedings the shares originally deposited were sold by
the depositary, with others belonging to the defendant, and, of new
shares purchased with the proceeds, some were selected and retained
by the depositary in lieu of those first deposited. Held, that the
equity of the surety attached to them.
Upon an issue of fact as to whether stock claimed by plaintiff was held
by defendant as indemnity for interveners, defendant's sworn answer, filed before the intervention and averring that he so held the

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

245 U. S.

stock, was evidence for the interveners as an act, if not as a statement of facts.
Whether defendant should have an allowance as trustee is left to the
trial court.
229 Fed. Rep. 660, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Marion Erwin, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States:
There was no extension to the bond of 1902 of the agreement to indemnify Leary. That required an express agreement, which was lacldng. United States v. Ryder, 110
U. S. 729.
The averments of the intervention show, as matter of
law, that the temporary bail bond for appearance of
Greene before the commissioner had long prior to January 20, 1902, become functus officio.
Even if Leary had proved an express contract relative
to the bond of 1902, her claim would be inferior to that of
the Government. Boone v. Childs, 10 Pet. 177; Shirras v.
Cary, 7 Cranch, 34; Vattier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 252; Hallett v.
Collins, 10 How. 174; Grimstonev. Carter,3 Paige Ch. 420.
A promise to pay a debt out of a particular fund creates
no equitable lien or right in the fund. Seymour v. Railroad Co., 25 Barb. 284; Grinnel v. Suydam, 3 Sandf. 132;
Drake v. Taylor, 7 Fed. Cas., No. 4067; Boone v. Childs,
10 Pet. 193; Christmasv. Russell, 14 Wall. 69.
As to the law relative to the tracing of trust funds, see
May v. LeClaire, 11 Wall. 217, 236; Smith v. Vodges, 92
U. S. 186; Moore v. Crawford, 130 U. S. 122; Oliver v. Piatt,
3 How. 333; Van Allen v. Bank, 52 N. Y. 1-5; National
Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 70; Knatchbull v. Hallett,
13 Ch. Div. 696; Cook v. Tullis, 18 Wall. 332; Richardson
v. Shaw, 209 U. S. 365; Sexton v. Kessler, 225 U. S. 90.
Mr. Aubrey E. Strode, with whom Mr. J. T. Coleman,
Jr., was on the brief, for Leary et al., Administrators.

UNITED STATES v. LEARY.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Abram J. Rose, with whom Mr. Alfred C. Pett6 was
on the brief, for Kellogg, appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES' delivered the opinion of the
court.
This proceeding began as a suit by the United States to
charge the defendant Kellogg with a trust in respect of
funds alleged to have been received by him from Greene
and to have been obtained from the plaintiff by Greene
through his participation in the well-known Carter frauds.
United States-v. Carter, 217 U. S. 286. After the evidence
had been taken, leave to intervene was granted, on terms,
to the administratrix of the estate of James D. Leary,
predecessor of the present Leary appellees. 224 U. S. 567.
The fund now in question is four hundred shares of the
stock of the Norfolk and Western Railway Company,
which the Learys and Kellogg say were held by Kellogg
as security to their intestate against his liability upon a
bail bond for Greene. A judgment upon the bond has
been paid by them. The Circuit Court of Appeals has
sustained the Learys' claim and the United States appeals.
229 Fed. Rep. 660. 144 C. C. A. 70.
Although Kellogg argues the contrary, it may be assumed for the purposes of decision that the United States
traces its money into the stock, since Kellogg makes no
personal claim to it. On the other hand it appears that
before the intestate Leary became bondsman for Greene
on December 14, 1899, Kellogg wrote to him on the same
day, stating that Greene had placed in his hands three
hundred shares of stock of the Delaware, Lackawanna
and Western Railroad Company "as indemnity to you
for becoming his bondsman in the matter of the United
States against Greene, Gaynor and others, now pending
in the district court" to hold until Leary was released
from the said bond or to apply in payment of the obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

tion. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
neither Kellogg nor Leary had notice' of any defect in
Greene's title. The only question requiring discussion is
whether the present stock is held upon the same terms
against a later bond that Leary signed.
The proceedings in which the bond of December, 1899,
was given were for the removal of Greene from New York
to Georgia. On February 20, 1900, the United States
Commissioner found that there was probable cause.
Greene was committed to the marshal and the bond was
cancelled. On the same day another bond seems to have
been given by Leary that was satisfied on May 28, 1901,
when the district judge issued a warrant for removal.
On May 21 Kellogg wrote to Leary that it would be
necessary "to renew the bail given by you for Captain
Greene, and for which I hold security for your protection,"
fixing a time, and adding "This new bond is to take the
place of the old one without additional liability." The
bond was given on May 28 and Greene was enlarged.
On June 8 Greene was surrendered into the custody of
the marshal in New York and a new bail bond was executed by Leary after having received a letter from Kellogg,
dated June 6, saying "I am obliged to trouble you again
to renew the bond in the Greene and Gaynor matter"
fixing the time and adding "The reason for the matter is
not that you have to incur any additional liability, but
simply to enable them to carry their case to the United
States Supreme Court."
The case was taken to this court and an order of the
Circuit Court refusing a writ of habeas corpus was affirmed
on January 6, 1902. Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249.
Thereafter, on January 20, Leary signed, as surety for
Greene, the bond for $40,000, conditioned for Greene's
appearance in Georgia, which was forfeited and which the
Learys have paid.
More words could not make it plainer than it is made

UNITED STATES v. LEARY.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

by the letters that the "matter" was regarded by the
parties as a continuing one and that the bond of June 8,
1901, was executed on the agreement that the security
also should continue. The only natural inference as to the
later one of 1902 that took its place is that the understanding remained in force without the requirement of a
repetition of the already repeated assurance. This inference is confirmed by the conduct of Kellogg. He had
held stocks and bonds for Greene and settled with him, retaining only this stock. Even if his original answer under
oath filed before the Learys intervened is not evidence for
them as a statement of facts, it was an act as well as a
statement and showed that at that time he asserted that
the stock was security given by Greene. It is true that
the stock was not the same that was mentioned in the
first letter. Greene was allowed to make changes and
substitutions. But this and other purchases were made
with the proceeds of the sale of the first and other stocks
before the letters of May and June, 1901 were written,
and without considering whether in the interest of good
faith the stock retained should or should not be attributed to the portion of the funds coming from that previously pledged, the selection and retention of it in place
of the other is enough when taken with the agreement disclosed. See NationalBank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54,
68; In re Hallett's'Estate,13 Ch. Div. 696. It seems to us
unnecessary to add more to the discussion by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Whether Kellogg should receive an
allowance as trustee may be left to the District Court.
Decree affirmed.

