OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

245 U. S.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY, LESSEE
OF THE NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY, v. TOWERS ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.

No. 31.

Argued April 25, 26, 1917.-Decided October 15, 1917.

Whether the statutes of Maryland intend to authorize the Public
Service Commission to revise intrastate commutation rates when
such rates have already been established by voluntary action of the
railroad company, is a question of state law concerning which the
conclusion of the Court of Appeals of Maryland binds this court upon
a writ of error to review its judgment.
State regulation, through a public service commission, requiring a
carrier to maintain commutation service between points within the
State and fixing rates therefor, which are less than the intrastate
rate lawfully established for one-way intrastate travel in general,
does not deprive the carrier of due process of law when the service
so regulated was established by the carrier voluntarily and the rates
fixed by the State are reasonable. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern
Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, is distinguished, and the views expressed in that case which are inconsistent with the decision in this
one are disapproved.
126 Maryland, 59, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Henry Wolf
Bikl6, Mr. Shirley Carter and Mr. John Spalding Flannery
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error, in support of the
contention that the order of the Public Service Commission here in question was unconstitutional, relied principally upon Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v.
Smith, 173 U. S. 684, and Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.

PENNSYLVANIA R. it. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, citing in addition the following
as sustahimig the authority of the Lake Shore Case: Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 297; Erie
R. R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 701; Chicago &c. R. R.
Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491, 499; Beardsley v. New
York C. &c. R. R. Co., 162 N. Y. 230; Commonwealth v.
Atlantic Coast Line Ry. Co., 106 Virginia, 61; State v.
Bonneval, 128 Louisiana, 902; State v. Great Northern Ry.
Co., 17 N. Dak. 370; Attorney Generalv. Old Colony R. Co.,
160 Massachusetts, 62.
Interstate Consolidated Street Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts,
207 U. S. 79, they distinguished upon the ground that the
constitutionality of the state statute there in question-requiring street car companies to carry school children at
half fare-was not involved. The statute was an exercise
of the State's reserved power over the corporation. The
reasoning of the decision in no way detracts from the
authority of the Lake Shore Case.
The analogy between the Lake Shore Case and the case
at bar would seem to be complete, for the difference between a 1,000-mile ticket and a 100-trip ticket, both required to be issued contrary to the managerial will of the
carrier and at rates less than the maximum or standard
one-way single fare, is not fundamental.
Mr. W. Cabell Bruce for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in the Circuit Court No. 2 of Baltimore City, Maryland, to enjoin the Public Service Commission of Maryland from enforcing an order to sell
commutation tickets at certain rates specified. The
injunction was refused, and on appeal the Court of Appeals of Maryland affirmed the decree and held that alIhough the order fixing the rates declared the same to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

in force for ten years, there should be reserved to the
railroad company the right to apply to the Commission
after the lapse of a reasonable time for a rescission or
modification of its order if experience demonstrated that
the revenue derived under the tariff as established by the
Commission was not properly compensatory for the
services performed. 126 Maryland, 59.
The order of the Commission required the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, lessee of the Northern Central
Railway, to sell tickets for the transportation of passengers between Baltimore and Parkton within the State of
Maryland on the line of the Northern Central Railway.
A table appearing in the opinion of the Court of Appeals
shows the relative rates under the former schedules and
the new order of the Public Service Commission to be as
follows:
RATES PRIOR TO

RATES AS PER SCHEDULE FILED Nov.

RATES UNDER ORDER
P. S.. COM., DEC.

Nov. 25, 1914.

25, 1914.

23, 1914.

1: Round trip, 10 day,
2y4c. per M.
2: Exe. 2-10 days, 2/c.
per M.
3: 10-strip ticket, 1
yr., 1 8/10c. per M.
4: 60-trip 1 mo., 2c. for
first 3 M., 34c. for
ea. addl. 2 M.
5: 100-trip, 1 yr. at
double 60-trip.
6: 180-trip 3 mos. same
as 4, less 10%
7: 46-trip School, 1 mo.,
46/60 of 60-trip.

Round trip, no limit,
23 2 c. per M.
Discontinued.

Round trip, 2y/c. per
M.
No ruling made.

10-trip, 3 mos., 2yc.

10-strip, 3 mos. 2c. per
M.
60-trip, 1 mo. former
rate plus 25c.

per M.
60-trip, 1 mo. former
rate plus 25c. flat.
Discontinued.
180-trip, 3 mos. at 3
times 60-trip.
46-trip School, 1 mo.,
46/60 of 60-trip.

100-trip, 4 mos., former rate, plus $1.
180-trip, 3 mos., former rate plus 75c.
46-trip School, 1 mo.,
46/60 of 60-trip.

The attack upon the order of the Commission in this
court is based upon the contention that its effect is to
take the property of the railroad company without due
process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States. It is also averred
in the bill that the order, if enforced, will work a discrimination against interstate travel in favor of travel
within the State, and is otherwise unreasonable and void.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland stated the question
to be whether it is within the power of the Public Service
Commission to require the establishment of a schedule of
commutation rates by the railroad company, not where
no such rates had theretofore been established, but where
a new system of commutation rates had been proposed by
the railroad company and submitted to the Commission.
Whether commutation rates should be established was
declared to be a question of policy to be decided by the
company. The court found authority in the Commission
under the statutes of Maryland to revise commutation
rates where such rates had already been established by
the action of the company. We must accept this definition of authority in the Commission, so far as the state law
is concerned, and direct our inquiry to the federal question presented.
The question, as counsel for plaintiff in error states it, is
whether a state legislature, either directly or through the
medium of a public service commission, under the guise of
regulating commerce, may compel carriers engaged in
both interstate and intrastate commerce to establish and
maintain intrastate rates at less than both the interstate
and intrastate standard and legally established maxima.
It is asserted that there is no constitutional authority to
compel railroad companies to continue the sale of commutation or special class tickets at rates less than the
legally established standard or normal one-way single
passenger fare upon terms more favorable than those
extended to the single one-way traveler.
To maintain this proposition plaintiff in error relies
upon and quotes largely from the opinion of this court in
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173

OCTOBER TERM, 1017.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

U. S. 684. In that case a majority of this court held a
statute of the State of Michigan to be invalid. A previous
statute of the State had fixed a maximum passenger rate
of three cents per mile. The statute in controversy required the issuing of mileage books for a thousand miles,
good for two years, at a less rate. This court held that a
maximum rate for passengers having been established, that
rate was to be regarded as the reasonable compensation for
the service, and that the fixing of the less rate to particular
individuals was an arbitrary exercise of legislative power
and an unconstitutional interference with the business of
the carrier, the effect of which was to violate the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution by depriving the railroad company of its propery without due process of law and denying to it the
equal protection of the law.
The Lake Shore Case did not involve, as does the present
one, the power of a state commission to fix intrastate rates
for commutation tickets where such rates had already
been put in force by the railroad company of its own
volition, and we confine ourselves to the precise question
presented in this case, which involves the supervision
of commutation rates when rates of that character have
been voluntarily established by the carrier. The rates
here intolved are wholly intrastate. The power of the
States to fix reasonable intrastate rates is too well settled
at this time to need further discussion or a citation of authority to support it.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263, this court held that a "party rate
ticket" for the transportation of ten or more persons at a
less rate than that charged a single individual did not
make a discrimination against an individual charged more
for the same service, or amount to an unjust or unreasonable discrimination within the meaning of the Act to
Regulate Commerce. In the course of the opinion the

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

right to issue tickets at reduced rates good for limited
periods upon the principle of commutation was fully
recognized. See pp. 277, 278, 279, 280.
Having the conceded authority to regulate intrastate
rates, we perceive no reason why such power may not be
exercised through duly authorized commissions and rates
fixed with reference to the particular character of the
service to be rendered.
In Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236
U. S. 605, 608, after making reference to Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, this court
said:
"It was recognized [in the North Dakota Case] that the
State has a broad field for the exercise of its discretion in
prescribing reasonable rates for common carriers within
its jurisdiction; that it is not necessary that there should
be uniform rates or the same percentage of profit on every
sort of business; and that there is abundant room for
reasonable classification and the adaptation of rates to
various groups of services."
That the State may fix maximum rates governing oneway passenger travel is conceded. Having the general
authority to fix rates of a reasonable nature, we can see no
good reason for denying to the State the power to exercise
this authority in such manner as to fix rates for special
services different from those charged for the general
service. In our opinion the rate for a single fare for
passengers generally may be varied so as to fit the particular and different service which involves, as do commutation rates, the disposition of tickets to passengers who
have a peculiar relation to the service. The service rendered in selling a ticket for one continuous trip is quite
different from that involved in disposing of commutation
tickets where a single ticket may cover 100 rides or more
within a limited period. The labor and cost of making
such tickets as well as the cost of selling them is less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

is involved in making and selling single tickets for single
journeys to one-way passengers.
The service rendered the commuter, carrying little
baggage and riding many times on a single ticket for short
distances, is of a special character and differs from that
given the single-way passenger.
It is well known that there have grown up near to all the
large cities of this country suburban communities which
require this peculiar service, and as to which the railroads
have themselves, as in this instance, established commutation rates. After such recognition of the propriety
and necessity of such service, we see no reason why a
State may not regulate the matter, keeping within the
limitation of reasonableness.
On the strength of these commutation tariffs, it is a fact
of public history that thousands of persons have acquired
homes in city suburbs and nearby towns in reliance upon
this action of the carriers in fixing special rates and furnishing particular accommodations suitable to the traffic.
This fact has been recognized by the courts of the country,
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and quite
generally by the railroad commissions of the States.'
The question of the power of the Public Service Commission of the State of New York in this respect was
before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
1 Forty-fourth Annual Report of the Railroad Commission for the
year 1912 (Mass.), pp. 67, 107, 113; P. U. R. 1915B (Mass.), p. 362;
P. U. R. 1915E (R. I.), p. 269; Public Service Commission Reports,
Second District of N. Y. (New York), Vol. III, pp. 212, 461; idem,
Vol. IV, p. 11; P. U. R. 1915B (N. J.), p. 161; Public Utilities Commission Reports, 1914 (Ill.), Vol. I, pp. 553, 590; Public Utilities
Commission Reports, 1913-1914 (Colo.), p. 131; P. U. R. 1915D
(Idaho), p. 742; Opinions and Orders of the Railroad Commission
(Cal.), Vol. I, pp. 451, 855; idem, Vol. II, p. 910; idem, Vol. III, pp. 5,
30, 32, 749, 800, 807, 973; idem, Vol. V, p. 555; idem, Vol. VI, pp. 853,
1008; idem, Vol. VII, pp. 179, 894; The Commutation Rate Case, 21 I.
C. C. 428.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

that State in People ex rel. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 159 App.
Div. Rep., Supreme Court, 531. In that case it was said:
"Subdivision 4 of section 33 of the Public Service
Commissions Law (Consol. Laws, chap. 48 [Laws of 1910,
chap. 480], as amd. by Laws of 1911, chap. 546) empowers
the Commission to fix reasonable and just rates for such
service. It is urged, however, that the statute is invalid
under the rule of Lake Shore &c. R. Co. v. Smith (173 U. S.
684). In that case the statutes of Michigan had fixed a
maximum passenger rate at three cents per mile. A
subsequent enactment required the issuing of mileage
books for 1,000 miles, good for two years, at a less rate.
The court held that having fixed a uniform maximum rate
as to all passengers, such rate was the reasonable compensation for the service, and that the fixing of a less rate to
particular individuals was an unreasonable and arbitrary
exercise of legislative power; that it was not for the convenience of the public and thus within the police power,
but was for the convenience of certain individuals who
were permitted to travel upon the railroads for less than
the reasonable rate prescribed by law; that the law was,
therefore, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution in depriving the company of its
property without due process of law and by depriving it
of the equal protection of the laws.
"In Beardsley v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co. (162 N. Y.
230) the Court of Appeals felt constrained by the Smith
case to declare the Mileage Book Law of this State invalid
as to companies in existence at the time of its passage, but
in Purdy v. Erie R. R. Co. (162 N. Y. 43) that law was
held valid as to companies organized after the statute was
passed.
"In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky (183
U. S.503), after citing the Smith case and like cases, the
court says (at p. 511): 'Nor, yet, are we ready to carry the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

doctrine of the cited cases beyond the limits therein established.'
"In the Minnesota Rate Case (Simpson v. Shepard, 230
U. S. 352) the legality of an order of the Commission of
that State was recognized which fixed a maximum freight
rate and passenger rate, the latter at two cents a mile as
the maximum fare for passengers twelve years of age or
over, and one cent a mile for those under twelve years of
age.
"In InterstateR. Co. v. Massachusetts (207 U. S. 79) the
Massachusetts law prescribing special rates less than the
maximum for school children was held valid. These cases
indicate that the Smith case is not to be extended beyond
the facts upon which it rests.
"The Smith case distinguishes itself from this case where
the court (at p. 693) says: 'This act is not like one establishing certain hours in the day during which trains shall
be run for a less charge than during the other hours. In
such case it is the establishing of maximum rates of fare
for the whole public during those hours, and it is not a
discrimination in favor of certain persons by which they
can obtain lower rates by purchasing a certain number
of tickets by reason of which the company is compelled to
carry them at the reduced rate, and thus, in substance, to
part with its property at a less sum than it would be
otherwise entitled to charge. The power to compel the
company to carry persons under the circumstances as
provided for in this act, for less than the usual rates, does
not seem to be based upon any reason which has hitherto
been regarded as sufficient to authorize an interference
with the corporation, although a common carrier and a
railroad.'
"Our flourishing cities owe their position and prosperity,
in part, to the commutation rates for suburban service;
the health and welfare of the public are concerned that
people doing business in the large cities may live in the

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

country where the surroundings are pleasanter, more
healthy and to the advantage of themselves and their
families. It is a known fact that such rates exist upon all
railways entering large cities, and have usually been established by the companies voluntarily in the interest of
themselves and the public. The service is different in. its
nature from the other passenger service. It is so universal,
of such large proportion, has become so necessary to the
public that it cannot be said that the fixing of reasonable
and just rates for it is unusual or unreasonable, or the
granting of a benefit to individuals and not for convenience
to the public.
"Nearly one-half of the passengers handled by the
relator at the Grand Central Terminal were of this class.
Perhaps the same ratio would exist upon the other railroads serving the city. We conclude that the statute in
question is valid as conferring a power on the Commission
to regulate rates for the public convenience and welfare."
That decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of
New York on the opinion of the Appellate Division. 215
N. Y. 689.
The subject was elaborately considered by the Interstate Commerce Commission in the Commutation Rate
Case, 21 I. C. C. 428, in which the authority of the Commission to fix reasonable rates was sustained. In the
course of the opinion, Commissioner Harlan, speaking for
a unanimous Commission, said:
"Another case strongly relied upon by the defendants is
L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 699. It there
appeared that the legislature of the state of Michigan had
fixed the maximum passenger fare to be charged by railroad companies for local journeys within the state. By a
subsequent enactment it required the carriers to sell
1,000-mile tickets for use within the lower peninsula at a
price not exceeding $20 and in the upper peninsula at a
price not exceeding $25. Various conditions affecting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

use of the tickets were also fixed by the act, and among
others that they should be valid for two years after the
date of purchase. It was held that in the exercise of its
general police power a state may fix maximum fares, but
that it may not fix a rate for 1,000-mile tickets that involves a discrimination in favor of those who buy them.
The statute was held to be invalid. The case, however,
involved mileage tickets which, we must repeat, differ
very essentially in character from commutation tickets.
"We have been referred to no other adjudication by the
courts and are left to conclude that the precise point now
before us has not been passed upon by the courts.
"It will not be necessary to dwell here upon the importance of the question not only to the particular suburban communities involved on the record before us, but
to many other such communities throughout the country,
the prosperity and growth of which largely depend upon an
efficient and reasonable commutation service. Many
such communities have not only been encouraged by the
carriers, but were, in fact, originally established largely on
their initiative. Suburban property has been bought,
homes have been established, business relations made, and
the entire course of life of many families adjusted to the
conditions created by a commutation service. This may
not have been done on the theory that the fares in effect
at any particular time would always be maintained as
maximum fares, but countless homes have been established in suburban communities in the belief that there
would be a reasonable continuity in the fares and that the
carriers in any event would perform the service at all
times for a reasonable compensation.
"Nor need we stop to point out the distinction between
commutation tickets on the one hand and excursion and
mileage tickets on the other. Compared with the normal
one-way fare all such tickets may be said to be abnormal.
But the resemblance stops at that point. Although they

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. TOWERS.
6.

Dissent.

are mentioned together in section 22, the force and effect of
that provision must necessarily differ with the differing
character of the several kinds of tickets. It seems to be
settled under that section that a carrier may enter upon
the policy and practice of issuing mileage books and excursion tickets at less than its regular normal fare for the
one-way journey, and, having adopted such a policy, may
subsequently withdraw from it and refuse longer to issue
such tickets. That has been the view of this Commission,
and is the view generally entertained, although there may
be exceptional circumstances where a different conclusion
would be required. It by no means follows, however, that
a carrier under section 22 may exercise the same scope and
freedom of action with respect to commutation tickets."
The reasoning of these decisions is sound and involves
no violation of the Federal Constitution. True it is that
it may not be possible to reconcile these views with all that
is said in the opinion delivered for the majority of the
court in the case of Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry.
Co. v. Smith, supra. The views therein expressed which
are inconsistent with the right of the States to fix reasonable commutation fares when the carrier has itself established fares for such service, must be regarded as overruled
by the decision in this case.
We find no error in the decree of the Court of Appeals of
Maryland, and the same is
Atlrmed.
Dissenting: THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR.JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

