WISCONSIN v. LANE.
418.

Syllabus.

one would call the new certificates income. What has
happened is that the plaintiff's old certificates have been
split up in effect and have diminished in value to the

extent of the value of the new.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurs in the result.

STATE OF WISCONSIN v. LANE, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR.
IN EQUITY.
No. 7, Original.

Argued December 11, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

The grant of sections numbered 16, for school purposes, made by ยง 7
of the Enabling Act of August 6, 1846, c.89, 9 Stat. 56, to the State
of Wisconsin, was not an unconditional grant in prcesenti; it was
subject to the right of Congress to make other disposition of the land
before the sections became identified by surveys finally approved,
leaving the State the right to obtain other sections by way of indemnity.
By the treaty of October 18, 1848, 9 Stat. 952, the Menominee Indians
ceded to the United States their land-holdings in Wisconsin in exchange for other lands farther west, and a sum of money; but, dissatisfied with the new lands and desiring to stay in Wisconsin, they
remained upon the ceded lands during the period of two years
allowed by the treaty, and extensions granted thereunder by the
President, until, by action of the Indian Department and pursuant
to an act of Congress appropriating money for the purpose, they were
removed in 1852 to another tract in Wisconsin, selected for their
reservation. This removal was at first referred to in the act as temporary, but the Wisconsin legislature, in 1853, assented to their remaining on the tract, and by the treaty of May 12, 1854, 10 Stat.
1064, for the purpose of acquiring the new lands as a permanent
home, the Indians relinquished the lands assigned them by the treaty

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of 1848, and the United States set apart for their home, to be held as
Indian lands are held, a reservation including part of the reservation
of 1852, with some additional townships. Held, that sections numbered 16, which were embraced by both reservations but were not
identified by finally approved surveys until after the reservation of
1852 was made, were by that reservation and the reservation of
1854 "disposed of" within the meaning of the school section grant
in the Wisconsin enabling act, and that other sections numbered 16,
embraced by the later reservation only, but lacking such identification at its creation, were likewise disposed of; and, as all these sections remained in reservation and subject to the continuing occupancy and rights of the Indians, the State had acquired no title to
them and could not restrain the cutting of timber on them by or in
the interest of the Indians.
Decree for defendant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Thompson and Mr. R. A. Hollister, with
whom Mr. Walter C. Owen, Attorney General of the State
of Wisconsin, and Mr. M. G. Eberlein were on the briefs,
for complainant.
Mr. C. Edward Wright, with whom Mr. Charles D.

Mahafie, Solicitor for the Department of the Interior, was
on the brief, for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an original suit brought by the State of Wisconsin
claiming title under the school land grant to the State to
sections 16 in certain townships in the Menominee Indian

Reservation, which lands are alleged to belong to the
State or its grantees. The bill seeks to enjoin the defendant, the Secretary of the Interior,' and through him
the Indian occupants of the land, from cutting timber
IThe jurisdiction in this case is founded upon the statute set forth
in Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 387.

WISCONSIN v. LANE.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

or couitting waste thereon. The townships in controversy are numbers 29 and 30 in ranges 13, 14 and 15;
township 29 in range 16; township 28 in ranges 15 and 16.
These townships are all included in the treaty reservation of 1854, and those in ranges 15 and 16 also in the
reservation of 1852; which treaty and reservations are
hereinafter considered.
The question to be decided is whether the school land
grant shall prevail over the rights of the Indian occupants.
The enabling act of Wisconsin was approved August 6,
1846, 9 Stat. 56. The State was admitted to the Union
on May 29, 1848. The enabling act, ยง 7, provides: "That
section numbered sixteen in every township of the public
lands in said State, and where such section has been sold
or otherwise disposed of, other lands equivalent thereto,
and as contiguous as may be, shall be granted to said
State for the use of schools."
As to the rights of the Indians, it appears that they
had occupied a large territory in the State of Wisconsin,
and by various treaties, not necessary now to be dwelt
upon, had made cessions to the United States. In 1848
the Indians made a treaty [October 18, 1848, 9 Stat. 952]
ceding the remainder of their lands in Wisconsin to the
United States, for which they received lands farther west
and the sum of $350,000. This treaty was ratified January 23, 1849. By its terms the Indians were permitted
to remain on the ceded lands for two years from October 18, 1848, and until notified by the President that the
same were wanted. The Indians did not remove to the
West, and in August, 1850, petitioned the President for
leave to remain on some of the ceded lands. In their
petition the Indians set forth the unsatisfactory character of the lands granted to them in the West, and their
desire to remain in Wisconsin. On September 5, 1850,
the President gave the Indians permission to remain
upon the ceded lands until June 1, 1851; this time was

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

subsequently extended by the President to October 1,
1852. On September 30, 1851, the local Superintendent
of Indian Affairs reported to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs that in pursuance of instructions he had explored
the country on the Wolf and Oconto Rivers in Wisconsin
for a location for the Menominee Indians, and for that purpose recommended a rectangular tract of land; this tract
of land was to commence at the southeast corner of township 28 on the range line between 19 and 20 and run west
30 miles, north 18 miles, and thence back east and south
to the place of beginning. The tract embraced 15 townships, 6 of which on the west are included within the limits
of the lands described in the treaty of 1854, hereinafter
referred to.
On August 30, 1852, Congress appropriated money
for the removal of the Indians to the lands designated by
the Superintendent. 10 Stat. 41, 47. On November 30,
1852, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs reported to the
Secretary of the Interior that the removal of the Menominee Indians, as contemplated by the act of Congress
passed the preceding session, had been satisfactorily effected, and that the whole tribe had been concentrated
on the designated territory between the Wolf and Oconto
Rivers, a location with which they were well pleased,
and on which they were anxious to be permitted to remain
permanently.
On February 1, 1853, the State of Wisconsin by joint
resolution of its legislature gave its assent to this removal,
in the following terms:
"That the assent of the State of Wisconsin is hereby
given to the Menominee Nation of Indians to remain on
the tract of land set apart for them by the President of the
United States, on the Wolf and Oconto Rivers, and upon
which they now reside, the same being within the State of
Wisconsin aforesaid, and described as follows, to wit:
"Commencing at the southeast corner .of township 28

WISCONSIN v. LANE.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

north, range 19, running thence west thirty miles, thence
north eighteen miles, thence east thirty miles, thence
south 18 miles, to the place of beginning."
On November 26, 1853, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs made a report in which he said that by the treaty
of 1848 the removal of the Menominee Indians to a place
west of the Mississippi River was contemplated, but
that it was thought preferable to concentrate them on
the Upper Wolf and Oconto Rivers in the State of Wisconsin, and suggested, among other things, that the
Indians could properly remain where they were for many
years, without interference with the white population;
suggesting, however, that, if such arrangement were to be
of a permanent character, a new convention should be
made with them, which would be necessary for their relinquishment of the country given to them by the treaty
of 1848. This recommendation probably gave rise to the
treaty of 1854 [May 12, 1854, 10 Stat. 1064], by which
the Indians, for the recited purpose of acquiring the new
lands for a permanent home, agreed to relinquish to the
United States all lands assigned to them by the treaty of
October 18, 1848; in consideration of which cession the
United States agreed to give to the Indians for a home,
to be held as Indian lands are held, "that tract of country
lying upon the Wolf River, in the State of Wisconsin,
commencing at the southeast corner of township 28 north,
of range 16 east, of the fourth principal meridian, running
west twenty-four miles, thence north eighteen miles,
thence, east twenty-four miles, thence south eighteen
miles, to the place of beginning-the same being townships 28, 29 and 30, of ranges 13, 14, 15 and 16, according
to the public surveys." This tract embraced six of the
townships included in the Indian reservation of 1852,
and six townships to the west thereof. The sixteenth
sections in five of the former and four of the latter are
here in controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

It appears that as to three of these townships the surveys were not approved until February 20, 1854, and as
to the other townships the surveys of two were approved
October 11, 1854, and of the others on dates ranging from
February 6, 1855, to October 3, 1891.
It is evident from a consideration of the terms of the
enabling act, section seven, that Congress did not make
an unconditional grant in praesenti to the State of the
school sections; the terms of the grant are that the sections "shall be" granted. Moreover, the grant contemplated that Congress might make other disposition of
the lands. The State of Wisconsin's right to the lands
in controversy was to be subordinate to such disposition;
in which event the State should seek indemnity in other
lands for the loss of school sections.
The Menominee Indians by the treaty of 1848 gave up
their holdings in Wisconsin, but were not removed to
the lands provided for them in the West. They had the
privilege of remaining in Wisconsin for two years and
until notified by the President that the lands were wanted,
this permission was extended, ultimately until October,
1852, in the meantime the Indians were located by the
action of the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and by
the act of Congress, with the approval of the President,
upon the reservation created in 1852. True, the act of
Congress appropriating money for the removal referred
to the temporary character of the location, but they
were thus located subject to the control of Congress, and,
as we have seen, with the consent of the State, if that
were needed.
We think this recited action was a disposition, prior
to survey, of the school sections, which was clearly within
the authority of Congress to make and sanctioned by the
terms of section seven of the enabling act. This action
being before survey took these lands out of the scope of
the grant for school purposes, and made them subject

WISCONSIN v. LANE.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

to ultimate disposition by Congress for the benefit of the
Indians. This was accomplished by the treaty of 1854
which adds to the reserved lands six townships on the
west and includes the six westerly townships of the reservation of 1852. That treaty is comprehensive in its terms,
it recites the unwillingness of the Indians to remove to
the lands provided for them to the west of the Mississippi
River, and sets forth the purpose to exchange those lands
for the lands desired by the Tribe for a permanent home.
To that end the Menominee Indians agreed to cede, and
did cede, to the United States all lands assigned to them
under the treaty of October 18, 1848, and in consideration of this cession the United States gave to the Indians,
for a home to be held as Indian lands are held, the lands
described in the treaty, in the 12 townships to which we
have referred. The occupancy and rights of the Indians
so established have never been terminated, but still continue.
In view of these statements of fact, and the purposes
of the Government and the Indians in the transactions
referred to, we regard the case as controlled by the decision of this court in United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S.

192, which deals with a similar grant of lands for school
purposes to the State of Oregon. In that case the previous
decisions of this court were reviewed, and in concluding
the discussion of the effect of such school land grants this
court said: "The designation of these sections was a
convenient method of devoting a fixed proportion of
public lands to school uses, but Congress in making its
compacts with the States did not undertake to warrant
that the designated section would exist in every township,
or that, if existing, the State should at all events take
title to the particular lands found to be therein. Congress did undertake, however, that these sections should
be granted unless they had been sold or otherwise disposed of; that is, that on the survey, defining the 8ec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

tions, the title to the lands should pass to the State provided sale or other disposition had not previously been
made, and, if it had been made, that the State should be
entitled to select equivalent lands for the described purpose." (240 U. S. 201.)
The principles, thus stated, are applicable here. In
our view the lands were otherwise disposed of by the Indian
reservation of 1852, and the treaty of 1854. As we have
seen, these dispositions were made before final approval
of the surveys identifying sections 16.
It is insisted that this conclusion is inconsistent with
the decision of this court in Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S.
517. The same contention as to the effect of that decision was made in the Morrison Case, supra, and of it this
court said (p. 205):
"In opposition to this definition of the effect of the
donation for school purposes, the appellees rely upon
what was said in Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517. That
was an action of replevin to recover logs cut on a section
sixteen in Wisconsin which had been granted by the
Enabling Act of August 6, 1846 (c. 89, 9 Stat. 56, 58).
The exterior lines of the township in which the land was
situated were run in October, 1852, and the section lines
in May and June, 1854; and the defendant claimed under
patents from the State issued in 1865 and 1870. The
land had been occupied by the Menominee Indians, but
their right was only that of occupancy. 'The fee was in
the United States, subject to that right, and could be
transferred by them whenever they chose.' By the treaty
of 1848 (9 Stat. 952) these Indians agreed to cede to the
United States all their lands in Wisconsin, it being stipulated that they should be entitled to remain on the lands
for two years. In view of their unwillingness to withdraw, a further act was passed (10 Stat. 1064) by which
a tract was assigned to them embracing the land in controversy. Subsequently, a portion of this reservation

WISCONSIN v. LANE.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

was assigned by another treaty to the Stockbridge and
Munsee tribes, and for the benefit of the latter Congress
passed the Act of February 6, 1871 (16 Stat. 404, c. 38)
providing for the sale of certain townships. The plaintiff
asserted title under patents issued by the United States
in 1872 pursuant to this act. It appeared, however, that
the Indian occupation of the land had ceased before the
logs were cut. The court held that the title had vested
in the State and hence that the plaintiff had acquired no
title by his patents from the United States. It was said
in the opinion that by the compact with the State (the
school grant) the lands were 'withdrawn from any other
disposition, and set apart from the public domain, so
that no subsequent law authorizing a sale of it could be
construed to embrace them, although they were not specially excepted'; and that after this compact 'no subsequent sale or other disposition . . . could defeat
the appropriation.' But it was also stated that 'when
the logs in suit were cut, those tribes (Stockbridge and
Munsee) had removed from the land in controversy, and
other sections had been set apart for their occupation.'
That is, the lands had been surveyed in 1854; prior to
that time, there had been no other disposition of the fee
by the United States; the title had vested in the State
subject at most to the Indian occupancy, and this had
terminated. There was abundant reason for the decision
that these lands were not embraced, and were not intended to be embraced, in the provisions for sale made
by the Act of 1871. What was said in the opinion must
be considered in the light of the facts. (Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, 394.) The Heydenfeldt Case was not
cited and cannot be regarded as overruled. See New York
Indians v. United States, 170 U. S. 1, 18; Minnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 375, 399-401."
See Heydenfeldt v. Daney Gold & Silver Mining Co.,
93 U. S. 634; United.States v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 577;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; Wisconsin v. Hitchcock, 201 U. S. 202.
We reach the conclusion that the lands in controversy
did not pass under the school lands grant to the State of
Wisconsin, and that there should be a decree for the defendant.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration or disposition of this case.

UNITED STATES v. J. S. STEARNS LUMBER
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 94.

Argued December 18, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

By the treaty of 1842, proclaimed in 1843, 7 Stat. 591, the Lake Superior Chippewas ceded lands in Wisconsin, reserving privileges of
occupancy until removed by the President. Wisconsin was admitted
in 1848. The treaty of 1854, proclaimed in 1855, 10 Stat. 1109, set
apart from the ceded lands a reservation for the Indians, their occupancy not having been disturbed in the meantime, and provided
for surveying this reserved land and for allotting it in severalty, at
the discretion of the President. Allotment patents were issued accordingly in 1907, withholding all right of alienation without the
President's consent; and under them the allottees resided on and
claimed their several tracts. The lands in controversy, comprised by
the original occupancy, the reservation and allotments, were surveyed
as sections numbered 16, but not until 1864 and 1873. Held, that,
as the treaty and reservation operated to withdraw the sections before survey and the allotments merely provided a home for the Indians as promised by the treaty, in furtherance of the purpose of

