OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

The net income of the divorced husband subject to
taxation was not decreased by payment of alimony under
the court's order; and, on the other hand, the sum received
by the wife on account thereof cannot be regarded as
income arising or accruing to her within the enactment.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

WEAR, IMPLEADED SUB. NOM. WEAR SAND
COMPANY, ET AL. v. STATE OF KANSAS EX REL.
BREWSTER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 30.

Argued November 12, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.

A specific intent to accept the tidal test of navigability, and so to extend riparian ownership ad filum aque on non-tidal streams which
are navigable in fact, is not predicable of a statute adopting the
common law of England in general terms only, particularly if enacted
later than the decision in The Genessee Chief, 12 How. 443. Hence
such a statute, passed by Kansas Territory in 1859 and retained by
the State, affords no basis even in purport for denying the power of
the Supreme Court of Kansas to apply the test of navigability in
fact, as part of the common law, in determining the ownership of a
river bed as between the State and riparian owners deriving title
under a federal patent issued, before statehood, in 1860.
In a mandamus proceeding to test the right of a State to levy charges
on sand dredged from a stream by a riparian owner under claim of
title ad filum aqua, the latter has not a constitutional right to have
the question of navigability determined by a jury.
Whether in such a case the state court may take judicial notice that
the stream is navigable is a question of local law. So held where
judicial notice was taken of the navigability of the Kaw River, the
principal river of Kansas, at the state capital, and the decision was
supported by the meandering of the stream in original public surveys, and by various state and federal statutes and decisions cited.

WEAR v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

154.

Assuming that the taking of sand from the bed of a navigable stream
be of common right, the State may nevertheless exact a charge from
those who take it.
River sand appertains to the river bed when at rest; its tendency to
migrate does not subject it to acquisition by mere occupancy.
92 Kansas, 169, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Francis C. Downey, with whom Mr. Armwell L.
Cooper and Mr. Denis J. Downey were on the brief, for

plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. L. Hunt, Assistant Attorney General of the State
of Kansas, with whom Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney

General of the State of Kansas, and Mr. J. P. Coleman
and Mr. S. N. Hawkes, Assistant Attorneys General of
the State of Kansas, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for mandamus to require the Treasurer
of the State to transfer certain funds from a special account
to the general revenue funds of the State, so that they
can be used for paying the expenses of government. The
money in question was collected under the State Laws of
1913, c. 259, requiring payment of ten per cent. of the
market value on the river bank of sand taken by private
persons or corporations from the bed of streams subject
to the control of the State. It was paid by the plaintiffs
in error for sand taken from the Kansas River at Topeka,
and it was kept as a separate fund because the plaintiffs in
error paid it under duress and protest and claimed the
right to recover it before it should lose its identity by the
transfer demanded. Under the state procedure the plaintiffs in error were made parties and came in and set up
title to the fund. The Supreme Court of the State over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

ruled the claim and directed the issue of the peremptory
writ.
This case was decided on a motion to quash the answers; the allegations of which, so far as now material,
may be summed up as follows. In 1859 the Territorial
Legislature of Kansas enacted that the Territory should
be governed by the common law of England, which still
remains the law of the State. On October 1, 1860, the
United States conveyed land adjoining the Kansas River
to the predecessor in title of the plaintiffs in error, and, as
the tides do not ebb and flow in the river, they allege that
the conveyance carried title to the middle of the stream;
that they were the owners of the sand dredged from the
same; that to enforce the provisions of the Act of 1913
against them would infringe the Fourteenth Amendment,
and that they paid the sums exacted under protest and
duress, the circumstances of which are detailed. The
river was meandered on both sides by the surveys of the
United States up to above this land, and with the Missouri
and Mississippi constitutes an open and unobstructed
water way from the up stream end of the meander lines
to the Gulf of Mexico and the high seas. But the plaintiff in error Fowler, while adopting this allegation, alleges
that it is not and never has been a navigable stream, and
in 1864 the Kansas Legislature made a declaration to that
effect. There follow allegations that the sand is migratory,
and, in short, of the nature of animals ferw, naturae, and that
ever since the admission of the State the persons within
it have taken the sand as of common right. The presence of the sand is alleged to interfere with the use of the
stream for its proper purpose of navigation as a valuable
commercial highway, the river being alleged to be a public
highway the use of which, including the right to take sand,
belongs to the people in the State. It also is suggested
that if the court should entertain jurisdiction and determine the questions of fact arising in the proceeding the

WEAR v. KANSAS.
154.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs in error would be deprived of the equal protection
of the laws contrary to the Constitution of the United
States.
The argument of the plaintiffs in error does not need a
lengthy response or a statement of all the answers that
might be made to it. It was said that the territorial
statute gave to the patent of the United States the effect
of a grant adfilum aquce. But this attributes too detailed
and precise an effect to a general provision of law. We
should be slow to believe that a State beginning its organized life with an express adoption of the common law
of England stood any differently from one where the
common law was assumed to prevail because the citizens
were of English descent. Therefore when the Supreme
Court of Kansas regards the principle of the common law
to be that the fact of navigability, not the specific test
of navigability convenient for England, is what excludes
riparian ownership of river beds, it is impossible for us
to say that the territorial statute even purports to give
greater rights. The Genessee Chief, 12 How. 443, had been
decided before the Territorial Act of 1859 was passed, and
as was observed by Mr. Justice Bradley in Barney v.
Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, after that decision there seemed to
be no sound reason for adhering to the old rule as the proprietorship of the beds and shores of waters held navigable
by that case. See further Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.
1, 58. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 93, 94. Donnelly
v. United States, 228 U. S. 243, 261. We think it too plain
for extended argument that the Territorial Act createdno constitutional obstacle to the present decision of the
Kansas court.
Then it was said, if navigability in fact is the test, the
plaintiffs in error were entitled to go to a jury on that fact,
as it was in 1860, the date of the original grant, and the
Supreme Court of the State was not entitled to take
judicial notice that the river was navigable at Topeka.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

But there is no constitutional right to trial by jury in such
a case, and if a state court takes upon itself to know without evidence whether the principal river of the State is
navigable at the capital of the State we certainly cannot
pronounce it error. In this aspect it is a question of state
law. Donnelly v. United States, 228 U. S. 243, 262. See
Archer v. Greenville Sand & Gravel Co., 233 U. S. 60, 68, 69.
The fact is of a kind that should be established once for
all, not perpetually retried. The court had too, in favor
of its decision, the circumstance that the stream was
meandered in the original surveys; the decisions of its
predecessors; Wood v. Fowler, 26 Kansas, 682; Topeka
Water Supply Co. v. Potwin, 43 Kansas, 404, 413; Johnston
v. Bowersock, 62 Kansas, 148; Kaw Valley Drainage District v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 99 Kansas, 188, 202;
Kaw Valley Drainage District v. Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co., 87 Kansas, 272, 275, s. c., 233 U. S. 75; legislation of
the State; Private Laws of 1858, c. 30, ยง 4, c. 31, ยง 4, c. 34;
1860, c. 20, ยง 3, etc.; and of the United States; Act of May
17, 1886, c. 348, 24 Stat. 57; Act of January 22, 1894, c. 15,
28 Stat. 27; Act of July 1, 1898, c. 546, 30 Stat. 597, 633,
etc.; and the assent, so far as it goes, of this c6urt; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage District,
233 U. S. 75, 77, not to speak of the allegations in the
answers of the Wear Sand Company, adopted, notwithstanding his denial of navigability, by Fowler, the other
plaintiff in error before this court.
The allegation that the sand is migratory and belongs to
whoever may reduce it to possession, and the allegation of
the public right, are inconsistent, of course, with the claim
of title and hardly consistent with the allegation that it is
got by dredging. But the fact that it is liable to be shifted
does not change its character while at rest upon the river
bed, and if there were the public right alleged, it would not
hinder the State from collecting, for the good of the whole,
public, a charge from those individuals who withdraw it

DAY v. UNITED STATES.
154.

Syllabus.

from public access. We see nothing in the case of the
plaintiffs in error that requires further answers that might
be made, or discussion at greater length.
Judgment affirmed.

DAY ET AL., PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM
NAME OF J. G. & I. N. DAY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 43. Argued November 13, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.
Modern tendencies to depart from the strict letter in discovering intent
do not alter the principle that, within the scope of his undertaking,
a party contracting assumes the risks of intervening obstacles.
A contractor agreed with the United States to furnish, at specified
rates, such labor and material in place as might be necessary to complete a canal and locks, already built in part, the total payment not
to exceed a sum fixed in acts of Congress authorizing the contract.
The Government had erected a bulkhead, deemed of sufficient
height, to safeguard the work from river floods; the contract, however, did not guarantee protection, referring to freshets, and other
natural causes, merely as grounds for time extension. The contractor had been required to base his proposal upon personal investigation, and the specifications provided that he should be held
responsible, without expense to the Government, for the preservation and good condition of the work already in place, and that to
be added from time to time under the contract, until the contract
should be terminated or the whole work turned over in a completed
condition as required. To protect the work from an extraordinary
flood which exceeded the bulkhead, the contractor necessarily expended work and materials in building new structures, for which he
sought reimbursement in the Court of Claims. Held, that the contract was for the completion of the works and that the cost of protecting them from floods in the meantime'was within the contractor's undertaking.
48 Ct. Clms. 128; 50 id. 421, affirmed.

