OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

of the defendants may prove not to be stockholders. And
even those confessedly stockholders are, in respect to
the matters in controversy, as much strangers to the
corporation and to the estate as any other person against
whom the corporation had a cause of action. The fact
that an alleged debtor of a corporation is a stockholder,
or even an officer, does not enable the trustee to sue him
in the court of bankruptcy. Park v. Cameron, 237 U. S.
616.
We have no occasion to consider whether a different
rule applies in those cases where an order of the court of
bankruptcy is a condition precedent to the existence of
any liability, either because stockholders are liable only
after a call, or because the liability of stockholders is
pro rata and limited to such sums as may, in the aggregate, be necessary to satisfy the claims of creditors.
Decree affirmed.

SCHARRENBERG v. DOLLAR STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET. AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 192.

Argued October 12, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

Inducing and assisting aliens to come from abroad', working as seamen on the way, for bona fide service as seamen on an American
ship during her voyage from American ports to foreign countries
and while she lies in such ports preparatory to or in the course of
such voyage, is not an assisting or encouraging of the importation
or migration of alien "contract laborers" "into the United States,"
within §§ 4 and 5 of the Act of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898, as
amended by the Act of March 26, 1910, 36 Stat. 263.

SCHARRENBERG v. DOLLAR S. S. CO.
122.

Opinion of the Court.

As these acts of Congress apply to all alien contract laborers without
regard to their origin or nationality, in a suit to enforce their highly
penal provisions the circumstance that the aliens in question were
Chinese subjects is without significance.
An American ship engaged in foreign commerce is not a part of the
territory of the United States in the sense that seamen employed
upon her while in American ports or on voyages can be said to be
performing labor in this country within the meaning of the statutory
provisions above cited.
229 Fed. Rep. 970, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. W. Hutton, with whom Mr. J. H. Ralston and
Mr. W. E. Richardson were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Nathan H. Frank, with whom Mr. Irving H. Frank
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit to recover penalties upon the claim that
the defendants "knowingly assisted and encouraged the
importation and migration" of certain alien contract
laborers into the United States, for the purpose of having
them perform labor therein in violation of §§ 4 and 5 of
the Act of Congress of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
affirmed the judgment of the District Court, sustaining a
general demurrer to the second amended complaint and
the case is here for review on certiorari.
The complaint is in nineteen separate counts in identical form and each relating to the employment of a single
man. The essential allegations of each count, with a
difference only in name of the man employed, are as
follows:
That in 1913 the three defendant corporations were

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

operators of the British steamship "Bessie Dollar," and
also-of the American steamship "Mackinaw," and that
the defendant Abernethy was the master of the former;
that when the "Bessie Dollar" was in the port of Shanghai,
China, the defendants formed the design of procuring a
crew of alien laborers to be transferred to the "Mackinaw"
at San Francisco, and to that end, although the "Bessie
Dollar" had a full crew of officers and men, they procured
one Dung Pau to sign shipping articles as a "purported
seaman" for service on her as follows, viz:
"On voyages from Shanghai to San Francisco, there to
join the S. S. 'Mackinaw,' or any other vessel, within
the limits of 70 degrees north and 70 degrees south latitude, trading to and from as may be required, and back
to Shanghai, to be discharged with consent of local authorities. Term of service not to exceed two years. The
master has the option to transfer any or all of the within
mentioned persons to any other British or Foreign ship
bound to Shanghai in the same capacity and at the same
rate of wages."
It is also alleged that Pau "worked as a seaman" on
the voyage to San Francisco, and on arrival there was
discharged from the "Bessie Dollar," and that on the
same day, pursuant to the design formed in Shanghai,
he signed shipping articles before the United States Shipping Commissioner for the Port of San Francisco for a
voyage on the "Mackinaw" as follows:
"From San Francisco, Cal., to Shanghai, China, and
such other Asiatic Ports as the master may direct, via
Grays Harbor, Seattle, Wash., and such other ports on
the Pacific Coast as the master may direct; final port of
discharge shall be Shanghai, China."
And, finally, it is averred that, pursuant to the second
contract, Pau worked "as a seaman" on board the
"Mackinaw" in the Port of San Francisco for some days,
and on the voyage from San Francisco to Grays Harbor,

SCHARRENBERG v. DOLLAR S. S. CO.
122.

Opinion of the Court.

Washington, and at Grays Harbor until the time of the
commencement of this action.
The employment of the man to serve as a bona fide
seaman on the "Mackinaw" is not questioned, and the
allegations of the complaint negative any suspicion that
the employment of him in China was a subterfuge adopted
for the purpose of unlawfully securing his entry into the
United States.
Basing his right upon the allegations of the complaint,
which we have thus epitomized, the claim of the petitioner
is, that by employing and bringing an alien laborer as a
seaman to San Francisco, in the manner described, for
the purpose of shipping him, followed by his actually
being shipped, as a seaman on board a vessel of American
registry, the defendants violated the Act of Congress of
February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898.
The argument in support of this claim is that the seaman, described in each count of the complaint, was an
alien contract laborer; that the steamship "Mackinaw"
was a part of the territory of the United States, and that
therefore the contracting to bring such alien to San Francisco and to there employ him upon such a vessel was to
knowingly assist and encourage the migration of an alien
contract laborer into the United States, for the purpose
of having him perform labor therein, in violation of the
fourth and fifth sections of the act.
The validity of this claim, and of the argument in
support of it, calls for the construction of three short
provisions of two statutes.
Section 2 of the Act of 1907, as amended in 1910 (36
Stat. 263), furnishes this definition of "contract laborers," which must be read into §§ 4 and 5 of the Act of
1907:
"Persons . . . who have been induced or solicited
to migrate to this country by offers or promises of employment or in consequence of agreements, oral, written

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

or printed, expressed or implied, to perform labor in this
country of any kind, skilled or unskilled."
Section 4 makes it a misdemeanor for any corporation
"in any way to assist or encourage the importation or
migration of any contract laborer or contract laborers
into the United States."
Section 5 imposes severe penalties for every violation
of the act "by knowingly assisting, encouraging, or soliciting the migration or importation of any contract laborer
into the United States."
Thus a contract laborer is one who under the conditions
described in the first of these statutes comes "to perform
labor in this country," and the penalties denounced by
the sections of the other act are against persons who
knowingly assist or induce the importation or migration
of such laborer "into the United States."
The purpose of this alien labor legislation was declared
by this court almost thirty years ago, in Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, to be, to arrest
the bringing of an ignorant, servile class of foreign laborers into the United States, under contract to work
at a low rate of wages, and thus reduce other laborers
engaged in like occupations to the level of the assisted
immigrant.
Having these terms of the statutes and this history in
mind, can it with reason be said that the men shipped
on the "Mackinaw" as "seame n" were "laborers," and
that when employed upon that vessel in foreign commerce
they were performing labor "in this country" within
the meaning of the acts?
In familiar speech a" seaman" may be called a "sailor"
or a "mariner," but he is never called a "laborer," although he doubtless performs labor when assisting in the
care and management of his ship; and a "seaman" is
defined in the United States statutes applicable to "Merchant Seamen," as being, any person (masters and appren-

SCHARRENBERG v. DOLLAR S. S. CO.
122.

Opinion of the Court.

tices excepted) who shall be employed to serve in any
capacity on board a vessel, Rev. Stats., § 4612. In the
shipping articles, which the United States law requires
shall be signed by members of the crews of ships of American registry engaged in foreign commerce, the men are
designated as "seamen" or "mariners." Thus, neither
in popular nor in techinical legal language would the men
employed on the "Mackinaw" be called or classed as
"laborers," and such seamen are not brought "into this
country" to enter into competition with the labor of its
inhabitants, but they come to our shores only to sail
away again in foreign commerce on the ship which brings
them or on another, as soon as employment can be obtained.
Equally unallowable is the contention that a ship of
American registry engaged in foreign commerce is a part
of the territory of the United States in such a sense that
men employed on it can be said to be laboring "in the
United States" or "performing labor in this country."
It is, of course, true that for the purposes of jurisdiction a
ship, even on the high seas, is often said to be a part of
the territory of the nation whose flag it flies. But in
the physical sense this expression is obviously figurative
(International Law Digest, Moore, vol. I, § 174), and to
expand the doctrine to the extent of treating seamen
employed on such a ship as working in the country of its
registry is quite impossible. Thus the seamen employed
on the "Mackinaw" were not within either the spirit
or the letter of the law on which the petitioner bases his
action and in any point of view his contention is fanciful
and unsound and must be denied.
In the result thus reached we are adopting the construction given to another section of this Act of Congress
of 1907 in Taylor v. United States, 207 U. S. 120, and we
are approving the construction placed upon the sections
we are here considering of the act, and upon earlier acts

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

relating to the immigration of alien laborers, in the longstanding decisions of many lower courts and of the Department of Justice, in all of which it is held that seamen
employed in foreign commerce cannot be considered alien
contract laborers within' the terms of the various statutes.
United States v. Sandrey, 48 Fed. Rep. 550; United States
v. Burke, 99 Fed. Rep. 895; Moffitt v. United States, 128
Fed. Rep. 375; United States v. Jamieson, 185 Fed. Rep.
165; Immigration-Deserting Seamen-23 Opinions of
the Attorney General, 521; Chinese Seamen-Transfer
of Crew-Alien Laborers, 24 Opinions of the Attorney
General, 553. This construction of the act has also long
been applied by the Department of Labor in its practical
administration of the law. See Immigration Rules 1911,
No. 10, Subdivision 1, (a), (c), and (d); subdivision 3.
The fact that the aliens in this case were Chinese subjects is without significance. The suit is to enforce the
highly penal provisions of acts of Congress which apply
to all alien contract laborers without regard to their origin
or nationality.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be

Affirmed.

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE OF
THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 426. Argued October 10, 11, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.
Article IV, § 2, of the Constitution intends, not to express the law of
extradition as usually prevailing among independent nations, but
to provide a summary executive proceeding whereby the States may
promptly aid one another in bringing accused persons to trial. Its

