OCTOBER TERM, 1917'.
Counsel for Parties.

245 U. S.

KORBLY, RECEIVER OF THE PYNCHON NATIONAL BANK, v. SPRINGFIELD INSTITUTION
FOR SAVINGS ET AL.
SPRINGFIELD INSTITUTION FOR SAVINGS ET
AL. v. KORBLY, RECEIVER OF THE PYNCHON
NATIONAL BANK.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 26, 27.

Argued November 8, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

Under the National Banking Act the Comptroller has discretionary
power to withdraw an assessment on shareholders before it is paid,
or when partly paid.
Upon the evidence, held, that certain sums paid by savings banks to
the receiver of a national bank in which they held shares were intended to be applied against their liabilities under the National
Banking Act, to enforce which an assessment, made by the Comptroller, was then outstanding. A second assessment, exceeding the
differences between their statutory liabilities and the amounts so
paid, was void.
In determining the effect of certain payments made by the trustees
of savings banks, the court here assumes, in the absence of contrary
evidence, that it was the purpose of the trustees to act within their
powers, and heeds the settled rule that when neither debtor nor
creditor has applied payments before the controversy has arisen the
courts will apply them in a manner to accomplish the ends of justice.
218 Fed. Rep. 814, affirmed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles G. Gardner,with whom Mr. Edwin S. Gardner and Mr. Ralph W. Stoddard were on the brief, for
Korbly, Receiver.
Mr. Boyd B. Jones, with whom Mr. William H. Brooks
was on the brief, for Springfield Institution for Savings et al.

KORBLY v. SPRINGVIELD INST. FOR SAVOS. 331
330.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases are appeals from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit, which were heard and will
be decided together.
The Pynchon National Bank, of Springfield, Massachusetts, with a capital stock of $200,000, divided into 2000
shares of $100 each, became insolvent and in June, 1901,
the Comptroller of the Currency appointed a receiver to
liquidate its affairs.
Upon examination there were found among its assets
bonds of the American Writing Paper Company, of the
par value of $577,000, which the bank had purchased at a
discount, but which, at the time of the transaction we are
about to consider, had so depreciated that they were
worth on the market only 65 cents on the dollar.
A consideration of the condition of the bank resulted on
March 18, 1902, in an assessment by the Comptroller
on the shareholders of their full statutory liability of
100%, payable on the 15th day of the following May.
Thereupon a plan was devised under which it was proposed that all of the shareholders, except the three defendant Savings Banks, should purchase from the Receiver the Paper Company bonds at 95 cents on the dollar,
each shareholder to purchase one bond of $1,000 for every
three shares of stock owned by him. This purchase price
was an advance over the market price of 30 cents on the
dollar and the excess payment by each shareholder would
equal 82% of the assessment which had been made by the
Comptroller. Because they lacked corporate power to
invest in such bonds the Savings Banks with the approval
of the Comptroller and shareholders were to pay to the
Receiver the required advance over the market price
without purchasing their quota of the bonds.
The Comptroller cordially approved of this proposed
purchase and in a letter to the Board of Directors of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

insolvent Bank, the contents of which were intended to be
and were communicated to its shareholders while the plan
was under consideration, he stated that it would result
in a settlement of the affairs of the Bank highly satisfactory for all interests concerned and that he was satisfied
that if such sale of the bonds were made the Receiver
would be able to promptly pay all of the creditors in full;
but that if the plan failed and it became necessary to sell
the bonds on the market there would be no escape from
an assessment of 100% against the shareholders.
This proposed settlement was approved by all of the
shareholders, and the defendant banks made payment to
the Receiver as follows: The Springfield Institution for
Savings $30,360.17; the Springfield Five Cents Savings
Bank, $9,820.00, and the Hampden Savings Bank,
$5,319.16. For these payments the banks did not receive
any consideration other than the joining of the other shareholders in the plan, together with the anticipated saving
of eighteen (18) per cent. of the assessment which the
Comptroller had made against them. The bonds allotted
the banks were sold at the market price.
After the completion of this bond transaction, the Receiver, under instructions from the Comptroller, on
July 22, 1902, wrote to the shareholders as follows:
"Large amounts of securities sold make it probable that
the payment of the assessment will not be required. The
Comptroller has accordingly decided to withdraw this
assessment and I have been instructed to suspend any
action to enforce its payment. This withdrawal is made,
however, without prejudice to the right of the Comptroller
to levy and collect any assessment or assessments that
may hereafter be necessary."
The results anticipated from this action on the part of
the shareholders were not realized and in order to satisfy
the still unpaid debts of the bank and interest and costs
of administration, the Comptroller on December 28, 1906,

IORBLY v. SPRINGFIELD INST. FOR SAVGS.
330.

333

Opinion of the Court.

made a second assessment of $49 on each share of stock.
The banks refusing to pay this second assessment this
suit was instituted against them in the District Court
and resulted in a holding in favor of the defendants, which
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the decision which is now under review.
It will be necessary to consider but two questions, viz:
(1) Was the second assessment invalid because the Comptroller did not withdraw and had no legal authority to
withdraw the first assessment? and
(2) Was it the understanding that the payments 'made
by the Savings Banks should be applied on the assessment
for their statutory liability, so that they remained liable
for only 18% additional?
From the earliest days of the administration of the National Banking Act to this case attempts have been made
in many forms to give to it a technical construction which
would so restrict the powers of the Comptroller as to
greatly delay and impede the settlement of the affairs of
insolvent banks. But this court has uniformly declined
to narrow the act by construction and has placed a liberal
interpretation upon its provisions to promote its plain
purpose of expeditiously and justly winding up the affairs
and paying the debts of such unfortunate institutions.
Studebaker v. Perry, 184 U. S. 258; Kennedy v. Gibson, 8
Wall. 498; United States v. Knox, 102 U. S. 422; Bushnell
v. Leland, 164 U. S. 684; and Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S.
251. There is nothing in the act to prevent the Comptroller from withdrawing an assessment before it is paid,
or when it is partly paid, if it should be concluded that
further payment is not necessary, and no form is prescribed
in which such action shall be taken by him. A large
executive discretion is given to the Comptroller in this
respect to adjust the assessments made, to the exigencies
of each case, so that the shareholders may not be burdened
by paying more than is necessary or at a time when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

money for any reason cannot be advantageously used.
The wisdom of giving such large discretion to the Comptroller finds excellent illustration in the case before us.
All persons interested in this bond transaction were convinced, in July, 1902, that further payment than that
which had been made would not be needed, and a construction should not be given to the act, its specific terms
not requiring it, which would prevent such action as was
taken by the Comptroller in withdrawing for the time
being the unpaid portion of the first assessment. We
conclude that the claim that the Comptroller did not
have power to recall the first assessment in whole or in
part is unsound in principle and wholly unsupported by
the terms of the act or by court decisions.
The remaining question is: Was it the understanding
that the payments to the Receiver should be applied upon
the statutory liability of the Savings Banks for which
assessment, then in full force, had been made by the
Comptroller?
The case was tried in large part upon a stipulation as to
the facts, which contains the following:
"Inasmuch as it was ultra vires of Savings Banks under
the statutes of the Commonwealth, as the Receiver and
Comptroller at the time well knew, to purchase such
bonds as an investment, it was arranged with the knowledge and approval of the Comptroller and the Receiver
that the Savings Banks in question, instead of purchasing
their proportion of the bonds, should pay the difference
between their then market value and what the National
Bank paid for them."
And also this:
The checks of the banks were received "Without any
agreement on the part of the Comptroller or Receiver
that the payments thereby made should in whole or in
part discharge the liability of the Savings Banks for or on
account of the indebtedness of the National Bank and

KORBLY v. SPRINGFIELD INST. FOR SAVGS.
330.

335

Opinion of the Court.

any stock assessments, excepting so far, if at all, as such
agreement or obligation may be lawfully implied from the
facts stated in this stipulation and such evidence as may
be introduced."
It is argued for the Receiver that if it had been understood or intended that the payments by the banks should
be credited on the outstanding assessment this would
very certainly have found written expression, if not elsewhere, in the receipts given and received for the payments.
It is notable that, although this bond purchase involved
more than half a million dollars, the terms and purposes
of it were not expressed in any writing, either between
the shareholders themselves or between the Receiver and
the shareholders, which indicates that the transaction,
while large, seemed simple to the men of affairs engaged in
it and that to their minds, at least, the implication from
the payments to be made could not be doubtful. The
shareholders who purchased the bonds had the prospecthow valuable it was the record does not indicate, but still
a prospect-of recouping their losses through a later increase in the market value of the bonds, but the Savings
Banks had no such prospect, because, not having legal authority to make such purchase their payment of what
equalled 82% of the assessment against them was a naked
payment, without chance of reimbursement, in whole or in
part, from any source.
The evidence introduced in addition to the stipulation
of facts is slight, consisting of contemporaneous entries
in the corporation record and account books of the banks,
and the endorsement on the checks by which payment
was made. This evidence is not conclusive, but the implications from it, such as they are, are favorable to the
contention of the banks.
Since no clearly definite expression is found in the record
either that these payments were or were not to be applied
on the shareholding liability of the Savings Banks, we are

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

required to decide which contention of the parties is the
more reasonable and probable, having regard to all the
facts and circumstances, stipulated and proved in the case.
There being no evidence to the contrary, we must adopt
the assumption of ordinary life and of law that the trustees
for the Savings Banks acted lawfully, within the limits
of their powers, and we must also have regard to the long
settled rule of law that where neither the debtor nor the
creditor has applied payments before controversy has
arisen the courts will make application of them in a manner to accomplish the ends of justice. United States v.
Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720; National Bank v. Mechanics
Bank, 94 U. S. 437, 439. When to this we add that natural justice, as distinguished from a technical conclusion,
requires that the Savings Banks be Allowed credit for the
payments that they have made, since thereby the creditors of the insolvent bank may get the benefit of the full
statutory liability of the shareholders without a new and
unanticipated obligation being imposed on the stockholding banks, we are compelled to resolve any doubt in
which the record might otherwise leave us in favor of the
defendants. It is impossible for us to conclude that the
officials of these savings banks, trustees as they were for
their depositors and stockholders, and having in mind
the limitations on their powers, as the stipulation declares
that they and the Receiver did have, should have made
these considerable payments in such a manner as not to
at all diminish the statutory liability of their banks,
especially since payments not made to be applied on the
assessment would be substantially unauthorized gifts,
for, as we have said, the banks had no prospect, as the
other stockholders had, of being reimbursed for such
payments by the possible rise in the market value of the
bonds.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be affirmed, but not on the ground stated in the opin-

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE CO. 337
330.

Syllabus.

ion of that court, and that the second assessment must be
held void because excessive. This, however, without
prejudice to the making of another assessment by the
Comptroller upon the shareholding banks for the difference, if needed, between the amount paid and the amount
of an assessment for the full statutory liability.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
CALIFORNIA BRIDGE & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 39, 40. Argued November 9, 12, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Claimant entered into a contract with the United States to erect certain structures "at the United States navy yard, Mare Island."
Held, upon the facts, as found by the court below, that the site selected before the execution of the contract was selected provisionally
and subject to be changed by the Government for some other location within the navy yard, and that claimant so understood when
the contract was made.
A judgment exonerating a surety on a government construction contract, upon the ground that the location of the work was changed by
the United States without the surety's consent, is not res judicata
in respect of the right of the United States to make the change as
against the principal contractor, when the latter was not a party to
the action in which the judgment was rendered and when the right
is dependent, not upon the terms of the written contract, but upon
notice and representations aliunde, which in the case of the surety

