OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

It is said that such acquisitions by colored persons
depreciate property owned in the neighborhood by white
persons. But property may be acquired by undesirable
white neighbors or put to disagreeable though lawful
uses with like results.
We think this attempt to prevent the alienation of the
property in question to a person of color was not a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State, and is in
direct violation of the fundamental law enacted in the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution preventing
state interference with property rights except by due
process of law. That being the case the ordinance cannot
stand. Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429; Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S. 606, 609.
Reaching this conclusion it follows that the judgment
of the Kentucky Court of Appeals must be reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

EX PARTE PARK & TILFORD, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 24.

Original. Argued October 15, 16, 1917.-Rule discharged
November 5, 1917.

Mandamus will not issue from this court to compel a subordinate
court to make a particular decision. The jurisdiction of this court
in that regard is no greater in a case in which the lower court's decision is by law made final than in those in which decisions are
reviewable in the ordinary ways.
The Court of Customs Appeals decided that under the last clause of
paragraph I, ยง 3, of the Tariff Act of 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 184,
the collector was required to assess certain goods upon their entered

EX PARTE PARK & TILFORD.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

value, unless directed otherwise by the Secretary of the Treasury;
and that the Secretary's refusal to give a contrary direction was
discretionary and not reviewable by the Board of General Appraisers
or by the Court of Customs Appeals; and, upon these grounds,
affirmed the Board's decision. Held, that the court had taken jurisdiction and decided the case upon its merits and that mandamus
would not lie to compel it to inquire into and pass upon the Secretary's refusal.
Rule discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Vincent P. Donihee, with whom Mr. Edward S.
Hatch was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren, with whom
The Solicitor Generalwas on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to require
the Judges of the United States Court of Customs Appeals
to take jurisdiction of a certain cause, and to consider
and decide the same upon its merits. The rule to show
cause having issued, the judges made return, and set
forth the proceedings in the Court of Customs Appeals,
and averred that the court had decided the case of the
petitioner, and if the writ of mandamus issued, it would
only require the court to do that which it had already
done.
From the return and the record attached to the petition
it appears: Park & Tilford, petitioner, imported certain
merchandise at the port of New York under the Tariff
Act of 1913. The Collector of Customs assessed and
liquidated the duties at the entered value. The importer
claimed assessment at the value decided upon on final
reappraisement, which was less than the amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

entered value. This claim was made under paragraph I
of ยง 3 of the Act of 1913, 38 Stat. 114, 184, which provides:
"The duty shall not, however, be assessed in any case
upon an amount less than the entered value, unless by
direction of the Secretary of the Treasury in cases in which
the importer certifies at the time of entry that the entered
value is higher than the foreign market value and that
the goods are so entered in order to meet advances by
the appraiser in similar cases then pending on appeal for
reappraisement, and the importer's contention shall subsequently be sustained by a final decision on reappraisement, and it shall appear that the action of the importer
on entry was taken in good faith after due diligence and
inquiry on his part, and the Secretary of the Treasury
shall accompany his directions with a statement of his
conclusions and his reasons therefor."
The importers entered the goods upon an invoice which
stated the gross price and allowed 15% deduction therefrom; at entry the importers advanced the value by reducing the deduction to 6%. At the time of entry the
importer, in each case, made an addition to the invoice
value to make market value, stating the additions were
made to meet advances in similar cases then pending
upon appeal for reappraisement.
On appeal for reappraisement the goods were appraised
at a value which differed from the invoice value, being
2y2% more than invoice price of the goods, and 6y %
less than the entered value.
The petitioner requested the Secretary of the Treasury
to reliquidate the entries; this the Secretary refused to do,
stating his reasons as follows:
"You are advised that in all cases where the importer
has failed to make a specific contention as to market value,
the department regards the contention as being for the
invoice value; and where the final reappraised value is
below the entered value, but not as low as the value

EX PARTE PARK & TILFORD.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

contended for by the importer, it is the practice of the
department to decline to authorize a reduction of the
entered Value, on the ground that the importer's contention has not been sustained. This practice is based
upon the department's knowledge of the purpose and
intent of the law, and is of such long standing that it
will not make any change therein.
"You are advised therefore that if the entries enumerated in your petition come within the class mentioned
above, the department's final action with reference thereto
would necessarily be in accordance with its practice outlined above."
In a subsequent letter the Secretary reiterated this
view, the petitioner protested, and the protest was submitted to the Board of General Appraisers, and was
overruled, and the importer appealed to the Court of
Customs Appeals.
An inspection of the opinion of the court, which accompanies the petition, makes it apparent that the court
did take jurisdiction of the case and decided it, placing its
decision upon the ground that the statute requires the
assessment made by the Collector in the absence of a direction of the Secretary of the Treasury to the contrary.
The court held that the Secretary's refusal to so direct
the Collector was not reviewable by the Board of General
Appraisers nor by the Court of Customs Appeals; that
neither the Board nor the court could control the discretion lodged by the statute in the Secretary, and affirmed
the decision of the Board.
It is elementary that the writ of mandamus will not
issue to require the court to make a particular decision,
and may only be invoked where the purpose is to require
action of a court of competent jurisdiction, where such
court has refused to exercise the power of decision with
which it is invested by law. We think it clear that the
Court of Customs Appeals did take jurisdiction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

case of the petitioner on appeal from the order of the
Board of General Appraisers, and decided it according to
its interpretation of the statutes of the United States.
These facts warrant the statements of the respondents
in their return-that if the writ should issue, requiring
a decision of the case, they could only repeat the decision
which they have already made.
The fact that the law makes the decision of the United
States Court of Customs Appeals final in this class of
cases does not broaden the authority of this court to issue
writs of the character now invoked; it follows that the
rule must be discharged.
And it is so ordered.

GAUZON v. COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS
DE FILIPINAS.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 437.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 15, 1917.Decided November 5, 1917.

In a proceeding for the registration of land, begun in the Philippine
Court of Land Registration and appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Islands, where the former court decreed registration of a part
of the land to a petitioner claiming all under a mortgage and foreclosure, but refused registration of the rest upon the ground that it
was not shown to have been included in the mortgage, and where the
latter court, finding as a fact that all was so included, modified the
judgment so as to decree that all should be registered: Held, that
the last mentioned judgment was properly reviewable by writ of
error, and, the case being before this court upon such writ, an appeal which was also taken must be dismissed.
Upon writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, in a case which was decided upon issues of fact, this

