OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

HOUSTON OIL COMPANY OF TEXAS ET AL. v.
GOODRICH ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Argued November 21, 22, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

A writ of certiorari, if improvidently granted, will be dismissed. So
held where the alleged errors consisted in refusing to submit certain
questions to the jury in an action over the title to land, and where
the rulings of the District Court depended essentially on an appreciation of the evidence and were concurred in by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Writ of certiorari to review 226 Fed. Rep. 434, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William L. Marbury and Mr. H. 0. Head, with
whom Mr. Oswald S. Parkerand Mr. Thomas M. Kennerly
were on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. William D. Gordon, with whom Mr. Harrison M.
Whitaker, Mr. Eugene E. Easterling and Mr. Thomas J.
Baten were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
After hearing arguments upon the issues involved in
this cause it seems clear that the writ of certiorari was
improvidently granted and must be dismissed. Furness,
Withy & Co. v. Yang-Tsze Ins. Assn., 242 U. S. 430.
The controversy (presented in an action. at law) is over
title to a tract of land in Texas. Both parties claim under
one Felder-petitioners through a deed said to have been

BOLDT v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
440.

Syllabus.

executed June 10, 1839, and respondents through one
dated June 18, 1839.
As grounds for granting the writ petitioners alleged
that the trial court erred in refusing to submit to the jury
(1) whether the deed first dated was in fact executed (2)
whether it was presented for record before execution of
the later one (3) whether vendee in the junior deed was
a bona fide purchaser for value (4) whether the junior
deed was forged and (5) whether the action was barred
by the three years statute of limitations. The propriety
of submitting these matters depended essentially upon
an appreciation of the evidence. Having heard it all the
trial court concluded there was not enough in support of
any one of petitioners' above stated claims to warrant a
finding in their favor and the Circuit Court of Appeals
reached the same result. 226 Fed. Rep. 434.
The record discloses no sufficient reason within the
rule long observed why we should review the judgment
below. Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506.
Dismissed.

BOLDT, ADMINISTRATRIX OF BOLDT, v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 62.

Argued November 16, 19, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, except in the cases specified in ยง 4, the employee assumes extraordinary risks incident to his
employment, and risks due to negligence of employer and fellow
employees, when obvious or fully known and appreciated by him.
While between cars in a freight yard, helping to repair a faulty coupler,
plaintiff's intestate was killed, due to the impact of a string of cars,

