OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus. "

245 U. S.

199 U. S. 547; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420; Johnson v.
Hoy, 227 U. S. 245. If that rule applied, therefore, our
duty would be to affirm, unless this case could be treated
as coming within the exceptional class. But we do not
deem it necessary to enter into that consideration because, even if it were found to be embraced in such class,
every constitutional question relied upon has been this
day in Arver v. United States, [the Selective Draft Law
Cases,] ante, 366, decided to be without merit. Because
of this situation, therefore, without departing from the
general principle, we think it suffices in this case to apply
the ruling made in the Arver Case and, for the reasons
stated in the opinion therein, to affirm.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. MORENA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 523.

Argued December 13, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

The second proviso in § 8 of the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, permitting naturalization of aliens who cannot speak English if before the passage of that act they have made
declarations of intention in conformity with prior laws, has no bearing on the relation of the seven-year limitation prescribed by § 4,
subdivision second, of the act, to declarations filed before its passage.
Giving effect to the purpose expressed in the title of the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, "to provide for a uniform rule for the
naturalization of aliens throughout the United States," the requirement of subdivision second of § 4, that the petition for citizenship
shall be filed not more than seven years after the alien has made
his declaration of intention, is held applicable to declarations made

UNITED STATES v. MORENA.
392.

Opinion of the Court.

before the act was passed; the enactment does not invalidate such
old declarations, but the time runs upon them from its date. So
held where the declaration was made December 15, 1905, and the
petition for citizenship was not filed until December 21, 1914.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fitts for the United
States.
No appearance for Morena.
MR.JUPTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This certificate presents for construction certain sections of an Act of Congress, approved June 29, 1906, and
entitled "An Act to establish a Bureau of Immigration
and Naturalization and to provide for a uniform rule
for the naturalization of aliens throughout the United
States." C. 3592, 34 Stat. 596.
The pertinent parts of the act are as follows:
"Sec. 4. That an alien may be admitted to and become a citizen of the United States in the following manner and not otherwise:
"First. He shall declare on oath before the clerk of
any court authorized by this Act to naturalize aliens, or
his authorized deputy, in the district in which such alien
resides, two years at least prior to his admission, and
after he has reached the age of eighteen years, that it is
bona fide his intention to become a citizen of the United
States . . .:Provided, however, That no alien who, in
conformity with the law in force at the date of his declaration, has declared his intention to become a citizen of the
United States shall be required to renew such declaration.
"Second. Not less than two years nor more than seven
years after he has made such declaration of intention he

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

shall make and file, in duplicate, a petition" for citizenship.
The facts certified are these:
Morena, on December 15, 1905, declared his intention
to become a citizen of the United States, and on December 21, 1914, filed in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvania a petition
for citizenship. On April 6, 1915, the petition was granted
and he was admitted to citizenship.
In July, 1915, the United States filed in the District
Court a bill praying that the order admitting Morena to
citizenship be vacated and his certificate be canceled,
upon the ground, among others, that the certificate was
void because it had been granted upon a petition filed
more than seven years after he had made his declaration
and more than seven years after the passage of the Act
of Congress of June 29, 1906.
The District Court dismissed the bill and an appeal
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, reciting that there are
conflicting decisions upon the construction of the act of
Congress, has certified the following questions:
"1. Is a declaration of intention made before the naturalization act of 1906 saved by the proviso of the first
paragraph from the seven-year limitation of the second
paragraph of section 4 of the act?
"2. Is an alien who has made a declaration of intention
before the act of 1906 required to file his petition for
citizenship at a time not more than seven years after
the date of such declaration of intention?
"3. Is an alien who has made a declaration of intention before the act of 1906 required to file his petition
for citizenship at a time not more than seven years after
the date of the act?"
The question in the case then, to state it succinctly,

UNITED STATES v. MORENA.
392.

Opinion of the Court.

is whether the Act of 1906 is applicable to declarations
of intention made prior to its passage and to what extent
applicable, if at all.
That the question is susceptible of different answers is
indicated by the diversity of views ' of the courts which
have passed upon it.
The cases that have answered the question in the negative have invoked in support of their view the presumption that statutes have prospective operation unless controlled by contrary intention clearly expressed and certain
provisions of the act which indicate, it was said, that it
was not the intention of Congress to invalidate a declaration of intention made prior to the act "at any future
time." And one case adduces the contemporaneous
construction of an administrative board.
The words especially relied on are those of the proviso
in the first paragraph of § 4 and those of § 8.2 The latter
I The cases deciding that the seven-year limitation is applicable to
prior declarations are as follows:
In re Goldstein (D. C.), 211 Fed. Rep. 163; Yunghauss v. United
States (C. C. A., 2nd Cir.), 218 Fed. Rep. 168, sustaining 210 Fed. Rep.
545; Harmon v. United States (C. C. A., 1st Cir.), 223 Fed. Rep. 425,
affirming decree of District Court; and In re Lee (D. C.), 236 Fed. Rep.
987.
The cases contra are:
Eichhorst v. Lindsey (D. C.), 209 Fed. Rep. 708; In re Anderson
(D. C.), 214 Fed. Rep. 662. And to like effect are: United States v.
Lengyell (D. C.), 220 Fed. Rep. 720; In re Valhoff (D. C.), 238 Fed.
Rep. 405; Linger v. Balfour, 149 S. W. Rep. 795.
2 "See. 8. That no alien shall hereafter be naturalized or admitted
as a citizen of the United States who cannot speak the English language:
Provided, That this requirement shall not apply to aliens who are
physically unable to comply therewith, if they are otherwise qualified
to become citizens of the United States: And provided further, That
the requirements of this section shall not apply to any alien who has
prior to the passage of this Act declared his intention to become a
citizen of the United States in conformity with the law in force at the
date of making such declaration: Provided further, That the require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

may be disregarded. It prohibits the naturalization of
aliens who cannot speak the English language, if physically
able to do so, but preserves prior declarations if made in
conformity with law in force at their date. The proviso
of § 4 deserves more notice. It is that no alien whose
declaration conformed to law when made "shall be required to renew such declaration." To this provision
the cases we have summarized-and we refer to them
because there is no brief on file for Morena-have ascribed the direct influence of excluding declarations theretofore made.
We cannot assent to that view or to the view that if a
limitation be put upon the time to complete the declaration by the final application for citizenship it can be
construed as invalidating the declaration. It is no destruction of a right or privilege to limit the time for its
assertion, and the cited provision does no more. Section 4
prescribes a time for completing the declaration, a time
so liberal, regarding the privilege granted and the reason
for granting and seeking it, as not to be considered in any
just appreciation of words as even a limitation of it. And
there was appealing purpose. There were reasons for
diligence and reasons for giving to all declarations the
same duration.
It is to be remembered that the resolution of the alien
to change his allegiance is expressed in his declaration.
The interval of time between it and admission to citizenship is the precaution of the law to assure of qualification.
In the old law this interval could not be less than two
years, and so in the new law. Aside from this there was
no other prescription in the old law of the time that should
ments of section eight shall not apply to aliens who shall hereafter
declare their intention to become citizens and who shall make homestead entries upon the public lands of the United States and comply
in all respects with the laws providing for homestead entries on such
lands."

UNITED STATES v. MORENA.
392.

Opinion of the Court.

elapse between the declaration and the final petition.
The minimum of time was preserved in the new law, but
there was a maximum time prescribed for the completion
of the declaration, and unless this was made applicable
to "old-law declarations" as well as to "new-law declarations," the Act of 1906 would not do what its title
declares it was intended to do-"provide for a uniform
rule for the naturalization of aliens throughout the United
States."
A limitation of time even upon the assertion of a right
theretofore having no limitation upon its assertion, or a
different limitation, is not infrequent, and its legality
is unquestionable if a time reasonable, in view of the
subject-matter, be given. Wilson v. Iseminger, 185 U. S.
55; Soper v. Lawrence Brothers Co., 201 U. S.359; Blinn v.
Nelson, 222 U. S.1. See also Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall.
596; Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Laramie Stockyards Co.,
231 U. S. 190. This being the power of Congress, there
were, as we have seen, promptings to its exercise.
The act, therefore, does not invalidate old declarations.
It only specifies a time for their realization, a time ample
to consider and estimate the value of realization, the
extent of its duty and responsibility, a time determined
and applied, therefore, upon full consideration; and we
are not impressed with the argument that would assign
an eternity of duration to prior declarations.
The first question certified would seem to be addressed
to the view that the Act of 1906 made nugatory declarations theretofore filed. This, however, is not urged by
the Government and we consider it untenable for the
reasons which we have already expressed. Such has been
the ruling of the cases.
We therefore answer the first and second questions in
the negative and the third in the affirmative.
And it is so ordered.

