OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 I. S.

JONES ET AL. v. BUFFALO CREEK COAL & COKE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 293.

Argued November 5, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

Error committed by the District Court in admitting former judgments
in evidence and in rendering judgment on such evidence against a
party who objects that they do not bind him but who is fully heard
does not constitute a denial of due process of law.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Maynard F. Stiles for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. William R. Lilly and Mr. Robert C. Alston, with
whom Mr. Philip H. Alston, Mr. C. W. Campbell, Mr.
Douglas W. Brown, Mr. Cary N. Davis and Mr. R. L.
Shrewsbury were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by the Buffalo
Creek Coal & Coke Company in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of West Virginia.
Jurisdiction of that court was invoked solely on the ground
of diversity of citizenship. A verdict was directed for
the plaintiff below; and the case was brought here by direct
writ of error, defendants below claiming that, by the action
of the lowercourt, they have been deprived of their property without due process of law in violation of the Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments of the Federal Constitution.

JONES v. BUFFALO CREEK COAL CO.
328.

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff below set up title from the State derived
through mesne conveyances, by virtue of sales made for
the benefit of the school fund under statutes which have
repeatedly been held valid by this court.' The action
of which defendants complain as depriving them of due
process of law, is the admission in evidence herein of the
records and papers in three proceedings brought in the
state courts of West Virginia under these statutes, and
the rendering of judgment herein against them. As the
action now complained of is not the action of a State, the
Fourteenth Amendment can have no application. And
the claim that the action of the court violates the Fifth
Amendment is likewise unfounded.
It was the contention of the plaintiff below that the
records and papers in the three suits established title in
those under whom it claims; and also that the decrees in
those suits created res judicata as against the defendant,
because their predecessors in title had been parties or
privies to those suits. The defendants below contended,
among other things, that the premises in question were
not within the tracts affected by one or more of the decrees in those suits and that they were not bound by any
of them. It is conceivable that the defendants below
were right in whole or in part, and that the trial judge
erred in admitting some or all of the evidence objected
to and in rendering judgment for the plaintiff. But error
of a trial judge in admitting evidence or entering judgment after full hearing does not constitute a denial of due
process of law. Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103,
112. The writ of error must be
Dismissed.
1King v. Mullins, 171 U. S. 404; King v. PantherLumber Co., 171
U. S. 437; Swann v. Treasurerof West Virginia, 188 U. S. 739; King v.
West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92; Fay v. Crozer, 217 U. S. 455; King v.
Buskirk, 231 U. S. 735.

