OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

in the property secured. We think that Congress in the
Bankruptcy Act did not intend any such result, but meant
to permit the trustee in bankruptcy to have the benefit
of state laws of this character which do not conflict with
the aims and purposes of the federal law. And certainly,
in view of the provisions of ยง 70e of the Bankruptcy Act,
Congress did not intend to permit a conveyance such as

is here involved to stand which creditors might attack
and avoid under the state law for the benefit of general
creditors of the estate.
From what we have said it follows that Questions A and
B should be answered in the negative, and it is unnecessary to answer Question C.
So ordered.

WEEKS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME
OF 0. J. WEEKS & COMPANY, v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 109.

Submitted January 2, 1918.-Decided February 4, 1918.

The Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3915, ยง 8, 34 Stat. 768,
specifies and defines at least two kinds of "misbranding "-one
where the article bears a false or misleading label, and the other
where it is offered for sale under the distinctive name of another
article.
In either case, it is not the misbranding that is made unlawful, but the
shipment or delivery for shipment from one State to another, of the
misbranded article.
That this is a legitimate exertion of the power of Congress to regulate
interstate commerce is settled by previous decisions.
It is also settled that the negotiation of sales of goods which are in

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
618.

Opinion of the Court.

another State, for the purpose of introducing them into the State in
which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce.
Upon a charge of misbranding by offering for sale under the distinctive
name of another article, held, that the trial court properly received
evidence that the shipment was made to fill an order obtained by
the defendant's agent by so misrepresenting the article, and properly
declined to confine the jury's attention to the label borne by the
article when it was shipped.
Whether the court below was correct in viewing intent as not an element in such a case and so in holding that sanction by defendant of
his agent's misrepresentations was immaterial, this court need not
determine, since the trial court instructed the jury that such authority must appear beyond reasonable doubt, and, as the record
neither shows that defendant objected to this mode of submitting
the question nor purports to contain all the evidence, the verdict of
guilty must be taken as determining conclusively that he sanctioned
the representations.
224 Fed. Rep. 64, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter Jeffreys Carlin for petitioner.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General

Friersonfor the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a prosecution under the Act of June 30, 1906,
c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, upon a charge of shipping an article
of food in interstate commerce in circumstances making
the shipment a violation of the act. The information contained two counts, both charging that the article was misbranded,-one because it bore a false and misleading label, and the other because it was offered for sale as lemon
oil when in truth it was an imitation thereof containing
alcohol and citral derived from lemon grass. In the District Court there was a conviction upon both counts, and
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the conviction as

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

to the first count and affirmed it as to the second. 224
Fed. Rep. 64. The judgment upon the latter is all that
is brought here for review.
The defendant was engaged in making and selling various articles of food used by bakers, confectioners and
ice cream makers, including the article with which this
prosecution is concerned. On the occasion in question he
shipped from one State to another a quantity of this article labeled "Special Lemon. Lemon Terpene and Citral." The printed record, although not purporting to contain all the evidence, shows that there was testimony
tending to prove the following facts, among others: The
shipment was made to fill an order solicited and taken by
a traveling salesman in the defendant's employ. The
salesman had been supplied by the defendant with a
sample bottle of the article which was labeled simply
"Special Lemon." In offering the article for sale and soliciting the order the salesman exhibited the sample and represented that the article was pure lemon oil obtained by
a second pressing and that this pressing produced a good,
if not the best, oil. In truth the article was not lemon oil,
but an imitation thereof containing alcohol and citral
made from lemon grass. Some of the elements of lemon
oil were present in other than the usual proportions and
others were entirely wanting.
The testimony respecting the salesman's representations was admitted over the defendant's objection; and later the court denied a request on the part of the defendant
that the jury be instructed that this testimony could not
be considered, but only the statement appearing on the
label when the article was shipped. In that connection
the court told the jury that the defendant could not be
held responsible criminally by reason of any representations made by the salesman unless it appeared beyond a
reasonable doubt that the same were made by the defendant's authority.

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
618.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant, who is the petitioner here, complains
of the admission and consideration of this testimony and
insists that under the statute the question whether an article is misbranded turns entirely upon how it is labeled
when it is shipped, regardless of any representations made
by a salesman, or even the vendor, in offering it for sale.
The statute, in its second section, makes it unlawful to
ship or deliver for shipment from one State to another
"any article of food or drugs which is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this act." In its eighth
section it declares:
"That the term 'misbranded,' as used herein, shall apply to all drugs, or articles of food, or articles which enter
into the composition of food, .the package or label of which
shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding such
article, or the ingredients or substances contained therein
which shall be false or misleading in any particular, and
to any food or drug product which is falsely branded as to
the State, Territory, or country in which it is manufactured or produced.
"That for the purposes of this Act an article shall also
be deemed to be misbranded:
"In the case of drugs:
"In the case of food:
"First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under
the distinctive name of another article."
This section contains other provisions relating to misbranding, but they are not material here and need not be
set forth or specially noticed.
It is apparent that the statute specifies and defines at
least two kinds of misbranding,-one where the article
bears a false or misleading label, and the other where it
is offered for sale under the distinctive name of another
article. The two are quite distinct, a deceptive label being an essential element of one, but not of the other. No

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

doubt both involve a measure of deception, but they differ in respect of the mode in which it is practiced. Evidently each is intended to cover a field of its own, for
otherwise there would be no occasion for specifying and
defining both. That one article of food may be offered for
sale in the distinctive name of another, and the offer accomplish its purpose, without the aid of a false or misleading label hardly needs statement.
The statute does not attempt to make either kind of
misbranding unlawful in itself, but does, as before indicated, make it unlawful to ship or deliver for shipment
from one State to another an article of food which is misbranded in either way. That this is a legitimate exertion
of the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce
is settled by our decisions. Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S.
115, 128; Seven Cases of Eckman's Alterative v. United
States, 239 U. S. 510, 514. It also is settled by our decisions that "the negotiation of sales of goods which are in
another State, for the purpose of introducing them into
the State in which the negotiation is made, is interstate
commerce." Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S.
489, 497; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389, 396.
It follows that the testimony respecting the representations of the defendant's traveling salesman was rightly
admitted in evidence and submitted to the jury. It tended
to prove that the order, to fill which the shipment was
made, was obtained by offering the article for sale in the
distinctive name of another article, and therefore that the
article was misbranded within the meaning of the statute.
To have confined the jury's attention to the label borne by
the article when it was shipped, as was requested by the
defendant, would have been to disregard the nature of the
charge in the second count and the distinction between
the two kinds of misbranding.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals the view was expressed

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
618.

Opinion of the Court.

that intent was not an element of the offense charged in
the second count and therefore that it was immaterial
whether the representations of the salesman had the sanction of the defendant. Complaint is now made of this.
But the question is not in the case, the view expressed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals not being essential to an affirmance of the judgment. The District Court had expressly instructed the jury that to hold the defendant
responsible criminally by reason of such representations
it must appear, and appear beyond a reasonable doubt,
that they were made by his authority. The record before
us does not show that the defendant objected to the submission of this question to the jury in this way; neither
does it purport to contain all the evidence. The verdict
therefore must be taken as conclusively determining that
the representations were made with the defendant's sanction.
Judgment affirmed.

