OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
BARBER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 252, 253.

Argued November 5, 6, 1917.-Decided November 19, 1917.

In a suit against a life insurance company by its certificate holders, it
was adjudged by a court of the State of the company's domicile and
in which were its funds that, subject to a limitation as to amount,
the company might keep up as theretofore a mortuary fund which
it had been its custom to replenish and maintain through assessments
made by the executive officers under supervision and control of the
board of directors. In a later action in a court of another State,
such an assessment was held void, in spite of the judgment, upon the
grounds, first, that the assessment exceeded the power of the company and the limit fixed by the judgment, and, second, that it was
not made by the board of directors as required by the company's
charter. Held, that the second ground of the decision, even if it
did not itself deny full faith and credit to the judgment and the
charter, was at most a mere make weight, which could not be treated
as an independent local basis of decision, and that this court was
therefore at liberty to review and reverse the decision upon the first
ground, as one denying full faith and credit to the judgment with
respect to the amount of the assessment.
The Connecticut judgment considered in Hartford Life Insurance Co.
v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, providing that any excess in the mortuary
fund above the average amount of the four preceding quarterly
assessments, in the Men's Division of the Insurance Company's
Safety Fund Department, must be distributed to certificate holders
by crediting such excess on account of the next succeeding assessment, authorized the company, in assessing for a given quarter, to
levy an amount sufficient not only to reimburse the fund for losses
accrued at the time of levy, but also sufficient, when added to the
balance on hand, to maintain the fund up to the average amount of
the last four quarterly assessments, for the purpose of meeting
future losses promptly, as they occurred. In holding that an assessment was void because it exceeded the difference between such
average amount and the amount remaining in the fund after dd-

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BARBER.
146.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ducting death losses up to the time of levy only, the Supreme
Court of Missouri failed to accord the judgment full faith and
credit.
269 Missouri, 21, reversed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James C. Jones, with whom Mr. F. W. Lehmann was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles E. Morrow, with whom Mr. Robert Kelley
was on the briefs, for defendant in error, while contending
that the court below had correctly applied the Connecticut judgment, urged that this court was without jurisdiction because the decision rested on an independent
non-federal ground, viz: That the assessment was void because not levied by proper authority, and because no
record was made or kept of it. The charter of the company places the management of its affairs in its board of
directors and the assessment made by the president and
secretary was a nullity. It called for the exercise of discretion on the part of the directors and this power cannot
be delegated. Farmers Milling Co. v. Insurance Company, 127 Iowa, 314; Farmers Mutual Ins. Co. v. Chase,
56 N. H. 341; Garretson v. Equitable &c. Assn., 93 Iowa,
403; Bacon on Benefit Soc. & Ins., ยง 377. No such delegation was attempted. It is incompetent to show that
it was a custom of the president and secretary to make
assessments without authority, unless it further appears
that the insured had knowledge of it. Niblack on Benefit Societies, ยง 252; Underwood v. Legion of Honor, 66
Iowa, 134.
The assessment in one of the suits was void because it
included money for taxes erroneously claimed to be
exacted under the laws of Missouri.
Counsel also contended that the court below gave full
faith and credit to the company's charter, as to the powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of the officers and directors respecting assessments, and
that the constitutional objection in this regard was made
too late under the Missouri practice; also that this court
had no jurisdiction to pass upon the questions whether
there was a delegation and whether the insured knew of
the alleged custom if it existed, etc., because they involved
determination of fact, which this court may not do on
writ of error.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are suits upon two certificates of qualified life
insurance issued to Frank Barber and payable at his
death to his wife, the plaintiff-defendant in error here.
The defence in both suits was the same; that Barber failed
to pay a mortuary assessment levied on January 29, 1910,
known as quarterly call No. 126, and that the failure
avoided the policies by their terms. It set up further that,
in a suit brought by one Dresser on behalf of himself and
all certificate holders, including the plaintiff, in the Connecticut court having jurisdiction over the defendant and
the mortuary fund from which alone, by the contract,
death losses were payable, it was adjudicated on March 23,
1910, that if a certificate holder failed to pay a mortuary
assessment the company could not pay the insurance in
case of his death.
At the trial the Connecticut judgment was offered and
excluded and the jury were instructed that the defendant
must prove that an assessment was made by the directors
of the company and that it was not for a larger amount
than was necessary to pay death losses up to that time
after giving Barber credit for his pro rata share in the
mortuary fund; that if there was money on hand in that
fund, and unless the defendant had "so proved," it could
not declare the insurance forfeited on that account. This
instruction was in the teeth of the Connecticut adjudica-

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BARBER.
146.

Opinion of the Court.

tion which held that it was proper and reasonable for the
company to hold a fund collected in advance in order to
enable it to pay losses promptly. The plaintiff recovered
judgments and these were sustained by the Supreme Court
of Missouri. 269 Missouri, 21. The defendant says that
it was denied its constitutional rights by a failure to give
due faith and credit to the judgment of the Connecticut
court.
The transactions were of the class before this court in
Hartford Life Insurance Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, which
arose on a similar contract and a failure to pay the call
next after the one in question here. In that case the character of the business arrangements was explained and it
was decided that the Dresser judgment binds all certificate
holders of the class to which Barber belonged. The
Missouri court, indicating some dissatisfaction with the
company and the judgments in Connecticut and here,
sought to justify a different result by distinctions that
seem to us unreal. The first is that at the end of the
quarter for which the assessment was levied, that is on
December 31, 1909, after deducting all losses in respect
of which the assessment was laid, there was still left, of
the fund out of which the losses were paid, over $50,000,
which the assessment would increase to over $375,000;
that $300,000 was all that was allowed by the contract
"as modified by the [Connecticut] judgment"; and that
the assessment therefore was excessive and void. The
other distinction attempted is that the charter requires
all of the affairs of the company to be managed and controlled by a board of not less than seven directors, and
that the assessment was not levied by the board.
It is obvious on the evidence that this assessment was
levied in the usual way adopted by the company and
tacitly sanctioned by the Connecticut judgment. Quarterly mortality calls were provided for and were regularly
made in this way for the appointed dates. A jury would

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

have been justified, at least, in finding that the call was
made by the directors within the meaning of the instructions although it did not appear that the directors went
over the figures of the officers who made it up, and voted
it specifically. It clearly was made under the directors'
management and control. The verdicts for the plaintiff
hardly could have been rendered except upon the other
ground opened by the instructions, that the assessment
was for a larger amount than was necessary to pay death
losses up to that time. Upon that ground the verdicts
were a matter of course, and we regard the reference to
the directors' part in the assessment as a make weight
which adds nothing to the substantial basis for the decision below. See Terre Haute & IndianapolisR. R. Co. v.
Indiana, 194 U. S. 579, 589. Therpowers given by the
Connecticut charter are entitled to the same credit elsewhere as the judgment of the Connecticut court. Supreme
Council of the Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531,
542.
As we have said the instruction was in the teeth of the
Connecticut judgment by which under the Ibs Case the
plaintiff was bound. The verdicts were based upon fundamental error, and the only real question in the case is
whether it appears as matter of law that under correct
instructions the same result must have been reached.
The Connecticut judgment was that any excess in the
mortuary fund above the average of the four preceding
quarterly assessments in the Men's Division of the Safety
Fund Department (taken for the purposes of these cases
to be $300,000), shall be distributed to certificate holders
in diminution of assessments by crediting the excess on
account of the next succeeding assessment. This contemplates a possible excess and does not limit the assessment to a sum equal to the difference between $300,000 and
the fund on hand after deducting the deaths that had
occurred at the time when the assessment was levied,

GOULD v. GOULD.
146.

Syllabus.

as was assumed by the Missouri court. Deaths were
occurring between the time of the levy and the time when
so much of it as might be paid would be paid in. The
assessment was for the purpose of keeping up a fund of
$300,000 to meet deaths promptly, as they occurred.
Without giving the figures in detail it is enough to say
that it clearly appears that the amount of the assessment,
$322,378.48, was not in excess of what the subsequently
rendered Connecticut judgment allowed. It necessarily
was levied as an estimate. There was no probability that
it would lead to even a temporary excess over $300,000, to
be applied to the next assessment laid. We are of opinion
that full~faith and credit was not given to the Connecticut
record and that for that reason the present judgments
must be reversed.
Judgments reversed.

GOULD v. GOULD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 41.

Submitted November 8, 1917.-Decided November 19, 1917.

Alimony paid monthly to a divorced wife under a decree of court is
not taxable as "income" under the Income Tax Act of October 3,
1913, 38 Stat. 114, 166.
In the interpretation of taxing statutes it is the established rule not
to extend their provisions, by implication, beyond the clear import
of the language used, or to enlarge their operations so as to embrace
matters not specifically pointed out. Doubts are resolved against
the Government.
168 App. Div. 900, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

