EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
Syllabus.

EAGLE GLASS & MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
ROWE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS PRESIDENT
OF THE AMERICAN FLINT GLASS WORKERS'
UNION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 23.

Submitted December 18, 1916.-Decided December 10, 1917.

In a suit to restrain alleged concerted wrongful conduct upon the part
of officials of a labor union, a temporary injunction should not be
granted against those who were not served and did not submit themselves to the jurisdiction.
The bill alleged that the answering defendants had constituted other
persons named as defendants their agents and representatives and
had assisted and were supporting them in their alleged wrongful
conduct. Held, in view of specific denials and supporting affidavits,
not rebutted, that the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in dissolving the temporary injunction.
Where an application for a temporary injunction has been submitted
upon affidavits taken ex parte, without opportunity for crossexamination, and without any consent that the court proceed to
final determination of the merits, it is error for the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon interlocutory appeal to direct a dismissal of the bill unless on its face there is no ground for equitable relief.
The plaintiff's bill set up a contract with its employees identical in
form with the contract involved in Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, ante, 229, and charged defendants with the formation and
pursuit of a scheme to "unionize" the plaintiff's shop by interfering
with its employees similar in nature, motive and methods to the
scheme held illegal in that case. Held, that the bill stated an equitable cause of action, and that it was error for the Circuit Court of
Appeals to dismiss it on interlocutory appeal without affording
plaintiff an opportunity to prove the allegations upon final hearing,
as against the defendants within the jurisdiction.
219 Fed. Rep. 719, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Mr. George R. E. Gilchrist and Mr. Hannis Taylor for
appellant and petitioner.
Mr. John A. Howard for appellees and respondents.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is quite similar to Hitchman Coal & Coke Co.
v. Mitchell, No. 11, this day decided, ante, 229, and was
submitted at the time of the argument of that case. It
was a suit in equity, commenced July 28, 1913, in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
West Virginia. This was after that court had rendered its
final decree in the Hitchman Case (202 Fed. Rep. 512), and
the decree awarding a temporary injunction herein was
made before the reversal of the final decree in the Hitchman
Case by the Circuit Court of Appeals (214 Fed.. Rep. 685).
The plaintiff, Eagle Glass & Manufacturing Company,
is a West Virginia corporation, having its principal office
and its manufacturing plant in that State. The object
of the bill was to restrain the defendants, officers and members of the American Flint Glass Workers' Union, a voluntary association having its principal office at Toledo,
in the State of Ohio, from interfering with the relations
existing between plaintiff and its employees for the purpose of compelling plaintiff to "unionize" its factory. The
original defendants, Thomas W. Rowe, Joseph Gillooly,
and three others, were among the chief executive officers
of the Union, and were sued individually and as such officers. The federal jurisdiction was invoked on the ground
of diversity of citizenship, it being alleged that all of the
defendants were citizens of the State of Ohio.
Upon the filing of the bill, with numerous affidavits
verifying its averments, and showing that plaintiff's factory was run as a non-union shop under individual agreements with its employees, each employee having signed a

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

paper declaring that he was not a member of the American
Flint Glass Workers' Union and would not become a member while an employee of the Eagle Company, that the
company agreed that it would run non-union while he was
in its employ, that if at any time while so employed he
desired to become connected with the Union he would
withdraw from the employ of the company, and that while
in its employ he would not make any effort amongst its
employees to bring about the unionizing of the plant
against the company's wish; that the defendants, with
notice of this, were making efforts, through Gillooly as
organizer, and threatening further efforts to induce some
of plaintiff's employees to quit its employ, and to persuade
others secretly to join the Union and remain at work in
plaintiff's factory contrary to the terms of their agreement
until a sufficient number had joined so as to be able by
threatening to quit in a body to compel the unionization
of the shop; and that by the activities of defendants the
plaintiff was threatened with irreparable injury; the District Court granted a restraining order.
Process requiring, defendants to answer the bill was
promptly issued, but was served upon Gillooly alone,
together with the restraining order. At the request of an
attorney, a general appearance was entered for the other
defendants. Gillooly filed an answer, amounting to a plea
to the jurisdiction of the court, based upon the allegation
that he was a resident and citizen of the State of West
Virginia, and not of the State of Ohio as alleged in the bill.
Upon this answer and affidavits in support of it he moved
to dissolve the restraining order and dismiss plaintiff's
suit, and thereupon, on the ground that he was a citizen
of West Virginia, an order was made dismissing the bill
as to him, without prejudice, and retaining the suit as to
the other defendants. Plaintiff moved for a temporary
injunction against them, whereupon the attorney at whose
request their appearance had been entered moved to strike

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

it out on the ground that his request was due to inadvertence and in fact he had no authority to appear for them.
His motion was granted; but in the meantime plaintiff
obtained leave to file and did file an amended bill, adding
as defendants Peter J. Glasstetter and seven other parties
named, residents of Steubenville, Ohio, and citizens of
that State, and averring that they were members of the
American Flint Glass Workers' Union, had constituted the
original defendants, including Gillooly, their agents and
representatives, and had assisted and were supporting
them in their efforts to unionize plaintiff's employees and
to force plaintiff to recognize the Union. Process to answer the amended bill was issued and was served upon the
added defendants, the remaining original defendants
being returned "not found." Afterwards, and upon proper
notice to the served defendants, plaintiff renewed its motion for a temporary injunction, basing it upon the original bill, exhibits, and accompanying affidavits, the
amended bill, and some additional affidavits. Meanwhile
the served defendants, who may be called the Steubenville defendants, filed answers denying knowledge of the
matters alleged in the bill, denying that they had constituted Gillooly and the other original defendants their
agents or representatives, or had assisted or supported
them in the effort to unionize plaintiff's employees and
force plaintiff to recognize the American Flint Glass
Workers' Union, admitting that they were members of a
local union of glass workers at Steubenville which was
affiliated with the principal Union, and averring that except their relation as members of the local union they had
no connection or relation with the other defendants, were
not officers, agents, representatives, or organizers of the
Union, and even in their capacity as members of their
local had not by act, word, or deed authorized, assisted,
aided, or encouraged any of the other defendants in doing
any of the things alleged in the bill or amended bill.

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

These answers were supported by affidavits of the answering defendants which were not specifically rebutted
by the plaintiff.
The court, having struck out the entry of appearance
for the original defendants other than Gillooly, made a
decree granting a temporary injunction to restrain the
defendants in the cause from interfering with plaintiff's
employees, the form of the injunction being modeled upon
that ordered by the final decree made in Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co. v. Mitchell.
The answering defendants appealed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and that court (219 Fed. Rep. 719) reversed
the decree: holding that as the Steubenville defendants
submitted affidavits that they were only members, not
officers, of a local union, that the originaJ defendants,
who were the general officers of the Union, were not authorized to represent them in the alleged illegal acts, and
that they knew nothing of the efforts to unionize plaintiff's factory, and as plaintiff had made no showing to the
contrary, it was erroneous to issue a temporary injunction
against the defendants (other than Gillooly) named in the
bill and amended bill; that as Rowe and the other general
officers were not served, no relief could be given against
them unless it could be said that they were brought before the court by representation when the Steubenville
defendants were brought in; and that as plaintiff had no
case against the latter defendants for participation in the
alleged torts, there was no such common or general interest
as authorized a decree against the defendants not served
by virtue of the service upon and appearance of the
Steubenville defendants. Having said this to show error
in the decree awarding a temporary injunction, the court
concluded its opinion as follows: "All the questions involved in the merits of the appeal were decided adversely
to the appellee by this court in Mitchell v. Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co., 214 Fed. Rep. 685."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

245 U. $.

Thereupon a decree was made reversing the decree of
the District Court, and remanding the cause with directions not only to dissolve the injunction, but to "dismiss
the bill in accordance with the opinion of this court."
The mandate was stayed pending application to this court
for a writ of certiorari. Afterwards an appeal was allowed
by one of the Circuit Court judges, together with a supersedeas. The transcript on appeal having been filed in this
court, an application for a writ of certiorari was afterwards presented, consideration of which was postponed
to the hearing of the appeal.
Since it appears from the averments of the bill and
amended bill that the federal jurisdiction was invoked
solely upon the ground of diversity of citizenship, it is
evident that, as in the Hitchman Case, the appeal must be
dismissed. 241 U. S. 644. But, as in that case, we grant
the writ of certiorari, the record on appeal to stand as the
return to the writ. And, as the case was submitted on the
merits, we proceed to dispose of them.
So far as the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
dissolved the temporary injunction upon the ground that
the Steubenville defendants had denied, and plaintiff had
not adduced sufficient evidence to sustain, the averment
of the amended bill that they had constituted Gillooly and
the other original defendants their agents and representatives and had assisted and supported them in their efforts
to unionize plaintiff's employees and force plaintiff to
recognize the American Flint Glass Workers' Union, we
see no reason to disturb the decision.
But the court went further, and directed a dismissal of
the bill. Since the cause had not gone to final hearing in
the District Court, the bill could not properly be dismissed
upon appeal unless it appeared that the court was in possession of the materials necessary to enable it to do full
and complete justice between the parties. Where by consent of parties the case has been submitted for a final de-

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

termination of the merits, or upon the face of the bill there
is no ground for equitable relief, the appellate court may
finally dispose of the merits upon an appeal from an interlocutory order. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S.
518, 525; Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg. Co., 177 U. S.
485, 494; Castner v. Coffman, 178 U. S. 168, 184; Harriman
v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244, 287; U. S.
Fidelity Co. v. Bray, 225 U. S. 205, 214; Denver v. New York
Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 136. But in this case the application for a temporary injunction was submitted upon
affidavits taken ex parte, without opportunity for crossexamination, and without any consent that the court
proceed to final determination of the merits. Hence
there was no basis for such a determination on appeal
unless it appeared upon the face of the bill that there was
no ground for equitable relief. That this was in effect the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is evident from
the fact that it was rested upon the authority of Mitchell
v. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. In that case the same court
had expressed the following opinion (214 Fed. Rep. 685,
714):
"The court below also reached the conclusion that the
defendants have caused and are attempting to cause the
nonunion members employed by the plaintiff to break a
contract which it has with the nonunion operators. The
contract in question is in the following language:
"'I am employed by and work for the Hitchman Coal
& Coke Company with the express understanding that I
am not a member of the United Mine Workers of America,
and will not become so while an employ6 of the Hitchman
Coal & Coke Company; that the Hitchman Coal & Coke
Company is run nonunion and agrees with me that it will
run nonunion while I am in its employ. If at any time
while I am employed by the Hitchman Coal & Coke Company I want to become connected with the United Mine
Workers of America, or any affiliated organization, I agree

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

to withdraw from the employment of said company, and
agree that while I am in the employ of that company (that)
I will not make any efforts amongst its employes to bring
about the unionizing of that mine against the company's
wish. I have either read the above or heard the same read.'
"It will be observed that by the terms of the contract
(that) either of the parties thereto may at will terminate
the same, and while it is provided that so long as the employ6 continues to work for the plaintiff he shall not join
this organization, nevertheless there is nothing in the
contract which requires such employ6s to work for any
fixed or definite period. If at any time after employment
any of them should decide to join the defendant organization, the plaintiff could not under the contract recover
damages for a breach of the same. In other words, the
employs under this contract, if they deem proper, may
at any moment join a labor union, and the only penalty
provided therefor is that they cannot secure further employment from the plaintiff. Therefore, under this contract, if the nonunion men, or any of them, should see
fit to join the United Mine Workers of America on account
of lawful and persuasive methods on the part of the defendants, and as a result of such action on their part were
to be discharged by the plaintiff, it could not maintain an
action against them on account of such conduct on their
part. Such being the case, it would be unreasonable to
hold that the action of the defendants would render the
United Mine Workers of America liable in damages to
the plaintiff because they had employed lawful methods
to induce the nonunion miners to become members of
their organization.
"Under these circumstances, we fail to see how this
contract can be taken as a basis for restraining the defendants from using lawful methods for the purpose of inducing the parties to the contract to join the organization."
This reasoning, essential to the decision reached, is

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

erroneous for several reasons, as we have now held in
reversing the Hitchman decree, viz: (a) because plaintiff
was entitled by law to be protected from interference with
the good will of its employees, although they were at liberty to quit the employment at pleasure; (b) because the
case involved no question of the rights of employees, and
their right to quit the employment gave to defendants no
right to instigate a strike; and (c) because the methods
pursued by the defendants were not lawful methods.
The present case, according to the averments of the
bill and amended bill, differs from the Hitchman Case
principally in this: that it appeared that Gillooly, as
organizer, had used money and had threatened to use
dynamite to reinforce his other efforts to coerce plaintiff
into agreeing to the unionization of its works. The system
of employment at the Eagle Glass Co. factory was precisely the same as that at the Hitchman mine. The
written contract of employment inaugurated at the Eagle
Glass Works more than a month prior to the filing of the
bill in this case followed precisely the form established at
the Hitchman mine shortly after the filing of the bill in
that case. And the activities of Gillooly among the plaintiff's employees, and the motive and purpose behind those
activities, as alleged in the bill, show the same elements of
illegality to which we have called attention in our opinion
in the Hitchman Case. Plaintiff is entitled to an opportunity, on final hearing, to prove these allegations as against
those defendants who are within the jurisdiction of the
court, and to connect them with the activities of Gillooly.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, so far as it
directed that the temporary injunction be dissolved will
be affirmed, but so far as it directed a dismissal of the bill
it must be reversed, and the cause will be remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.
Decree reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
BRANDEIS,

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

dissenting.

This suit was commenced July 28, 1913, in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
West Virginia. The plaintiff, the Eagle Glass and Manufacturing Company is a West Virginia corporation having
its principal place of business in that State. The defendants, Rowe and four others, were then the chief executive
officers of the American Flint Glass Workers' Union. The
defendants were sued individually and as such officers.
Jurisdiction was rested wholly on diversity of citizenship,
defendants being alleged to be all citizens of Ohio.
Plaintiff's factory was run as a non-union shop under
individual agreements with its employees by which each
was required, as a condition of employment, to sign an
agreement that he would withdraw from plaintiff's employment if he joined the union. The employment was terminable at the will of either party. The bill alleged that
defendants were conspiring to unionize its factory, and
prayed that they, their agents and associates be enjoined
from interfering with plaintiff's employees "for the purpose of unionizing your orator's glass factory without
your orator's consent." District Judge Dayton granted a
sweeping restraining order, which enjoined defendants,
among other things, from picketing "for the purpose of
interviewing or talking to any person or persons on said
railroad or street cars coming to or near plaintiff's glass
factory to accept employment with plaintiff, for the
purpose

.

.

of inducing

.

.

.

them by

.

persuasion
. .
to refuse or fail to accept service
with plaintiff" and from the use of "persuasion or entreaty" to induce any person in its employ to leave the
same.

Only one of the five defendants named in the bill was
served with process. He, Gillooly, filed an answer alleging
that he was a citizen and resident of West Virginia; and

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

a hearing was had upon the issue thus raised. The court,
being satisfied that Gillooly was a citizen of West Virginia,
ordered, on August 13, 1913, that the bill be dismissed as
to him "without prejudice"; and directed that the bill
be retained as to all other defendants named therein.
Plaintiff then moved for a temporary injunction. But
the counsel who had formerly represented Gillooly called
the attention of the court to the fact that there was then
before the court no person against whom an injunction
could issue, since he had entered his appearance only for
Gillooly and did not intend to appear for the other defendants who had not been served. He accordingly moved,
on his own behalf, that the record be corrected. This motion was heard October 27, 1913, was taken under advisement and was granted on January 17, 1914. But meanwhile, on November 27, 1913, the District Judge granted
plaintiff leave to amend its bill by adding as defendants
eight other citizens of Ohio who, it alleged, were members
of the American Flint Glass Workers' Union and "have
assisted and are now supporting" the five persons originally named as defendants.
The eight members of the union, so joined as defendants by the amended bill, being served with process within
the State of West Virginia, filed on January 14, 1914,
their sworn answers to the bill, alleging among other
things:
"Fourth. These respondents admit that they are members of a local union of glass workers at Steubenville, Ohio,
which local union is affiliated with the American Flint
Glass Workers' Union, and that, except their relation as
members of their local union, they have no connection
or relation whatever with the other defendants, that they
are not officers, agents, representatives or organizers of
their local union, or of the American Flint Glass Workers'
Union, and that even in their capacity as members of their
local union they have not by any act, word, or deed of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

theirs in any manner, authorized, assisted, aided or abetted
or encouraged any of the other defendants in doing any of
the things alleged against them, (the other defendants) in
the bill of complaint or the amended bill of complaint."
The allegation in the answer was supported by further
affidavits of the parties, which were uncontradicted. The
District Court, nevertheless, granted on January 17th,
1914, a temporary injunction against all the then defendants (including these eight) substantially in the terms of
the restraining order.
On January 30, 1914, the eight took an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning as errors, among
others:
"3. The court had no jurisdiction to grant an injunction because there was no service of process on any of the
parties named as defendants except on these defendants,
and the record shows that they are not really defendants,
but are named as defendants merely as a pretext resorted
to by the plaintiff in order to get jurisdiction.
"4. Because the temporary injunction is granted against
these defendants on the sole ground that they are members
of the union named in the bill."
On January 13, 1915, the Circuit Court of Appeals
unanimously reversed the decree of the District Court
with directions to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the
bill, (219 Fed. Rep. 719), saying, among other things:
"Rowe and others, general officers of the Union, were
not served, and, therefore, no relief could be given against
them, unless it could be said they were brought before the
court by representation when Glasstetter and others, mere
members of the local union, were ordered to be made
parties and appeared. . .
"When the allegation of a general or common interest
to many persons is denied, the duty devolves on the court
to determine whether the common or general interest exists
before decreeing against those who are alleged to be in

EAGLE GLASS & MFG. CO. v. ROWE.
275.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

court by representation. The plaintiff had no pretense of
a case against Glasstetter and the other defendants
brought in by amendment for participating or aiding the
defendants not served, in the alleged torts committed by
them, and, therefore, there was no such common or general interest as authorized the court's decree against the
defendants served, by virtue of the service and appearance
of the defendants brought in by amendment."
Plaintiff took an appeal to this court, and also filed a
petition for writ of certiorari. The decision upon the
petition was postponed.
It is clear that the appeal must be dismissed, as the
jurisdiction of the District Court rests wholly upon diversity of citizenship. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell,
241 U. S. 644. The petition for certiorari having been
granted, the decree should, in my opinion, be affirmed for
the reasons stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals and in
the dissent in Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell,
ante, 229.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur

in this dissent.

