OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

DUUS, ADMINISTRATOR OF PETERSON, v.
BROWN, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 85.

Argued November 23, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A naturalized citizen of the United States, residing in Iowa, died there
intestate, leaving property which passed under its laws to collaterals,
some of whom were naturalized citizens residing in other States of
the Union, and others natives and subjects of Sweden, residing there.
Under the Iowa law, the inheritance taxes upon the portion of the
estate accruing to the nonresidents were higher in rate than those
upon the portions accruing to the residents. Held, following Petersen
v. Iowa, ante, 170, that such discrimination was not violative of either
Article VI, or Article II (the favored nation clause), of the treaty
with Sweden of April 3, 1783, 8 Stat. 60, renewed and revived by later
treaties.
168 Iowa, 511, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Nelson Miller, with whom Mr. G. T. Struble was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Freeman C. Davidson, with whom Mr. H. M.
Havner, Attorney General of the State of Iowa, and Mr.
C. A. Robbins, Assistant Attorney General of the State
of Iowa, were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
John Peterson, a native of Sweden, but a naturalized
citizen of the United States and a resident of Iowa, there
died unmarried and intestate. His property in the State
passed under the laws of Iowa to his heirs who were his

DUUS v. BROWN.
176.

Opinion of the Court.

nephews and nieces or their representatives, some of
whom were naturalized citizens of the United States residing in States other than Iowa and the remainder were
natives and citizens of the Kingdom of Sweden and there
resided. The property in Iowa was administered under
the laws of that State and the administrator paid upon
the portion of the estate accruing to the nonresident
alien heirs the death duties provided by the law of Iowa
which were higher than those provided by that law upon
the portion accruing to the resident heirs. (ยง 1467, 1907
Supplement to the Code of Iowa.) This controversy arose
from a contest over the right of the State to make that
charge and the duty of the administrator to pay it, the
contention being that the duties in so far as they discriminated against the nonresident alien heirs were void because in conflict with a treaty between the United States
and the King of Sweden (Treaty of April 3, 1783, 8 Stat.
60, renewed by Article 12 of the Treaty of September 4,
1816, 8 Stat. 232, and revived by Article XVII of the
Treaty of July 4, 1827, 8 Stat. 346). The case is here
to review the judgment of the court below holding that
contention to be unsound. 168 Iowa, 511.
Two clauses of the treaty are relied upon: Article VI,
which it is asserted directly prohibited the discriminating
charge, and Article II, which by the favored nation clause
accomplished a like result. Article VI is in the margin,'
I "Article VI. The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective states, may freely dispose of their goods and effects either by
testament, donation or otherwise, in favour of such persons as they
think proper; and their heirs in whatever place they shall reside, shall
receive the succession even ab intestato, either in person or by their
attorney, without having occasion to take out letters of naturalization. These inheritances, as well as the capitals and effects, which the
subjects of the two parties, in changing their dwelling, shall be desirous
of removing from the place of their abode, shall be exempted from all
duty called 'droit de detraction,' on the part of the government of the
two states respectively. But it is at the same time agreed, that nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

and from its text it plainly appears that it embraces only
citizens or subjects of Sweden and their property in Iowa
and therefore as we have just pointed out in Petersen v.
Iowa, ante, 170, has no relation whatever to the right of
the State to deal by death duties with its own citizens and
their property within the State. And from the same
case it also appears that the favored nation clause has
also no application, since that clause in the treaty relied
upon, as was the case in the Treaty with Denmark which
came under consideration in the previous case, is applicable only "in respect to commerce and navigation."
For the reasons stated in the Petersen Case and in
this, it follows that the judgment must be and it is
Affirmed.

LOONEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF TEXAS, v. CRANE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 16. Argued May 3, 1916; restored to docket for reargument May 21,
1917; reargued November 6, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Neither the right of a State to attach conditions when licensing a sister
state corporation to do local business, nor its power to tax the corporation in respect of such business, when licensed, can sustain impositions which, in the guise of permit charges or franchise or excise
taxes, result in direct burdens on interstate commerce or in the
contained in this article shall in any manner derogate from the ordinances published in Sweden against emigrations, or which may hereafter be published, which shall remain in full force and vigour. The
United States on their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to make
respecting this matter, such laws as they think proper."

