LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 463
446.

Syllabus.

§§ 3439 and 2502 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio of 1880
were then in force and imposed the limitation of twentyfive years on all grants by County Commissioners. The
doctrine that rights acquired before cannot be impaired
by a change of judicial decision, has no application to
this case, for the reason that there was no settled principle of decision in Ohio in cases such as we have here,
where counties were concerned, prior to 1889, or at any
other time, but, as the decisions abundantly prove, each
case as it arose was disposed of on its own peculiar facts,
e. g., State v. Powers, 38 Ohio St. 54 (1882), overruled in
State ex tel. v. Shearer, 46 Ohio St. 275 (1889).
For the reasons here given and upon the authorities
cited, my conclusion is that the decree of the District
Court should be reversed, and the case remanded with
instructions to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this dissent.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. UNITED STATES ET AL.

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 91.

Submitted November 23, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

The appellant applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission under
§ 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18, 1910,
for relief from the long and short haul provision with reference to
many hundred points on its line, including Nashville, Louisville and
Bowling Green. After a full, separate hearing of the conditions
affecting rates applicable to the three places named, the Commission
made an order merely denying the appellant the authority to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

tinue on certain traffic through Bowling Green to Louisville and to
Nashville lower rates "than are contemporaneously in effect on like
traffic to and from Bowling Green." Held: (1) That the Commission's findings of fact, based on ample evidence, were conclusive.*
(2) That the order was not objectionable as to form or as broader
than the hearing, or because other phases of the application were not
acted upon, or as otherwise beyond the Commission's power. (3)
That, on the issues presented, the validity of the order depended on
the evidence before the Commission, and the trial court in this suit
to set it aside did not err in excluding other evidence.
225 Fed. Rep. 571, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry L. Stone, Mr. Win. A. Colston, Mr. Win. A.
Northcutt, Mr. Nelson W. Proctor and Mr. Win. Burger for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson and Mr. Alex.
Koplin for the United States.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Bowling Green, Kentucky, is located on the main line
of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, 114 miles south
of Louisville and 73 miles north of Nashville. Prior to
the year 1910 the Railroad had established many rates
to and from Bowling Green which were higher than those
charged by it for longer distances over the same route
in the same direction to and from Louisville and Nashville. The amendment to § 4 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, made June 18, 1910 (c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547),
prohibits any such higher charges for shorter distances
unless previously authorized by the Interstate Commerce

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
463.

465

Opinion of the Court.

Commission; but it provided that carriers might, within
six months thereafter, apply to the Commission for authority to continue in effect charges of that nature then
lawfully existing. Within the period so fixed the Railroad
filed such an application covering many hundred different
places scattered over its extended system, and including
both Louisville and Nashville. That part of the application which sought to continue in effect lower rates to and
from Louisville and Nashville than those in effect to and
from Bowling Green, was heard separately.' The Railroad sought to justify the lower charges for the longer
distances by showing that it had to meet, particularly
as to Nashville traffic, competition both by water and
by rail. This contention was opposed by evidence to
the effect that at Bowling Green, also, there was water
competition, actual or potential, and that at Nashville
there was no real rail competition. After full hearing an
order was entered which (after several revisions) merely
denied to the Railroad authority to continue on certain
traffic through Bowling Green to Louisville and to Nashville lower rates "than are contemporaneously in effect
on like traffic to and from Bowling Green." Bowling
Green Business Men's Association v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 24 I. C. C. 228.
The Railroad then brought this suit in the Commerce
Court to set aside the order of the Commission and asked
for a temporary injunction. 2 Upon the abolition of that
1Rates to Clarksville, a city 64 miles southwest of Bowling Green
on a branch line of the Railroad were considered at the same time, but
the order here assailed did not deal with Clarksville rates.
2The Commerce Court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction on
the ground that its jurisdiction to review orders of the Commission
applied only to affirmative orders (207 Fed. Rep. 591). Pending an
appeal of the case to this court, Intermountain Rates Cases, 234 U. S.
476, was decided, whereupon appellees herein confessed error, the
decree was reversed and the case was remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

court by Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219,
the case was heard in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Kentucky before three
judges. The Railroad assailed the validity of the order
on many grounds; but its main contentions were, that
the order complained of was not such a negative order
as was contemplated by the fourth section of the Act to
Regulate Commerce, was not responsive to the application and hence, was not such an order as the Commission
had power to make; and also that its decision was "contrary to the indisputable nature of the evidence" and
not supported by any evidence. The District Court
refused to grant a temporary injunction and dismissed
the bill. (225 Fed. Rep. 571.)
The case comes here by direct appeal; and thirtyeight errors are assigned. Eleven relate to the weight or
sufficiency of the evidence before the Commission. The
evidence was conflicting. And, as there was ample to
sustain the findings, they are conclusive. United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320. Other
assignments present, in substance, either criticism of the
reasoning of the Commission or of the form of the order,
or assert unsubstantial or unsubstantiated irregularities
in practice before the Commission; such as that the order
deprived plaintiff of its property without due process of
law, because the order was "broader than the hearing
held in connection therewith," or that it was invalid
because the Commission failed to act on "other phases"
of the application. United States v. Merchants' and Manufacturers' Traffic Association, 242 U. S. 178. Other errors
assigned relate to the exclusion by the court of evidence
which was clearly inadmissible, both because of the character of the evidence and because, on the issues presented, the validity of the order must be determined upon
the evidence introduced before the Commission. Still
other assignments allege, in varying language but without

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
463.

Syllabus.

statement of reasons, that the Commission was without
power to enter the order or that the court erred in denying
the relief prayed for. Many of the assignments of error
are not now insisted upon. None deserves detailed discussion. All are unsound. The decree dismissing the
bill is
Affirmed.

ROSEN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
PAKAS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 365, 438. Argued December 12, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.
Under the modern rule; supported both by legislation and by the very
great weight ofjudicial authority, all persons of competent understanding are permitted to testify to relevant facts within their knowledge, and the former common-law rule disqualifying witnesses convicted of crime will no longer be followed, but such conviction will
be given due consideration in determining the credibility and weight
of their testimony.,
In a criminal trial in a United States District Court in New York, a
witness, previously sentenced and imprisoned under the law of that
State for the crime of forgery in the second degree, was competent
to testify for the United States against his co-defendant§, irrespective
of whether he would have been disqualified by the rules of competency as they were in New York at the date of the Judiciary Act
of 1789. United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361, is to this extent disapproved.
Under Rev. Stats., § 161, which authorizes the head of each Department "to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the
government of his Department, the coDduct of its officers and clerks,
the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody,
use, and preservation of the . . . property appertaining to it,"

