OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

BRUCE, ADMINISTRATOR OF TOBIN ET AL., v.
TOBIN.
PETITION

FOR A WRIT OF

CERTIORARI TO

THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 645.

Petition for a writ of certiorari submitted October 1, 1917.Denied October 22, 1917.

The remedy by certiorari which, in certain classes of cases, is substituted by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, for the
remedy by writ of error previously allowed by Rev. Stats., § 709,
Jud. Code, § 237, is confined to final judgments, and finality, in the
one case as in the other, is determined by the face of the record and
the formal character of the judgment rendered by the state court.
In an action by a father to recover a share of a fund collected by his
deceased son's administrator as damages under the Employers'
Liability Act, the state trial court rejected the father's claim entirely.
The state supreme court, upholding his right but not specifically
fixing the amount to which he was entitled, directed a new trial to
accomplish that result. Assuming the judgment final in the sense
that it determined the ultimate right and the general principles by
which it was to be measured, Held, nevertheless, that it was not final
in the sense of the Act of September 6, 1916, supra, and that an
application for certiorari under that statute was premature.
Petition for a writ of certiorari to review 39 S. Dak. 64, denied.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. A. Burgess, Mr. B. I. Salinger, Mr. L. H. Salinger

and Mr. Joseph Janousek for petitioners, in support of the
petition. Their printed argument was confined to the
merits.
No brief filed for respondent.

Memorandum opinion by MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

by direction of the court.
A railroad in whose service Tobin lost his life while
actually engaged in carrying on interstate commerce, ad-.

BRUCE v. TOBIN.
18.

Opinion of the Court.

mitting liability under the Act of Congress, paid the conceded loss to his administrator. A father and mother, but
no widow or children survived. The father, the respondent, sued in a state court to recover half the amount as his
share of the loss. Setting aside the action of the trial
court rejecting the claim, but not specifically fixing the
amount of the father's recovery, the Supreme Court of
South Dakota directed a new trial to accomplish that
result. Application for certiorari was then made by the
petitioner on the ground that such decision involved
questions under the Employers' Liability Act reviewable
by certiorari under the Act of Congress of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
The act in question, although it deprived of the right of
review by writ of error which had hitherto obtained in
certain cases and substituted as to such cases the right of
petitioning for review by certiorari, subjected this last
right to the same limitation as to the finality of the judgment of the state court sought to be reviewed which had
prevailed from the beginning under § 709, Rev. Stats.,
§ 237, Judicial Code. Finality, therefore, continues to be
an essential for the purposes of the remedy by certiorari
conferred by the Act of 1916.
It may be indeed said that although the case was remanded by the court below for a new trial, the action of
the court was in a sense final because it determined the
ultimate right of the father to recover and the general
principles by which that right was to be measured. But
that contention is not open as it was settled under § 709,
Rev. Stats., § 237, Judicial Code, that the finality contemplated was to be determined by the face of the record
and the formal character of the judgment rendered,-a
principle which excluded all conception of finality for the
purpose of review in a judgment like that below rendered.
Haseltine v. Bank, 183 U. S. 130; Schlosser v. Hemphill,
198 U. S. 173; LouisianaNavigation Co. v. Oyster Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

sion of Louisiana, 226 U. S. 99; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer

Works, 237 U. S..413, 418, 419. The reenactment of the
requirement of finality in the Act of 1916 was in the nature
of things an adoption of the construction on the subject
which had prevailed for so long a time.
There being then no final judgment within the contemplation of the Act of 1916, the petition for a writ of
certiorari is
Denied.

CONTRIBUTORS TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 349.

Argued October 16, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

So vital a governmental power as the power, upon just compensation,
to take private property for public use, cannot be divested through
contracts made by the State. Such contracts are not within the
protection of the contract clause of the Constitution.
Proceedings taken by a city to condemn land for a street through the
grounds of a charitable corporation were resisted, in reliance on
an act by which for valuable considerations the legislature had
prohibited such takings without the corporation's consent. The
city undertook to condemn not only the land but also the right under
the contract. Held, that the contract could not be successfully opposed to the power of condemnation; and this quite apart from the
attempt to condemn the contract right itself, since, if the contract
exemption were otherwise valid, its defeat by such a method would
be a mere evasion.
Without departing from the settled rule that a writ of error will be
dismissed if its total want of merit is shown conclusively by decisions
of this court extant at time of decision below, in this case the course
and resulting aspect of the proceedings below warrant a decree of
affirmance.
254 Pa. St. 392, affirmed.

