OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

the proposition that an establishment of a religion or an
interference with the free exercise thereof repugnant to
the First Amendment resulted from the exemption clauses
of the act to which we at the outset referred, because we
think its unsoundness is too apparent to require us to do
more.
Finally, as we are unable to conceive upon what theory
the exaction by government from the citizen of the performance of his supreme and noble duty of contributing
to the defense of the rights and honor of the nation, as
the result of a war declared by the great representative
body of the people, can be said to be the imposition of
involuntary servitude in violation of the prohibitions of
the Thirteenth Amendment, we are constrained to the
conclusion that the contention to that effect is refuted
by its mere statement.
Affirmed.

JONES v. PERKINS, DEPUTY UNITED STATES
MARSHAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 738.

Argued December 13, 14, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

Petitioner sought habeas corpus upon the ground that the Selective
Draft Law, for disobedience of which he was arrested, was unconstitutional. The constitutional questions he raises having all
been decided adversely to him in the Selective Draft Law Cases, ante,
366, the court affirms the trial court's order refusing the writ, without, however, departing from the general principle that habeas
corpus should not anticipate trial in criminal cases, in the absence
of exceptional circumstances, and without inquiring whether in
this case such circumstances existed.
243 Fed. Rep. 997, affirmed.

JONES . PERKINS.
390.
THE

Opinion of the Court.

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Gordon Jones, with whom Mr. Thomas E. Watson
was on the brief, for appellant.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for appellees. See ante, 368.
Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. Joseph E. Black, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curiw.
Mr. Walter Nelles, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Jones, the appellant, was arrested under a warrant
charging him with a failure to register as required by the
Act of Congress of May 18, 1917, known as the Selective
Draft Law, (c. 15, 40 Stat. 76), and after a hearing by
a United States Commissioner was committed to custody
to await the ensuing term of the United States District
Court. Alleging that he was illegally restrained because
the statute under the assumed authority of which he was
held was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, he petitioned the court below for a writ of habeas
corpus. Followin\ a rule to show cause and a hearing
on the return thereto, the petition was denied on the
ground that the statute was constitutional (243 Fed. Rep.
997), and to reverse the order so adjudging this direct
appeal was prosecuted.
It is well settled that in the absence of exceptional
circumstances in criminal cases the regular judicial procedure should be followed and habeas corpus should not
be granted in advance of a trial. Riggins v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus. "

245 U. S.

199 U. S. 547; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420; Johnson v.
Hoy, 227 U. S. 245. If that rule applied, therefore, our
duty would be to affirm, unless this case could be treated
as coming within the exceptional class. But we do not
deem it necessary to enter into that consideration because, even if it were found to be embraced in such class,
every constitutional question relied upon has been this
day in Arver v. United States, [the Selective Draft Law
Cases,] ante, 366, decided to be without merit. Because
of this situation, therefore, without departing from the
general principle, we think it suffices in this case to apply
the ruling made in the Arver Case and, for the reasons
stated in the opinion therein, to affirm.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. MORENA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 523.

Argued December 13, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

The second proviso in ยง 8 of the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, permitting naturalization of aliens who cannot speak English if before the passage of that act they have made
declarations of intention in conformity with prior laws, has no bearing on the relation of the seven-year limitation prescribed by ยง 4,
subdivision second, of the act, to declarations filed before its passage.
Giving effect to the purpose expressed in the title of the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, "to provide for a uniform rule for the
naturalization of aliens throughout the United States," the requirement of subdivision second of ยง 4, that the petition for citizenship
shall be filed not more than seven years after the alien has made
his declaration of intention, is held applicable to declarations made

