OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 348.

Petition for rehearing. Granted and former dismissal vacated
January 28, 1918.

The dismissal (anle, 359), having resulted from a misunderstanding,
due to an incomplete printed record and to statements in the briefs,
rehearing is granted, the dismissal set aside and the cause restored
to the docket.

Mr. Henley C. Booth, Mr. William F. Herrin, Mr. A. A.
Hoehling, Jr., Mr. William R. Harr and Mr. Charles H.
Bates for plaintiff in errqr, in support of the petition.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by MR.
JUSTICE DAY.

The opinion in this case was handed down on December 17, 1917 (ante, 359). The cause was submitted on a
motion to dismiss which was sustained. The printed record did not contain the proceedings upon the application
to remove the cause from the state court. The briefs of
counsel upon both sides, upon which the case was submitted, stated that the case was removed because of diversity of citizenship. Treating these statements as the
equivalent of a stipulation the court decided the case and
rendered judgment. It now appears by a certified copy
of the record on removal, filed by the plaintiff in error,
that the removal petition contained an allegation that the
complaint alleged a cause of action arising under the Interstate Commerce Act, and this fact, as well as diversity
of citizenship, was made a ground of removal.

UNITED STATES v. SWEET.
562.

Syllabus.

In this view it follows that as our order of dismissal
rested upon the assumption that the removal was because
of diversity of citizenship only, the petition for rehearing
must be granted, the order of dismissal set aside, and the
cause restored to the docket.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES v. SWEET, ADMINISTRATOR
OF SWEET.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 99.

Argued December 19, 1917.-Decided January 28, 1918.

Section 6 of the Utah Enabling Act of July 16, 1894, c. 138, 28 Stat.
107, purports to grant to the State upon her admission sections 2,
16, 32 and 36 in every township, reserving lands embraced in permanent reservations, etc., but making no mention of mineral lands.
Section 10 provides that land granted by the act for educationalpurposes "shall not be subject to preemption, homestead entry, or
any other entry under the land laws of the United States, whether
surveyed or unsurveyed, but shall be surveyed for school purposes
only." Held, that the school section grant was not intended to
embrace land known to be valuable for coal.
It is the settled policy of Congress to dispose of mineral lands only
under laws specially including them. This is evinced by very
numerous enactments, beginning even with the Ordinance of May 20,
1785. It was expressed in its application to all grants, whether to a
State or not, by the particular acts whence came the general and

permanent provisions on the subject found in §§ 2318 and 2346 of
the Revised Statutes, and was even more firmly established by the
mining laws as a whole.

Taken collectively, the mining laws (including the coal land laws),
constitute a special code upon the subject of mineral lands, intended
not only to establish particular modes of disposing of such lands,

