OCTO3ER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

improvident estimate of the right to be given up or to be
received is guarded against by the requirement of the approval by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes
and the Secretary of the Interior. And it can easily
be seen that if exemption from taxation gave value to
the land, the power to constitute towns was of greater
value. The record shows the value of the lots to plaintiffs in error in the erected town, ranging from $25 to
$1700, a number being valued at $100, others at $200,
$300, $400, and $1500. We may observe that Sarah
Smith was authorized to sell for not less than $125 an
acre.
Judgment affirmed.

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH COMPANY ET AL. ,.
BALDWIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 67.

Argued November 19, 20, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

The Baldwin patent, original No. 821,580, reissue No. 13,542, for improvements in acetylene gas generating lamps, held valid and infringed as to claim 4.
The patent relates to an acetylene gas generating lamp, with an upper
reservoir for water and a lower receptacle for calcium carbide, connected by a tube, with a rod extending through the tube and subject to manipulation from above. The inventive features involved
lie in securing a proper flow of the water through the tube and
access for it to the unslaked carbide, the first, by adopting a comparatively large tube with a size of rod suitably restricting its capacity; the second, by manipulating the rod when necessary to break
up slaked carbide at the mouth of the tube in the lower receptacle.

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

199

Opinion of the Court.

Held, upon the evidence, that the invention is meritorious and entitled
to invoke the doctrine of equivalents. Paper Bag Patent Case, 210
U. S. 405.
The original patent having figured the tube as extending to and embedded in the carbide, and described the rod as a means, when
manipulated, of breaking up slaked carbide at the lower mouth
of the tube, to permit the water to percolate to the unslaked carbide,
held, that an amendment in the reissue explicitly describing the tube
as so extended and embedded did not enlarge the patent.
In the original patent specification, the rod or "stirrer" was described
as bent at the lower extremity, while the specification of the reissue
declared, "it is obvious that the stirrer need not always be formed
with a bent end." Held, that the reissue did not enlarge the original
patent; the function of the rod as a "stirrer," clearly described in
the original, is the same whether its end be bent or straight; the two
forms are but interchangeable equivalents.
In the original patent proceedings the applicant was required to surrender a claim describing the rod as "extending from a point outside
the lamp through the tube into the carbide receptacle." Held, on
the evidence, that this was not a surrender of the straight form of
stirring rod.
In view of the facts of the case, held, that one of the petitioners, which
entered the field when the patent was unquestioned and after the
patentee by his efforts had created an extensive market, acquired in
equity no intervening rights against the patent as subsequently
reissued.
228 Fed. Rep. 895, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James R. Offield, with whom Mr. Charles K. Offield
was on the brief, for petitioners.

Mr. James Q. Rice for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit for infringement of a patent embraced in letters
patent No. 821,580 and a re-issue thereof, No. 13,542.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

The suit was originally brought by Frederick E. Baldwin,
patentee. John Simmons Company, licensee, having the
exclusive right to manufacture and sell the patented device, subsequently intervened and became complainant.
The patents are for a lamp designed to generate and
burn acetylene or similar gas "intended for use," to quote
the description of the patents, "and adapted to use as a
bicycle, automobile, yacht, or miner's lamp, or for any
other analogous purpose, it being necessary only to
change its form or dimensions to adapt it to any one of
the purposes mentioned." Stress in this case, however,
is put upon the use of the asserted invention as a miner's
lamp, such use conspicuously displaying its commercial
utility.
Answer was filed by the Justrite Manufacturing Company, which was made a party defendant to the suit as
manufacturer of the asserted infringing lamp, and by
stipulation its answer was considered the answer of the
Abercrombie & Fitch Company. It denied invention
with great detail, set up anticipating patents, denied its
utility, attacked the validity of the re-issue on the ground
that the 1st and 4th claims of the original patent were
held invalid by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 199 Fed. Rep. 133, and for
the further reason that the application for the re-issue
was not made until seven years after the original letters
patent were issued and rights had accrued in the meantime to defendants (petitioners here) and to others. Infringement was denied.
A decree was passed sustaining the validity of the original patent and of the re-issue, the originality of the invention and its utility and adjudging that defendants (petitioners) had infringed claim 4 of the re-issue, that plaintiffs
recover the damages they had incurred by reason of the
infringement and the profits defendants had received,
an accounting being ordered for this purpose. A perpetual

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

201

Opinion of the Court.

injunction was also adjudged against further infringements. 227 Fed. Rep. 455. The decree was affirmed in
all respects by the Circuit Court of Appeals,. 228 Fed.
Rep. 895, and subsequently this certiorari was granted.
The plaintiffs (we shall so designate respondents)
struggled through some years and some litigation to the
success of the decrees in the pending case. In a suit
brought in the District Court for the Southern District
of Illinois a device like that of the defendants herein was
held to be an infringement of certain claims of the original
patent. The holding was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Bleser v. Baldwin, 199
Fed. Rep. 133.
Subsequently, the re-issue having been granted, suit
was brought in the Western District of Pennsylvania
against an asserted infringer. Unfair competition was
also alleged, and, holding the latter to exist, the court
granted a preliminary injunction. 210 Fed. Rep. 560.
Upon final hearing that holding was repeated, and infringement of a claim of the re-issue patent decreed. 215
Fed. Rep. 735. The decree was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals (Third Circuit) on the ground that
the claim of the re-issue patent found to have been infringed was broader than a corresponding claim of the
original letters patent and therefore void. The holding
of the District Court as to unfair competition was sustained. 219 Fed. Rep. 735. Aided by the reasoning in
the opinions of those cases and the discussion of counsel,
we pass to the consideration of the propositions in controversy.
First, as to the original patent. Its contribution to the
world's instrumentalities was, as we have said, an acetylene lamp and was represented by the following figure,
designated as Figure 1.
It will be observed that the device consists of a receptacle divided into two compartments, an upper one for

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

FIG. 1.

water and a lower one designed to serve as a gas-generating
chamber, adapted to contain a receptacle for calcium
carbide, which is attached to and forms the detachable
bottom. There are means of introducing water into the
reservoir and thence to the carbide and means of conducting the gas to the burner.
The device is a means of using the gas (acetylene)
formed by the decomposition of water with calcium carbide and necessarily must bring them into contact in an
effectual way and use the gas generated in a controlled
flow. A tube (L) hence leads from the water reservoir
into the carbide receptacle and forms a duct which introduces the water into the body of the carbide. Various
means, the specifications recite, have been employed to
regulate or control the flow of water to the carbide, which
were found objectionable or not adequate.

ABERCROMBIE & FITCII CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

203

Opinion of the Court.

The patentee then says that the method which he has
invented "for securing the proper feed under all circumstances" without "objectionable features is to make the
bore of the duct of comparatively large size and then
restrict it by means of a wire or rod preferably centrally
located therein to leave a channel of the proper size."
It is then said: "This arrangement is simple; but in a
long experience it has been found to be entirely successful.
It is possible to secure the correct drop-by-drop feed with
a duct of considerable size, since the friction of the water
on the large area of the tube-wall and wire reduces its
flow. This retarding friction may be regulated by varying the size of wire used. The duct does not become
choked, since if foreign particles are deposited therein
the water can take a zigzag course around it without the
supply being appreciably affected. If it is at any time
,necessary to clean the tube, the wire is simply reciprocated and rotated a few times from the outside of the
lamp without disturbing the position of other parts. This
nice regulation of the flow enables me to entirely dispense
with the troublesome adjustment of the valve. .
In some cases, however, there is employed in connection
with the means for introducing the water into the mass of
carbid a device in the nature of a stirrer, which on proper
manipulation may be used to break up the mass of carbid
surrounding the outlet of the water duct and which by
having become slaked and caked by the action of water
prevents the proper percolation of the latter to the unslaked carbid in the receptacle G, Fig. 1. As such device
I employ a stem or rod N, which extends down through
the tube L and is bent at substantially right angles to
form an arm N'."

There is also a figure attached to the patent which shows
a valve upon the constricting rod and it is said "this rod
may form a prolongation of the valve stem . . . or
in case no valve is used may extend from the top of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

lamp down through the water-reservoir," and this is
illustrated by figures.
"As calcium carbid possesses strongly absorptive properties, the introduction of water through the tube L will
result in the gradual slaking of the material about its outlet; but the lime thus produced becomes gradually less
permeable to the water, so that an insufficient quantity
of gas is generated to maintain the proper flame. When
this becomes noticeable, the rod N is turned, so as to cause
the arm N' to break up to a greater or less extent the mass
of lime, and in practice I have found that under ordinary
conditions this is amply sufficient to insure a substantially
uniform generation of gas until all of the carbid in the
receptacle G is exhausted."
There are some further descriptive details not necessary
to be repeated, and this was said: "The specific construction of the various parts of my lamp may be, as will be
seen from a consideration of the nature of the improvements, very greatly varied without departing from the
invention."
The claims of the patent which are pertinent to our
inquiry are as follows:
"1. In a lamp of the kind described, the combination
with a water-reservoir, and a receptacle for calcium carbid, of a tube extending from the former a considerable
distance into the latter so as to be embedded in the mass
of carbid contained in said receptacle, and a rod or stem
extending through said tube into the carbid-receptacle
and having its end formed as a stirrer to break up the
slaked carbid around the outlet of the water-tube, as set
forth.
"2. In a lamp of the kind described, the combination
with a water-reservoir, and a receptacle for calcium carbid,
of a tube extending from the former into the latter so as
to be embedded in the mass of carbid contained in the
receptacle, a rod extending from a point outside of the

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

205

Opiion of the Court.

lamp through the tube and into the carbid-chamber and
having its end bent to form a stirrer for breaking up the
slaked carbid around the outlet of the water-tube, as set
forth.
"4. In a lamp of the kind described, the combination
with a water-reservoir, and a receptacle for calcium carbid, of a water-tube extending from the former a considerable distance into the latter and adapted to be embedded in the mass of carbid in the receptacle, and a rod
extending through the water-tube, and constituting a
stirrer to break up slaked carbid around the outlet of the
water-tube, the rod operating to restrict and thus control
the flow of water to the carbid, as set forth."
The words in italics are the addition of the re-issue.
Whether the lamp exhibits invention, when both patents
are considered, we shall discuss later. Our attention is
more immediately challenged by the stress put upon
other defenses, especially upon the contention that the
patent is confined to a special form and, so confined, is not
infringed; and that the extension of the patent by the reissue is void. The controversy is, therefore, brought to a
consideration of the original patent as added to or developed by the re-issue. And their comparison centers
in the water-feeding duct or tube and its restriction by
means of a wire or rod and the shape and use of the rod
to pierce or stir the carbide. In the original patent, as
we have seen, it was said that the invented method for
securing a proper feed (flow of the water to the carbide)
without certain specific objectionable features was "to
make the bore of the duct of comparatively large size
and then restrict it by means of a wire or rod preferably
centrally located therein to leave a channel of the proper
size." In the re-issue, after the words "comparatively
large size," it was added-"extend the tube which forms
the duct downward so that its end will be always em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

bedded in the carbid." In other words, the tube is explicitly described as extending to and its end embedded
in the carbide, and this, it is contended, was an enlargement of the original patent.
The contention is untenable if there was in the original
patent an implication of such length and termination of
the tube, and we think there was. To conduct water to
the carbide it necessarily had to extend to the carbide
receptacle and as necessarily had to penetrate the carbide if the rod located in it, whether straight or bent,
was to act "in the nature of a stirrer, which on proper
manipulation" might "be used to break up the mass of
carbid surrounding the outlet of the water duct," which
is the purpose that the patent ascribes to it. And Fig. 1
shows such ending and embedding. It would be impossible otherwise to perform its function or secure the "proper
percolation" of the water "to the unslaked carbid in the
receptacle G, Fig. 1."
But there was another addition in the re-issue which,
it is contended, enlarges the invention and assigns a new
shape and function to the stirrer of the original. In the
latter the rod is described as extending "from the top of
the lamp down through the water-reservoir, as shown in
Fig. 3." To this the re-issue adds:
"It will be understood from what has been said that
the function of the stfrer is to break up, pierce or disturb
the particles of the slaked carbid mass which, when the
lamp is in use, forms at the delivery end of the tube. This
slaked carbid mass tends to solidify and either shuts the
water off altogether or restricts it so that less water is
delivered from the water tube than the lamp demands
for efficient operation. As it is sufficient, under certain
circumstances, to insure the requisite water flow by so
manipulating the stirrer, as to pierce, break up, or loosen
the slaked carbid mass immediately around or at the
mouth of the tube, it is obvious that the stirrer need hot

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

207

Opinion of the Court.

always be formed with a bent end or so as to extend radially from the mouth of the tube."
There is nothing in this but what was clearly implied
in the original, except the shape of the stirrer. In the
original it is described and represented as bent. In the
re-issue it is stated to be obvious that the stirrer need
not always be bent "or extend radially from the mouth
of the tube."
We are unable to assign to this the extent of alteration
that counsel do, nor do we think it necessary to rehearse
the details of their argument. We have given it attention
and the cases it cites, especially the decision and reasoning of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
in Grier Bros. Co. v. Baldwin, 219 Fed. Rep. 735, but we
are constrained to a different conclusion. Indeed, we
are of opinion that the original patent did not need the
exposition of the re-issue. It exhibited an invention of
merit, certainly one entitled to invoke the doctrine of
equivalents. Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405.
Baldwin, the patentee, complied with the statute (ยง 4888,
Rev. Stats.) by explaining the principle of his invention
and the mode of putting it to practical use; there was
a clear exposition of the principle and the instruments
of its use were defined and their purpose and manner of
operation. It left nothing in either for further experiment
or contrivance. As we have said, the invention was a
means of using the gas formed by the decomposition of
water with calcium carbide, and necessarily the water and
carbide must be brought into contact and under a controlled flow; hence the tube and its centrally located rod
extending downward to the carbide. It was foreseen
and stated that the carbide might become torpid or
slaked by the action of the water and might have to be
disturbed or dispersed in order that there might be percolation of water to unslaked carbide, and this was provided to be performed by a simple manipulation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

rod. Whether the rod was bent or made straight was unimportant. In either form it removed the slake and secured the continuous operation of the water and carbide
and through them the formation of the gas and its illuminating purpose. One or the other might be better, according to the extent of the dispersion required, and one
naturally suggested the other.
It is, however, contended that plaintiffs were required
to give up and did give up in the Patent Office a claim
which had the extent which we have indicated. A claim,
numbered in the application as 6, described the rod as:
"A rod extending from a point outside the lamp through
the tube into the carbide receptacle."
Counsel say, "It is to be particularly noted" that while
other claims "mentioned the stirring function of the rod,
claim 6 omitted this feature," but that the solicitor who
drew the claim "unquestionably had in mind the straight
form of rod construction without any stirrer at the end,
for the claim specifies 'through the tube into the carbide
receptacle."' It is hence argued that when the claim was
given up the straight form of construction was given up,
and, having been given up to secure the patent, it cannot
be insisted upon to prevent its use by others. But counsel
is in error as to the extent of the surrender. The straight
construction was not given up, but such construction
through the tube into the carbide receptacle, and this was
in deference, and only in deference, to other patents that
showed such use, that is, showed a penetration into the
receptacle but not its duct ending and embedded in the
carbide.
We do not think the case calls for extended discussion.
It is best considered in broad outline. The scope and
merit of the patents are of instant and assured impression,
and to the attempt to defeat or limit their invention by the
state of the prior art we adduce the discussion and reasoning of the opinions of the lower courts, which we approve.

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. v. BALDWIN.
198.

209

Opinion of the Court.

The denial of infringement is also easily disposed of.
Indeed, it has been in effect disposed of. It is based on
the contention that the stirrer is an essential of plaintiff's
lamp and that a stirrer is absent from defendants' lamp,
which is in all other particulars, as far as this case is concerned, similar to the plaintiff's lamp. To the contention of defendants, therefore, we cannot assent. There is
a stirrer in both, and its form, as we have seen, is not of
the essence of the invention. There is nothing occult in
the act of stirring; it is causing movement or disturbance,
and this may be performed by a straight rod as by a bent
one. There may be difference in their dispersing power,
but no difference in function, and one or the other would
be instantly selected according to the need, under the clear
description of the patent. This ready adaptation of the
form of stirrer to the work to be performed Baldwin
demonstrated even before the grant of the patent. Early
in 1906 he put upon the market a lamp with a straight rod,
"which, among other things," as the District Court has
said, "has characterized the commercial lamp ever since."
To the contention that the Justrite Company, the manufacturing defendant, acquired rights before the re-issue
we again may oppose the reasoning and conclusion of District Judge Mayer and their affirmance by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The learned judge said: "It will be
remembered that this company entered the field with its
lamp at a time when the validity and scope of the Baldwin
patent were still unquestioned and when after some five
years of capable effort, the Baldwin lamp had created an
extensive market. The Justrite Company took its chances
and, in view of the necessities of the situation, it is relieved of all accountability for the period prior to the
granting of the reissue patent; but when the reissue was
granted the Justrite Company again took its chances.
"By the reissuance of the patent, the patentee loses all
in the way of an accounting under the original patent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

245 U. S.

but the dominant purpose of the reissue statute was to
save to the inventor the future remaining after the reissue.
"I see nothing in the course of plaintiffs or defendants
which would allow a court of equity to conclude that defendants are to be relieved because of intervening rights."
Decree affirmed.

STEVIRMAC OIL & GAS COMPANY v. DITTMAN
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 131.

Submitted October 22, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A party against whom a default judgment had been rendered in the
District Court eighteen months previously, applied there to have it
set aside for lack of personal jurisdiction, alleging that there was no
service and that the return of service, upon which the default was
based, was unauthorized and false. After hearing the application
and affidavits, the court sustained its jurisdiction to enter the judgment and overruled the application. Held, that the proceeding to
set aside the judgment amounted to an independent action, and that
the question of jurisdiction, as it related only to the power of the
court in the original action, could not be made the basis of a direct
writ of error, under Judicial Code, ยง 238, to determine the correctness
of the order overruling the application.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George S. Ramsey, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr.
Malcolm E. Rosser and Mr. Sol H. Kauffman for plaintiff in error, in support of this court's jurisdiction, cited:
Kendall v. American Automatic Loom Co., 198 U. S. 477;

