OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

case of the petitioner on appeal from the order of the
Board of General Appraisers, and decided it according to
its interpretation of the statutes of the United States.
These facts warrant the statements of the respondents
in their return-that if the writ should issue, requiring
a decision of the case, they could only repeat the decision
which they have already made.
The fact that the law makes the decision of the United
States Court of Customs Appeals final in this class of
cases does not broaden the authority of this court to issue
writs of the character now invoked; it follows that the
rule must be discharged.
And it is so ordered.

GAUZON v. COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS
DE FILIPINAS.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 437.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 15, 1917.Decided November 5, 1917.

In a proceeding for the registration of land, begun in the Philippine
Court of Land Registration and appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Islands, where the former court decreed registration of a part
of the land to a petitioner claiming all under a mortgage and foreclosure, but refused registration of the rest upon the ground that it
was not shown to have been included in the mortgage, and where the
latter court, finding as a fact that all was so included, modified the
judgment so as to decree that all should be registered: Held, that
the last mentioned judgment was properly reviewable by writ of
error, and, the case being before this court upon such writ, an appeal which was also taken must be dismissed.
Upon writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, in a case which was decided upon issues of fact, this

GAUZON v. COMPAINIA GENERAL &c.
86.

Opinion of the Court.

court will not reconsider the conclusions of the court below which
find support in the record.
Section 4 of the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, does
not abolish the distinction between writs of error and appeals, but
only requires that the party seeking review shall have it in the
appropriate way notwithstanding a mistake in his choice of proceeding.
The court is not disposed to disturb the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in this case denying the right of a
mortgagor to redeem after foreclosure and sale, the rule announced
by the court below being derived from a construction of laws applicable in the Islands.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. C. Fisher for appellee and defendant in error,
in support of the motion.
Mr. Alex. Britton, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. F. W.
Clements for appellant and plaintiff in error, in opposition
to the motion.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.
In this case, submitted upon motion to dismiss or affirm, the present appellee and defendant in error, herein
called the Company, made application in the Philippine
Court of Land Registration for registration of certain
property under the Torrens System. As described and
claimed by the Company the hacienda contained 611
hectares, 33 ares, and 82 centares.

The case was twice in the Supreme Court of the Philippines. After its first judgment that court granted a rehearing, and ordered a new trial, and we are concerned
now with the writ of error and appeal to this court from
the second judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philip-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

pines. The Supreme Court states that so far as Romana
Gauzon was concerned the hacienda was made up of two
portions, one consisting of 465 hectares, 33 ares and 82
centares, by royal grant, while the remaining portion
was made up of 146 hectares obtained from other sources.
Romana Gauzon had mortgaged the hacienda, and the
same was bought by the Company at sheriff's sale; some
time thereafter it made the application for registration.
On the retrial, after the first judgment of the Supreme
Court, Romana Gauzon claimed to be the owner of the
146 hectares, alleging that they were not included in the
mortgage. The Court of Land Registration refused
registration of the 146 hectares. That court held that
while Romana Gauzon had not shown herself to be the
owner of the 146 hectares, the Company had not clearly
demonstrated that it was the owner thereof.
The Supreme Court, in the judgment now under review, held that the Company had, as between itself and
Romana Gauzon, shown title to the 146 hectares, and
modified the judgment of the Court of Land Registration
so as to decree the registration of all the land described
in the application. This judgment evidently proceeded
upon the determination of questions of fact.
The writ of error was the proper method by which to
review the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippines. Cario v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449;
Tiglao v. InsularGovernment, 215 U. S. 410; Jover y Costas
v. Insular Government, 221 U. S. 623. The case being
properly here upon writ of error the appeal must be dismissed. Upon such writ the case having been decided
upon issues of fact, this court will not reconsider the conclusions of the lower court, which find support in the
record, in reaching its judgment.
Whether ยง 4 of the Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat.
726, applies to this action in view of the fact that the
appeal and. writ of error were taken December 5, 1916,

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
86.

Syllabus.

it is unnecessary to decide, as the section does not change
the result. Section 4 provides that the reviewing court
shall not dismiss a writ of error because an appeal should
have been taken, or dismiss an appeal because a writ
of error should have been sued out, but shall disregard
such mistakes and take the action appropriate if the
proper appellate procedure had been followed. This
section does not abolish the distinction between writs of
error and appeals, but only requires that the party seeking
review shall have it in the appropriate way nowithstanding
a mistake in choosing the mode of review.
Upon petition for rehearing in the Supreme Court the
plaintiff in error contended that she should have been
allowed the right of redemption. Upon that question
the court adhered to its first judgment denying the right,
and affirmed the doctrine announced in Benedicto v. Yulo,
26 Phil. Rep. 160. We are not disposed to disturb this
judgment of the Supreme Court construing local laws
and announcing a rule applicable in the Islands.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippines is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS TRUSTEE
AND GUARDIAN OF THE OMAHA TRIBE OF
INDIANS, ET AL., v. CHASE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 146.

Argued October 2, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

The assignment of land provided for by Article IV of the treaty of
March 6, 1865, 14 Stat. 667, with the Omaha Indians, was merely
an apportionment of the tribal right of occupancy to the members
of the tribe in severalty, leaving the fee in the United States and

