OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

relating to the immigration of alien laborers, in the longstanding decisions of many lower courts and of the Department of Justice, in all of which it is held that seamen
employed in foreign commerce cannot be considered alien
contract laborers within' the terms of the various statutes.
United States v. Sandrey, 48 Fed. Rep. 550; United States
v. Burke, 99 Fed. Rep. 895; Moffitt v. United States, 128
Fed. Rep. 375; United States v. Jamieson, 185 Fed. Rep.
165; Immigration-Deserting Seamen-23 Opinions of
the Attorney General, 521; Chinese Seamen-Transfer
of Crew-Alien Laborers, 24 Opinions of the Attorney
General, 553. This construction of the act has also long
been applied by the Department of Labor in its practical
administration of the law. See Immigration Rules 1911,
No. 10, Subdivision 1, (a), (c), and (d); subdivision 3.
The fact that the aliens in this case were Chinese subjects is without significance. The suit is to enforce the
highly penal provisions of acts of Congress which apply
to all alien contract laborers without regard to their origin
or nationality.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be

Affirmed.

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE OF
THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 426. Argued October 10, 11, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.
Article IV, § 2, of the Constitution intends, not to express the law of
extradition as usually prevailing among independent nations, but
to provide a summary executive proceeding whereby the States may
promptly aid one another in bringing accused persons to trial. Its

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
128.

129

Opinion of the Court.

provisions, and the statutes passed in execution of them, should be
construed liberally to effectuate this purpose.
A person indicted in due form for an offense against the laws of a State,
who was present in that State at the time when the offense is so
alleged to have been committed and subsequently leaves it, becomes,
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution and laws, a fugitive
from justice; and upon the making of demand, accompanied by certified papers, as required by § 5278 of the Revised Statutes, the governor of the State in which he is found must cause him to be arrested
and delivered for extradition into the custody of the authorized agent
of the State whose laws are alleged to have been violated.
An accused person arrested in interstate extradition proceedings, who
sues out habeas corpus to obtain his discharge on the ground that he
is not a fugitive from justice, is not entitled to introduce evidence
to prove that after the date of the alleged offense he was "usually
and publicly resident" within the demanding State for a time sufficient to bar the prosecution under its limitation statutes. The
statute of limitations is a defense and must be asserted on the trial
by the defendant in criminal cases; and this court has frequently
decided that matters of defense can not be heard on habeas corpus
to test the validity of an arrest in extradition, but must be heard
and decided, at the trial, by the courts of the demanding State.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter H. Pollak, with whom Mr. Charles H. Griffiths and Mr. Moses H. Grossman were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Louis Marshall and Mr. Robert S. Johnstone,
with whom Mr. Edward Swann, Mr. George F. Turner and
Mr. Isidor J. Kresel were on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In various indictments returned in the State of Illinois
on May 5th, 1916, against appellant, Guy B. Biddinger,
he was charged with having committed crimes in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

State at various times between the 15th day of October,
1908, and the 2nd day of September, 1910. Each of these
indictments contained the allegation required by the
Illinois practice that "the said Guy B. Biddinger since
the 10th day of May, 1911, and from thence hitherto,
was not usually and publicly a resident within this State
of Illinois."
Transmitting the papers required by the United States
statutes, duly certified, the Governor of Illinois demanded
of the Governor of New York the extradition of Biddinger
as a fugitive from justice. The Governor of New York,
after according the accused a full hearing, issued to the
Commissioner of Police of the City of New York an executive warrant for his arrest and delivery to the agent authorized to receive and convey him to Illinois, there to
be dealt with according to law. Upon this warrant the
appellant was taken into custody.
Thereupon, on the petition of the appellant, a writ of
habeas corpus issued from the District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Commissioner of
Police, making return thereto, gave the executive warrant
as his justification for the imprisonment and detention
of the accused. An elaborate traverse was filed to this
return, but, upon the hearing, the court discharged the
writ and remanded Biddinger to the custody of the appellee.
On appeal to this court thirty-five errors are assigned,
but on argument only one is relied upon, viz: The action
of the District Court in excluding evidence offered to
prove that the accused had been, publicly and usually
resident within the State of Illinois continuously for more
than three years after the dates on which he was charged
with having committed the crimes. This evidence was
tendered for the claimed purpose of proving that Biddinger
was not a fugitive from justice and therefore was not
subject to extradition.

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
128.

131

Opinion of the Court.

This claim of error requires the consideration of § 2 of
Art. IV, of the Constitution, and of § 5278 of the Revised
Statutes, of the United States, as well as §§ 315 and 317 of
the statutes of the State of Illinois, which read as follows:
Constitution, Art. IV, § 2: "A person charged in any
State with treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee
from justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the executive authority of the State from which
he fled, be delivered up to be removed to the State having
jurisdiction of the crime."
United States Revised Statutes, § 5278: "Whenever
the executive authority of any State or Territory demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of the executive authority of any State or Territory to which such
person has fled, and produces a copy of an indictment
found or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any
State or Territory, charging the person demanded with
having committed treason, felony, or other crime, certified as authentic by the governor or chief magistrate of
the State or Territory from whence the person so charged
has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive authority
of the State or Territory to which such person has fled
to cause him to be arrested and secured, and to cause notice of the arrest to be given to the executive authority making such demand, or to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the fugitive, and to cause
the fugitive to be delivered to such agent when he shall
appear.
The statutes of Illinois [Hurd's Rev. Stats., 1915-16]
are:
Section 315. "For other felonies. § 3. All indictments
for other felonies [including the crimes charged] must
be found within three years next after the commission
of the crime, except as otherwise provided by law."
Section 317. "Time of absence not counted. § 5. No
period during which the party charged was not usually

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

and publicly resident within this state shall be included
in the time of limitation."
Relying upon these constitutional and statutory provisions, the argument is pressed upon our attention with
much plausibility that one who continues "usually and
publicly" resident within the State of Illinois for a longer
period than that within which, under the laws of that
State, he may be prosecuted for the crimes charged,
cannot, with due regard to the meaning of the language
used, be said to "flee" or "to have fled," from justice,
or to be "a fugitive from justice" if he afterwards leaves
that State and is found in another.
Thus is presented the question whether the order remanding the accused into custody to be conveyed to the
State of Illinois for trial is in violation of the rights secured to him by the Federal Constitution and laws which
we have quoted.
The provision of the Federal Constitution quoted, with
the change of only two words, first appears in the Articles
of Confederation of 1781, where it was used to describe
and to continue in effect the practice of the New England
Colonies with respect to the extradition of criminals.
Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66. The language was
not used to express the law of extradition as usually prevailing among independent nations but to provide a
summary executive proceeding by the use of which the
closely associated States of the Union could promptly
aid one another in bringing to trial persons accused of
crime by preventing their finding in one State an asylum
against the processes of justice of another. Lascelles v.
Georgia, 148 U. S. 537. Such a provision was necessary
to prevent the very general requirement of the state constitutions that persons accused of crime shall be tried in
the county or district in which the crime shall have been
committed from becoming a shield for the guilty rather
than a defense for the innocent, which it was intended

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
128.

133

Opinion of the Court.

to be. Its design was and is, in effect, to eliminate, for
this purpose, the boundaries of States, so that each may
reach out and bring to speedy trial offenders against its
laws from any part of the land.
Such being the origin and purpose of these provisions
of the Constitution and statutes, they have not been
construed narrowly and technically by the courts as if
they were penal laws, but liberally to effect their important purpose, with the result that one who leaves the
demanding State before prosecution is anticipated or
begun, or without knowledge on his part that he has violated any law, or who, having committed a crime in one
State, returns to his home in another, is nevertheless
decided to be a fugitive from justice within their meaning.
Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80; Appleyard v. Massachusetts,
203 U. S. 222; Kingsbury's Case, 106 Massachusetts, 223.
Courts have been free to give this meaning to the Constitution and statutes because in delivering up an accused
person to the authorities of a sister State they are not
sending him for trial to an alien jurisdiction, with laws
which our standards might condemn, but are simply
returning him to be tried, still under the protection of
the Federal Constitution but in the manner provided
by the State against the laws of which it is charged that
he has offended.
The discussion of these provisions of the Constitution
and statutes for now much more than a century has resulted in the formulation of this conclusion, more than
once announced by this court (Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S.222, 227):
"A person charged by indictment or by affidavit before
a magistrate with the commission within a State of a
crime covered by its laws, and who, after the date of the
commission of such crime leaves the State-no matter
for what purpose or with what motive, nor under what
belief-becomes, from the time of such leaving, and within

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the meaning of the Constitution and the laws of the
United States, a fugitive from justice, and if found in
another State must be delivered up by the Governor of
such State to the State whose laws are alleged to have
been violated, on the production of such indictment or
affidavit, certified as authentic by the Governor of the
State from which the accused departed. Such is the
command of the Supreme law of the land, which may not
be disregarded by any State."
The appellant admits: That he was in the State of Illinois at the time it is charged that he committed the
crimes for which he was indicted; that the indictments
are in the form, and are certified as, required by law,
and that he was found in the State of New York. This
satisfies the requirement of the statute and by its terms
makes it the duty of the Governor of New York to cause
Biddinger to be arrested and given into the custody of
the Illinois authorities.
With these facts and this legal history before us, what
shall be said of the claim that in a habeas corpus hearing
the court erred in not permitting the appellant to introduce evidence tending to prove that the prosecution was
barred by showing that he was "usually and publicly"
in the demanding State during the three years next after
the date at which the crime is alleged to have been committed, and that he therefore could not be a fugitive from
justice and subject to extradition?
The scope and limits of the hearing on habeas corpus
in such cases has not been, perhaps it should not be, determined with precision. Doubt as to the jurisdiction
of the courts to review at all the executive conclusion
that the person accused is a fugitive from justice has
more than once been stated in the decisions of this court,
Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S.642; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S.
80; Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222; but the
question not being necessary for the disposition of the

BIDDINGER v. COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
128.

135

Opinion of the Court.

cases in which it is touched upon, as it is not in this, it is
left undecided. This much, however, the decisions of
this court make clear; that the proceeding is a summary
one, to be kept within narrow bounds, not less for the
protection of the liberty of the citizen than in the public
interest; that when the extradition papers required by
the statute are in the proper form the only evidence
sanctioned by this court as admissible on such a hearing
is such as tends to prove that the accused was not in the
demanding State at the time the crime is alleged to have
been committed; and, frequently and emphatically, that
defenses cannot be entertained on such a hearing, but
must be referred for investigation to the trial of the case
in the courts of the demanding State.
The statute of limitations is a defense and must be
asserted on the trial by the defendant in criminal cases,
United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168; and the form of the
statute in Illinois, which the appellant seeks to rely upon,
makes it especially necessary that the claimed defense
of it should be heard and decided by the courts of that
State. Pierce v. Creecy, 210 U. S. 387; Charlton v. Kelly,
229 U. S. 447; Drew v. Thaw, 235 U. S. 432; Reed v. United
States, 224 Rep. Fed. 378; Depoilly v. Palmer, 28 App.
D. C. 324.
It results that the decision of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

