OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

power of eminent domain upon just compensation for a
public purpose comes within this general doctrine. Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; West River
Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507; New Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Long Island Water
Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Offield v. New York,
New Haven & HartfordR. R. Co., 203 U. S. 372; Cincinnati
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390.
The principle then upon which the contention under
the Constitution rests having been, at the time the case
was decided below, conclusively settled to be absolutely
devoid of merit, it follows that a dismissal for want of
jurisdiction might be directed. Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 314; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk &e. Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596, 600; Manhattan Life Insurance Co. v. Cohen, 234 U. S. 123, 137.
In view, however, of the course of the proceedings below
and the aspect which the case took as resulting from those
proceedings, without departing from th6 rule settled by
the cases referred to, we think our decree may well be
one, not of dismissal, but of affirmance.
Affirmed.

LEE WILSON & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110.

Argued October 4, 5, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

If, in the making of a survey of public lands, an area is through fraud
or mistake meandered as a body of water or lake where no such body
of water exists, riparian rights do not accrue to the surrounding
lands, and the Land Department, upon discovering the error, has

LEE WILSON & CO. v. UNITED -STATES.
24.

Syllabus.

power to deal with the meandered area, to cause it to be surveyed,
and lawfully to dispose of it.
The fact that its administrative officers, before discovery of the error,
have treated such a meandered tract as subjected to the riparian
rights of abutting owners, under the state laws, and consequently
as not subject to disposal under the laws of the United States, can
not estop the United States from asserting its title in a controversy
with an abutting owner; and even as against such an owner, who
acquired his property before the mistake was discovered and in reliance upon actions and representations of federal officers carrying,
assurance that such riparian rights existed, the United States may
equitably correct the mistake and protect its title to the meandered
land. The equities of the abutting owner, if any, in such circumstances, are not cognizable judicially, but should be addressed to the
legislative department of the government.
The Swamp Land Act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519, did not
convey land of its own force, without survey, selection or patent.
A suit by the United States to quiet its title to land which was excluded from survey through an erroneous meander, against a defendant owning abutting land under federal patent and erroneously
claiming, in virtue of his patent, riparian rights in the meandered
area, is not a suit to vacate or annul the defendant's patent, and the
statute of limitations of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, is not
applicable in defense.
In the survey of a township in Arkansas, part of the land was erroneously meandered and described on the plat as a "lake," and the
lands abutting on the meander line were subdivided into lots. The.
State selected the township under the Swamp Land Act of 1850,
describing it by number and stating an acreage equal to the entire
area within the township lines minus the area meandered. After
the Act of March 3, 1857, c. 117, 11 Stat. 251, by which Congress
confirmed "the selection of swamp and overflowed lands granted to
the several States . . . heretofore made and reported to the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office," and provided that such
selection should be approved and patented, a patent was issued to
Arkansas purporting to convey "the whole of the township" (giving its number,) except section 16; and stating the acreage conveyed
at a figure substantially the same as the total acreage within the
township lines minus that section and the meandered area. Held,
that the effect of the meander was to exclude the meandered
area from the township, and that neither the selection, the confirmatory act nor the patent could be construed as embracing it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Chapman & Dewey Lumber Co. v. St. Francis Levee District, 232
U. S. 186.
Held, further, that the State could have derived no title to the meandered area through the Compromise Act of April 29, 1898, c. 229,
30 Stat. 367, as a result of such selection and confirmation.
227 Fed. Rep. 827, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles T. Coleman and Mr. Henry D. Ashley for
appellant.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. W. W. Dyar was
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The United States, asserting that designated parcels of
land were part of its public domain, sought a decree
quieting its title. Sustaining the title thus asserted and
rejecting a claim to the contrary on the part of the defendant, the trial court awarded the relief prayed (214
Fed. Rep. 630), and the appellant, who was defendant,
seeks on this appeal to reverse the decree of the court
below sustaining the trial court. 227 Fed. Rep. 827.
A reference to the origin and subject-matter of the controversy and a statement of some undisputed and indisputable facts will clarify and limit the issues to be passed
upon.
The public survey of the United States concerning the
area in which the land was situated (Township 12 North,
Range 9 East of the Fifth Principal Meridian, County of
Mississippi, State of Arkansas) was filed in 1841. By
that survey and the plat and field notes thereof it appeared that in sections 22, 26 and 27 there was stated to be
a body of water styled a lake which was excluded from

LEE WILSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
24.

Opinion of the Court.

the survey by means of a meander line, diminishing to
the extent of the excluded area the acreage surveyed in
the sections in question and thereby causing them to become fractional. As a matter of course also the meander
line to the extent that it excluded the body of water from
the survey diminished the area of surveyed land lying
within the exterior boundaries of the township. In 1853
the State of Arkansas, it may be assumed, complying with
legal requisites and conforming to the administrative
regulations of the Land Department, filed a list of selections under the grant made to it of swamp and overflowed
lands by the Act of Congress of 1850, 9 Stat. 519. The
selections included Township 12 and stated the acreage
which it embraced conformably to the reduction of such
acreage made by the meander line. In 1857 Congress
confirmed "the selection of swamp and overflowed lands
granted to the several States . . . heretofore made
and reported to the Commissioner of the General LandOffice" and provided that such selection "shall be approved and patented to the said several States
"
(c. 117, 11 Stat. 251). In 1858 a patent was issued by
the United States to the State of Arkansas, the land
patented being described as follows: "Township Twelve
(12) North Range Nine (9) East. The whole of the township except Section sixteen (16) containing fourteen
thousand five hundred and sixty-five acres and three
hundredths of an acre, according to the official plats of
survey of the said lands returned to the General Land
Office, by the Surveyor-General."
The acreage thus
stated substantially conformed to the reduction brought
about by the omission of section 16 which had already
been given to the State and of the area of the lake which
had been meandered and excluded from the survey.
Undoubtedly following the patent for a considerable
period of time the officers of the Land Department treated
the meandered and excluded surface of the lake as not

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

being part of the public domain subject to survey and to
disposal by the United States, upon the theory that the
same by the operation of the meander had been excluded
from the survey and made subject to the riparian rights
of the several abutting owners under the state law. And
it may be admitted that the State of Arkansas acted upon
the assumption that all the land, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, within the exterior limits of the township had
passed to it. In 1907 or thereabouts, growing out of some
asserted right to have the meandered and unsurveyed
area surveyed and disposed of as part of the public domain,
on the ground that, through fraud, error or mistake, the
area in question had been stated in the survey to be a lake
when in fact it was not and was on the contrary land
which should have been surveyed, the Land Department
after due notice undertook an investigation of the subject.
Without stating the proceedings which ensued, it suffices
to say that in 1909 it was definitely found that the alleged
fraud, error or mistake of the survey was established because there was no lake to meander at the time the survey
was made, it being found that all the evidence conclusively
so established. Giving effect to this the unsurveyed area
was ordered surveyed and homestead entries were initiated
thereon. This controversy arose between the rights of
the United States and such entrymen and those asserted
by the defendant below who held the rights of the State
of Arkansas, if any, to the area in question as evidenced
by the patent or as embraced by the grant of swamp and
overflowed lands and the action of the United States
authorities taken on the subject.
It thus becomes apparent that the subject of the controversy relates solely to the unsurveyed area resulting
from the erroneous assumption as to the existence of a
lake and embraces only 853.60 acres. It also is certain
that as the result of the concurrent findings of fact by
the two courts and the admission made by the parties

LEE WILSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
24.

Opinion of the Court.

there is no controversy as to the facts concerning the
error committed as to the supposed lake, leaving therefore to be decided only the legal questions which arise
from the admitted facts. As a means of putting out of
view questions which are not debatable we at once state
two legal propositions which are indisputable because
conclusively settled by previous decisions.
First. Where in a survey of the public domain a body
of water or lake is found to exist and is meandered, the
result of such meander is to exclude the area from the
survey and to cause it as thus separated to become subject
to the riparian rights of the respective owners abutting
on the meander line in accordance with the laws of the
several States. Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371; Kean v.
Calumet Canal Co., 190 U. 8. 452, 459; Hardin v. Shedd,
190 U. S. 508, 519.
Second. But where upon the assumption of the existence of a body of water or lake a meander line is through
fraud or error mistakenly run because there is no such
body of water, riparian rights do not attach because in
the nature of things the condition upon which they depend
does not exist and upon the discovery of the mistake it is
within the power of the Land Department of the United
States to deal with the area which was excluded from the
survey, to cause it to be surveyed and to lawfully dispose
of it. Niles v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S. 300; FrenchGlenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47; Security
Land & ExplorationCo. v. Burns, 193 U. S. 167; Chapman
& Dewey Lumber Co. v. St. Francis Levee District, 232 U.
S. 186.
Coming to test the questions for decision in the light
of these propositions there can be no doubt that the case
is taken out of the reach of the first and is brought under
the control of the second, as the result of the conclusive
finding as to the mistake committed concerning the existence of the lake and the consequent error in the survey,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

unless it be that for some reason the unquestioned rule
which the second proposition embodies is inapplicable.
Indeed, putting aside a contention made as to the face
of the patent, which we are of opinion is sufficiently disposed of by what we have already said, all the other contentions proceed not upon a challenge of the doctrine embodied in the second proposition but upon the erroneous
theory that it is inapplicable to the case in hand-an
error which we shall briefly demonstrate by separately
considering the contentions.
a. In the first place it is in many forms of statement
insisted that although the patent expressly referred to
the plat and survey and purported only to grant the
acreage surveyed as reduced by the exclusion from the
survey of the body of the lake, that becomes negligible
since the right of the State depended upon the grant
made by the Swamp Land Act, the selection made under
that act and the approval of that selection by the Act
of Congress of 1857, all of which must be considered in
determining the grant made to the State and give rise
when considered to the irresistible implication that all
the land embraced in Township 12 passed to the State.
Concretely stated the proposition is this: That as the
selection made by the State was of Township 12, the
exterior bounds of that township became the measure of
the State's title irrespective of what was surveyed or unsurveyed within those exterior lines. But it is at once
obvious that this proposition rests upon a contradictory
assumption, since it treats the designation of Township 12
as the measure of the rights conferred and immediately
proceeds to exclude from view the criteria by which alone
the existence and significance of the insisted upon designation (Township 12) are to be determined. Aside from
this, however, it is further apparent that the contention
disregards the very basis upon which the decided cases
upholding the doctrine stated in the second proposition

LEE WILSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
24.

Opinion of the Court.

rest, which is that the effect of a meander line is to exclude absolutely from the township the area meandered
and to cause therefore its nature and character to depend
not upon the exterior lines of the township but upon the
condition existing within those lines made manifest and
fixed by the necessary legal consequences resulting from
the meander line. This conclusive view is clearly pointed
out in Chapman & Dewey Lumber Co. v. St. Francis Levee
District, supra, pp. 196, 197. And that case also, p. 198,
completely answers the argument that although the land
was not embraced in the selection, was not included in
the township because unsurveyed and did not pass by
the patent or the selection independently considered, it
yet must be treated as having passed to the State under
the Swamp Land Act of 1850 because it was eligible to
be selected under that act.
b. The proposition that title to the land must be considered as being in the State because of the Compromise
Act of 1898 (c. 229, 30 Stat. 367) is on the face of that act,
we think, in view of what we have said, devoid of merit.
We say this because the contention rests upon the assumption which we have already disposed of that the land
excluded by the meander line was embraced by the selection approved by the Act of Congress of 1857.
c. The assertion that an estoppel against the United
States arose from the fact that the administrative officers
of the government before the discovery of the fraud or
error as to the existence of the lake had treated the area
meandered as subjected to the riparian rights of the abutting owners under the state law and consequently not
subject to be disposed of by the United States, in substance but disregards the right to correct such error conclusively recognized as existing in the administrative
officers of the Land Department by the decisions which
we have previously cited.
d. The contention that power did not exist on the dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

covery of a mistake to survey and dispose of public land
which had been excluded from a survey by the drawing
of a meander line on the mistaken assumption of the
existence of a. body of water, because of the five years'
limitation on the right of the United States to vacate or
annul a patent (Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095),
again but disputes the settled doctrine as to the existence
of such power and besides rests upon the unsound assumption that the correction of such a mistake is an attempt
to vacate or annul the patent. When rightly considered
we think, as pointed out by the United States in argument, the ruling in United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo.,
209 U. S. 447, instead of sustaining, is in conflict with
the proposition.
Finally, the suggestion that as the defendant holding
under the State acquired its rights before the mistake
was discovered in reliance upon the actions and repiesentations of the officers of the United States as to the
existence of riparian rights in accordance with the state
law as the result of the meander line, the United States
should not be permitted to correct the mistake committed
as to the meander line and thus protect its title, but in a
different form restates the argument which we have already disposed of. Besides, if for the sake of the argument we assume the existence of the equitable considerations insisted upon, it is manifest that the prayer for
their enforcement is in the nature of things beyond the
sphere of judicial authority however much relief on the
subject may be appropriately sought from the legislative
department of the government.
There being then no error, it follows that the decree
below must be and it is
Affirmed.

