OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

McGOWAN ET AL. v. COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS'
ASSOCIATION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Argued November 22, 23, 1917.-Decided December 17, 1917.
As decided by this court in Washington v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127; 214
U. S. 205; Sand Island, in the Columbia River, is part of the State
of Oregon, the boundary between that State and Washington being
the ship channel north of the Island.
An alleged nuisance consisting of nets connected with buoys and heavily
anchored to the bottom of the Columbia River between the line of
extreme low tide and the channel, in Oregon,' is not subject to abatement by the District Court sitting in the Western District of Washington; assuming that concurrent jurisdiction "on the Columbia"
is enjoyed by the State of Washington in virtue of the act organizing
Washington Territory (c. 90, § 21, 10 Stat. 179) and the act admitting
Oregon into the Union (c. 33, § 2, 11 Stat. 383), such jurisdiction
does not reach the bed of the stream in Oregon.
Plaintiff filed its bill in the Western District of Washington to abate a
nuisance on the Columbia River, assuming bonafide and not without
some reason that the locus in quo was within that State and District,
but later, before taking proofs and before final hearing, moved to
dismiss without prejudice because of an intervening decision of this
court which fixed the locus in Oregon. The motion having been refused and the case retained upon the ground that Washington had
concurrent jurisdiction over the River, held, (1) that, in face of the
doubt concerning the power to abate the nuisance as prayed, the
District Court erred in refusing the motion, and (2) that the possibility of granting relief against the defendants in personam did not justify retaining the case, against the plaintiff's will.
When a decree dismissing a bill is meant to be without prejudice, the
better practice is to express it so.
219 Fed. Rep. 365, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
'The place was on the south side of Sand Island.

McGOWAN v. COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS' ASSN. 353
352.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Bert W. Henry, with whom Mr. FranklinT. Griffith,
Mr. R. A. Leiter and Mr. HarrisonAllen were on the brief,
for appellants:
Besides diverse citizenship, the amended bill showed on
its face that federal questions were involved. It based the
alleged right to exclusive fishery upon the government
ownership of the premises and the lease thereof from the
Secretary of War. To sustain this contention requires a
construction of the President's proclamation withdrawing
the Island and a definition of the powers of the Secretary
under the act of Congress authorizing leases (27 Stat. 231),
as well as a determination of the question of fact whether
or not, as also is alleged, defendants' nets were placed in
the waters in violation of the Constitution and laws of
the United States prohibiting the obstruction of navigable
waters. The case is like Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526. See also Wilson Cypress Co. v. Enrique Del Pozo y Marcus, 236 U. S. 635; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410. Jurisdiction of this court exists also because the jurisdiction of
the trial court was involved.
The clause relative to concurrent jurisdiction on the
Columbia and other boundary waters in § 2 of the act
admitting Oregon as a State appears also in the acts
admitting the States bordering upon the Mississippi
River and its tributaries. It is undoubtedly a grant of
jurisdiction, not only to the courts, but to the legislative
and executive departments as well. This court recognized
the concurrent jurisdiction of the courts of Oregon and
Washington on the Columbia. Nielsen v. Oregon, 212
U. S. 315. The federal court for Oregon and the Supreme
Court of that State have done likewise. In re Mattson,
69 Fed. Rep. 535; State v. Nielsen, 51 Oregon, 588.
The concurrent jurisdiction so granted is on the river,
and does not include jurisdiction of its bed. 'McFall v.
Commonwealth, 2 Metc. 394; Carlisle v. State, 32 Indiana,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellants.

245 U. S.

55; Sherlock v. Alling, 44 Indiana, 184; Gilbert v. Moline
Water Power Co., 19 Iowa, 319; State v. Mullins, 35 Iowa,
199; State v. Metcalf, 65 Mo. App. 681; Memphis C. & P.
Co. v. Pikey, 142 Indiana, 304; Opsahl v. Judd, 30 Minnesota, 126; Roberts v. Fullerton, 117 Wisconsin, 222;
State v. Moyers, 155 Iowa, 678. It was undoubtedly the
intention of Congress in granting such concurrent jurisdiction that acts on the river should be within the jurisdiction
of either State. Congress undoubtedly intended also that
objects of a permanent nature, which are affixed to or are a
part of the bed should not be subject to the grant. Such
objects are a part of the real estate, or their location is
fixed and permanent so that no question can arise in regard to the State where they are located. There is no need
for concurrent jurisdiction over such objects, for they are
always in the same place; and so it is that objects which
float upon the water, or which move about in the water,
and which rest in part on the bed of the stream and in part
upon the water, and all rights and liabilities in connection
therewith, are within the grant of concurrent jurisdiction,
while the bed of the river, together with all permanent
structures built upon or into it, are not.
Counsel then described the set nets in question, showing
that they must be taken from the water whenever fish
were removed and are in no sense attached to or part of
the river bed, but are subject to be moved from place to
place, and, when anchored, are no more affixed than are
boats when at anchor. Such objects, they contended,
were peculiarly within the purpose of the grant of concurrent jurisdiction as explained by the courts.
The regulation of the fishing industry is also peculiarly
within the grant. How are the two States to enforce their
policy of maintaining that industry, if the execution of
their laws depends on proof in each case that the act
complained of was on one side or the other of the invisible state line? And how are fishermen to enjoy their

McGOWAN v. COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS' ASSN. 355
352.

Argument for Appellees.

rights under either State without danger of exceeding
them?
The trial court had jurisdiction of this suit by reason of
its jurisdiction over the parties, regardless of the situs of
the property. Massie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 148; Muller v.
Dows, 94 U. S. 444; Phelps v. McDonald, 99 U. S. 298;
Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Philadelphia Co. v.
Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Robertson v. Howard, 229 U. S. 254;
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 207 Fed. Rep. 1; Jennings v. Beale, 157 Pa. St. 630;
Schmaltz v. York Mfg. Co., 204 Pa. St. 1; Kirklin v. Atlas
S. & L. Assn., 60 S. W. Rep. 149; Allen v. Buchanan, 97
Alabama, 399; Steele v. Bryant, 116 S. W. Rep. 755.
Mr. G. C. Fulton, with whom Mr. C. W. Fulton was on
the brief, for appellees:
The jurisdiction of the trial court was dependent entirely on diverse citizenship and the case therefore is not
reviewable here by writ of error.
Assuming that the State of Washington fell heir to the
concurrent jurisdiction on the Columbia which was given
to the Territory by the organic act, such jurisdiction, by
the terms of that act, was limited to criminal offenses
committed on the river. The act admitting Washington
as a State, however, does not purport to grant even that
measure of concurrent jurisdiction, and the earlier act
admitting Oregon grants concurrent jurisdiction to Oregon
alone. In any case, the grant is of jurisdiction "on" or
"upon" the river. All the States bordering on the Missouri, Mississippi and other great rivers and waters have
similar provisions in their enabling acts. Numerous cases
have involved the construction of such provisions, but in
no case has it been held or even seriously considered that
such jurisdiction empowers the courts of one State to regulate or determine property rights in the beds or shores of
rivers or waters within the boundaries of the opposite

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

State. See Gilbert v. Moline Water Power Co., 19 Iowa,
319; Mississippi & Missouri R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2 Black,
485; Roberts v. Fullerton, 117 Wisconsin, 222. The present
case is within these authorities. The action is local, the
locus is in Oregon, and hence the Washington court had no
power to proceed. It could not send its officers into Oregon
to remove the obstructions complained of.
Appellants base their right to operate appliances fixed
to the bed of the river in Oregon solely upon licenses issued
by the Fish Commissioner of Washington. But Washington had no power to license such acts beyond her boundaries. In re Mattson, 69 Fed. Rep. 535. To be lawful in
Oregon they must be licensed by Oregon under her law.
Laws 1901, p. 338.
The trial court was without jurisdiction and the decree
of the court below should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the appellee, the Columbia
River Packers' Association, as lessee from the United
States of fishing sites and riparian rights on Sand Island
in the Columbia River, to compel the appellants to remove
certain obstructions placed by them upon the bottom of
the channel of the river in front of the plaintiff's premises,
and to refrain from longer maintaining them there. Upon
a bond being given a restraining order was issued on
July 7, 1908; answers and a cross-bill were filed in the
following August, and a demurrer to the cross-bill was
overruled on October 21 of the same year. The suit had
been brought in the Western District of Washington upon
the belief that Sand Island was in Washington and subject to the jurisdiction that that State exercised in fact.
But on November 16, 1908, it was decided by this court
that the boundary between Oregon and Washington was
the ship channel north of Sand Island, and that Sand
Island belonged to the former State. Washington v.

McGOWAN v. COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS' ASSN. 3857
352.

Opinion of the Court.

Oregon, 211 U. S. 127; s. c. 214 U. S. 205. Thereupon, in
June, 1909, the plaintiff filed a petition that the suit be
dismissed without prejudice for want of jurisdiction,
since it turned out that the land concerned was not within
the district for which the court sat.
The District Court dismissed the petition and retained
jurisdiction of the cause on the ground that by the Act
of Congress of March 2, 1853, c. 90, § 21, 10 Stat. 172,
179, organizing the Territory of Washington, and by the
Act of February 14, 1859, c. 33, § 2, 11 Stat. 383, admitting Oregon into the Union, concurrent jurisdiction
on this part of the river was reserved to Washington,
when it subsequently became a State. The plaintiff then
filed a supplemental bill in which again it prayed that
the suit might be dismissed without prejudice if the court
had no jurisdiction; the case proceeded to the taking of
evidence and final hearing, the temporary injunction was
dissolved, an injunction was issued against the plaintiff's
interfering with the defendants' appliances, and a final
decree for damages caused by the temporary injunction
was entered in favor of the defendants. The plaintiff
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court,
being of opinion that the bill should have been dismissed
on the plaintiff's petition, reversed the decree and ordered
the bill to be dismissed. 219 Fed. Rep. 365. 134 C. C. A.
461.
The nuisance complained of consisted of set nets, each
anchored by a stone weighing about three hundred pounds
to which was attached a short cable which was clamped
to a wire rope about twenty-five feet long, to which in its
turn was attached a buoy of large timbers. The nets
were placed between the line of extreme low tide and the
channel of the river; they were alleged to interfere with
the exercise of the plaintiff's rights, and an abatement of
the obstruction was prayed for in the bill. We agree with
the Circuit Court of Appeals that, assuming for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

poses of decision that the State of Washington had concurrent jurisdiction "on the Columbia," in the words of
the statute (1859, c. 33, §2), Nielsen v. Oregon, 212 U. S.
315, 319, the jurisdiction did not extend to the removal
of such a nuisance as this. It did not reach the bed of
the stream, and the officers of the State would have had
no authority to intermeddle with the defendants' nets

anchored to the bottom. See Wedding v. Meyler, 192
U. S. 573, 585. This was an important part of the relief
that the plaintiff sought and when it found that it could
not have it, it naturally endeavored to dismiss the bill.
It ordinarily is the undisputed right of a plaintiff to
dismiss a bill before the final hearing. Carringtonv. Holly,
1 Dickens, 280. Cummins v. Bennett, 8 Paige, 79. Kempton v. Burgess, 136 Massachusetts, 192. The discussions
have been directed more to the question of costs. When
a bill was filed under a mistake common to both parties
and in other like cases the plaintiff was allowed to dismiss his bill without costs. Lister v. Leather, 1 DeG. &
J. 361, 368 (1857). Broughton v. Lashmar, 5 My. & Cr.
136, 144 (1840). Here the decision of this court put the
plaintiff in an unexpected position. The question before
the District Court was not whether the bill ought to be
retained for a decree in personam if the plaintiff so desired, or even one of costs, but whether it should be retained against the plaintiff's will for a trial that could not,
or at least very possibly might be held unable to, give it
what it asked. Upon this point also we are of opinion
that the Circuit Court of Appeals was right. Its decree
of course meant that the bill was dismissed without prejudice, as prayed, but it is better that it should express the
fact and with that modification it is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

