MAhTIN v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.

513

Argument for Petitioner.

MARTIN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF VIRGIN, v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF
MACON, GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 19, 20, 1917.-Decided January 14, 1918.
When the state law recognizes unrecorded chattel mortgages as valid
between the parties, and merely postpones them to liens created
and purchases made while they remain unrecorded (Georgia Code
of 1910, § 3260,) delay of recordation until within four months before the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings against the mortgagor
does not enable the trustee to assail such a mortgage as a preference, as of the date of its recordation, under § 60b of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838, 842, if
he represents no lien on the property other than his lien under § 47a,
arising subsequently.
Recordation is to be deemed "required" in the sense of the amendment when, through delay of it, a position superior to the challenged
transfer has been gained, during the specified period, by some creditor whom the trustee represents or whose place he is entitled to take.
The mortgage in this case was given before the four months' period began, as security for money presently loaned in good faith, and was
recorded the day before the petition was filed, when the mortgagee
knew of the mortgagor's insolvency. Recordation was not fraudulently delayed and prior thereto no other liens were fixed upon the
property.
228 Fed. Rep. 651, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. Douglas Feagin and Mr. Rudolph S. Wimberly,
with whom Mr. Oliver C. Hancock was on the brief, for
petitioner, distinguished Keeble v. John Deere Plow Co.,
190 Fed. Rep. 1019; In re Jacobson & Perrill, 200 Fed.
Rep. 812; and Anderson v. Chenault, 208 Fed. Rep. 400;
and relied on Carey v. Donohue, 240 U. S. 430; Covington v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Brigman, 32 A. B. Rep. 35; Pacific State Bank v. Coats,
205 Fed. Rep. 619; Potter Mfg. Co. v. Arthur, 220 Fed.
Rep. 843; MassachusettsBonding Co. v. Kemper, 220 Fed.
Rep. 847; and Millikin v. Second National Bank of Baltimore, 206 Fed. Rep. 14. Section 60b, as amended, gives
the trustee the right to show that the lien of the mortgage
is invalid as to his junior lien under § 47a, because the
older lien operates as a preference obtained when the
bankrupt was insolvent and when the creditor had reasonable cause to believe that he was insolvent.
Under the Bankruptcy Act as it now stands, the transfer is to be deemed as made at the time of recording, where
that is delayed, rather than at the time of execution;
and at the time of recording the mortgage in this case
the bank was a creditor. Distinguishing Dean v. Davis,
242 U. S. 438, and other cases, and citing In re Bunch
Commission Co., 225 Fed. Rep. 243-249; Dulany v. Morse,
39 App. D. C. 523; Davis v. Hanover Savings Fund Society,
210 Fed. Rep. 768; Remington on Bankruptcy, vol. 3,
p. 406. The purpose of the amendment is very clearly
pointed out by the Senate and House committees upon
whose recommendation it was adopted. Senate Report
No. 691, 61st Cong., 2nd sess.
Mr. Orville A. Park, with whom Mr. George S. Jones
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
As security for money presently loaned to him in good
faith by the Commercial National Bank, one Virgin executed and delivered a mortgage upon his stock of merchandise at Macon, Georgia, February 16, 1914. It was
recorded August 20, 1914, when the bank knew of his
insolvency. The next day involuntary bankruptcy pro-

MARTIN v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
513.

515

Opinion of the Court.

ceedings were instituted and in due time he was adjudged
bankrupt and a trustee appointed. Recordation of the
mortgage was not fraudulently delayed and prior thereto
no other liens were fixed upon the property. Both trustee and other creditors objected to the bank's claim as
one entitled to priority "on the ground that the mortgage was recorded within the four months period preceding bankruptcy, at a time when the mortgagor was
insolvent, and when the mortgagee knew that he was insolvent, and that the recording of the mortgage would
effect a preference, and that the transfer arising from
the recording of the instrument was non-operative, and
that the instrument must be held as not recorded." Their
contention here is thus stated: "The Trustee does not say
in this case that his lien is older than the bank's and therefore he comes ahead of the bank, but he says that the
bank's lien is invalid and inoperative, because recorded
while the bankrupt was insolvent, etc., and that being a
subsequent lien holder the Trustee is in the proper position
to attack the bank's lien. The bank's lien is invalid
only by the positive inhibition of the statute, Section
60b. It is for this reason invalid just as a transfer made
(instead of recorded) within this four months' period is
invalid by reason of the inhibition of the Bankruptcy
law." "The record of an instrument is required as to
any particular person if the instrument must be recorded
to be good against him. If the subsequent lienor is entitled to priority unless the antecedent mortgage is recorded, such mortgage is required to be recorded as to
him. The Trustee is a subsequent lienor. Unless the
mortgage is recorded he, the Trustee, is entitled to priority. It is therefore 'required' to be recorded as to
him."
The referee allowed the claim as preferred and the
Circuit Court of Appeals approved his action. 228 Fed.
Rep. 651.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

It is provided by § 60b, Bankruptcy Act, as amended
June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838, 842:
"If a bankrupt shall . . . have made a transfer
of any of his property, and if, at the time of the transfer, . .
or of the recording or registering of the
transfer if by law recording or registering thereof is required, and being within four months before the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy or after the filing thereof
and before the adjudication, the bankrupt be insolvent
and the judgment or transfer then operate as a preferrence, and the person receiving it or to be benefited
thereby, or his agent acting therein, shall then have reasonable cause to believe that the enforcement of such
judgment or transfer would effect a preference, it shall
be voidable by the trustee and he may recover the property or its value from such person."
Section 47a of the Bankruptcy Act provides:
"Trustees shall respectively . . . ; (2) collect and
reduce to money the property of the estates for which
they are trustees, under the direction of the court, and
close up the estates as expeditiously as is compatible
with the best interests of the parties in interest; and
such trustees, as to all property in the custody or coming
into the custody of the bankruptcy court, shall be deemed
vested with all the rights, remedies, and powers of a
creditor holding a lien by legal or equitable proceedings thereon; and also, as to all property not in the custody of the bankruptcy court, shall be deemed vested
with all the rights, remedies, and powers of a judgment
creditor holding an execution duly returned unsatis.
fied;
Section 3260, Georgia Code of 1910, declares that
"mortgages not recorded within the time required remain valid as against the mortgagor, but are postponed
to all other liens created or obtained, or purchases made
prior to the actual record of the mortgage. If, however,

MARTIN v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK. 517
513.

Opinion of the Court.

the younger lien is created by contract, and the party
receiving it has notice of the prior unrecorded mortgage,
or the purchaser has the like notice, then the lien of the
older mortgage shall be held good against them." Construing this section, in Hawes v. Glover, 126 Georgia,
305, 317, the Supreme Court held: "A mortgage is perfectly valid as between the parties thereto, though never
recorded. Hardaway v. Semmes, 24 Ga. 305; Gardiner
v. Moore, 51 Ga. 268; Myers v. Picquet, 61 Ga. 260;
Civil Code, § 2727 [Park's Ann. Code, § 3260]. If it
is not recorded, or, as in this case, is illegally recorded,
the only effect is to postpone it to purchases made, or
liens procured by contract, without notice of its existence, or to liens obtained by operation of law."
Section 60b, Bankruptcy Act, has been specially considered by us in two recent cases-Bailey v. Baker Ice
Machine Co., 239 U. S.268, and Carey v. Donohue, 240
U. S. 430. In the first the company installed an ice machine for Grant Brothers at Horton, Kansas, during February, under a conditional sale contract of earlier date and
recorded May 15th following when the purchasers were
known to be insolvent; July 11th they became bankrupt. Such a contract is valid under the laws of Kansas as between the parties whether recorded or not, but
void as against a creditor of the vendee who fastens a
lien upon the property by execution, attachment or like
process prior to recording. The vendors demanded the
machine. The trustee maintained § 47a, Bankruptcy
Act, gave him the status of a lien holder prior to recordation and that the contract having been put to record
within four months operated as a preference voidable
under § 60b. We held the trustee occupied the status
of a creditor with a lien fixed as of the date when the
bankruptcy proceedings commenced and that he could
not assail the contract under the state law. Further,
that § 60b refers to an act whereby the bankrupt sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

renders or encumbers his property for the benefit of a
particular creditor thereby diminishing the estate which
should be applied to all; the contract in question did
not operate as a preferential transfer; the property was
not the bankrupts' but the vendor's; the former were
not to become owners until the condition was performed;
and there was no diminution of the estate.
In Carey v. Donohue the trustee sought to set aside a
real estate transfer executed more than four months before bankruptcy but recorded within that time. Under
the Ohio statute conveyances of land until filed for record are deemed fraudulent as to subsequent bona fide
purchasers without knowledge, but recording is not essential to their validity as against any creditor, whether
general creditor, lien creditor, or judgment creditor with
execution returned unsatisfied, that is, as against any class
of persons represented by a trustee in bankruptcy or with
whose rights, remedies and powers he is deemed to be
vested. We denied the trustee's contention and, among
other things, declared: "Required" has regard to persons
in whose favor the requirement is imposed. "Congress did
not undertake in § 60 to hit all preferential transfers
(otherwise valid) merely because they were not disclosed,
either by record or possession, more than four months
before the bankruptcy proceeding." "It is plain that
the words are not limited to cases where recording is
required for the purpose of giving validity to the transaction as between the parties.. For that purpose, no
amendment of the original act was needed, as in such
a case there could be no giving of a preference without
recording." "In dealing with a transfer, as defined,
which though valid as between the parties was one which
was 'required' to be recorded, the reference was necessarily to a requirement in the interest of others who
were in the contemplation of Congress in enacting the
provision." "The intended meaning was to embrace

MARTIN v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
513.

510

Opinion' of the Court.

those cases in which recording was necessary in order
to make the transfer valid as against those concerned
in the distribution of the insolvent estate; that is, as
against creditors, including those whose position the
trustee was entitled to take."
The word "required" in § 60b refers directly to statutes in many States relating to recording which through
various forms of expression seek to protect creditors by
providing that their rights shall be superior to transfers while off the record. Recognizing the beneficial results of these enactments and intending that rights based
thereon might be utilized for the advantage of bankrupt estates, Congress inserted (amendment of 1910)
the clause "or of the recording or registering of the transfer if by law recording or registering thereof is required."
In Carey v. Donohue we pointed out that purchasers
are not of those in whose favor registration is "required,"
but that the reference is to persons concerned in the
distribution of the estate, i. e., "creditors, including
those whose position the trustee was entitled to take."
And we think it properly follows that before a trustee
may avoid a transfer because of the provision in question he must in fact represent or be entitled to take the
place of some creditor whose claim actually stood in a
superior position to the challenged transfer while unrecorded and within the specified period.
The Georgia statute imposes the requirement of registration only in favor of a creditor who fixes a lien on
the property before recording takes place. Here there
is no such person-the trustee occupies the status of
one who acquired a lien after that event. No one concerned in the distribution of the estate actually held
rights superior to the mortgage while off the record.
The judgment of the court below is correct and must
be
Affirmed.

