GOULD v. GOULD.
146.

Syllabus.

as was assumed by the Missouri court. Deaths were
occurring between the time of the levy and the time when
so much of it as might be paid would be paid in. The
assessment was for the purpose of keeping up a fund of
$300,000 to meet deaths promptly, as they occurred.
Without giving the figures in detail it is enough to say
that it clearly appears that the amount of the assessment,
$322,378.48, was not in excess of what the subsequently
rendered Connecticut judgment allowed. It necessarily
was levied as an estimate. There was no probability that
it would lead to even a temporary excess over $300,000, to
be applied to the next assessment laid. We are of opinion
that full~faith and credit was not given to the Connecticut
record and that for that reason the present judgments
must be reversed.
Judgments reversed.

GOULD v. GOULD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 41.

Submitted November 8, 1917.-Decided November 19, 1917.

Alimony paid monthly to a divorced wife under a decree of court is
not taxable as "income" under the Income Tax Act of October 3,
1913, 38 Stat. 114, 166.
In the interpretation of taxing statutes it is the established rule not
to extend their provisions, by implication, beyond the clear import
of the language used, or to enlarge their operations so as to embrace
matters not specifically pointed out. Doubts are resolved against
the Government.
168 App. Div. 900, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Mr. Martin W. Littleton and Mr. Owen N. Brown for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. John L. McNab for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
A decree of the Supreme Court for New York County
entered in 1909 forever separated the parties to this proceeding, then and now citizens of the United States, from
bed and board; and further ordered that plaintiff in error
pay to Katherine C. Gould during her life the sum of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) every month for her support
and maintenance. The question presented is whether
such monthly payments during the years 1913 and 1914
constituted parts of Mrs. Gould's income within the intendment of the Act of Congress approved October 3,
1913, 38 Stat. 114, 166, and were subject as such to the
tax prescribed therein. The court below answered in
the negative; and we think it reached the proper conclusion.
Pertinent portions of the act follow:
"SECTION II. A. Subdivision 1. That there shall be
levied, assessed, collected and paid annually upon the
entire net income arising or accruing from all sources in
the preceding calendar year to every citizen of the United
States, whether residing at home or abroad, and to every
person-residing in the United States, though not a citizen
thereof, a tax of 1 per centum per annum upon such income, except as hereinafter provided; ./ .
"B. That, subject only to such exemptions and deductions as are hereinafter allowed, the net income of a
taxable person shall include gains, profits, and income
derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal.
service of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or
from professions, vocations, businesses, trade, commerce,

GOULD v. GOULD.
151.

'Opinion of the Court.

or sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal,
growing out of the ownership or use of or interest in real
or personal property, also from interest, rent, dividends,
securities, or the transaction of any lawful business carried
on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income derived
from any source whatever, including the income from
but not the value of property acquired by gift, bequest,
devise, or descent: . .
In the interpretation of statutes levying taxes it is the
established rule not to extend their provisions, by implication, beyond the clear import of the language used,
or to enlarge their operations so as to embrace matters
not specifically pointed out. In case of doubt they are
construed most strongly against the Government, and
in favor of the citizen. United States v. Wigglesworth, 2
Story, 369; American Net & Twine Co. v. Worthington,
141 U. S. 468, 474; Benziger v. United States, 192 U. S.
38, 55.
As appears from the above quotations, the net income
upon which subdivision 1 directs that an annual tax shall
be assessed, levied, collected and paid is defined in division
B. The use of the word itself in the definition of "income"
causes some obscurity, but we are unable to assert that
alimony paid to a divorced wife under a decree of court
falls fairly within any of the terms employed.
In Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575, 577, 578, we said:
"Alimony does not arise from any business transaction,
but from the relation of marriage. It is not founded on
contract, express or implied, but on the natural and legal
duty of the husband to support the wife. The general
obligation to support is made specific by the decree of the
court of appropriate jurisdiction. . . . Permanent
alimony is regarded rather as a portion of the husband's estate to which the wife is equitably entitled, than as strictly
a debt; alimony from time to time may be regarded as a
portion of his current income or earnings; . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

The net income of the divorced husband subject to
taxation was not decreased by payment of alimony under
the court's order; and, on the other hand, the sum received
by the wife on account thereof cannot be regarded as
income arising or accruing to her within the enactment.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

WEAR, IMPLEADED SUB. NOM. WEAR SAND
COMPANY, ET AL. v. STATE OF KANSAS EX REL.
BREWSTER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 30.

Argued November 12, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.

A specific intent to accept the tidal test of navigability, and so to extend riparian ownership ad filum aque on non-tidal streams which
are navigable in fact, is not predicable of a statute adopting the
common law of England in general terms only, particularly if enacted
later than the decision in The Genessee Chief, 12 How. 443. Hence
such a statute, passed by Kansas Territory in 1859 and retained by
the State, affords no basis even in purport for denying the power of
the Supreme Court of Kansas to apply the test of navigability in
fact, as part of the common law, in determining the ownership of a
river bed as between the State and riparian owners deriving title
under a federal patent issued, before statehood, in 1860.
In a mandamus proceeding to test the right of a State to levy charges
on sand dredged from a stream by a riparian owner under claim of
title ad filum aqua, the latter has not a constitutional right to have
the question of navigability determined by a jury.
Whether in such a case the state court may take judicial notice that
the stream is navigable is a question of local law. So held where
judicial notice was taken of the navigability of the Kaw River, the
principal river of Kansas, at the state capital, and the decision was
supported by the meandering of the stream in original public surveys, and by various state and federal statutes and decisions cited.

