UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE CO. 337
330.

Syllabus.

ion of that court, and that the second assessment must be
held void because excessive. This, however, without
prejudice to the making of another assessment by the
Comptroller upon the shareholding banks for the difference, if needed, between the amount paid and the amount
of an assessment for the full statutory liability.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
CALIFORNIA BRIDGE & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 39, 40. Argued November 9, 12, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Claimant entered into a contract with the United States to erect certain structures "at the United States navy yard, Mare Island."
Held, upon the facts, as found by the court below, that the site selected before the execution of the contract was selected provisionally
and subject to be changed by the Government for some other location within the navy yard, and that claimant so understood when
the contract was made.
A judgment exonerating a surety on a government construction contract, upon the ground that the location of the work was changed by
the United States without the surety's consent, is not res judicata
in respect of the right of the United States to make the change as
against the principal contractor, when the latter was not a party to
the action in which the judgment was rendered and when the right
is dependent, not upon the terms of the written contract, but upon
notice and representations aliunde, which in the case of the surety

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

may have been different, and so have produced a different understanding, than in the case of the principal.
Having annulled a construction contract for default, the United States
re-let the contract at higher cost. Under supplemental agreements
with the new contractor, certain deviations from the contract were
made, involving a cost of about 6% of the total contract price and
requiring estimates of the attendant expenses. Notwithstanding
that these changes, on the whole, reduced the cost of the work, held,
because of the deviations, that the difference between the cost and
the original contract price was not a proper measure of the original
contractor's liability.
In view of the history of the negotiation preceding the contract here in
question, he!d, that it would be highly inequitable to allow the
Government's claim of liquidated damages.
50 Ct. Clms. 40, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr. Chas. F. Jones was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. Archibald King was
on the brief, for California Bridge & Construction Co.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases are appeals from the Court of Claims
which were heard and will be decided together, the secondbeing a cross appeal from the judgment denying recovery
on the Government's counterclaim.
The California Bridge & Construction Company, hereinafter referred to as the Bridge Company, on December
21, 1898, with the American Surety Company of New
York, Albert Brown and Thomas Prather as its sureties,
entered into a written contract with the United States to
furnish the materials for and to completely construct,
within six months from the date of the contract, a saw
mill, boiler house and steel chimney "at the United States
navy yard, Mare Island, California."

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE CO. 339
337.

Opinion of the Court.

On January 2, 1901, claiming to act under an option
therein contained, the Government declared the contract
void, and the Bridge Company was notified that the work
would be completed at its expense. Under a second contract the work was completed by another contractor.
In its amended petition the Bridge Company claimed
that the Government had terminated the contract without warrant and sought to recover for materials furnished,
expenses incurred and anticipated profits. The Government denied all liability to the plaintiff and in a counterclaim prayed for a judgment for the difference between the
amount of the plaintiff's contract and the cost of completing the work, plus liquidated damages.
The substance of the Bridge Company's first claim is,
that when, for the purpose of informing itself with a view
to bidding on the proposed work, its President and Secretary visited the Navy Yard, a location for the construction, hereinafter designated the "first location," was
shown to them, duly staked out, and that its bid was
based upon this representation; that after the contract
was executed, without the consent of the Bridge Company, this location was changed to another, hereinafter
designated the "second location," still within the Navy
Yard but one upon which it was much more difficult and
expensive to construct the work than upon the first location; and that the Government refused to agree to make
a reasonable allowance for such increased expense, and
wrongfully annulled the contract to the damage of the
claimant.
To this branch of the case the defense is that, at the
time the officials of the plaintiff visited the Navy Yard
and also when the contract was signed, the precise location of the plant had not been officially determined upon,
that they were then so informed, and made their bid with
that understanding, and that the contract was lawfully annulled for delay in going forward with the performance of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

The case is here for review on a finding of facts by the
Court of Claims, in which it is stated that when the President of the Bridge Company visited the Navy Yard before the contract was signed he was authoritatively informed "that the site of said structure was not definitely
fixed," and that "the location was liable to be changed to
some other place within the limits of the navy yard."
The correspondence, appearing in the finding of facts,
which passed between the parties before the contract was
annulled makes it clear beyond controversy that the
Bridge Company when it executed the contract fully
understood that another location than the one pointed
out might finally be selected.
Not long after the contract was signed, as if concluding
that it was an improvident one, which it wished to modify,
the Bridge Company, for various reasons, some with and
more without merit, delayed in going forward with the
work, with the result that after much discussion, on January 2, 1901, in a letter addressed to the Bridge Company,
the Government, asserting that it was acting under the
option reserved in the contract, declared it void and gave
notice to the Bridge Company that the work would be
completed at its expense.
The contract contained a provision giving to the Government the option to declare it void if the parties of the
first part should fail in any respect to perform their obligations under it and we agree with the Court of Claims
in concluding that this action by the Government, taken
upon the recommendation of a board of three naval
officers, was entirely justified.
The Bridge Company further relies upon a judgment
rendered in the federal Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in favor of its surety, the American
Surety Company of New York, as estopping the Government from claiming, either in defense or in aid of its counterclaim, that it had the lawful right to require the com-

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE CO. 341
337.

Opinion of the Court.

pany to erect the structure contracted for on the second
site.
As a general proposition, the claim that the principal
and surety in a contract of suretyship are in such privity
that a judgment in favor of the latter works an estoppel
in favor of the former arrests attention more by its novelty
than by its difficulty, having regard to the several defenses which a surety may have on its contract which the
principal may not have. Especially is this true in such
a case as we have here, in which the contract of suretyship
consists simply in the signing of the construction contract
by the Surety Company "as surety," so that the rights
and obligations of the parties to it must be derived wholly
from the law of suretyship.
In dealing with this contention of the Bridge Company,
it will not be necessary for us to enter into the refinements
of the decisions with respect to privity and privies.
The doctrine of estoppel by judgment, or res judicata,
as a practical matter, proceeds upon the principle that one
person shall not a second time litigate, with the same person or with another so identified in interest with such person that he represents the same legal right, precisely the
same question, particular controversy, or issue, which
has been necessarily tried and finally determined, upon
its merits, by a court of competent jurisdiction, in a judgment in personam in a former suit. Hopkins v. Lee, 6
Wheat. 109, 113; Washington, Alexandria & Georgetown
Packet Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 333; s. c., 5 Wall. 580; Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1, 18; Litchfield v. Goodnow, 123
U. S. 549; Southern Pacific Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1,
48; Fayerweather v. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276; Bigelow v. Old
Dominion Copper Mining Co., 225 U. S. 111, 127; Bigelow
on Estoppel, c. 3.
The suit in which this judgment claimed as an estoppel
was rendered was commenced by the Government against
the American Surety Company and others, as sureties of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the Bridge Company on the building contract, to recover
the difference between the amount which the Government was compelled to pay for the completed work and
the amount for which the Bridge Company had contracted
to complete it. The Surety Company was the only defendant which was served or appeared in the suit. With
respect to this judgment the Court of Claims finds that in
the Circuit Court the Surety Company pleaded non
assumpsit and a special plea based on the action of the
United States "in assuming to change the contract by
changing the site for the buildings to be erected, to which
change said surety company had not assented." And also
that the Circuit Court "submitted to the jury the question whether under the contract and the circumstances
attending its execution the United States could require
claimants to erect the structures contemplated by the
contract at a site other than the first site," and that "the
jury brought in a verdict for the defendant surety company and judgment was entered accordingly." No writ
of error was procured to review this judgment.
Obviously, the finding and judgment thus described
by the Court of Claims must be understood as deciding
that the Government was not justified in requiring the
construction to be on the "second location" as against
the Surety Company, which was the only defendant served
or appearing in that action, but not as so holding as against
the Bridge Company, which was a stranger to it, and
therefore the judgment in that case cannot serve as an
estoppel in this one unless the issue relied upon by the
Surety Company in the Circuit Court case to defeat the
claim of the Government for damages was precisely the
same as is relied upon in this case by the Bridge Company
for the same purpose, and a brief discussion of the record
will show that such is not the fact.
It is to be noted that the contract provides for the completing of the required construction "at the United States

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA BRIDGE CO. 343
337.

Opinion of the Court.

navy yard, Mare Island, California" without designation
of the precise location in the Navy Yard, and therefore
since the "first" and "second" locations were both within
the limits of the Yard it was necessary to determine from
evidence aliunde the writing whether the "first location"
was represented to either the Surety Company or to the
Bridge Company as having been finally determined upon
before they executed the contract, and the information
which each received as to this fact would determine its
legal rights with respect to the claim of the Government
for damages.
The defense in the former case turned on the information
which the Surety Company received as to the precise
location in the Navy Yard of the proposed construction
before it executed the contract,-whether it was informed
as to the "first location" and as to whether that location
had been finally or only tentatively determined upon,and the claim of the Bridge Company in this case turns on
the information, also with respect to the "first location,"
which that company received before signing the contract.
But since there was no relation between the two companies,
such that either was or is chargeable with the knowledge
which the other had on this disputed subject, and since
the notice which one of them had may have been entirely
different from that which the other received, clearly the
Surety Company may have been informed that the "first
location" had been definitely determined upon and may
have executed the contract with that understanding, as the
judgment in its favor in the Circuit Court implies, while, at
the same time, as the Government claims in this case, the
Bridge Company, prior to and at the time of the signing
of the contract, may have been informed that the "first
location" was tentative only and subject to change, as
the Court of Claims has found to be true.
Thus, since the legal liability of the Surety Company
and the Bridge Company depend as to each upon peculiar

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

facts, of each case, and as one could very well be liable and
the other not, it is plain that the issue determined in the
Circuit Court case was not the same as that which was
presented in this case and that therefore the claim of
estoppel by former judgment is without merit and must
be denied.
There remains to be considered the cross appeal of the
Government.
After the contract with the Bridge Company was annulled the Government entered into a contract with
another contractor, identical with the former one, except
for some unimportant additions to the specifications. But,
in the progress of the work, four supplemental contracts
were deemed necessary by the Government, and were
entered into in writing with the second contractor and his
surety.
The first of these supplemental contracts related to
change in the length and size of the foundation piles to be
used, involving an estimated reduction in payment to be
made of almost $3,000; the second provided for an addition to the number of piles provided for in the second
contract; the third covered changes in the character of
various parts of the foundation to be constructed, and the
fourth provided for changes in walls, doors, stairways
and for the adding a foundation for a bulkhead wall.
While the additional cost involved in the changes provided
for in three of these supplemental contracts is less than
the reduction in cost of the changes provided for in the
other one of them, yet, since they constitute a deviation
from the original contract, involving a cost of about six
per cent. of the total contract price, and since each of these
supplemental contracts required an agreement with the
new contractor which involved an estimate of the expense
of making the changes contemplated by them, we agree
with the Court of Claims in concluding that it cannot
be said that the work performed under the second contract

NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS CO. v. McCALL. 345
337.

Syllabus.

was so substantially that which the Bridge Company
contracted to perform as to permit the recovery of the
difference in cost between the two under the familiar rules
applicable to the subject.
The history of the negotiation between the Bridge
Company and the Government before the first contract
was annulled, as it appears in the finding of facts, makes it
highly inequitable that the claim of liquidated damages
should be allowed. The recovery of the Bridge Company,
limited as it was to the value of the materials delivered by
it and used by the Government, is approved. It results
that the judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK EX REL.
NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS COMPANY v. McCALL ET AL., COMMISSIONERS, CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK FOR THE FIRST
DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 407.

Argued November 6, 7, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

An order of a state public service commission requiring a city gas company to extend its mains and service pipes to meet the reasonable
needs of a growing community within the city can not be deemed
arbitrary or capricious, and so contrary to the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, where it appears that the company was
accorded full hearing before the commission and on review in the
state courts, that it is the only one authorized to serve the community
in question with gas, and that the rate of return upon the cost of the
extension, though low initially-from 21K% to 4% per annum-, will
probably soon become ample with the growth of the community; and

