BOLDT v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
440.

Syllabus.

executed June 10, 1839, and respondents through one
dated June 18, 1839.
As grounds for granting the writ petitioners alleged
that the trial court erred in refusing to submit to the jury
(1) whether the deed first dated was in fact executed (2)
whether it was presented for record before execution of
the later one (3) whether vendee in the junior deed was
a bona fide purchaser for value (4) whether the junior
deed was forged and (5) whether the action was barred
by the three years statute of limitations. The propriety
of submitting these matters depended essentially upon
an appreciation of the evidence. Having heard it all the
trial court concluded there was not enough in support of
any one of petitioners' above stated claims to warrant a
finding in their favor and the Circuit Court of Appeals
reached the same result. 226 Fed. Rep. 434.
The record discloses no sufficient reason within the
rule long observed why we should review the judgment
below. Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506.
Dismissed.

BOLDT, ADMINISTRATRIX OF BOLDT, v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 62.

Argued November 16, 19, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, except in the cases specified in ยง 4, the employee assumes extraordinary risks incident to his
employment, and risks due to negligence of employer and fellow
employees, when obvious or fully known and appreciated by him.
While between cars in a freight yard, helping to repair a faulty coupler,
plaintiff's intestate was killed, due to the impact of a string of cars,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

moving by gravity under control of a brakeman. It was contended
that the brakeman negligently permitted the moving cars to strike
with too great violence and that the company negligently failed to
promulgate and enforce adequate rules to safeguard deceased while
about his task; and some evidence tended to support both claims.
But, held, that plaintiff was not entitled to have the jury instructed
that "the risk the employee now assumes, since the passage of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, is the ordinary dangers incident
to his employment, which does not now include the assumption of
risk incident to the negligence of the carrier's officers, agents or employees."
21.8 Fed. Rep. 367, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry W. Brush and Mr. Rufus S. Day, with whom
Mr. Frank Gibbons and Mr. C. W. Dille were on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannery, Mr. Frank Rumsey and Mr. H. J.
Adams were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of
the court.
At Buffalo, New York, defendant has a yard where
freight trains are made up. Cars under control of a brakeman descend by gravity to desired positions on connecting
tracks which lie southward of the "hump" or high point.
A rule forbade employees from going between cars without first taking precautions not observed in the present
case. Some evidence tended to show that under longcontinued practice, considered good railroading, cars (in
"strings" or "cuts") were constantly sent down and
purposely allowed to strike others with sufficient force to
secure coupling, but not hard enough to injure the equipment, "regardless of the position the men are in, putting
them under obligation to take care of themselves."

BOLDT v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
441.

Opinion of the Court.

While between cars, contrary to instructions, and assisting in an effort to adjust a faulty coupler, Edward J.
Boldt, an experienced yard conductor, was killed. The
coupler was at the south end of a "string" standing on an
inclined switch; another "string" moving down from the
north, hit the standing one violently and drove it against
deceased and across a space of twenty feet.
Suing under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
plaintiff maintained that the brakeman in control negligently permitted the moving cars to strike with too
great violence; also that the company negligently failed
to promulgate and enforce adequate rules to safeguard
deceased while occupied about his task; and some evidence tended to support both claims. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed a judgment upon verdict for defendant
after the trial court had denied motion for new trial based
solely upon its refusal to give the charge specially requested by plaintiff and copied below. 218 Fed. Rep. 367.
To the general charge plaintiff made no objection whatever. In the first paragrpah it declared: "The foundation
for the action is the Employers' Liability Act, Which was
passed by Congress in the year 1908, and which substantially provides that if the employees of interstate railway
carriers are injured while at work, on account of the
negligence of the employer, or on account of the negligence
of an officer or agent, or, indeed, even on account of the
negligence of a fellow servant, that a recovery can be
had." Continuing, it explained nature of the accident,
relationship, responsibilities and obligations of parties,
definition and effect of contributory negligence, etc.
Concerning assumption of risk the court said: "Evidence has been given by other witnesses that customarily
cars are sent over this 'leader' into the yard of the defendant, and into the railroad yards of other railroad companies, ad libitum,-that is, they are sent freely, one after
another, to classify them and to make up trains when

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

already classified; they are defined as 'live tracks,'a dangerous place to work, gentlemen, and workmen who
take upon themselves occupations of that character
assume the ordinary risks of the employment; they assume
the risks that are incident to the particular avocation."
"The decedent, as I have already stated, was bound to
take care, and exercise diligence, and avoid any accidents
from the movements of the cars in the yards and while at
work. A railroad company, gentlemen, does not guarantee or insure the safety of its employees; it is merely
obliged to use ordinary care to prevent unusual risks by
the decedent, which, under the circumstances, and the
manner in which the work was ordinarily done, could
not be reasonably anticipated." "You must be satisfied,
gentlemen, in order to give her an award, that it is due
to her because of the negligence of the defendant railroad
company, and, if you also believe that it was due to the
negligence of the decedent himself, who was engaged in a
risky occupation, he, as I said before, assumed the ordinary
risks of his employment, then you may apportion the
damages."
At defendant's request and without objection, the
jury were told "that the decedent assumed the obvious
necessary risks of the employment in which he was engaged."
Plaintiff then asked a charge that "the risk the employee now assumes, since the passage of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, is the ordinary dangers incident
to his employment, which does not now include the assumption of risk incident to the negligence of the carrier's
officers, agents or employees." Denying the request, the
court said: "Under the Employers' Liability Act the
employee simply assumes the risk of his employment.
Section 4 reads, 'such employee shall not be held to have
assumed the risk of his employment in any case where a
violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted

BOLDT v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
441.

Opinion of the Court.

for the safety of employees contributed to the injury, or
death of such employee.' I decline to charge as requested,
because this is not an action of the kind specified in Section 4." This denial is the only error properly assigned
here; and the circumstances afford no reason for departing from the general rule which limits our consideration
to it.
Section 1, Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, declares that carriers "shall be liable in damages to any
person suffering injury while he is employed," etc., "resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any of
the officers, agents, or employees of such carrier, or by
reason of any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence,
in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other equipment." In
cases within the purview of the statute the carrier is no
longer shielded by the fellow-servant rule, but must
answer for an employee's negligence as well as for that
of an officer or agent.
In Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 503,
we said: "It seems to us that ยง 4, in eliminating the defense of assumption of risk in the cases indicated, quite
plainly evidences the legislative intent that in all other
cases such assumption shall have its former effect as a
complete bar to the action." Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co.,
241 U. S. 229, 235.
At common law the rule is well settled that a servant
assumes extraordinary risks incident to his employment
or risks caused by the master's negligence which are
obvious or fully known and appreciated by him. Shearman & Redfield on Negligence (6th ed.), ยง 208; Bailey
Personal Injuries (2d ed.), ยง 385. This general doctrine
was clearly recognized in Gila Valley &c. Ry. Co. v. Hall,
232 U. S. 94, 101; Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co., supra;
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. De Atley, 241 U. S. 310, 313,
and Erie R. R. Co. v. Purucker, 244 U. S. 320, 324.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

The request in question did not accurately state any
applicable rule of law and was properly refused. Already
the jury had been told that deceased assumed the ordinary
risks of his employment-a statement more favorable
than plaintiff could properly demand. The risk held to
have been assumed in the Horton Case certainly arose
from negligence of some officer, agent or employee; and if
the negligence of all these should be excluded in actions
under the Employers' Liability Act it is difficult to see
what practical application could ever be given in them
to the established doctrine concerning assumption of risk.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this cause.

CITY OF CINCINNATI v. CINCINNATI & HAMILTON TRACTION COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 10. Argued January 24, 25, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
June 12, 1916; reargued October 26, 27, 1916; restored to docket for
reargument May 7, 1917; reargued October 17, 18, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.
Corporations of Ohio claimed the right to operate a street railway in
Cincinnati according to the terms of various grants, etc., under
which it had been built in sections or links. A revocable ordinance
of the city council, after reciting that as to portions of the streets so
occupied, "alleged grants" had expired, and on others there never
had been any grants and the companies had no longer any right
to occupy the same, provided that the companies might continue

