OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

It is again said in excuse that it does not appear that
the Texas & Pacific Company has changed its position,
which it is said is the same as it was in 1881, and that it
has even realized the benefit of the trust and so far executed it as to pay before 1890 most of the bonds. Why
those bonds were paid or acquired and upon what motive
does not appear, and it cannot be said that a company
which has been in possession of and operating a great
property for many years, having spent large sums of
money upon it, in the belief of having a clear and unincumbered right, is inequitably unaffected by a claim
against it, asserted as a result of remote transactions with
which it had no connection. And certainly it may be
urged that it would surprise and strain any condition to
be suddenly called upon to pay $107,700.00, that sum
being the amount of principal and interest (7%) of complainants' demand.
Decree affirmed.
/

UNION TRUST COMPANY v. GROSMAN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 106.

Argued December 20, 21, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

While a husband and wife, domiciled in Texas, were temporarily in
Illinois, the former executed his note and the latter her continuing,
guaranty of payment. Assuming that the guaranty would have
been enforced in Illinois, held, that comity did not call for
its enforcement by the courts of Texas, against the wife's separate property there, if contrary to the public policy of Texas; for
it is one thing for a court to decline to be an instrument for depriving citizens belonging to the jurisdiction of their property in ways
not intended by the law that governs them, another to deny its

UNION TRUST CO. v. GROSMAN.
412.

Argument for Petitioner.

offices to enforce obligations good by the lex domicilii and the lex
loci contractus against those whom the local laws have no duty to
protect.
By the law of Texas-the common law modified by statute-a married
woman's guaranty of her husband's note is not enforcible against
her separate property. In this case note and guaranty were part of
one transaction, but the guaranty was a separate instrument executed
by the wife alone.
If a contract, made and valid in one State, is unenforcible in the courts
of another on grounds of local public policy, it is unenforcible also,
for the same reason, in the District Court, sitting in the latter State
and having jurisdiction through diversity of citizenship.
228 Fed. Rep. 610, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Hawley Atwell for petitioner:
The Illinois statute allows a married woman to contract
as afeme sole. Hurd's Rev. Stats., 1911, c. 68. The note
and guaranty in this case were executed and delivered in
Illinois, where each was payable, and where the makers
were under no legal disability. The place of the contract
is, generally speaking, a matter of mutual intention, but
the intended place, as determined by legal presumption
in some cases and evidentiary circumstances in others,
settles all questions as to the legal test of validity and
interpretation. The presumption, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, is that the place of making and
performance in a physical sense is the place in a legal
sense.
The policy of Texas is to extend comity in such a case.
Ryan & Co. v. M., K. & T. Ry. Co., 65 Texas, 13; Merrielles
v. State Bank of Keokuk, 5 Tex. Civ. App. 483; Southern
Pacific v. Dusablon, 106 S. W. Rep. 767; preamble and
emergency clause of Texas Laws, 1913, pp. 61-62; Speer's
Law of Marital Rights in Texas. That the contract cannot be regarded as inherently harmful, is evidenced by
the fact that contracts of similar nature are permitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

245 U. S.

by the written laws of a large portion of the States, and
in most others legislation in that direction is progressive,
and they are recognized as not inherently bad by substantially all the courts of this country. The Act of 1913
shows that there is no well-defined "public policy" in
Texas against the right of its married women to contract,
and, under it, it would seem the contract was valid not
only in Illinois, but also in Texas. The fact that the wife
is guarantor of the husband's note, in itself constitutes an
essential joinder between husband and wife, equivalent
to the wife becoming "joint maker of a note," which the
act permits. [For a discussion of this act see the opinion
of the court below, 228 Fed. Rep. 610.1
There is no exception to the general proposition that a
contract valid where executed and where to be performed
is valid and enforcible in any other nation, even as to nations separated by the seas, save that a contract would not
be enforced if there were a well-defined and settled public
policy against it. "Public policy," as here understood,
means that the contract to be refused life must be vicious,
or unjust, or immoral. International Harvester Co. v.
McAdam, 142 Wisconsin, 114; The Kensington, 183 U. S.
263; Insurance Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 161; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Babcock, 154 U. S. 190. Manifestly no immorality or viciousness or injustice exists here. That
the enforcement of a contract will result in the payment
of an honest debt can never be said to be immoral or
vicious or unjust. Brodnax v. Insurance Co., 128 U. S.
244; Sutton v. Aiken, 62 Georgia, 741. There must be
something inherently bad about it, shocking to one's
sense of right-in the judgment of the courts, something
pernicious and injurious to the public welfare. Milliken
v. Pratt, 125 Massachusetts, 374; Garrigue v. Kellar, 164
Indiana, 676; Greenwood on Public Policy, 36. Otherwise the doctrine of comity gives effect to the contract,
valid where made, Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, even as

UNION TRUST CO. v. GROSMAN.
412.

Opinion of the Court.

between independent nations, and much the more readily
as between the States of the Union. Bank v. Earle, 13
Pet. 519; Bond v. Hume, 243 U. S. 15.
Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr. Francis
Marion Etheridgewas on the briefs, for respondent Minnie
Kahn Grosman.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the petitioner in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas upon two promissory notes made in Chicago by
Hiram Grosman and another, and a continuing guaranty
executed in the same place by the respondent, Mrs. Grosman, the wife of Hiram Grosman, as part of the same
transaction as the earlier note. A decree was rendered
for the plaintiff in the District Court, but upon appeal by
Mrs. Grosman was reversed as against her by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, on the ground that it subjected her
separate property to the payment of the demand, contrary to the public policy of the State in which the suit
was brought. 228 Fed. Rep. 610. 143 C. C. A. 132.
Mrs. Grosman and her husband were domiciled in Texas,
as the plaintiff seems to have known, and made the contracts while temporarily in Chicago. We assume for the
moment that if she had given the guaranty in Texas it
would have been void, and on the other hand that if she
had been domiciled in Illinois when she made her promise
she would have been bound. The main question is which
law is to prevail.
If this suit were brought in Illinois it would present
broader issues. On the one side would be decisions that
locus regit actum, and the consideration that when a
woman goes through the form of contracting in an independent State, theoretically that State has the present

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

power to hold her to performance, whatever may be the
law of her domicile. It might be urged that the contract
should be given elsewhere the effect that the law of the
place of making might have insured by physical force.
See Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S. 346, 353. On
the other hand it is obvious that practically at least no
State would take any steps, if it could, before a breach
of an undertaking like this. The contract being a continuing one of uncertain duration the plaintiff had notice
that in case of a breach it probably might have to resort
to the defendant's domicile for a remedy, as it did in fact.
In such a case very possibly an Illinois court might decide that a woman could not lay hold of a temporary
absence from her domicile to create remedies against her
in that domicile that the law there did not allow her to
create, and therefore that the contract was void. This
has been held concerning a contract made with a more
definite view to the disregard of the laws of a neighboring State. Graves v. Johnson, 156 Massachusetts, 211,
212.
But when the suit is brought in a court of the domicile
there is no room for doubt. It is extravagant to suppose
that the courts of that place will help a married woman
to make her property there liable in circumstances in
which the local law says that it shall be free, simply by
stepping across a state line long enough to contract.
The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263, 269. Armstrong v. Best,
112 N. Car. 59. Bank of Louisianav. Williams, 46 Mississippi, 618. Baer v. Terry, 105 Louisiana, 479, 480. Palmer v. Palmer, 26 Utah, 31, 40. See generally, Seamans v.
The Temple Co., 105 Michigan, 400. Dicey, Conflict of
Laws, 2nd ed., 34, General Principle No. II (B), and as
to torts, id. 645, Rule 177. There is nothing opposed to
this view in those decisions in which the courts have enforced similar contracts of women domiciled where the
law allowed such contracts to be made. It is one thing

UNION TRUST CO. v. GROSMAN.
412.

Opinion of the Court.

for a court to decline to be an instrument for depriving
citizens belonging to the jurisdiction of their property
in ways not intended by the law that governs them,
another to deny its offices to enforce obligations good by
the lex domicilii and the lex loci contractus against women
that the local laws have no duty to protect. International
Harvester Co. v. McAdam, 142 Wisconsin, 114. Merrielles v. State Bank of Keokuk, 5 Tex. Civ. App. 483.
The case of Milliken v. Pratt, 125 Massachusetts, 374,
went to the verge of the law in holding a Massachusetts
woman liable in Massachusetts on a contract that she
could not have made there, because made by a letter in
Maine, although her person remained always within the
jurisdiction of Massachusetts. It is safe to conjecture
that the decision would have been different if the law of
Massachusetts had not been changed before the bringing
of the suit so as to allow such contracts to be made. 125
Massachusetts, 377, 383.
Texas legislation is on the background of an adoption
of the common law. If the statutes have not gone so far
as to enable a woman to bind her separate property or
herself in order to secure her husband's debts, they prohibit it, and no argument can make it clearer that the
policy of that State is opposed to such an obligation.
It does not help at all to pbint out the steps in emancipation that have been taken and to argue prophetically
that the rest is to come. We have no concern with the
future. It has not come yet. The only question remaining, then, is whether the court below was right in its interpretation of the Texas law. This was not denied with
much confidence and we see no sufficient reason for departing from the opinion of the court below and the intimations of all the Texas decisions that we have seen.
Red River National Bank v. Ferguson, 192 S. W. Rep.
1088. Shaw v. Proctor, 193 S. W. Rep. 1104. Akin v.
First National Bank of Bridgeport, 194 S. W. Rep. 610,

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1917,
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

612. First State Bank of Tomball v. Tinkham, 195 S. W.
Rep. 880.
If the decree would have been right in a court of the
State of Texas it was right in a District Court of the
United States sitting in the same State. Pritchard v.
Norton, 106 U. S. 124, 129.
Decree afrmed.

TOWNE v. EISNER, COLLECTOR OF UNITED
STATES INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE THIRD
DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 563.

Argued December 12, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

In an action to recover back money collected and retained by the
Government, over plaintiff's protest, as a tax on income under the
Income Tax Law of 1913, plaintiff alleged that that upon which the
tax was levied, a stock dividend based on accumulated profits, was
not "income" within the true intent of the statute, and that if the
statute so intended it was so far unconstitutional, because in the
Sixteenth Amendment, upon which its validity depended, the term
"income" could not be construed to embrace such dividends. Held,
that there was thus presented, not merely a question whether the
statute had been wrongly understood and applied, but also a question of the scope of the Amendment, which afforded jurisdiction to
review both questions by direct writ of error to the District Court.
The value of new shares, issued as a stock dividend and representing
merely surplus profits transferred to the capital account of the corporation, is not taxable to the share holders as income within the
meaning of the Income Tax Law of 1913. So held where the profits
were earned before January 1, 1913, and the transfer and dividend
were voted December 17, 1913, and the distribution, ratably to shareholders of record on the 26th of that month, took place on January 2, 1914.
242 Fed. Rep. 702, reversed.

