SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. DARNELL-TAENZER CO. 531
520.

Syllabus.

It also recited that it was "rendered by the consent of
the plaintiff on condition that no appeal be taken by the
defendant from the judgment and decree." The amount
was secured, as the chancellor declared he would secure it; it was paid as it was required to be paid.
The evidence, therefore, confirms the face of the decree and that it was rendered by consent of the parties.
It is admitted that consent would give jurisdiction to
the court to render a money judgment for alimony.
We think, therefore, that due faith and credit required
by the Constitution of the United States was not given
to the decree.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL. v.
DARNELL-TAENZER LUMBER COMPANY ET
AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 132. Argued January 8, 9, 1918.-Decided January 21, 1918.
The fact that one who paid unreasonable freight charges has shifted
the burden by collecting from purchasers of the goods, does not
prevent him from recovering the overpayments from the carrier,
under an order of reparation made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. He is the proximate loser; his cause of action accrues
immediately, without waiting for later events; the purchaser, lacking
privity, cannot recover the illegal profits from the carrier; and,
practically, to follow each transaction to its ultimate result would
be endless and futile. Cases like Pennysylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184, involving damages for
discrimination, are distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

245 U. S.

An objection that error will not lie in this case, not decided, as the
pending application for certiorari would be granted if the objection
were held good.
Semble, that cases brought under ยง 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, to enforce reparation orders, stand on peculiar ground as
respects review by certiorari.
229 Fed. Rep. 1022, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles N. Burch, with whom Mr. H. D. Minor,
Mr. Fred H. Wood, Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. T. J. Norton,
Mr. Blewett Lee, Mr. R. V. Fletcher and Mr. H. A. Scandrett were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error, in support
of the proposition that a party seeking to recover an
excessive rate must prove that he bore the burden of
the excess, cited Parsons v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co., 167 U. S. 447; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184; and Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Spiller, 246 Fed. Rep. 1; and
distinguished Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 429; and Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238 U. S.
473.
Mr. Francis B. James, with whom Mr. Allen Hughes
was on the briefs, for defendants in error, moved to dismiss because no one of the many separate claims and
judgments involved exceeded the amount of $1,000,
excluding costs, Jud. Code, ยง 241; and on the question
of damages cited Sutherland on Damages, ยง 158; Chicago
&c. R. R. Co. v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S. 79, 86; Regan
v. Railway, 60 Connecticut, 124; Perrott v. Scherrer, 17
Michigan, 48; Nashville &c. Ry. Co. v. Miller, 120.Georgia,
453; Olds v. Construction Co., 177 Massachusetts, 41;
Illinois Central Ry. Co. v. Porter, 117 Tennessee, 13, and
particularly New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Ballou &
Wright, 242 Fed. Rep. 862.

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. DARNELL-TAENZER CO. 533
531.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the defendants in error to
recover reparation from the railroads for charging a rate
on hardwood lumber, alleged to be excessive. The In-

terstate Commerce Commission had found the rate to
be excessive and had made an order for reduction from
85 to 75 cents, which was obeyed, and also one for rep-

aration to the extent of the excess, which was not obeyed.
13 I. C. C. 668. A demurrer to the declaration was sustained by the Circuit Court on the ground that it was
not alleged that the plaintiffs had paid the excessive
rates or that they were damaged thereby. 190 Fed.
Rep. 659. The declaration was amended, but at the
trial the judge directed a verdict for the defendants,
presumably on the ground argued here, that it did not
appear that the plaintiffs were damaged. The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
221 Fed. Rep. 890. 137 C. C. A. 460. At a new trial
the jury were instructed that if they found the rate
charged unreasonable and that prescribed by the Interterstate Commerce Commission reasonable, they should
find for the plaintiffs in accordance with the Commission's award. The jury found for the plaintiffs and this
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
229 Fed. Rep. 1022. 143 C. C. A. 663.
The only question before us is that at which we have
hinted: whether the fact that the plaintiffs were able to
pass on the damage that they sustained in the first instance by paying the unreasonable charge, and to collect that amount from the purchasers, prevents their
recovering the overpayment from the carriers. The answer is not difficult. The general tendency of the law,
in regard to damages at least, is not to go beyond the
first step. As it does not attribute remote consequences
to a defendant so it holds him liable if proximately

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the plaintiff has suffered a loss. The plaintiffs suffered
losses to the amount of the verdict when they paid.
Their claim accrued at once in the theory of the law and
it does not inquire into later events. Olds v. MapesReeve Construction Co., 177 Massachusetts, 41, 44. Perhaps strictly the securing of such an indemnity as the
present might be regarded as not differing in principle
from the recovery of insurance, as res inter alios, with
which the defendants were not concerned. If it be said
that the whole transaction is one from a business point
of view, it is enough to reply that the unity in this case
is not sufficient to entitle the purchaser to recover, any
more than the ultimate consumer who in turn paid an
increased price. He has no privity with the carrier.
State v. Central Vermont Ry. Co., 81 Vermont, 459. See
Nicola, Stone & Myers Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R.
R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 199, 207-209. Baker Manufacturing
Co. v. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co., 21 1. C. C. 605.
The carrier ought not to be allowed to retain his illegal
profit, and the only one who can take it from him is the
one that alone was in relation with him, and from whom
the carrier took the sum. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Ballou & Wright, 242 Fed. Rep. 862.
Behind the technical mode of statement is the consideration well emphasized by the Interstate Commerce Commission, of the endlessness and futility of the effort to
follow every transaction to its ultimate result. 13 I.
C. C. 680. Probably in the end the public pays the damages in most cases of compensated torts.
The cases like Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International
Coal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184, where a party that has
paid only the reasonable rate sues upon a discrimination because some other has paid less, are not like the
present. There the damage depends upon remoter considerations. But here the plaintiffs have paid cash out
of pocket that should not have been required of them,

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HUXOLL.
531.

Syllabus.

and there is no question as to the amount of the proximate loss. See Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 412, 429. Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238
U. S. 473.
An objection is taken to the jurisdiction of this court
upon writ of error. An application is made for a certiorari in case the objection is held good, and as we should
grant the latter writ in that event the question has no
importance here except as a precedent. We are inclined
to take the course followed sub silentio in Mills v. Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co., and to treat cases brought under ยง 16
of the Act to Regulate Commerce which authorizes the
joinder of all plaintiffs and all defendants as standing on
a peculiar ground.
Judgment affirmed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
.HUXOLL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF HUXOLL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 104. Argued December 21, 1917.-Decided January 21, 1918.
The question whether any substantial evidence was introduced to
justify submission of a case to the jury on the issue of proximate
causal negligence is one of law, reviewable by this court, in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, coming from a state
court.
A railroad employee was run down and killed in a switching yard by a
switching engine, backing on a track, between the rails of which he
was walking in the opposite direction. He was passing through an
extensive cloud of steam and smoke coming from a round-house and
nearby engines, which had settled upon the tracks on a very cold
and windy day. The cloud was dense but shifting, so that at times
one might see through it considerable distances, and at others but

