LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
Argument for Respondents.

LIBERTY NATIONAL BANK OF ROANOKE
BEAR, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
FOURTH

No. 218.

v.

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.

Argued October 7, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. Under § 5a of the Bankruptcy Act, a partnership may be adjudicated a bankrupt as a separate entity, irrespective of any adjudication of bankruptcy against the partners as individuals. P. 220.
2. An involuntary petition filed against a partnership, which does not
in terms seek an adjudication that the partners are bankrupts, as
individuals, nor allege that as individuals they are insolvent or have
committed any act of bankruptcy, is not in legal effect a petition
against them individually; and an adjudication thereunder of the
partnership's bankruptcy is not, in legal effect, an adjudication
that the partners are bankrupt individually. P. 226.
3. Hence, in this case, there was no ground, under § 67c or § 67f of
the Act, for annulling judgment liens obtained against the individual real estate of the partners within four months prior to the
filing of the involuntary petition against the partnership, but more
than eight months prior to filing of their individual voluntary
petitions. P. 226.
18 F. (2d) 281, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 731, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed an order of the District Court, disallowing the claims of the bank as a secured creditor, based on a judgment lien against the individual estates of partners who filed voluntary petitions
in bankruptcy after the partnership had been adjudicated
a bankrupt. See also 285 Fed. 703; 4 F. (2d) 240; and
265 U. S. 365.

Mr. James D. Johnston for petitioner.
Mr. Harvey B. Apperson, with whom Mr. James A.
Bear was on the brief, for respondent.
The adjudication of the partnership was in effect an
adjudication of the individual members. In re Meyer,

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1927..
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

98 Fed. 976; In re Stokes, 106 Fed. 312; Dickas v. Barnes,
140 Fed. 849; Black on Bankruptcy, (1922 Ed.), § 110;
Francis v. McNeal, 228 U. S. 695; Vaccaro v. Security
Bank, 103 Fed. 436; In re Bretanshaw, 157 Fed. 363;
Francis v. McNeal, 186 Fed. 481; Pomeroy, Eq. Juris.
(4th Ed.), §§ 2371, 2372.
The assets of the individual, being drawn into bank-.
ruptcy by the bankruptcy of the firm, will be administered as the Act requires. Miller v. New Orleans Acid
Co., 221 U. S. 496.
If the claimant is allowed to recover from the proceeds
of sale of the individual estates every dollar of a debt
which is in fact a partnership debt, there will be no
equitable marshalling of the several estates, but in fact
a most inequitable hardship will be imposed upon the
other individual creditors of the individual partners.
Sections 67c and 67f are to be considered and construed
in connection with the other provisions of the Bankruptcy Act. The Trustee represents all four estates.
Meek v. Centre County Banking Co., 268 U. S. 426,
and Myers v. International Trust Co., 273 U. S. 380,
distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is the bankruptcy proceeding which was before us
at an earlier stage in Liberty Natl. Bank v. Bear, 265 U: S.
365.
In July, 1920, the Liberty National Bank brought suit in
a Virginia court against the Roanoke Provision Company,
a partnership composed of W. L. Becker, Sr., and W. L.
Becker, Jr., and against the Beckers individually, and in
the same month recovered a judgment against the Provision Company and the two Beckers individually, which
being duly docketed, became, under the laws of Virginia,

LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
215

Opinion of the Court.

a lien upon the real estate of the judgment debtors.1 In
August an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed
in the Federal District Court against the Provision Company, as a partnership composed of the two Beckers; alleging that it had committed an act of bankruptcy by
executing a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
and was insolvent. There was no allegation that the
Beckers were individually insolvent, or had executed general assignments of their individual properties or committed any acts of bankruptcy; and there was no prayer that
they be adjudged bankrupt individually. They filed a
joint answer admitting the allegations of the petition;
and the Company, as a partnership composed of the two
Beckers, was adjudged a bankrupt by the District Judge,
but without adjudging the bankruptcy of the Beckers as
individuals.
In April, 1921-more than eight months after the partnership had been adjudged a bankrupt-the Beckers filed
separate voluntary petitions in bankruptcy; and each was
adjudged a bankrupt. The respondent Bear was then
elected trustee for the partnership estate by the partnership creditors, and trustee for the individual estates by
the individual creditors.
Thereafter the Bank filed proofs of claim on the judgment against the separate estates of the Beckers, alleging
that it constituted a lien upon their individual real estate
and was entitled to priority as such. The trustee filed
objections on the ground that he had been vested with
title to the property of the individual partners, as well as
that of the partnership, as of the date of the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy against the Company in August,
1920; and contended that as the judgment had been recovered within four months prior to the filing of that petition,
the lien upon the individual properties was annulled by
'Code of 1919, §§ 6470, 6471.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

2o

§ 67f of the Bankruptcy Act.2 The referee disallowed
the claims of the Bank as secured claims, and allowed
them as unsecured claims merely • This order was reversed by the District Judge, on the ground that as the
order adjudging the bankruptcy of the Company had not
adjudged the bankruptcy of the Beckers individually, the
lien of the judgment upon their individual properties had
not been nullified. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
this decree upon the ground that the "adjudication of
the partnership was necessarily an adjudication of the
bankruptcy of the individuals composing it, and that
the lien of a judgment obtained within four
months.of the filing of the petition against the partnership was lost by the adjudication." 285 Fed. 703. This
Court-without determining whether the adjudication of
the bankruptcy of the Company operated as an adjudication of the- bankruptcy of the Beckers individually-held
that as there was no pleading or proof as to the insolvency
of the Beckers when the Bank recovered its judgment,
there was no ground under § 67f of the Bankruptcy Act
for annulling the lien thereby acquired upon their individual properties, and reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and remanded the cause to the District
Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion. Liberty NatI. Bank v. Bear, supra, 368.
The trustee, by leave of the District Court, then
amended his objections to the claims of the Bank by alleging that the Beckers were insolvent when the judgment
was recovered, and that if enforced as a secured claim
against the individual estates the judgment would result
Stat. 544, c. 541; U. S. C., Tit. 11.
a The referee at the same time disallowed another claim of the
Bank to "a lien upon the real real estate of the partnership; but no
steps were taken by the Bank to review his order in this respect; and
no question as to this matter is here involved.
230

LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
215

Opinion of the Court.

in preferences; and contended that the lien upon the
individual properties was also annulled by § 67c of the
Bankruptcy Act. It was then stipulated that the Beckers were insolvent when the judgment was obtained, and
that the enforcement of the judgment as a secured claim
against the individual properties would enable the Bank
to obtain a greater percentage of its debt from such assets
than other individual creditors,-there being no surplus
from individual assets to be applied to partnership debts,
and none from partnership assets to be applied to individual debts. The referee again disallowed the claims of
the Bank as secured claims against the individual estates
of the Beckers. This was affirmed by the District Court,
without opinion, and by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which adhered to its original ruling as to the effect of the
order adjudicating the bankruptcy of the partnership. 18
F. (2d.) 281.
The controversy here is solely between the Bank and
the trustee as the representative of the other individual
creditors of the Beckers; the partnership creditors having
no interest therein as there is no surplus of the individual
estates to be applied to partnership debts.
The trustee relies upon both §§ 67c and 67f of the Bankruptcy Act. Sec. 67c provides that: "A lien created by
or obtained in or pursuant to any suit . . which was
begun against a person within four months before the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy by or against such person shall be dissolved by the adjudication of such person
to be a bankrupt if . . it appears that said lien was
obtained and permitted while the defendant was insolvent
and that its existence and enforcement will work a prieference . . ." See. 67f provides: "That all levies, judg'This was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on an interlocutory appeal. 4 F. (2d) 240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

ments, attachments, or other liens, obtained through legal
proceedings against a person who is insolvent, at any time
within four months prior to the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy against him," shall be deemed null and void
in case he is adjudged a bankrupt, and the property
affected by the . .lien shall be deemed wholly discharged
and released from the same,, and shall pass to the trustee
as a part of the estate of the bankrupt . . ."
It is indisputable that under these provisions the judgment liens upon the real estate of the Beckers cannot be
annulled unless they were adjudged bankrupts under petitions in bankruptcy filed within four months after the
suit against them was commenced, § 67c, or the judgment
liens obtained, § 67f. This being unquestioned, the trustee does not claim that the liens were annulled under the
voluntary petitions of the Beckers which were filed after
the expiration of the prescribed periods. His sole contention is that they were annulled by the proceedings
under the involuntary petition filed against the Provision
Company within such periods. As to this he insists
that-although the petition was filed against the partnership alone and the partnership alone was adjudged a
bankrupt-the petition was, in effect, a petition against
the individual partners, as well as the partnership, and
the adjudication was, in effect, an adjudication that the
individual partners as well as the partnership were bankrupts; that is, that the adjudication that the partnership
was a bankrupt necessarily imported an adjudication that
the individual partners were also bankrupts.
This contention disregards entirely the principle established by the Bankruptcy Act that a partnership may be
adjudged a bankrupt as a separate entity without refer5The phrase "A person against whom a petition has been filed"
as defined by § 1 (1) of the Bankruptcy Act, includes "a person who
has filed a voluntary petition."

LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
215

Opinion of the Court.

ence to the bankruptcy of the partners as individuals.
In this respect the Act makes a complete change from
the earlier Bankrupt Law of 1867, which did not permit
the partnership entity to be adjudged a bankrupt, but
merely provided that when two or more persons who were
partners in trade were adjudged bankrupt, the property
of the partnership, as well as that of the partners, should
be taken over by the bankruptcy court for administration.' The present Act not only omits this provision of
the Law of 1867, but-after providing generally that the
word "persons" when used in the Act shall include
"partnerships," § 1 (19), and that a petition in bankruptcy
may be filed against a "person" who is insolvent and
has committed an act of bankruptcy, § 3 (b)-specifically
declares in § 5a that: "A partnership, during the continuation of the partnership business, or after its dissolution and before the final settlement thereof, may be
adjudged a bankrupt." ' Under this provision, as was
14 Stat. 517, c. 176, § 36; R. S. § 5121.
5 of the present Act, which was substituted for § 36 of the
Law of 1867, reads as follows:
"Sec. 5. PAaTNERs-a A partnership, during the continuation of
the partnership business, or after its dissolution and before the final
settlement thereof, may be adjudged a bankrupt.
"b The creditors of the partnership shall appoint the trustee; in
other respects so far as possible the estate shall be administered as
herein provided for other estates.
"c The court of bankruptcy which has jurisdiction of one of the
partners may have jurisdiction of all the partners and of the administration of the partnership and individual property.
"d The trustee shall keep separate accounts of the partnership
property and of the property belonging to the individual partners.
"e The expenses shall be paid from the partnership property and
the individual property in such proportions as the court shall
determine.
"f The net proceeds of the partnership property shall be appropriated to the payment of the partnership debts, and the net proceeds
6

7 Sec.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

said in Meek v. Centre County Banking Co., 268 U. S.
426, 431, there "can be no doubt that a partnership may
be adjudged a bankrupt as a distinct legal entity." And
if proceeded against as a distinct legal entity, without
reference to the individual partners, it may, as such,
under § 12a, offer terms of composition to the partnership creditors alone. Myers v. Internat. Trust Co., 273
U. S. 380, 383.
It has long been the established rule in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals and District Courts that under § 5a
of the Act a partnership may be adjudged a bankrupt
as a separate entity, under a voluntary or involuntary
petition, irrespective of any adjudication of bankruptcy
against the individual partners. In re Meyer (C. C. A.),
98 Fed. 976, 979, affirming Chemical National Bank v.
Meyer (D. C.), 92 Fed. 896, 901; In re Mercur (C. C. A.),
122 Fed. 384, 387, affirming In re Mercur (D. C.), 116
of the individual estate of each partner to the payment of his individual debts. Should any surplus remain of the property of any
partner after paying his individual debts, such surplus shall be added
to the partnership assets and be applied to the payment of the
partnership debts. Should any surplus of the partnership property
remain after paying the partnership debts, such surplus shall be
added to the assets of the individual partners in the proportion of
their respective interests in the partnership.
"g The court may permit the proof of the claim of the partnership
estate against the individual estates, and vice versa, and may marshal
the assets of the partnership estate and individual estates so as to
prevent preferences and secure the equitable distribution of the property of the several estates.
"h In the event of one or more but not all of the members of a
partnership being adjudged bankrupt, the partnership property shall
not be administered in bankruptcy, unless by consent of the partner
or partners not adjudged bankrupt; but such partner or partners
not adjudged bankrupt shall settle the partnership business as expeditiously as its nature will permit, and account for the interest of the
partner or partners adjudged bankrupt."

LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
215

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. 655, 658; In re Stein & Co. (C. C. A.), 127 Fed. 547,
549; Dickas v. Barnes (C. C. A.), 140 Fed. 849, 851; In re

Bertenshaw (C. C. A.), 157 Fed. 363, 368; Mills v. Fisher
& Co. (C. C. A.), 159 Fed. 897, 899; Francis v. McNeal
(C. C. A.), 186 Fed. 481, 483; In re Samuels (C. C. A.),
215 Fed. 845, 847; Armstrong v. Fisher (C. C. A.), 224
Fed. 97, 99; Carter v. Whisler (C. C. A.), 275 Fed. 743,

746; In re Dunnigan (D. C.), 95 Fed. 428, 429; In re
Duguid (D. C.), 100 Fed. 274, 278; In re Barden (D. C.),
101 Fed. 553, 555; Strause v. Hooper (D. C.), 105 Fed.
590, 592; In re Stokes (D. C.), 106 Fed. 312, 313; In re
Hale (D. C.), 107 Fed. 432, 433; In re Farley (D. C.),
115 Fed. 359, 360; In re Pincus (D. C.), 147 Fed. 621,
625; In re Solomon & Carvel (D. C.), 163 Fed. 140, 141;
In re Everybody's G. & M. Market (D. C.), 173 Fed. 492,
493; In re Lattimer (D. C.), 174 Fed. 824, 826; In re
Perlhefter (D. C.), 177 Fed. 299, 305; In re LenoirCross & Co. (D. C.), 226 Fed. 227, 229.8 This rule has
been applied not only where the petition in bankruptcy
sought merely the adjudication of the partnership as a
bankrupt, but where the adjudication of the individual
partners was also sought. Thus in some cases the
partnership was adjudged a bankrupt, although the
court refused to adjudge the bankruptcy of the individual partners, either because they had not committed
individual acts of bankruptcy, or because, being wage
earners or tillers of the soil, they were exempt from
8And

even in Re Forbes (D. C.), 128 Fed. 137, 139, in which the
District Court for Massachusetts held that there could be no bankruptcy of a partnership without the bankruptcy of all the partners,
it was recognized that this would not apply in "exceptional cases
such as In re Dunnigan (D. C.), 95 Fed. 428," supra, in which it
had been held, in the same district, that a partnership might be
adjudged a bankrupt although one partner, being a minor, could not
be so adjudged.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

involuntary bankruptcy, or because they were insane, or
minors."
This rule, often announced, is based upon the plain
words of the Bankruptcy Act. The specific provision in
§ 5a that a partnership-a person within the meaning of
the Act-" may be adjudged a bankrupt," distinctly implies that it may be adjudged a bankrupt as a separate
entity without reference to the bankruptcy of the individual partners. This implication is strengthened by
the fact that there is no requirement in § 5 that the
partners shall be joined as defendants in a petition filed
against the partnership, and no provision that the partners
shall be adjudged to be bankrupts under such a petition
or that such individual adjudications shall be a prerequisite to the adjudication of the bankruptcy of the partnership; as well as by the fact that while § 5 of the Act
incorporated most of the administrative provisions in the
corresponding section of the Bankrupt Law of 1867, it
omitted the provision for granting discharges to the individual partners. That is, the adjudication of the
bankruptcy of the individual partners was left solely to
the general provisions of the Act, under which no person
could be adjudged a bankrupt in involuntary bankruptcy
unless he was not only insolvent but had committed an
act of bankruptcy, and not even then if he were a wage
earner or tiller of the soil, § 3a, b; § 4b.
We cannot believe that Congress intended to llmit and
weaken the broad provision of § 5a permitting a partnership to be adjudged a bankrupt, by making it essential to
9 Neither of two incidental questions upon which the lower federal
courts have differed in opinion-whether a partnership can be deemed
insolvent as an entity when the individual partners are solvent, and
whether a bankruptcy court which has adjudged a partnership a
bankrupt may take possession of the individual property of a partner
who has not been adjudged a bankrupt so far as is necessary to pay
the partnership debts-is here involved.

LIBERTY NAT. BANK v. BEAR.
215

Opinion of the Court.

such an adjudication that the partners should also be
adjudged bankrupt individually. So to hold would
make it impossible, in an involuntary proceeding, to adjudge'bankrupt a partnership as a separate entity, although it was insolvent and had committed an act of
bankruptcy, if any of the partners could not be adjudged
a bankrupt because he had not committed an individual
act of bankruptcy or was a person exempt from such an
adjudication, or for other adequate reason. 10
The conclusion stated is not in conflict with the decision
in Francis v. McNeal, 228 U. S. 695, upon which the
trustee relies. That decision, as we have heretofore
pointed out in Liberty Natl. Bank v. Bear, supra,368, and
Meek v. Centre County Banking Co., supra, 432, did not
involve the question whether an adjudication of the bank.
ruptcy of a partnership involved the adjudication of the
bankruptcy of the partners, but merely involved the question whether a bankruptcy court in which an insolvent
partnership had been adjudged a bankrupt might under the
administrative provisions of § 5 require a partner who had
not been adjudged a bankrupt to surrender his individual
property to the trustee of the partnership estate for the
purpose of paying the partnership debts. There was no
claim or suggestion that the adjudication of the bankruptcy of the partnership had involved an adjudication of
the bankruptcy of the partner as an individual, or that under that adjudication he could be deemed a bankrupt individually or a trustee could be appointed of his individual
estate for the purpose of administering it as that of a
bankrupt.
IoAs was said by the late Judge Hough, § 5a "sympathetically
interpreted secures to the creditor a prompt seizure of firm assets,without regard to dead, insane, absent, dormant or secret partners,
who as experience shows are commonly used by the active members
to harass and obstruct those holding just demands against the firm."
8 Columb. Law Rev. 599, 604
818o-28----15

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S.

We conclude that the involuntary petition filed against
the Provision Company, which did not in terms seek an
adjudication that the Beckers were bankrupts as individuals, nor allege that as individuals they were insblvent
or had committed any acts of bankruptcy, was not in
legal effect a petition filed against them individually, and
the adjudication under that petition that the partnership
was a bankrupt, was not in legal effect an adjudication
that they were bankrupts individually. There is hence
no ground, under either § 67c or § 67f of the Act, for
annulling the judgment liens obtained upon their individual real estate more than eight months prior to the
filing of their voluntary petitions.
Reversed.
COMMERCIAL CREDIT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 258.

Argued November 21, 22, 1927.--Decided February 20,
1928.

1. Upon review by certiorari, no questions will be considered except
those on which the petition for the writ was based. P. 229.
2. Where a person discovered in the act of unlawfully transporting intoxicating liquor in a vehicle is proceeded against as prescribed by
§ 26 of the Prohibition Act, and convicted of the unlawful possession incident to the transportation, the vehicle must be disposed of
under that section also, which provides protection for the interests
of innocent owners or lienors, and not under Rev. Stats. § 3450,
which does not provide such protection. P. 232.
17 F. (2d) 902, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 511, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the District
Court, forfeiting a motor vehicle under § 3450 of the
Revised Statutes upon the ground that it had been used

