NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES.
542

547

Syllabus.

suggestion that this might involve a liability to pay both
the bankrupt and the trustee."
It follows that Smith's title to the right of action was
not divested by the proceeding in bankruptcy, no trustee
having been appointed to whom it could pass; and that
the Bankruptcy Act did not prevent him from subsequently prosecuting the suit to judgment.
The doctrine of First National Bank v. Lasater, 196 U.
S. 115, 119, on which the petitioners rely-that a bankrupt who omits to schedule and withholds all knowledge
of a valuable claim, cannot, after obtaining a discharge
from his debts, assert title to such claim and maintain a
suit thereon in his own right-has no application here;
for in that case a trustee had been appointed to whom
the right of action had passed.
No other Federal question is presented by the record.
If, as urged by the petitioners, the assignments made by
Smith were void as against his other creditors-who were
not before the court-any question that may arise as to
whether he holds the judgment for the benefit of his
assignees or of his general creditors, may be determined
in appropriate proceedings taken for that purpose. See
Griffin v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., supra, 655. In any
event the petitioners were not prejudiced.
Judgment affirmed.
CITY OF NEW BRUNSWICK ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 260. Argued March 2, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Land acquired by the United States Housing Corporation under
the Act of 1918 and by the Act of 1919 directed to be sold with
reservation of a first lien for unpaid purchase money, was not

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

276 U. S.

subject to state taxation so long as the Corporation held title as an
instrumentality of the United States. P. 555.
2. Purchasers of such land, by making the payments entitling them,
under their contracts with the Corporation, to receive deeds subject to their obligation to execute mortgages to secure deferred
payments, became the equitable owners, and the taxability of the
land, as respects the Corporation, is to be determined as if both
the deeds and the mortgages had been executed. Id.
3. In this situation, a city where the land is, the state law permitting, may tax the purchasers upon the entire value of the land and
enforce collection by selling their interests; but it cannot sell for
such taxes the interest retained by the Corporation for the benefit
of the United States, as security for unpaid purchase money. Id.
11 F. (2d) 476, reversed.

275 U. S. 511, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the District
Court, 1 F. (2d) 741, denying an injunction to restrain
sales of lots for city taxes. The suit was brought by the
United States Housing Corporation, and joined in by the
United States, against the city. The court below directed
that the assessments for certain years be canceled and
that sales for enforcement of the taxes be enjoined.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Thomas H.
Hagerty, Russell E. Watson, and Edward L. Patterson
were on the brief, for petitioners.
The effect of the contracts was to render the property
fully taxable by state authorities to the purchasers as soon
as the purchasers became entitled to their deeds. It is a
well recognized principle that one entitled to a conveyance
of real estate, is in equity the real owner. Carroll v. Safford, 3 How. 441; Green v. Smith, 1 Atkyns, 572; Farrar
v. Earl of Winterton, 5 Beav. 1; Bispham Equity, 7th ed.,
§ 364, p. 534; Pomeroy, Eq. Juris., 4th ed., §§ 105, 368,
372, 1406; Hoagland v. Latourette, 2 N. J. Eq. 254; Huffman v. Hummer, 17 Id. 264; King v. Ruckman, 21 Id. 599;
Haughwout v. Murphy, 22 Id. 531.

NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES.
547

549

Argument for Petitioners.

One with the right to receive legal title to property from
the United States, and not excluded from its enjoyment,
is to be treated as the beneficial owner and the land subject
to taxation as his property. Wisconsin Central R. R.
Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; Wilson Cypress Co.
v. Del Pozo y Marcos, 236 U. S. 635; Carroll v. Safford,
3 How. 441; Northern Pacific R. R. v. Patterson, 154
U. S. 130; Bothwell v. Bingham County, 237 U. S. 642;
Kansas-Pacific Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Irwin
v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219.
It has never been suggested hitherto that the mere giving of a mortgage to an agency of the United States
would be sufficient to exempt the mortgaged property
from taxation. And under the law, of New Jersey, the
mortgagee would receive no present interest. Blue v.
Everett, 56 N. J. Eq. 455.
A mere right in the United States to acquire property
on the breach of a condition subsequent to the passage
of title, will not exempt such property from taxation.
Railway Co. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 381.
Moreover the provisions of the contract as to the title
and mortgage indicate that it was the intention of the
parties that the land should be taxable.
The passage of title is the criterion of taxability. Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; Irwin v.
Wright, 258 U. S. 219; Bothwell v. Bingham County, 237
U. S. 642; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195
U. S. 375.
It was the purpose of Congress to dispose of this property as soon as possible. Full power is given by the Act
to sell on the terms agreed upon, which terms are to be
conclusive as to the transfer of title.
By "reserving a first lien-" Congress meant that the
United States should receive no more than the usual first

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

276 U. S.

lien with all the incidents thereof. The first lien created
by a mortgage cannot be more than a prior interest in
the property at the time it is created. In certain circumstances, it may become subordinate to statutory liens
such as tax liens; Cooley on Taxation, 4th ed., § 1240; or
liens for certain supplies; Virginia Development Co. v.
Iron Co., 90 Va. 126; Fidelity Ins. Co. v. Roanoke Iron
Co., 81 Fed. 439; or mechanics liens; Jones on Liens, c.
XXXVI. The exact effect and priority of all these depend on the various statutes in the different jurisdictions;
Pomeroy Eq. Juris. 4th ed., §§ 1268, 1269; and the power
to create such priority has been recognized in Provident
Institution v. Mayor of Jersey City, 113 U. S. 506.
The statute itself provides that the lien shall depend
on the contract and not on the statute. United States v.
Ansonia Brass Co., 218 U. S. 452.
The construction that the petitioners contend for alone
achieves substantial justice. Tucker v. Ferguson, 22
Wall. 527; Winona Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526.
Assuming without conceding that the United States has
retained a lien that is prior to all others, the property may
nevertheless be assessed to the purchasers and sold to enforce such assessment, subject always to that priority.
The City's action in assessing and enforcing the taxes
against the purchasers, subject to the prior lien of the
United States, cannot prejudice the latter's rights in any
way.
Where legal title has passed to a purchaser and where
there is a right of the United States as to the property
that continues to be prior to any other, taxes may be
levied and enforced on the property against the purchaser,
subject to that priority. Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v.
Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; United States v. Canyon
County, 232 Fed. 985; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219;
Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Railway Co. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444.

NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES. 551
547

Argument for Respondents.

The wrongful refusal of the United States to convey
legal title cannot be used to enable the purchasers to avoid
such taxation.
Even if it be held that the land itself is exempt from
both conditional and unconditional taxation to the purchasers, nevertheless it is within the power of the State
to provide for the taxation of whatever equitable interest
the purchasers may hold.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. Thomas W.
O'Brien, Counsel, United States Housing Corporation,
was on the brief, for respondents.
Decisions of this Court in cases where the United States
held the naked legal title in trust for a purchaser, or
where land in the public domain has been held immune
from state taxation before the purchaser has a right to a
deed, are not pertinent.
Until the full purchase price is paid, the United States
has an interest in these lands for the enforcement of which
certain remedies are available to it. Without regard to
any other statutes or rules relating to priority, the statute
authorizing sales by the Housing Corporation discloses
a purpose to make the lien and rights of the United States
in this land superior to those of any State or individual.
The taxes levied by the State are on the land and not
on the interest of the purchaser, and the tax sales under
state law, if valid, would convey the land and extinguish
the lien and rights of the United States. The state law
makes no provision for selling the interest of the purchaser, nor for making tax sales subject to the rights of
the United States.
A decree not adjudging the taxes entirely void, but
determining them inferior to the rights of the United
States, and requiring the City, in making tax sales and
issuing deeds, to state that they are subject to the rights
of the United States, would amount to writing a new

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

tax law for the State of New Jersey. Taking the state
tax laws as they stand, the logical. conclusion may be that
the taxes are void, but at least the United States is entitled to have the decree provide that its rights are superior. The matter of reaching by taxation a taxable

interest as distinguished from taxing the land itself, has
been dealt with in the following cases: Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Myers, 172 U. S. 589; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S.
219; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S.
375.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question here relates to the validity of certain taxes
assessed by the City of New Brunswick, New Jersey, upon
real estate to which the United States Housing Corporation held the legal title.
The Housing Corporation was organized by authority
of the President, pursuant to an Act of May, 1918,1 for the
purpose of providing housing for employees of the United
States and workers engaged in industries connected with
the national defense during the late war; for which an
appropriation was made. The entire capital' stock of the
Corporation is held for and on behalf of the United States.
For the purpose stated the Corporation purchased in 1918
a tract of land in New Brunswick, subdivided it into lots,
and erected houses upon them.
By an amendment of July, 1919,2 providing for winding
up its affairs, the Corporation was authorized and directed
to sell and convey all its property remaining undisposed
of after the termination of the war, "Provided, however,
That no sale or conveyance shall be made hereunder on
credit without reserving a first lien on such property for
140 Stat. 550, e.74; as amended, 40 Stat. 594, c. 92.
241 Stat. 163, 224, c. 24.

NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES.
547

553

Opinion of the Court.

the unpaid purchase money." Pursuant thereto the Corporation entered into contracts for the sale of the New
Brunswick lots to various purchasers. Each contract ptovided that the Corporation should sell and the purchaser
should buy the property at a stipulated price, to be paid
in instalments, the first on the execution of the contract,
and the remainder in equal monthly payments, with interest; that after the purchaser had paid ten per cent of
the purchase price the Corporation should execute and
deliver a special warranty deed for the property and the
purchaser should execute and deliver a note or notes with
mortgage on the property to secure the balance of the
purchase price in accordance with the terms of the contract; that taxes should be apportioned as of the date of
the contract, and all thereafter becoming due should be
paid by the purchaser, and if he failed so to do and they
were paid by the Corporation, the amount thereof should
be added to the purchase price; and that if the purchaser
defaulted for thirty days in the performance of the terms
of the contract the Corporation might retain all payments
made thereon as liquidated damages, and the purchaser
should be relieved from any further obligation under the
contract.
The purchasers entered upon and took possession of the
lots upon the execution of their respective contracts.
Either then or later each paid the Corporation the entire
percentage of the purchase price which entitled him under
the terms of his contract to receive a deed. Nearly all of
such payments were made prior to October 1, 1920. But
because the City had meanwhile assessed certain taxes on
these properties, which remained unpaid, the Corporation
refused to execute deeds to the purchasers; and they, consequently, did not execute notes and mortgages for the
balance of the purchase price.
While the Corporation thus continued to hold the legal
title to the lots the City assessed them for taxation to the

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

purchasers for the years 1920 to 1923, inclusive. These
taxes were not paid. And thereupon, to prevent threatened tax sales, the Corporation brought this suit, in which
the United States joined as a plaintiff, in the federal court
for New Jersey, to have the assessments cancelled and
sales for the collection of the taxes enjoined. None of the
purchasers were parties to this suit.'
The District Court held that the assessment for the
year 1920 was invalid, but, being of opinion that the
'equitable title had passed to the purchasers under their
contracts in such manner as to render the lots taxable as
their property after the dates on which they had become
entitled to their deeds, sustained the validity of the assessments for the year 1921 and subsequent years on all lots
for which the purchasers had become entitled to deeds
prior to the date of the assessment, and denied an injunction to restrain the sales. 1 F. (2d) 741. On appeal, the
Circuit Court of Appeals, being of opinion that the assessment of taxes to the purchasers for 1920 and subsequent
years, while the legal title to the lots was still in the Corporation, was invalid, reversed the decree of the District
Court and directed it to cancel the assessment for such
years ' and enjoin the sale of the lots for the enforcement
of the taxes so assessed. 11 F. (2d) 476.
The City concedes here that the assessments made to
the purchasers for the year 1920 were invalid under the
New Jersey law; ' and the question before us relates only
to the taxes for 1921 and subsequent years.
3 Certain taxes that had been previously assessed to the Corporation itself for the years 1918 and 1919 were also challenged by the
bill, but at the hearing the City conceded their invalidity, and the
disposition made of them by the District Court is not here in question.
4 Including the years 1924 to 1927, inclusive, for which taxes had
meanwhile been assessed. Certain specific lots were excepted, as to
which no question is raised here.
5 This required the assessments for 1920 to be based on the ownership of the property on October 1 of the preceding year, at which

time no sale contract had been made by the Corporation.

NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES.
547

555

Opinion of the Court.

It is unquestioned that so long as the Corporation held
title to the lots as an instrumentality of the United
States and solely for its use and benefit, they were not
subject to taxation by the City. Clallam v. United States,
263 U. S. 341, 344. But after the purchasers had made
the payments entitling them to receive deeds to the lots,
the Corporation ceased to hold title solely for the United
States, and held partly for the purchasers, who had become the equitable owners of the property and entitled
to conveyance of the title subject to their obligation to
execute mortgages securing the payment of the balance
of the purchase price. In equity the situation was then
the same as if the Corporation had conveyed title to
the purchasers, as owners, and they had mortgaged the
lots to the Corporation to secure the unpaid purchase
money. As between the Corporation and the City, the
taxability of the lots is to be determined as if both the
deeds and the mortgages had been executed; that is, as if
the Corporation, while conveying the legal title to the purchasers, had retained a mortgage lien to secure the balance of the purchase price.
By the specific provision of the Act of 1919, the Corporation was not authorized to convey the property
"without reserving a first lien ..
for the unpaid purchase money "; and the contracts of sale could not waive,
and did not purport to waive, this lien or subordinate it
to taxes.
Under the provisions of the New Jersey law the taxes
assessed to the purchasers, as equitable owners, rest upon
the entire lots, including not only the interests of the
purchasers as equitable owners, but the interest of the
Corporation retained and held as security for the payment of the unpaid purchase moneys; no distinction being made under that law between the interest of the
owners and that of mortgagees or lienors. We see no
reason, however, if the New Jersey law permits, why the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

City may not assess taxes against the purchasers upon
the entire value of the lots and enforce collection thereof
by sale of their interests in the property. With that the
Corporation and the United States have no concern. But
it is plain, under the doctrine of the Clallam case, that
the City is without authority to enforce the collection
of the taxes thus assessed against the purchasers by a sale
of the interest in the lots which was retained and held
by the Corporation as security for the payment of the
unpaid purchase money, whether as an incident to the
retention of the legal title or as a reserved lien or as a
contract right to mortgages. That interest, being held by
the Corporation for the benefit of the United States, is
paramount to the taxing power of the State and cannot be subjected by the City to sale for taxes.
We conclude that, although the City should not be
enjoined from collecting the taxes assessed to the purchasers by sales of their interests in the lots, as equitable
owners, it should be enjoined frofn selling the lots for
the collection of such taxes unless all rights, liens and
interests in the lots, retained and held by the Corporation
as security for the unpaid purchase moneys, are expressly
excluded from such sales, and they are made, by express
terms, subject to, all such prior rights, liens and interests.
This, we think, will meet the equities of the case as between the Corporation and the City, and fully protect the
paramount right of the United States.
The decree is reversed; and the cause will be remanded
to the District Court with instructions to enter a decree
in accordance with this opinion.
Decree reversed.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the District Court reached the proper conclusion and that its
decree .should be affirmed.

