GOODYEAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.

287

Syllabus.

284

leave, the judgment is not that of the highest court of
the State in which a decision could be had. See Newman
v. Gates, 204 U. S. 89, 95. In any respect we are without
authority to review the judgment; and the writ is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MR. JUSTICE STONE did not sit in this case.
GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 159.

Argued January 10, 1928.-Decided March 12, 1928.

1. A lease to the United States for a term of years, made without
any specific authority of law, and entered into when there was no
appropriation available for the payment of rent after the first
fiscal year, does not bind the Government after that year. Rev.
Stats. §§ 3732, 3679. Leiter v. United States, 271 U. S. 204.
P. 291.
2. To make such a lease binding for any subsequent year, it is necessary, not only that an appropriation be made available for the
payment of the rent, but that the Government, by its duly authorized officers, affirmatively continue the lease for such subsequent
year; thereby, in effect, by the adoption of the original lease,
making a new lease under the authority of such appropriation for
the subsequent year. P. 292.
3. Holding over by government officials after the fiscal year, accompanied by a manifestation of their intention not to bind the United
States to pay rent beyond the period of actual occupancy, will not
work a renewal for the whole of the ensuing fiscal year even where
there is an appropriation covering rent for that year, and although,
under the state law a private lessee holding over would be bound
to a year's renewal by legal implication regardless of his intention.
P. 292.
4. The right to sue the United States under the Tucker Act on a
claim founded on contract, must rest upon an express contract or
one implied in fact; the Act gives no right of action in a case
where, if the transaction were between private parties, a recovery
could be had upon a contract implied in law. P. 293.
62 Ct. Cls. 370, affirmed.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

276 U.S.

273 U. S. 692, to a judgment of the Court
of Claims dismissing on demurrer a suit to recover rent.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Spencer Gordon, with whom Mr. Dean Acheson
was on the brief, for petitioner.
The attempted lease for five years subject to appropriations each year resulted in a lease for one year with
option on the part of the United States to renew. McCollum v. United States, 17 Ct. Cls. 92; Smoot v. United
States, 38 Ct. Cls. 318. Prior to June 30, 1923, the
United States was therefore in possession under an existing lease.
As a tenant of Ohio property the United States was
subject to the laws of Ohio. United States v. Bostwick,
94 U. S. 53; Clifford v. United States, 34 Ct. Cls. 223;
Conn. Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 21 Ct. Cls. 195;
Spoffard v. United States, 32 Ct. Cls. 452; Blair v. United
States, 53 Ct. Cls. 457.
Under the common law of Ohio, where rent is reserved
annually, and the tenant holds over and states that he
does not intend to be bound for another year but the
landlord states that he intends to hold the tenant for
another year, the tenant is held for the entire succeeding
year. Strong v. Schmidt, 8 Cir. Dec. 551; Rosenbaum v.
Pendleton, 9 0. D. 642; Kerruish v. Cleveland, etc.,
Brewing Co., 17 Oh. C. C. (N. S.) 449.
There is nothing in the federal statutes or decisions
which prevents this rule from applying in the present
case. In order to hold the United States there need only
be (1) authority to bind the United States for the ensuing year, (2) an act by the authorized officers. Leiter
v. United States, 271 U. S. 204.
It was not necessary that the government officials enter
into an express written contract in order to bind the
United States. So long as there was an appropriation
available they could bind the United States by doing the

GOODYEAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.
287

289

Argument for the United States.

thing that the law of Ohio provided would make the
tenant liable for another year, that is, by holding over.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant
Attorney General Galloway, and Messrs. James J. Lenihan and John E. Hoover, Attorneys in the Department of
Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.
There was no express contract in this case binding the
United States to pay rent for the full year ending June
30, 1924. On the contrary, the United States, at the
time of the expiration of the original term, expressly rejected the proposition that it would become liable for the
additional term of one year. The question remains
whether there was an implied contract within the meaning of the jurisdictional statute relating to the Court of
Claims. An implied contract must be one implied in
fact and not by operation of law. Tempel v. United
States, 248 U. S. 121; Ball Engineering Co. v. White &
Co., 250 U. S. 46; Horstmann Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 138; Klebe Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 188.
If the tenant holds over after the expiration of his
term without anything being said by him or his landlord respecting the nature of the resulting obligation, a
contract for the additional term may be one implied in
fact, on the theory that the situation and conduct of the
parties shows a real intention that the tenant shall become a tenant for an additional term of one year; but
this can not be so where the tenant at or before the
time when the holding over commences expressly declares to his landlord that he intends to be bound only
for the length of time he remains in possession. 2 Tiffany, Landlord & Tenant, 1472. See also Clinton Co. v.
Gardner 99 Ill. 151; Herter v. Mullen, 159 N. Y. 28.
The law of landlord and tenant in the State of Ohio
is not a subject inviting attention from this Court. In
318°-28-----19

OCTOBER TERM. 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

most states of the Union statutes have been enacted
which would prevent any such question as is here presented from arising in cases of leases to the United States
and which prescribe that in a case of holding over, where
the creation of a tenancy at will has resulted, notice to
quit is sufficient if given for thirty or sixty days. See
Leavitt v. Maykel, 203 Mass. 506.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Goodyear Company brought this action under the
Tucker Act,1 to recover rent claimed under a lease to the
United States. The petition was dismissed, on demurrer,
for failure to state a cause of action. 62 Ct. Cls. 370.
The facts alleged were these: In October, 1921, the
predecessor of the Goodyear Company leased to the
United States, for the use of the Veterans' Bureau, certain
premises in Cincinnati, Ohio, for a term ending June 30,
1926, at a stipulated annual rental payable in monthly
instalments. No appropriation was then available for
payment of the rent after the first fiscal year, ending June
30, 1922; 2 and the lease provided that if an appropriation
was not made under which the rent for any succeeding
fiscal year might be paid, it should automatically terminate as of June 30 of the year for which an appropriation
was last available.
The lessor assigned and transferred the lease to the
Goodyear Company in January, 1922. In June an appropriation was made, available for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1923; and the lease was by agreement "renewed"
for that year. In February, 1923, an appropriation was
124 Stat. 505, c. 359; Jud. Code, § 145, U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 250.
2

The fiscal years begin on July 1st of each year and terminate on

June 30th of the next year.

GOODYEAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.
287

291

Opinion of the Court.

made, available for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924.
Before June 30, 1923, the officials of the Veterans' Bureau
informed the Company that the United States would give
up the occupancy of the premises as of that date. "When
June 30, 1923, arrived "-as the petition alleged-" the
officials of the Veterans' Bureau desired to occupy the
premises beyond that date, and possession was continued
by the United States into the following fiscal year, the
officials of the Veterans' Bureau then stating that there
was no intention on the part of the United States to pay
rent for any longer time than the actual period of occupancy, and the officials of the claimant company stating
that it was their contention that . . . even if the original

lease was not binding beyond June 30, 1923, nevertheless
if the United States remained longer than June 30, 1923,
it would at least be liable for the stipulated rent for the
year ending June 30, 1924, under the laws of the State of
Ohio by reason of holding over." The United States continued in possession to December 20, 1923, when it vacated the premises. The rent was paid to December 31,
1923.
The Company claimed that "by reason of holding
over" the United States was bound for the entire fiscal
year ending June 30, 1924, and liable for the unpaid rental
to that date.'
In Leiter v. United States, 271 U. S. 204, 207, we held
that a lease to the United States for a term of years, made
without any specific authority of law and entered into
when there was no appropriation available for the payment of rent after the first fiscal year, in so far as its terms
extend beyond that year, violates the express provisions
s This claim had been rejected by the Comptroller General. 5 Gen.
Comp. 172. An alternative claim presented by the petition that the
United States was bound by the original lease for the full term to
June 30, 1926, was abandoned before the hearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

of Sections 3732 and 3679 of the Revised Statutes' and
creates no binding obligation on the Government after
that year; and that "to make it binding for any subsequent year, it is necessary, not only that an appropriation
be made available for the payment of the rent, but that
the Government, by its duly authorized officers, affirmatively continue the lease for such subsequent year; thereby, in effect, by the adoption of the original lease, making
a new lease under the authority of such appropriation fbr
the subsequent year."
The Company contends "that since there was a Federal
appropriation before June 30, 1923, pursuant to which
the lease might have been extended to June 30, 1924,
and since by the common law of Ohio, where the land
was, such a holding over on June 30, 1923, would have
created a tenancy to June 30, 1924, as between individuals, the United States became bound for the year
by the act of holding over coupled with the authority to
lease the property contained in the appropriation act."
We cannot sustain this contention. In order to bind
the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924,
it was necessary, as held in the Leiter case, that after
the available appropriation had been made, the Government should affirmatively continue the lease for that
year, that is, in effect, make a new lease for the year
under the authority of such appropriation. This it did
3732 provides that "No contract ... on behalf of the
United States shall be made, unless the same is authorized by law
4Sec.

or is under an appropriation adequate to its fulfillment.

. .

."

See.

3679, as amended in 1906, provides that "No Executive Department
or other Government establishment of the United States shall expend, in any one fiscal year, any sum in excess of appropriations
made by Congress for that fiscal year, or involve the Government in
any contract or other obligation for the future payment of money
in excess of such appropriations unless such contract or obligation is
authorized by law."

GOODYEAR CO. v. UNITED STATES.
287

293

Holmes, Sutherland and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

not do, either expressly or impliedly. On the contrary,
the notice given by the officials of the Veterans' Bureau
to the Company, before holding over, that the Government did not intend to pay rent beyond the actual
period of occupancy, negatived any intention to continue
the lease for the entire year, and left no basis for inferring an agreement to continue it after the Bureau should
cease to occupy the premises. It is immaterial that
under the common law in Ohio as applied between private parties, a lessee holding over after the expiration of
his lease is held, at the option of the lessor, to be bound
for another year, under an agreement implied in law,
regardless of his actual intention, Railroad Co. v. West,
57 Ohio St. 161, 165, 168; Bumillerv. Walker, 95 Ohio St.
344, 349. Not having affirmatively continued the lease
beyond the actual period of occupancy, the Government
cannot, under the doctrine of the Leiter case, be bound
for a longer term.
Furthermore, independently of that doctrine, the right
here invoked to sue the United States under the Tucker
Act on a claim founded on contract-as this is--must
rest upon the existence of a contract express or implied
in fact, no right of action being given by the Act in cases
where, if the transaction were between private parties,
recovery could be had upon a contract implied in law.
Sutton v. United States, 256 U. S. 575, 581; Merritt v.
United States, 267 U. S. 338, 341; United States v. Minn.
Investment Co., 271 U. S. 212, 217. And see Balt. &
Ohio R. R. v. United States, 261 U. S. 592, 597.
The judgmelit is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES.

There was no adverse holding in this case. The United
States admitted that it occupied the premises under a

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
276 U. S.

Syllabus.

contract as lessee until June 30, 1923. One consequence
of this contract by the law that governed it and by the
stipulation of the lessor was that if the lessee held over
he held over for a year. I do not see how the United
States could accept the contract and repudiate the consequence, or accept the permission of the lessor to continue in possession upon the express condition that it
be bound for a year and repudiate the condition, except
in the event of there being no appropriation in which
case the paramount law of the United States would prevail. There was an appropriation here and therefore
there was nothing to hinder the United States being
bound until June 30, 1924, except the statement of the
agents that it did not mean to be, which seems to me
merely the statement that it did not mean to accept the
legal consequence of its act.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

in this opinion.
IN RE GILBERT.
PROCEEDINGS FOR DISBARMENT

OR CONTEMPT.

Order entered March 19, 1928.
1. The former order of this Court, 259 U. S. 101, limiting the compensation allowable to the respondent herein, as master in the New
York Gas cases, applied not only to the part taxable to the City

of New York as costs, but also to the part paid by the successful
plaintiffs.

P. 297.

2. A master in the District Court, who, despite a decree ofthis Court
limiting his allowance, retained excessive fees, relying on the tolerance and favor of the successful litigants that paid them, and who
persisted further by securing, with their acquiescence, a futile
declaratory judgment in the state court declaring that he owed
them nothing-held guilty of wrong doing, for which, in addition to
restoring the excess amounts, with interest, he must be suspended
from his rights and privileges as a member of the bar of this Court
for six months, and be assessed the costs of this proceeding. P. 298.

