CHICAGO,

ETC.

R. R. v. RISTY.

567

Statement of the Case.

560

Whether if the situation were otherwise the Secretary
could by a mandatory injunction be directed to issue a
patent, we need not consider. No decision of this Court
has given sanction to such a direction.
Reversed.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANY v. RISTY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 501.

Argued February 21, 23, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. A decree dismissing a suit to enjoin special tax assessments which
in terms is without prejudice to the right of the plaintiff to contest the matters in question as though the suit had not been instituted or the decree entered, does not bar subsequent litigation of
the same question. P. 569.
2. Due process of law does not require notice of a proceeding to
determine merely whether an improvement shall be constructed,
if land owners are later afforded an opportunity to be heard and
to show that their property should not be assessed. P. 573.
3. A land owner, who, being duly notified, fails to avail himself of
an opportunity afforded by a state statute to be heard upon the
question whether his land will be benefited by a proposed public
improvement and upon the constitutionality of including it in the
proposed improvement district, cannot raise the question in this
Court in a suit attacking the resulting assessment. P. 574.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction against apportionment and assessment of benefits on appellant's land for the maintenance
of a drainage system.
The suit was brought by Byram et al., as Receivers of
the C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. The C., M. & St. P. R. R.
Company was substituted in this Court.

Messrs. H. E. Judge and T. M. Bailey, with whom
Messrs. C. 0. Bailey, H. H. Field, 0. W. Dynes, H. H.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Triestal, R. L. Kennedy, H. 0. Hepperle, T. L. Fuller, and
J. H. Voorhees were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Norman B. Bartlett and Elbert 0. Jones, with
whom Messrs. Benoni C. Matthews, John H. Fitzpatrick,
and Enos G. Jones were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
,This is a suit brought by appellants, receivers of the
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. in the district court for South Dakota against the appellees, county
commissioners of Minnehaha County, to enjoin the apportionment and assessment of benefits upon appellants'
land for the maintenance of a drainage system, under the
state agricultural drainage statutes, S. Dak., Laws 1907, c.
134, reenacted as S. Dak. Rev. Code (1919) §§ 8458-8491,
as amended by S. Dak., Laws 1920, c. 46, on the ground
that the statutes and the proceedings had under them are
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution. From an order of the district court,
three judges sitting, denying an application for an interlocutory injunction the case comes here on direct appeal.
Jud. Code §§ 238, 266; Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S.388.
One phase of the controversy now presented and the
statutes involved were before this Court in Risty v. Chi-i
cago, Rock Island and Pacific Ry., 270 U. S. 378. In
that case it appeared that the railroad company, which is
represented by the appellants here, owned lands in Minnehaha County, some of which had not been included
within an established drainage district known as "Ditch
No. 1 and Ditch No. 2." Those ditches having been
seriously damaged by floods, a proceeding had been begun
before the county commissioners for the enlargement and
reconstruction of the system, now described as " Drainage
District No. 1 and 2," with the object of assessing the
benefits and cost of the work on lands of the railroad

CHICAGO,
567

ETC.

R. R. v. RISTY.

Opinion of the Court.

company and others lying both within and without the
original drainage district.
The suit was begun by the railroad company in the
district court for South Dakota to enjoin the county officers from making any apportionment and assessment of
benefits affecting the property of the railroad company,
on the ground that the drainage statutes of South Dakota and the proceedings under them violated the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution. The
district court held that the statutes were valid and constitutional but that the assessments for reconstruction
and maintenance of the existing drainage system, so far
as applied to lands outside the original drainage district,
were unauthorized by the state statutes. Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Ry. v. Risty, 282 Fed. 364. No appeal
was taken by the railroad company from the decree of
the district court, but on appeal by the county officials so
much of the decree as involved the construction of the
drainage statutes and the application to lands outside of
the original drainage district was affirmed by the circuit
court of appeals for the eighth circuit, 297 Fed. 710, and
by this Court in Risty v. Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Ry., supra.
Following the decision in this Court the appellants
began the present suit, in which they raised anew the
questions as to the constitutionality of the South Dakota
Irainage statutes, and sought relief the effect of
which,
if granted, would be to enjoin those assessments on the
land of plaintiffs within the original drainage district
which had been left undisturbed by the decree in the
earlier litigation.
Appellees, on the present application for an interlocutory injunction, have set up that decree as res judicata as
to all questions presented here. But an examination of
the decree of the district court in the earlier litigation.
set out in the present record, discloses that by its terms

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

the decree was "without prejudice to any and all rights
of the plaintiff to contest any such apportionment of
benefits, or any assessment which may be made" affecting the land of appellants within the original drainage
district and saving the right of the railroad company in
this regard as though "this suit had not been instituted or
this decree entered." Although reliance is placed upon
this decree as res judicata,neither the record nor the briefs
disclose the reason for the insertion of these provisions
and no reason is suggested why its language is not to be
taken at its face value as saving to appellants the right
to litigate anew the questions now presented.
Since our decision in Risty v. Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Ry., supra, the supreme court of South
Dakota in State v. Risty, 51 S. Dak. 336, has had occasion
to pass upon the construction and the constitutionality of
the South Dakota drainage statutes. Taking a different
view from that of this Court and the lower courts in
Risty v. Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Ry., supra, it
held that the proceedings involved in that litigation and
in this, for the assessment of benefits upon lands both
within and without the original drainage district, were
authorized by the statutes of South Dakota. It held that
the action taken for reconstruction of the old drainage
ditches was not a proceeding for maintenance or repair of
the old system, but a new and independent proceeding,
and that the statutes authorized the establishment of a
new drainage district embracing all the lands benefited,
whether included in the old district or not. It also construed the sections regulating the proceedings for assessing the benefits and costs of the reconstruction and enlargement of the drainage ditches and, as construed, held
them constitutional. This construction of the state statutes by the highest court of the state we, of course, accept.
People of Sioux County v. National Surety Co., 276 U. S.
238; St. Louis & Kansas City Land Co. v. Kansas City,
241 U. S. 419, 427.

CHICAGO,
567

ETC.

R. R. v. RISTY.

571

Opinion of the Court.

As determined by the state supreme court in State v.
Risty, supra, the proceedings resulting in the proposed
assessment now assailed were taken and authorized under
S. Dak. Rev. Code (1919) §§ 8458-8463, as amended.
Under § 8459 upon petition of the owners of land "likely
to be affected by the proposed drainage" the Board of
County Commissioners, under § 8460, caused a survey to
be made of the proposed drainage project and, under
§ 8461, upon the filing of the surveyor's report with the
Commission, fixed the line of the proposed drainage ditch
as that of the preexisting ditches No. 1 and No. 2, but
increased the width of the ditch from approximately forty
feet, as originally established, to ninety feet. Notice of
hearing upon the petition ,was given by publication and
posting as required by § 8461, printed in the margin.'
1§8461. Surveyor's Report-Notice of Hearing.-The surveyor
shall report in writing to the board of county commissioners and his
report shall be filed with the petition. After personal inspection or
after the receipt of the surveyor's report the board shall determine
the exact line and width of the ditch, if the same shall not be fixed
in the petition, and shall file its determination with the petition. The
board shall then fix a time and place for the hearing of the petition
and shall give notice thereof by publication at least once each week
for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of the county, to be designated by the board, and by posting copies of such notice in at least
three public places near the route of the proposed drainage. Such
notice shall describe the route of the proposed drainage and the tract
of country likely to be affected thereby in general terms, the separate tracts of land through which the proposed drainage will pass
and give the names of the owners thereof as appears from the records
of the office of the register of deeds on the date of the filing of the
petition, and shall refer to the files in the proceedings for further
particulars. Such notice shall summon all persons affected by the
proposed drainage to appear at such hearing and show cause why the
proposed drainage should not be established and constructed, and
shall summon all persons deeming themselves damaged by the proposed drainage or claiming compensation for the lands proposed to
be taken for the drainage to present their claim therefor at such
hearing.

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The notice as required described "the route of the proposed drainage and the tract of country likely to be
affected thereby in general terms" and specifically included the lands of the appellants, which are described in
the present bill of complaint. Upon the hearing the
Board of County Commissioners, acting under § 8462,
made its order establishing the drainage as prayed. Proceeding under § 8463, printed in the margin, the Board
then fixed tentatively the proportion of benefits of the
drainage among the lands affected and particularly described and gave published notice of the time and place
for all owners of the land to be heard on equalization
of the benefits.
§ 8463. Equalization of Benefit4-After the establishment of the
drainage and the fixing of the damages, if any, the board of county
commissioners shall fix the proportion of benefits of the proposed
drainage among the lands affected, and shall appoint a time and place
for equalizing the same. Notice of such equalization of proportion of
benefits shall be given by publication at least once each week for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of the county to be designated by
the board, and by posting copies of such notice in at least three public
places near the route of the proposed drainage. Such notice shall
state the route and width of the drainage established, a description of
each tract of land affected by the proposed drainage and the names
of the owners of the several tracts of land as appears from the
records of the office of the register of deeds at the date of the filing
of the petition and the proportion of benefits fixed for each tract of
property, taking any particular tract as a unit, and shall notify all
such owners to show cause why the proportion of benefits shall not
be fixed as stated. Upon the hearing of the equalization of the
proportion of benefits, the board of county commissioners shall finally
equalize and fix the same according to benefits received. The proportion of benefits which any county, city, town or township may obtain
by the construction of such drainage to highways or otherwise, and
the benefits which any railroad company may obtain for its property
by such construction, shall be fixed and equalized together with the
proportion of benefits to tracts of land. Benefits to be considered in
any case shall be such as accrue directly by the construction of such
drainage or indirectly by virtue of such drainage being an outlet for
connection drains that may be subsequently constructed.
2

CHICAGO,
567

ETC.

R. R. v. RISTY.

Opinion of the Court.

At the outset appellants challenge the constitutionality
of the statutes and proceedings on the ground that the
notice of the hearing on the petition for the establishment
of the drainage project fell short of constitutional requirements. It is said that notice to all persons affected by the
proposed drainage, describing only "the route of the proposed drainage and the tract of country likely to be
affected thereby in general terms" is too vague and indefinite to constitute notice to any land owner other than
those through whose land the drainage ditch is to be
constructed.
If it were necessary to our decision, we should hesitate to say that the required notice was insufficient, at
least as to the owners of land embraced within the old
district. For it showed unmistakably that the projected
improvements were in substance an enlargement of a
drainage ditch for the construction of which the lands
within the district, including appellants', had already
been assessed. No particular form of notice is necessary
to satisfy constitutional requirements. If it be such as
fairly apprises the land owner of what is proposed and
affords reasonable opportunity to be heard it suffices.
North Laramie Land Co. v. Hoffman, 268 U. S. 276, 283.
No one who, like appellants, had paid assessments for the
original construction of the ditch could have doubted
that his lands were within the tract "likely to be affected" by the proposed reconstruction.
But in any case there is no constitutional reason why
any notice need have been given, for the purpose of the
first hearing is not to determine what lands are to be
included in the assessment district. It was said by the
supreme court of South Dakota in State v. Risty, 51 S.
fDak. at 354:
"The hearing upon this notice is not for the purpose of
determining the particular land that may be benefited by
the construction of ditch, nor the extent to which any

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

tract of land may be benefited, but to determine whether
the proposed drainage or any variation thereof shall be
' conducive to the public health, convenience, or welfare,
or necessity or practical for draining agricultural lands.'
If the board finds that such drainage will be conducive to
the public health, convenience, or welfare, or necessary
or practical for draining agricultural lands, the board may
establish the drainage accordingly and proceed to let contracts for the work. It then becomes necessary to determine the particular tracts of land that will be benefited
by the drainage and the extent to which it will be
benefited."
Due process of law does not require notice of a proceeding
to determine merely whether an improvement shall be
constructed without at the same time establishing the
boundaries of the assessment district. It is enough if
land owners who may be assessed are later afforded a
hearing upon the assessment itself. Londoner v. Denver,
210 U. S. 373, 378; Goodrich v. Detroit, 184 U. S. 432, 437,
et seq.; Voight v. Detroit City, 184 U. S. 115, 122; Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S. 242; Soliah v.
Heskin, 222 U. S. 522.
No objection of substance is made to the sufficiency of
the notice of the hearing on the equalization of benefits.
The lands of the railroad, described in the complaint,
were described in the notice as required by the statute.
At that time no assessment district had been established
and no lien had attached to them nor would any attach
until a final assessment had been made. § 8464; Risty v.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Ry., supra,388. As the
statute was construed by the supreme court of South
Dakota in State v. Risty, 51 S. Dak. at 354, upon the
hearing for the equalization of benefits under § 8463, "an
interested party may appear and show any reason why his
property should not be assessed that he could have shown
at the hearing for determining whether the drainage

SHAW v. OIL CORP'N.
567

Syllabus.

should be established. If his property will not be benefited by the establishment of the drainage this may be
shown at either hearing, and if shown at either hearing
his property will not be assessed."
The state court further held that upon this hearing the
land owner may be heard upon the question whether his
lands are benefited by the drainage system and the extent
of those benefits, if any, or whether the proposed assessment was unjust or unwarranted and may raise all constitutional objections to the assessment; citing Milne v. McKinnon, 32 S. Dak. 627, 631, 632; State ex rel. Curtis v.
Pound, 32 S. Dak. 492. From determinations of the
Board on either hearing appeals lie to the circuit court
under § 8469.
Appellants did not appear or file objections on the date
set for either hearing and under the state statute as
interpreted in State v. Risty, supra, thus lost their right
to urge any objection to the assessment. As the inclusion
of appellants' lands in the new assessment district depended wholly upon their being benefited by the proposed
improvements, their failure to avail of the opportunity
afforded by the statute to make the objections to the
assessment now urged forecloses all consideration of those
objections here. Farncomb v.. Denver, 252 U. S. 7; Milheim v. Moffat Tunnel Dist., 262 U. S. 710; Gorham Mfg.
Co. v. Tax Commissioner, 266 U. S. 265; First National
Bank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450.
Affirmed.
SHAW, AUDITOR, v. GIBSON-ZAHNISER OIL
CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 234.

Argued February 29, March 1, 1928.-Decided April 9,1928.

Land belonging to a non-Indian citizen of Oklahoma and subject
to state, county and municipal taxation, was purchased October 24,

