SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.

311

Syllabus.

SWIFT & COMPANY

ET AL.

V. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 181.

Argued October 3, 4, 1927; reargued January 3, 4, 1928.Decided March 19, 1928.

1. Where a consent decree, entered in a suit brought by the Government under the Anti-Trust Act, provided for entertaining at any
time thereafter any application which the parties might make in
respect to it, motions to vacate it made by defendants four years
later in response to petitions of intervention and entitled in the
suit, were part of the original cause. P. 322.
2. An appeal from an order of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia overruling defendant's motion to vacate a decree in a
suit by the Government under the Anti-Trust Act, does not lie to
the Court of Appeals of the District, and where erroneously taken
there from an order entered before the effective date of the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925. should be transferred by that
court, as a circuit court of appeals, to this Court. P. 323.
3. Where questions were certified to this Court in a case appealed to
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia which, under the
Expediting Act of 1903, should have been appealed directly here,
this Court, by ordering up the entire record, acquired jurisdiction
as fully as if a formal transfer had been made. P. 323.
4. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has power to administer relief under the Anti-Trust Act (Federal Trade Comm. v.
Klesner, 274 U. S.145); and where the suit is one under § 4, which
can only be brought in equity, it is properly brought in that court
sitting in Equity, and need not be addressed to it at special term
as the "District Court of the United States." P. 324.
5. In a suit by the Government to restrain alleged violations of the
Anti-Trust Act, defendants denied material allegations of the bill,
but consented to the entry without any proof or finding of facts, of
a decree granting comprehensive relief under the bill but declaring
that defendants maintained the truth of their answers, asserted
their innocence, and consented to the entry of the decree upon condition that their consent should not constitute an admission, nor
the decree an adjudication, that they, or any of them, had violated
any law of the United States. Held:
(1) That a motion by the defendants to vacate the consent decree could not be sustained upon the ground that there was no case

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

or controversy to afford jurisdiction, since (a) an injunction may
issue to prevent future wrongs though no right has yet been violated; and (b) because, if the court, having jurisdiction of the subject and the parties, erred in deciding that there was a controversy,
the error could have been reached only by bill of review or appeal.
P. 325.
(2) A motion to vacate would not lie upon the ground that the
facts necessary to constitute a violation conferring jurisdiction under the Anti-Trust Act were neither admitted nor proved, since
an injunction limited to future acts might be based upon allegations
of the bill not specifically denied. Error in that regard would not
go to the jurisdiction, and besides being of a kind reviewable only
by appeal, was in this case waived by consent to the decree. P. 327.
(3) Prohibitions in an injunction decree, which standing alone
are too general, are to be read with other parts of the decree and
with allegations of the bill, for the purpose of removing uncertainties. P. 327.
(4) Provisions of the consent decree cannot be assailed by a
motion to vacate upon the ground that they enjoin future conduct
in terms too vague and general. P. 327.
(5) Nor upon the ground that defendants are debarred in the
future from lawful lines of business not connected by any finding
of facts with the conspiracy charged; since consent to entry of the
decree without such findings left power in the court to construe the
pleadings and therein to find circumstances of danger justifying
such prohibitions. P. 328.
(6) Even if the consent decree contain prohibitions which are
contrary to the Anti-Trust Act and the common law, and are
grossly erroneous, it is not therefore void. P. 330.
(7) If the court, in addition to enjoining the acts that were admittedly interstate, enjoined some that were wholly intrastate and
in no way related to the conspiracy to obstruct interstate commerce, it erred; and had the defendants not waived such error by
their consent, they might have had it corrected on appeal. But
the error, if any, does not go to the jurisdiction of the court.
P. 330.
(8) The consent of the Attorney General to the decree, whether
correctly or erroneously given, was within his official discretion.
P. 331.
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, affirmed.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Argument for Swift & Co.

REVIEW of orders of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, overruling motions of Swift & Company and
other defendants seeking to vacate a decree which had
been entered by consent in a suit brought, by the Government under the Anti-Trust Law. The matter went first,
by appeal, to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and became lodged in this Court by an order calling up the entire record after that court had certified
certain questions concerning it.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Charles A.
Douglas, Conrad H. Syme, Henry Veeder, and Charles J.
Faulkner,Jr., were on the brief, for Swift & Company et al.
The motions to vacate are independent proceedings.
Stevirmac Co. v. Dittman, 245 U. S. 210. The order of
May 1, 1925, of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia is final. This appeal was properly prosecuted
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
The decree contains no provisions which constitute a
determination that the defendants had committed any
acts which constituted a violation of law. Under what
possible theory could any court without having found
that there had ever been a violation of the anti-trust laws
or any attempt to do the acts forbidden by the statute
have enjoined the defendants, corporate or individual,
or both, from pursuing the lawful occupations of life.
This Court has held that no such thing could legally be
done. United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251 U. S. 417;
United States v. Coffee Exchange, 263 U. S. 611; HamburgAmerican case, 239 U. S. 475.
Can the Government possibly go into court with no
violation of law, with no contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade existing, with no monoply
or attempt to monopolize existing, and with the stipula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Swift & Co.

276 U. S.

tion that none of these things should be found or considered to exist, and secure an injunction to prevent corporations and individuals from exercising their inherent
right in present and future to pursue the lawful occupation of buying, selling and transporting in interstate and
foreign commerce, and from engaging in vocations which
were not even the subject of such commerce, as was done
in this case, upon the mere "expectation" that the law,
which had not been violated or attempted to be violated,
might be violated in the future?
The theory that the Government can legally control,
regulate and restrain the business activities of its citizens
beyond the limits fixed by law, through the means of decrees of the federal courts secured by consent of the parties, amounts to the proposition that consent of the
parties can confer jurisdiction upon the federal courts, and
is fraught with serious consequences.
The decree is void for want of factual basis. The jurisdictional facts necessary to give an equity court jurisdiction were not established. United States v. Swift, 188
Fed. 92; United States v. Patterson,201 Fed. 697; Palmer
v. Fleming, 1 App. D. C. 528; United States v. Reading
Co., 183 Fed. 427. See also UnitedStates v. Whiting, 212
Fed. 466; Alldredge v. Aldredge, 151 Pac. 311; 15 R. C. L.
896.
Consent cannot confer jurisdiction to act outside the
judicial power. Swift & Co. v. Memphis Cold Storage
Co., 158 S. W. 480; T. St. L. & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. R. R.
Co., 208 Ill. 623; Pittsburgh, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322.
Proof or admission of facts supporting the charges or
attempted charges in the petition which were specifically
denied in the answers was not made, and cannot be presumed in the face of the conditions (expressed in the
stipulation and in the decree itself) upon which the parties consented that the decree should be entered. Every

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Argument for Swift & Co.

judgment or decree must be supported by facts necessary
to its validity. Wood v. Cox, 113 Atl. 501; Black v.
Keiley, 23 N. J. Eq. 538; Grob v. Cushman, 45 Ill. 119.
There was no proof of any threatened violations. All
allegations of threatened violations were denied. The
stipulation is the only basis of the decree and the decree
negatives any determination of any violation. What is a
threatened violation of the Sherman Act? It is nothing
more nor less than an attempt; and attempts to do the acts
forbidden by the statute are themselves violations of the
law. Facts disclosing such attempts must be charged and
proved or admitted, and must be adjudicated to be violations of law before the court can enter its judgment.
United States v. Coffee Exchange, 263 U. S. 611; United
States v. U. S. Steel Corp'n, 251 U. S.417; United States
v. Hamburg Amerikanische Co., 239 U. S. 466; United
States v. Quaker Oats Co., 232 Fed. 499; In re Greene,
52 Fed. 104.
The injunction orders contained in paragraphs 1 and 9
are void, being merely general injunctions against all possible breaches of the Anti-Trust Laws, and beyond the
power of the court. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375.
The injunction orders contained in paragraphs 2 to 8,
inclusive, are void because they enjoin the defendants not
merely from engaging in unlawful acts, but also from
severally following lawful occupations in a lawful manner
and are, therefore, a usurpation by the judicial branch of
the Government of the function of the legislative branch.
United States v. Coffee Exchange, 263 U. S. 611; Daniel
v. Portland Gold Mining Co., 202 Fed. 637; American
Federation of Labor v. Buck's Stove Co., 33 App. D. C.
83; 219 U. S. 58.
See also Geddes v. Anaconda Copper Co., 254 U. S. 590,
where it is said: "It is now the settled law that the
remedies provided by the Anti-Trust Act of July 2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Swift & Co.

276 U. S.

1890,
for enforcing the rights created by it are
exclusive."
No department of the Government may invade the
province of the others. Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U. S. 447.
The decree is void because it is not confined" to interstate commerce, but enjoins defendants from doing acts
and things which are exclusively intrastate commerce or
which may be limited to intrastate commerce. Kidd V.
Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.
251; Delaware,L. & W. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 220 Fed. 429.
The decree is void because by it defendants are obliged
to go out of certain businesses and not to enter others in
the United States, forever, which is violative of both the
common law and the Anti-Trust statutes.
The decree is void because there was no "case" or
"controversy" before the court within the meaning of § 2
of Article III of the Constitution. Osborn v. United
States Bank, 9 Wheat. 737; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S.
167; Story on the Constitution, 4th Ed., § 1646; In re
Pacific Ry. Comm., 32 Fed. 241.
It is elementary that "the controversy, in a suit, is the
one actually presented by the pleadings, and not what it
might have been." Vulcan Detinning Co. v. American
Can Co., 130 Fed. 635.
Consent could not confer jurisdiction where there was
no "casel; or "controversy," within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution. Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547;
Californiav. San Pablo R. Co., 149 U. S.308; Muskrat v.
United States, 219 U. S.346; Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S.
527; Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S.70.
The Attorney General was without power to consent to
the decree. The Attorney General has not only no authority to impose decrees upon citizens which are not authorized by law, but it is the duty of the, courts to set

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Argument for the United States.

aside any such decree, imposed either by consent or otherwise. Even where a court has jurisdiction over the parties
and the subject-matter, yet if it makes a decree which
transcends the limits of its authority, such decree is not
merely erroneous, but void. Freeman on Judgments, 4th
Ed. § 116. See also Black on Judgments, 2d Ed. § 171;
Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; United States v.
Walker, 109 U. S. 258; United States v. American Tobacco
Co., 191 Fed. 371; Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254;
33 C. J. 1076; 15 R. C. L. "Judgments," §§ 316 and 144;
2 High on Injunctions, 4th Ed. Par. 1425; Pyeatt v.
Estes, 4 A. L. R. 1570; Sache v. Gillette, 11 L. R. A. (N.
S.) 803; Glover v. Brown, 184 Pac. 649; Munday v. Vail,
43 N. J. L., 418; Black on Judgments, 2d Ed. § 242;
Johnson v. McKinnon, 13 L. R. A. (N. S.) 874; American
Mortgage Co. v. Thomas, 47 Fed. 550.
A motion to vacate filed in the court which rendered the
decree is the proper procedure to have a void decree vacated. 21 C. J. 718. See also Grant v. Harrell, 109 N. C.
78; Aronson v. Sire, 85 App. Div. (N. Y.) 607; Freeman
on Judgments, 5th Ed., §§ 228, 273, 307 and 382.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solictor General Mitchell and Mr. H. B. Teegarden,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
It is suggested that the judgment refusing to grant the
motion to vacate the decree was a decree in a suit under
the Sherman Act, within the meaning of the Expediting
Act, and the appeal should have been direct to this Court;
that the Act providing for transfer of cases from Circuit Courts of Appeals, literally construed, did not allow
transfer from the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, but liberally construed did; that unless this
Court concludes that appeal was properly taken to the

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Court of Appeals of the District, or, if not so taken, that
the cause was thereupon transferable to this Court, it
has not, by ordering the whole record up after certificate,
acquired jurisdiction to consider the merits.
The Government admits the full force of the clause in
the decree's preamble as a refusal to adjudicate any past
violations of law, but answers that it does not touch the
factual basis necessary to support the decree; the decree
rests upon a threatened or impending future violation of
the Anti-Trust Law; the finding of a state of facts to
support it is conclusively presumed by the entry of the
decree upon the parties' consents, and is not denied by any
language of the decree. The Government denies that any
of the provisions of the decree are beyond the jurisdictional power of the court to enter. The bill placed before
the court a controversy upon a subject matter within its
jurisdiction; the parties voluntarily submitted themselves
to the jurisdiction; the relief granted was of a nature (injunctive) within the court's equity powers to grant, and
its provisions are all within the scope of the case made
by the bill; the parties consented to the decree, thereby
adopting its language as their own, conceding its appropriateness to the situation complained of, and waiving
any errors of substance or form.
Mr. William C. Breed, with whom Messrs. Sumner Ford
and Edward A. Craighill, Jr., were on the brief, for the
National Wholesale Grocers Association.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Mac Asbill was on
the brief, for the American Wholesale Grocers Association
at the first hearing only.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents the question whether the consent
decree entered February 27, 1920, with a view to prevent-

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

ing a long feared monopoly in meat and other food
products is void.'
On that day the United States filed in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in equity, a
petition under § 4 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, July
2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, to enjoin violations of that
statute and of the Clayton Act, October 15, 1914, c. 323,
38 Stat. 730, 736. It named as defendants the five leading packers; namely, Swift & Company, Armour & Company, Morris & Company, Wilson & Company (Inc.), and
the Cudahy Packing Company. And it joined with them
80 other corporations and 50 individuals, all but four of
whom were associated with some one of the five defendants
above named. The petition charged the defendants with
attempting to monopolize a large proportion of the food
supply of the nation and with attempting to extend the
monopoly by methods set forth. It stated that the purpose of the suit was to put an end to the monopoly described and to deprive the defendants of the instrumentalities by which they were perfecting their attempts to
monopolize. It sought a comprehensive injunction and
also the divestiture of the instrumentalities described.
1See Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United States v.
Armour & Co., 142 Fed. 808; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495;
Report of the Select Committee on the Transportation and Sale of
Meat Products, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., Sen. Rep. No. 829; Report of the
Commissioner of Corporations on the Beef Industry, 58th Cong., 3d
Sess., H. R. Doe. No. 382; Message from the President of the United
States transmitting Summary of Report of the Federal Trade Commission on the Meat Packing Industry, 65th Cong., 2d Sess., H. R.
Doec. 1297; Report of the Federal Trade Commission on the Meat
Packing Industry, 1918-1920; Report of the Federal Trade Commission on Private Car Lines, 1919. See also Hearings before the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, 66th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 2309-2357; Letter from the Attorney General,
68th Cong., 1st Sess., Sen. Doc. No. 61; Letter from the Chairman of
the Federal Trade Commission, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., Sen. Doe. No. 219.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Simultaneously with the filing of the petition, all the
defendants filed answers which denied material allegations
of the bill. There was filed at the same time a stipulation, signed by all the parties to the suit, which provided
that the court might, without finding any fact, enter the
proposed decree therein set forth. On the same day a
decree in the form so agreed upon was entered. To this
decree all parties filed assents. In its opening paragraph,
the decree embodied a clause of the stipulation to the
effect that while the several corporations and individual
defendants "maintain the truth of their answers and
assert their innocence of any violation of law in fact or
intent, they nevertheless, desiring to avoid every appearance of placifig themselves in a position of antagonism
to the Government, have consented and do, consent to
the making and entry of the decree now about to be
entered without any findings of fact, upon condition
that their consents to the entry of said decree shall not
constitute or be considered an admission, and the rendition or entry of said decree, or the decree itself, shall
not constitute or be considered an adjudication that the
defendants or any of them have in fact violated any law
of the United States."
The decree declared, among other things, that the court
had jurisdiction of the persons and the subject matter;
and "that the allegations of the petitioner state a cause
of action against the defendants under the provisions"
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and supplementary legislation. It granted comprehensive relief in accordance
with the prayer of the bill. The details will be discussed
later. The decree closed with this provision: "Eighteenth. That jurisdiction of this cause be, and is hereby,
retained by this court for the purpose of taking such
other action or adding at the foot of this decree such
other relief, if any, as may become necessary or appro-

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

priate for the carrying out and enforcement of this
decree and for the purpose of entertaining at any time
hereafter any application which the parties may make
with respect to this decree."
None of the original parties to the suit made any application to the court between the date of the entry of the
consefit decree and November 5, 1924; but three intervening petitions were filed-that of the Southern Wholesale Grocers' Association, allowed September 10, 1921;
that of the National Wholesale Grocers' Association,
allowed November 5, 1921; and that of the California Cooperative Canneries, allowed September 13, 1924, see 299
Fed. 908. On November 5, 1924, two motions to vacate
the decree were filed in the cause. One was by Swift &
Company and the subsidiary corporations and individual
defendants associated with it; the other by Armour &
Company and the subsidiary corporations and individual
defendants associated with it. The allegations of the two
motions were identical; and each prayed that the consent
decree be declared void. The grounds of invalidity relied
upon will be stated later. On May 1, 1925, the two motions to vacate the consent decree were overruled. From
the order overruling them, Swift & Company and Armour
& Company, with their respective associates, took appeals
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
On May 28, 1926, the United States filed in that court
a motion to dismiss the appeals for want of jurisdiction,
contending that an appeal lay only directly to this Court.
On January 3, 1927, the Court of Appeals of the District
entered an order dismissing the appeals. Promptly
thereafter, Swift & Company, Armour & Company, and
their respective associates, moved that court to stay the
mandate and to transfer the appeals to this Court, pursuant to the Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837, incorporated in the Judicial Code as § 238(a). On
318o-28----21

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

January 31, 1927, the Court of Appeals vacated its opinion and order, and restored the case for reargument upon
the question of its jurisdiction of the appeals and for
argument on its jurisdiction to transfer the appeals to
this Court. Thereafter, having heard argument, the
Court of Appeals certified five questions to this Court,
under § 251 of the Judicial Code as existing prior to the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936. On October 17, 1927, this Court, having heard argument on the
certificate, ordered that the entire record in the cause
be sent here, as provided in the same section. On that
record the case is before us. Many questions are presented.
An objection of the Government to the jurisdiction of
this Court must first be considered. The Expediting Act
of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823, U. S. C., Title
15, § 29, provides that from a final decree in a suit in
equity brought by the Government under the Anti-Trust
Act, an appeal lies only directly to this Court. The Government suggests that under the Expediting Act no appeal lay to the Court of Appeals from the order denying
the motion to vacate; that the Court of Appeals consequently was powerless to certify questions relating to the
merits; that this Court by ordering up the record, as provided in § 251 of the Judicial Code, did not acquire jurisdiction to decide questions which could not lawfully have
been certified under that section; that the case may not
be treated as here on transfer, because the Court of Appeals of the District is not a circuit court of appeals
within the meaning of the Act of 1922; and that this
Court is therefore without power to pass on the merite
of the cause. Swift and Armour answer that the motions
to vacate the consent decree are not subject to the provisions of the Expediting Act because they are not a part
of the suit filed February 27, 1920, under the Anti-Trust
Act, but constitute a new suit. Compare Stevirmac Oil

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

& Gas Co. v. Dittman, 245 U. S. 210. The argument is
that the original suit ended with the entry of the consent
decree, or at all events, at the expiration of the term, or
at the end of the 60 days from the entry of the decree
allowed ky the Expediting Act for an appeal. We need
not enquire whether an independent suit to set aside a
decree entered under the Anti-Trust Act is subject to the
provisions of the Expediting Act. The consent decree
provided by paragraph Eighteenth for "entertaining at
any time hereafter any application which the parties may
make with respect to this decree." Swift and Armour
made these motions to vacate in the original suit; they
arose out of the three proceedings for intervention filed
after entry of the consent decree; and they were entitled
in the original cause.
The Court of Appeals of the District was, therefore,
without jurisdiction to entertain the appeals. We think,
however, that it was a circuit court of appeals within the
meaning of the Transfer Act; and, as the judgment appealed from was entered before the effective date of the
Act of February 13, 1925, the appeals should have been
transferred to this Court. Compare PascagoulaNational
Bank v. Federal Reserve Bank, 269 U. *S. 537; Salinger v.
United States, 272 U. S. 542, 549; Rossi v. United States,
273 U. S. 636; Timken Roller Bearing Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 274 U. S. 181, 186. The want of a formal
order of transfer would not have been fatal to our taking
jurisdiction of the whole case, had it come before us on
writ of error or appeal. Wagner Electric Manufacturing
Co. v. Lyndon, 262 U. S. 226, 231; Waggoner Estate v.
Wichita County, 273 U. S. 113, 116. It is no more so
now, when we have required the record to be sent up to
us. We treat the case as here.
The decree sought to be vacated was entered with the
defendants' consent. Under the English practice a consent decree could not be set aside by appeal or bill of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

review, except in case of clerical error. Webb v. Webb,
3 Swanst. 658; Bradishv. Gee, 1 Amb. 229; Daniell, Chancery Practice, 6th Am. ed., *973-974. In this Court a
somewhat more liberal rule has prevailed. Decrees
entered by consent have been reviewed upon appeal or
bill of review where there was a claim of lack of actual
consent to the decree as entered, Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 295; White v. Joyce, 158 U. S.
128, 147; or of fraud in its procurement, Thompson v.
Maxwell Land Grant Co., 168 U. S. 451; or that there
was lack of federal jurisdiction because of the citizenship
of the parties. Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ketchum, supra.
Compare Fraenkl v. Cerecedo, 216 U. S. 295. But "a
decree, which appears by the record to have been rendered
by consent, is always affirmed,' without considering the
merits of the cause." Nashville, Chattanooga& St. Louis
Ry. Co. v. United States, 113 U. S. 261, 266. Compare
United States v. Babbitt, 104 U. S. 767; McGowan v.
Parish, 237 U. S. 285, 295. Where, as here, the attack
is not by appeal or by bill of review, but by a motion to
vacate, filed more than four years after the entry of the
decree, the scope of the enquiry may be even narrower.
Compare Kennedy'v. Georgia Bank, 8 How. 586, 611-612.
It is not suggested by Swift and Armour that the decree is
subject to infirmity because of any lack of formal consent,
or fraud, or mistake. But eight reasons are relied on as
showing that, in whole or in part, it was beyond the
jurisdiction of the court.
First. At the time the questions were certified, there
was a contention that the Supreme Court of the District
lacked jurisdiction of the subject matter, because it is
not a district court of the United States within the meaning of the Anti-Trust Act. After entry of the case in this
Court, that contention was disposed of by Federal Trade
Commission v. KIesner, 274 U. S. 145. Now, it is conceded that the Supreme Court of the District has power

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

to administer relief under the Anti-Trust Act; but the
claim is made that in this proceeding it was without jurisdiction, because the petition was addressed to the "Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in
equity," instead of to the special term of that court "as
the District Court of the United States." The argument
has compelled enquiry into legislation affecting the courts
of the District, enacted from time to time during a long
period. It would not be profitable to discuss the details
of the legislation. We are of opinion that this suit under
§ 4 of the Anti-Trust Act, which could only have been
brought in a court of equity, was properly brought in the
Supreme Court of the District, sitting in equity. This
conclusion has support in established practice in analogous
2
cases.
Second. It is contended that the Supreme Court lacked

jurisdiction because there was no case or controversy
within the meaning of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution. Compare Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251; Little v.
Bowers, 134 U. S. 547; South Spring Hill Gold Mining Co.
Suits in equity under Revised Statutes, § 4921, to enjoin patent
infringements, like suits in equity under the Anti-Trust Acts, are
entertained by the Supreme Court of the District solely by virtue of
its general powers as a District Court of the United States. Revised
Statutes, § 629(9); Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1167.
These are commonly brought, as was the case at bar, in the equity
term. See the original papers in Krupp v. Crozier, 32 App. D. C.
1; Boynton v. Taggart, 40 App. D. C. 82; Tabulating Machine
Co. v. Durand, 38 Wash. L. R. 552; Comptograph Co. v. Adder
Machine Co., 41 App. D. C. 427; Hutchison Vapor Heating Corporation v. Mouat, 48 App. D. C. 388. In United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 26 App. D. C. 581, it was held that a suit
to collect penalties for violation of the Safety Appliance Act might
be brought in the circuit term of the Supreme Court of the District,
though the Act provided for the bringing of suits "in the district
court of the United States having jurisdiction in the locality where
such violation shall have been committed." Act of March 2, 1893,
c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, 532
2

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

v. Amador Medean Gold Mining Co., 145 U. S. 300; California v. San Pablo & Tulare R. R. Co., 149 U. S. 308.
The defendants concede that there was a case at the time
when the Government filed its petition and the defendants
their answers; but they insist that the controversy had
ceased before the decree was entered. The argument is
that, as the Government made no proof of facts to overcome the denials of the answers, and stipulated both that
there need be no findings of fact and that the decree
should not constitute or be considered an adjudication
of guilt, it thereby abandoned all charges that the defendants had violated the law; and hence the decree was a
nullity. The argument ignores the fact that a suit for an
injunction deals primarily, not with past violations, but.
with threatened future ones; and that an injunction
may issue to prevent future wrong, although no right has
yet been violated. Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, 82; Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268
U. S. 510, 536. Moreover, the objection is one which is
not open on a motion to vacate. The court had jurisdiction both of the general subject matter-enforcement of
the Anti-Trust Act-and of the parties. If it erred in deciding that there was a case or controversy, the error is
one which could have been corrected only by an appeal or
by a bill of review. Compare Pacific R. R. Ca. v.
Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 297. On a motion to vacate, the
determination by the Supreme Court of the District that
a case or controversy existed'is not open to attack. Compare Cameron v. M'Roberts, 3 Wheat. 591; McCormick
v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192, 199; Kennedy v. Georgia
Bank, 8 How. 586, 611-612; Des Moines Navigation Co. v.
Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552, 557; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327; Cutler v. Huston, 158 U. S. 423, 430;
New Orleans v. Fisher, 180 U. S. 185, 196; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

Third. It is contended that the consent decree was
without jurisdiction because it was entered without the
support of facts. The argument is that jurisdiction under
the Anti-Trust Acts cannot be conferred by consent; that
jurisdiction can exist only if the transactions complained
of are in fact violations of the Act; that merely to allege
facts showing violation of the anti-trust laws is not sufficient; that the facts must also be established according
to the regular course of chancery procedure; that this requires either admission or proof; and that, here, there was
no admission but, on the contrary, a denial of the allegations of the bill, and a recital in the decree that the defendants maintain the truth of their answers, assert their
innocence, and consent to the entry of the decree without
any finding of fact, only upon condition that their consent
shall not constitute or be considered an admission. The
argument ignores both the nature of injunctions, already
discussed, and the legal implications of a consent decree.
The allegations of the bill not specifically denied may
have afforded ample basis for a decree limited to future
acts. Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S. 241, 250-251. If the
court erred in finding in these allegations a basis for fear
of future wrong sufficient to warrant an injunction, its
error was of a character ordinarily remediable on appeal.
Such an error is waived by the consent to the decree.
United States v. Babbitt, 104 U. S. 767; McGowan v.
Parish,237 U. S. 285, 295. Clearly it does not go to the
power of the court to adjudicate between the parties.
Voorhees v. Bank of the United States, 10 Pet. 449;
Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308; Christiansonv. King
County, 239 U. S. 356, 372.
Fourth. It is contended that even if the decree is not
void as a whole, parts of it must be set aside as being in
excess of the court's jurisdiction. This is urged in respect
to the first and the ninth paragraphs, which are said to

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

be too vague and general. The first enjoins the corporation defendants from "in any manner maintaining or entering into any contract, combination, or conspiracy . . .
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, or from . . . monopolizing or attempting to monopolize . . . any part of such trade or commerce." The
ninth enjoins the corporation defendants from "using any
illegal trade practices of any nature whatsoever in relation to the conduct of any business in which they or any
of them may be engaged." It is insisted that, as a court's
power is limited to restraining acts which violate or tend
to violate laws, the acts to be enjoined must be set forth
definitely; and that these paragraphs are so general in
terms as to make the defendants liable to proceedings for
contempt if they commit any breach of the law. The
paragraphs, if standing alone, might be open on appeal
to the objection that they are too general to be sanctioned.
Compare Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396,
401. But they do not stand alone. They are to be read
in connection with other paragraphs of the decree and
with the allegations of the bill. Barnes v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 122 U. S. 1, 14; City of Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259, 269. When so read, any
uncertainties are removed. Moreover, the defendants by
their consent lost the opportunity of raising the question
on appeal. Obviously the generality of a court's decree
does not render it subject to a motion to vacate.
Fifth. It is contended that paragraphs second to eighth
of the decree are void because of their comprehensiveness.
These paragraphs enjoin the defendants from holding
directly or indirectly (without the consent of the court)
any interest in any public stockyard, or any stockyard terminal railroad, or any stockyard market journal published
in the United States; and enjoin the defendants, except
as there provided, from engaging or being interested in

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

the business of manufacturing, buying, selling or handling any one of 114 enumerated food products or any
one of 30 other named articles of commerce; from selling
meat at retail; from selling milk or cream; from holding
any interest in any public cold storage plant; from using
their distributive systems (including branch houses, refrigerator cars, route cars, and auto trucks) in any manner for the purpose of handling any of the many articles
above referred to; and from having more than a half
interest in or control of any business engaged in manufacturing, jobbing, selling, transporting, or delivering any
one of most of the articles above referred to.
The argument is that the power to issue an injunction
is limited by the scope of the transactions prohibited by
§§ 1, 2 and 3 of the Anti-Trust Act; that the defendants
are here enjoined, not only from remaining in these lawful businesses named, but also from ever re-entering
them; that none of these "unrelated" lines of business
are unlawful in themselves; that none can be restrained
unless, by a finding of the essential facts, the connection
with the conspiracy is established; that no such facts
have been found; that the parties cannot by consent confer jurisdiction to issue an injunction broader than the
facts warrant; and that an injunction so broad as that
entered involves usurpation by the judicial branch of the
Government of the function of Congress. Compare United
States v. New York Coffee & Sugar Exchange,263 U. S. 611,
621. Here again, the defendants ignore the fact that by
consenting to the entry of the decree, "without any findings of fact," they left to.the court the power to construe
the pleadings, and, in so doing, to find in them the existence of circumstances of danger which justified compelling
the defendants to abandon all participation in these businesses, to divest themselves of their interest therein, and
to abstain from acquiring any interest hereafter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Sixth. The defendants make a further contention concerning paragraphs second to eighth, which differs little
from that just answered. It is urged that the decree is
void, because it obliges the defendants to abandon completely certain businesses which are inherently lawful and
forbids them from entering into other businesses which
may be lawfully conducted; and that to do this is not
merely unauthorized by, but is contrary to, the common
law and the Anti-Trust Act. Compare Nordenfelt v.
Maxim Nordenfelt Co., [1894] A. C. 535; United States
v. Addystone Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed. 271. But the
court had jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the
parties. And even gross error in the decree would not
render it void. Compare Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193;
Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731,
756.
Seventh. It is contended that the decree is void because
the injunction is not limited to acts in interstate commerce. This objection is in essence like the two preceding ones. The argument is that each of the businesses
named in paragraphs second to eighth is susceptible of
being carried on in intrastate commerce alone; that some
of these businesses, for instance retail meat markets, are
distinctly intrastate in character; that there was no finding of an interweaving of intrastate and interstate transactions as in United States v. New York Central R. R. Co.,
272 U. S. 457, 464, or that the intrastate transactions had
any relation tt~interstate operations, as in Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375, 397, and Stafford v. Wallace,
258 U. S. 495; and that, therefore, the prohibition of
intrastate transactions was an overstepping of federal
powers which renders the decree a nullity. Again, the
argument fails to distinguish an error in decision from the
want of power to decide. The allegations of a conspiracy
to obstruct interstate commerce brought the-case within

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
311

Opinion of the Court.

the jurisdiction of the court. The Fair v. Kohler Die
Co., 228 U. S. 22; Binderup v. Path6 Exchange, 263 U. S.
291, 304; Moore v. New York Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S.
593, 608. Compare Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 616-617. If the court,
in addition to enjoining acts that were admittedly interstate, enjoined some that were wholly intrastate and in
no way related to the conspiracy to obstruct interstate
commerce, it erred; and had the defendants not waived
such error by their consent, they might have had it corrected on appeal. But the error, if any, does not go to
the jurisdiction of the court. The power to enjoin includes the power to enjoin too much. Compare Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230.
Eighth. Finally, it is urged that the decree is void,
because the Attorney General had no power to agree to
its entry. Compare Kelly v. Milan, 127 U. S. 139, 159.
The argument is that the utmost limit of his authority
was to agree to a decree which would prohibit the defendants from doing specific acts which constitute contracting,
combining, conspiring or monopolizing in violation of the
anti-trust law; that he was without authority to enter
into a contract by which citizens of the United States were
prohibited absolutely and forever from engaging in the
lawful business of conducting stockyards, storage warehouses, or the manufacture and distribution of many
named food and other products, and by which many corporations and individuals would be forever taken out of
the field of competition with others engaged in the same
lines of business. Whether it would follow that the defendants are entitled to have the decree vacated because
of such lack of authority, we need not decide. For we
do not find in the statutes defining the powers and duties
of the Attorney General any such limitation on the exercise of his discretion as this contention involves. His

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S.

authority to make determinations includes the power to
make erroneous decisions as well as correct ones. Compare United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273,
278-280; Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147
U. S. 165; Kern River Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 147,
155; Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 262.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 600.

Argued January 11, 12, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. In § 2 of the Anti-Narcotic Act, as amended, which provides that
it shall be unlawful for "any person" to sell, etc., any of the drugs
specified in the first section except in pursuance of a written order
of the person to whom the article is sold, etc., on a form issued by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the words "any person"
include all persons and not merely those who by § 1 are required
to register and pay the tax. P. 340.
2. So construed, the provision is constitutional. P. 351.
3. The Act, as amended February 24, 1919, is a genuine taxing act.
P. 352.
4. The provision in question, being reasonably adapted to enforcement of the tax, is not an undue invasion of the police power of the
States; and an incidental motive to discourage harmful uses of the
drugs taxed would not make it so. P. 353.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals relative to the conviction of Nigro for selling
morphine without a written order from the purchaser on
an official form.

