KANSAS CITY SOU. RY. v. JONES.
299

Statement of the Case.

debtor also. Certainly we find no prohibition in the
bankruptcy law. Myers v. International Trust Co., 273
U. S. 380. By making a separate contract, although in
the same instrument, he calls the separate liability into
being, as presumably he intends to and as he has a right
to do. Robinson v. Seaboard National Bank of New
York, 247 Fed. 667, 668, 669, Ibid, 1007. The intent and
transaction are not illegal in Texas. Their specific effect
depends on the Bankruptcy Act.
We have dealt with the only question which induced
the granting of the writ. It does not appear to us necessary to go into further details.
Decree reversed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. JONES, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 349.

Argued March 8, 1928.-Decided March 19, 1928.

An experienced car inspector was found dead with his lantern, at
night, between a track on which a freight train was being made up

and the main track parallel to it, over which a train, by which he
was probably killed, had passed with much noise and a bright
light, but with bell silent, twenty minutes before his body was
discovered. He was last seen alive twenty minutes before the train
passed. There were indications that there was nothing to inspect
at the time when the accident occurred.
Held, that a verdict of damages based on the assumption that
he was engaged in inspecting the freight cars, relying on the customary ringing of the bell, and so absorbed in his work that he did
not hear the approaching train, was mere guess-work. P. 304.
291 S. W. 528, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 514, to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Texas, which, reversing the Court of Civil Appeals, affirmed a judgment for damages recovered from

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

the railway in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. The judgment of the Supreme Court was
entered on the recommendation of the Commission of
Appeals. See 282 S. W. 312; 287 Id. 304.
Mr. A. F. Smith, with whom Messrs. Frank H. Moore,
J. J. King, J. Q. Mahaffey, and S. W. Moore were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. S. P. Jones, with whom Mr. Franklin Jones was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an action under the Employers' Liability Act
for the death of one R. D. Ferguson, who was a car inspector on the petitioner's road. No one saw the death,
but the body was found between the main track and a
parallel track, and the probability is that Ferguson was
killed by a train going north on the former. A freight
train was being made up on the parallel track, and the
hypothesis of the respondent, supported by little if anything except the place where the body and the lantern
of the deceased were found, is that Ferguson was engaged in inspecting the cars, and so absorbed in his work
that he did not hear the approaching train, but was
relying upon the ringing of the engine bell, which usually
was rung but which the respondent's witness say was
not rung on this occasion. The Court below sustained
the verdict on this ground. Ferguson was seen not later
than a quarter before seven in the evening, so far as time
can be fixed. The train passed at five minutes after
seven, the time at which it was known by him to be due.
His body was found at twenty-five minutes after seven.
He was .an experienced man. The indications are that
there was nothing for him to inspect at the probable
time of his death. At best it is a mere guess that he

KANSAS CITY SOU. RY. v. JONES.
303

Opinion of the Court.

was so engaged, still more that he was absorbed in such
work. The main track was straight and the train was
making a great noise and showing a bright light as it approached. Nothing except imagination and sympathy
warranted a finding that the death was due to the negligence of the petitioner rather than to that of the man
himself. It is unnecessary to consider whether if the
case for the plaintiff were stronger the principle of Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. S. 218, would
apply.
Judgment reversed.

FAIRBANKS, MORSE & COMPANY ET AL. v. AMERICAN VALVE & METER COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH- CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

Returns to rule to show cause submitted February 20,
1928.-Decided March 19, 1928.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals may decline to reexamine the evidence on appeal when not condensed and stated as required by

Equity Rule 75b. P. 308
2. But where the evidence was stated and approved in accordance
with a practice theretofore prevailing in the circuit with the implied sanction of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and where one of
the judges of that court had made an order declaring that the
transcript was received as a sufficient compliance with the equity
rules, it was error to proceed to a determination of the case without considering the evidence before affording the appellants an
opportunity to comply with Rule 75b, by remitting the transcript
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity therewith. Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Co., 275 U. S. 372. P. 308.
3. Such opportunity was not given by an order allowing the appellants to withdraw the transcript for 30 days; they were entitled to
a specific order operating as a direction to the District Court.
P. 309.°
318 -28---20

