128

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

RICHARDSON MACHINERY COMPANY v. SCOTT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 198. Submitted January 17, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.
1. By the law of Oklahoma, where a person against whom a default
judgment is rendered files a petition to vacate the judgment upon
the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the defendant, and
the petition is based also on non-jurisdictional grounds, such as that
the judgment was obtained by fraud or that the party was prevented from defending by unavoidable casualty or misfortune, the
filing of the petition operates as a voluntary general appearance,
with the same effect as if such appearance had been made at the
trial. P. 133.
2. A judgment based on this ground is not reviewable by this Court,
although in rendering it the state court also overruled the petitioner's contention that the service of process in the action was void
under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 133.
Certiorari to 122 Okla. 125, dismissed.

274 U. S. 729, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, affirming a judgment which
denied the petition of a foreign corporation to set aside a
default judgment rendered in an action based on substituted service of summons.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. D. Haden Linebaugh and Paul Pinson were on

the brief for petitioner.
Messrs. Jean H. Everest and CharlesL. Moore were on
the brief for respondent.
MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A statute of Oklahoma provides that if a foreign corporation doing business within the State fails to appoint
an agent upon whom service may be made, process served
upon the Secretary of State shall be sufficient to give jurisdiction of the person to any court having jurisdiction of

RICHARDSON MACH. CO. v. SCOTT.
128

Opinion of the Court.

the subject matter. Compiled Oklahoma Statutes (1921)
§§ 5436, 5442.
In September, 1920, Scott, a resident of Oklahoma,
brought in a district court of the State an action of contract against the Geo. 0. Richardson Machinery Co., a
Missouri corporation. He alleged in his petition that the
defendant was a foreign corporation doing business in
Oklahoma and that it had failed to appoint an agent upon
whom process might be served. He asked leave to serve
the summons upon the Secretary of State as provided in
the statute. There was a praecipe for summons pursuant
to the statute; the summons issued; and it was served as
in the statute provided. The defendant having failed to
enter an appearance within the time limited, judgment by
default was, in October, 1920, entered for the amount
claimed.
In July, 1921, which was after the expiration of the
term at which the judgment was entered, the corporation
filed what it called a "Special appearance and motion to
quash summons and service thereof and to set aside and
vacate judgment." The motion set forth that the corporation had not had actual notice of the action or the
judgment; that, for this reason, it had not had an opportunity to defend; that it had and has a valid defense to the
cause of action sued on; that it is not indebted to the
plaintiff in any amount; and that if it had had notice, it
would have interposed a defense. It alleged further that
it had never engaged in business within the State; that it
does, and has done, with residents of Oklahoma a purely
interstate business; that the Secretary of State was not
by contract or law its agent upon whom service could be
made; that the statute authorizing service upon the Secretary of State was, as applied to it, a violation of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that
the trial court had no jurisdiction. It prayed that the
318°-2-.--9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

summons and return be quashed and that the judgment
rendered be set aside.
The proceedings which followed the filing of this motion
to quash and vacate extend over a period of more than
six years. The report of them occupies more than 200
pages of the printed record. Immediately after filing the
motion, the corporation sought from the 'state district
court, and obtained, an order removing the cause to the
federal court on the ground of diversity of citizenship.
There the case was heard on the motion to quash the summons and vacate the judgment. On April 27, 1922, after
proceedings which it is unnecessary to detail, the federal
court remanded the cause to the state court, because the
petition for remo'val had not been filed in time.
On June 1, 1922, the case came on for hearing in the
state court on the motion to quash the summons and to
set aside the judgment. The motion was overruled; and
exceptions were allowed. Then the corporation was
granted leave to file instanter a petition, under § 810 of
the Compiled Statutes (1921), to vacate the judgment.
That section provides that the district court shall have
power in nine classes of cases to vacate or modify its own
judgments or orders, at or after the term at which such
judgment or order was made. Among these are: "Fourth.
For fraud, practiced by the successful party, in obtaining
the judgment or order," and "Seventh. For unavoidable
casualty or misfortune, preventing the party from prosecuting or defending."
On the same day, a new pleading entitled "Petition to
Vacate Judgment" was filed. This petition did not contain an allegation that the corporation's appearance was
special and solely to contest the jurisdiction of the court;
nor did it seek to quash the summons issued and served.
In addition to allegations made in the motion filed in July,
1921, the new petition alleged that the service was based

RICHARDSON MACH. CO. v. SCOTT.
128

Opinion of the Court.

upon an allegation fraudulently made that the corporation
was engaged in business in Oklahoma within the meaning
of the statute relative to service; that the judgment was
rendered upon false and fraudulent testimony given in
support of the allegation that the defendant was indebted
to the plaintiff; that in fact plaintiff was indebted to the
corporation in the sum $29.10; that if it, the corporation,
violated the state law by failing to appoint an agent, it
had done so unconsciously; that in any event it was entitled to be notified of the pendency of the action; that
by fraud the plaintiff concealed from it the fact that the
action had been instituted; and that there was no duty
devolving upon the Secretary of State to notify it. It
alleged further, as required by § 814 of the Compiled
Statutes, that it had a meritorious defense; that this
would have been interposed if it had known of the pendency of the jaction; that if permitted now to appear and
defend, it could and would establish the defense. Annexed to the petition was a copy of the answer which the
corporation proposed to file if its prayer to vacate the
judgment should be granted. This answer included a
counterclaim for the small balance alleged to be due to
the corporation. The petition alleged further that a levy
upon the corporation's property to enforce the judgment
was threatened; offered a bond conditioned to pay the
judgment, if sustained; and prayed for a stay of execution
pending a hearing on the petition to vacate. As final
relief the petition prayed that the judgment be vacated;
that the corporation be permitted to file the answer annexed and make proper defense; and that it have other
and proper equitable relief.
To this petition to vacate a demurrer was interposed.
There was a hearing upon the demurrer; it was sustained;
the petition was dismissed, upon refusal of the corporation
to plead further; and on June 19, 1922, a stay of the exe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

cution, pending an appeal, issued. In October, 1924, the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma reversed the judgment dismissing the petition to vacate. Its decision was rested
solely upon the ground that, under the statute, the Secretary of State was required to give the defendant corpora,
tion notice of the service of the summons upon him; that
he had failed to do so; that, since the corporation lacked
actual knowledge, there was an "unavoidable casualty or
misfortune preventing the party . . defending" as defined in sub-paragraph Seventh of § 810 of the Compiled
Statutes of Oklahoma; and that, therefore, the case should
be remanded for further proceedings. In December,
1925, a rehearing was granted.
In November, 1926, the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
reversed itself and affirmed the judgment of the trial
court dismissing the petition to vacate. 122 Okla. 125.
In its second opinion it recited the claim that the statute
authorizing service upon the Secretary of State violated
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment;
stated that the validity of the statute had been sustained
in Title Guaranty & Surety Co. v. Slinker, 42 Okla. 811,
which was binding upon it; and then, exercising jurisdictio,, it held that relief could not be had under clause
Seventh of § 810, because the corporation's lack of knowledge of the commencement of the action was not due to
"unavoidable casualty or misfortune" but to its own
failure to appoint an agent as required by the law of the
State. As leading to that conclusion, it held further
that the Secretary of State was not under a duty to send
notice of the summons.
This Court being of opinion that the constitutionality
of the statute concerning service, as so construed, was
questionable, and that the question of its validity was
one of general importance, granted the petition for a writ
of certiorari. 274 U. S. 729. Further study of the record
discloses that the discussion by the state court of this

RICHARDSON MACH. CO. v. SCOTT.
128

Opinion of the Court.

constitutional question was unnecessary to the result
reached by it. The jurisdictional question-and hence

the constitutional question-had already been eliminated
earlier in the opinion. For the court had held that by
filing the petition to vacate under § 810, the corporation
had, in effect, entered a general appearance. This was
true, because embodied in the petition were several nonjurisdictional grounds of relief, including, among others,
fraudulent conduct on the part of the plaintiff and the
meritoriousness of the corporation's defense; and because
the corporation sought affirmative relief against the original plaintiff.
Since the founding of the State, it has been the settled
law of Oklahoma that where a person against whom a
judgment is rendered files a petition to vacate the judgment upon the ground that the court had no jurisdiction
of the defendant, and the petition is based also on nonjurisdictional grounds, such as those mentioned in subparagraphs Fourth and Seventh of § 810, the filing of the
petition operates as a voluntary general appearance, with
the same effect as if such appearance had been made at
the trial.' It was probably because this rule had been so
long settled, that the Supreme Court of Oklahoma deemed
it unnecessary to enlarge upon the subject or to cite any
of the many cases in which the rule had been acted on.
As the decision of that court was rested, and may rest,
on this rule-an adequate non-federal ground-the writ
must be dismissed, Bilby v. Stewart, 246 U. S. 255, 257;
Doyle v. Atwell, 261 U. S. 590, 591.
Dismissed.
'Rogers v. McCord-Collins Mercantile Co., 19 Okla. 115, 118;
Lookabaugh v. Epperson, 28 Okla. 472; Welch v. Ladd, 29 Okla. 93,
98; Ziska v. Avey, 36 Okla. 405, 408; Pratt v. Pratt, 41 Okla. 577;
Hill v. Persinger, 57 Okla. 663; Myers v. Chamness, 102 Okla. 131;
Burnett v. Clayton, 123 Okla. 156.

