6

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S.

IN RE GILBERT.
ON RULE TO SHOW CAUSE.

Argued January 16, 1928.-Decided January 23, 1928.
1. The right of one who was a master in the federal court to retain
money paid him by a party in excess of the compensation found
permissible by this Court, cannot be determined by a state court
in a suit between the master and such party. P. 9.
2. A master cannot rightfully accept or retain anything as compensation unless sanctioned by proper order of court. P. 9.
3. Respondent, as master in equity suits, was allowed fees which, by
direction of the District Court, were paid by the successful plaintiffs before the time for appeal expired and were taxed against
their opponents. On appeals by the latter, this Court decided that
the fees were excessive and were awarded by the District Court in
abuse of its judicial discretion. Upon return of the cases, the fees
were retaxed against the defendants in the maximum amounts permitted by this Court's decision, but the respondent did not repay
the excess to the successful plaintiffs, nor seek any further direction
from either court respecting it. Held, that it was respondent's
imperative duty to return the excess to the parties who paid it,
whether they required it or not, together with six per cent. interest
thereon from the date when the decision of this Court fixing the
amounts allowable was announced; and that his conduct in retaining the excess was not "upright and according to law "-the words
of the oath taken at his admission to practice before this Court.
P. 9.
RULE, 275 U. S. 499, upon the respondent to make report of the fees and allowances paid him as master in
several cases in the District Court, and the amounts, if
any, repaid by him, and, if he received qompensation in
excess of the amounts heretofore limited by this Court,
to show cause why he should not be disbarred and
punished for contempt.

Mr. James M. Beck for respondent.

IN RE GILBERT.
6

Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFT announced the opinion of the

Court.
Under our order of November 21st, 1927, the clerk
issued a rule to the respondent, Abraham S. Gilbert, of
New York City, a member of this bar, which directedThat he make written report to this Court showing
what fees or allowances have been paid to him (also
when and by whom paid) for services as master in the
several causes reviewed here during the October term,
1921, and reported in 259 U. S. 101, under the following
titles: Newton, as Attorney General of the State of New
York, et al., v. Consolidated Gas Company of New York;
Same v. New York & Queens Gas Company; Same v.
Central Union Gas Company; Same v. Northern Union
Gas Company; Same v. New York Mutual Gas Light
Company; Same v. Standard Gas Light Company of
the City of New York; Same v. New Amsterdam Gas
Company; Same v. East River Gas Company of Long
Island City.
That he likewise report whether he has returned or
repaid any portion of the fees or allowances received by
him as such master, with dates and names of the parties.
That if he has received fees or allowances as master in
any of the specified causes exceeding the maximum
amount held by us to be permissible, and has not returned
or repaid the excess, then he shall show cause why his
name ought not to be stricken from the roll of attorneys
permitted to practice here and he be punished for contempt or otherwise dealt with as the circumstances may
require.
On the return day, January 16, 1928, Gilbert presented
himself, filed a written report, and was heard through
counsel.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

He asserts that he received-as fees for services as master
in the eight above-mentioned causes a total of $118,000;
he sets out their several amounts and shows by whom
and when they were paid. He avers that no one of the
Gas Companies which paid these fees has ever questioned
the amount or asked return of any portion, and says that
he believes it was proper for him to retain them, notwithstanding they greatly exceeded what we declared permissible. But, he further says, that if this Court, after
viewing his response, should conclude that he is under
legal or moral obligation to return any part of them, he
is willing so to do.
In December, 1921, the District Court for the Southern
District of New York made allowances to respondent for
services as master in each of the above-mentioned causes
and directed that they be paid by the complaining corporations respectively and thereafter taxed as costs against
,the defendants, the Attorney General of New York and
others. In obedience to such orders and before the time
for appeal expired, these were paid, as follows: By Consolidated Gas Co., Dec. 13, 1921, $57,500.00; By N. Y. &
Queens Gas Co., Dec. 16, 1921, $12,500.00; By Central
Union Gas Co., Dec. 16, 1921, $12,500.00; By Northern
Union Gas Co., Dec. 13, 1921, $7,500.00; By N. Y. Mutual
Gas Light Co., Dec. 16, 1921, $11,500.00; By Standard
Gas Light Co., Jan. 13, 1922, $7,500.00; By New Amsterdam Gas Co., Jan. 13, 1922, $4,500.00; By East River
Gas Co., Jan. 13, 1922, $4,500.00.
The Attorney General and other defendants insisted
that the allowances were excessive. The District Court
overruled their objections; the matter came here and was
decided May 15, 1922, 259 U. S. 101. We held that in the
Consolidated Gas Company's case twice too much had
been allowed and in the other causes three times too
much-that the total compensation should not exceed
$49,250. And further, that in making these awards the
District Court abused its judicial discretion. Accord-

IN RE GILBERT.
6

Opinion of the Court.

ingly, we reversed the challenged decrees and remanded
the causes with instructions to fix respondent's compensation within the following limitations: "In the cause
wherein the Consolidated Gas Company is appellee here
(No. 750) not exceeding $28,750-one-half of the amount
heretofore allowed; in each of the other seven causes,
Nos. 751, 752, 753, 832, 833, 844 and 845, not exceeding
one-third of the amount heretofore allowed therein; and
in the eight cases allowances totaling not more than
$49,250." We also directed "such further action in
conformity with this opinion as may be necessary."
Upon receipt of the mandates, issued here June 19,
1922, the District Court ordered that the master's fees to
the extent of the maximum permitted by us should be
taxed against the several defendants as costs. Respondent made no effort to secure any further orders or direction by the District Court or this Court.
More than a year thereafter-December, 1923-apparently moved by published criticisms, respondent insti-,
tuted a proceeding against the Consolidated Gas Company
in the Supreme Court of New York under Sec. 473, New
York Civil Practice Act, wherein he sought and obtained
a declaratory judgment reciting that that Company had
no valid.claim against him for return of any part of the
$57,500 which it had paid. This proceeding was illadvised, or worse, and the pronouncement therein cannot
aid him here. The state court had no power to determine the matter now before us.
Upon announcement of our opinion, May 15, 1922, it
became the imperative duty of respondent immediately
to return the fees received by him so far as they exceeded
what we declared permissible. It is now his duty, without further delay, to return this excess with interest
thereon at 6 per centum, from May 15, 1922.
When respondent accepted appointment as master he
assumed the duties and obligations of a judicial officer.
He could not rightfully accept or retain anything as com-

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

pensation unless sanctioned by proper order of court.
Reception then or now of a gratuity from any party
would be indefensible, and whether or no the corporations
which paid him by direction of the court are satisfied with
the result is now unimportant. He has long been an
attorney and counsellor authorized to practice at this bar
under the sanction of an oath to demean himself "uprightly, and according to law." Notwithstanding the adjudication here that excessive fees had been allowed by
orders granted in abuse of judicial discretion, he has retained them for more than five years. He knew that
he had got unearned money by improper orders of court,
but he decided to keep it. Such conduct is far from
"upright and according to law" within the fair intendment of those terms.
Further action will be postponed until Monday, February 20th, 1928. The respondent will present himself at
that time and report in writing concerning efforts made
'to comply with his obligations.
FINANCE AND GUARANTY COMPANY v.
OPPENHIMER, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 170.

Argued January 13, 1928.-Decided January 23, 1928.

1. Section 5224 of the Code of Virginia providing that all property
used in his business by a person trading in his own name shall, as to
his creditors, be liable for his debts, means lien creditors. P. 11.
2. Where property sold on condition reserving title in the vendor is
retaken by him in accordance with the state law within four months
preceding the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against the vendee,
the vendee's trustee in bankruptcy acquires no lien upon it, and the
retaking cannot be set aside as an unlawful preference under the
Bankruptcy Act. P. 12.
5 F. (2d) 486; 15 F. (2d) 1011, reversed.

