536

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

tucky. The policy of Kentucky with regard to it has
been settled in Kentucky for more than thirty-five years.
McConnell v. Pedigo, 92 Ky. 465. (1892.) Even under
the rule that I combat, it has been recognized that a settled line of state decisions was conclusive to establish a
rule of property or the public policy of the State. Hartford Fire Insurance Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91, 100. I should have supposed that
what arrangements could or could not be made for the use
of a piece of land was a purely local question, on which,
if on anything, the State should have its own way and the
State Courts should be taken to declare what the State
wills. See especially Smith Middlings Purifier Co. v.
McGroarty, 136 U. S. 237, 241.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

in this opinion.
MOORE v. CITY OF NAMPA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 384. Argued March 9,4928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
Bonds issued by a city to complete a local improvement, which did
not pledge the city's general credit but were expressly payable
only out of certain special assessments on land of the improvement
district and were therefore nonnegotiable, were bought by the
plaintiff from a prior purchaser, in reliance on advice of his attorneys, on recitals in the bonds giving assurance of their validity and
soundness and on a certificate issued by the mayor, clerk, and
treasurer of the city, representing that no legislation was pending
in respect of the creation of the improvement district, the construction of the improvement, or the issue of bonds,--which was
false. In making the purchase, the attorneys bad before them a
transcript of the proceedings showing that the assessments were in
excess of the original estimate of cost--a fact which rendered the
assessments void under the state law, as was subsequently ad-

MOORE v. CITY OF NAMPA.
536

Argument for Petitioner.

judged by the state courts in a suit by a land owner against the
city, pending when the certificate was issued. The bonds were
therefore worthless. Held:
1. That plaintiff had no cause of action against the city for
negligence or misrepresentation. P. 542.
2. He was charged through the transcript when he bought the
bonds with notice of the invalidating facts, and must be held to
have known the law. P. 541.
3. His position was not strengthened by the fact that the city's
officials also misunderstood the law, nor by the recitals reflecting
their opinion as to the legal effect of the bonds. Id.
4. Actionable negligence cannot be predicated on the failure of
the city's officers properly to exert their powers and perform their
duties in respect of the estimate, assessment and contract for construction of the improvement. Such failure was not a breach of
any duty owed by the city to plaintiff. Id.
5. The certificate was issued without legal authority by officers
not empowered to define the improvement district, make the
assessment, issue or sell the bonds or bind the city to pay for such
improvements, nor authorized to make any statement or give any
assurance in respect of such matters. Id.
18 F. (2d) 860, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 515, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the District Court in
dismissing an action against the city for negligence and
false representations.
Mr. Myles P. Tallmadge, with whom Messrs. George L.
Nye and James H. Pershing were on the brief, for petitioner.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is in conflict with decisions of this Court and decisions in other
Circuits. Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341; State
Board v. Citizens Street Ry. Co., 47 Ind. 407; Peake v.
New Orleans, 139 U. S. 342; District of Columbia v. Lyon,
161 U. S. 200; Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Harrisburg,
64 Fed. 283; Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Denver, 72
Fed. 336; Denny v. Spokane, 79 Fed. 719; McEwan v.
Spokane, 16 Wash. 212; German American Savings Bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

v. Spokane, 17 Wash. 315; Mankato v. Barber Asphalt
Co., 142 Fed. 329; Bates County v. Wills, 239 Fed. 785;
Oklahoma v. Orthwein, 258 Fed. 190; Gray v. Joliet, 287
Ill. 280.
The Idaho statutes and decisions do not prevent the
relief sought. Respondent's officers were performing corporate functions in connection with the improvements
specified herein, and respondent is liable for their acts
and omissions. Oklahoma City v. Orthwein, supra;
Dillon, Municipal Corporations, § 827, p. 1255; Malette
v. Spokane, 77 Wash. 205; New Orleans v. Warner, 175
U. S. 120; Salt Lake City v. Hollister, 118 U. S. 256.
Petitioner has no other remedy.
Messrs. D. L. Rhodes and Leon M. Fisk were on the
brief for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner sued in the United States court for the district of Idaho to recover damages alleged to have been
sustained by reason of respondent's negligence and false
representations in respect of certain local improvement
bonds. Respondent demurred to the complaint; the district court held that it failed to state a cause of action and
dismissed the case. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 18 F. (2d) 860. The petition to this Court for
a writ of certiorari stated that the decision below conflicts
with the decisions of this Court and of the Circuit Courts
of Appeals for the Third and Eighth Circuits.* The writ
was granted. 275 U. S. 515.
Peake v. New Orleans, 139 U. S. 342. District of Columbia v.
Lyon, 161 U. S. 200. Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. City of Harrisburg, 64 Fed. 283. Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. City of Denver,
72 Fed. 336. City of Marato v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 142
Fed. 329. Bates County, Mo., v. Wills, 239 Fed. 785. Oklahoma City
v. Orthwein, 258 Fed. 190

MOORE v. CITY OF NAMPA.
536

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent created a district for the construction of a
sewer to be paid for by assessments against the lands
therein according to resulting benefits. The statutes require the city engineer to make estimates of the cost of
such improvements; provide that no contract shall be
made for any work for a price in excess of the estimate,
and direct the city council to pass an ordinance defining
the boundaries of the district, describing the work and
showing the estimated cost. Idaho C. S. 1919, §§ 3879
and 4129. The engineer's estimate was $118,300. Assessments were made for that amount; and, pursuant to
ordinance adopted December 6, 1920, bonds for $117,000
were issued. The validity of these is not questioned. It
was found that the estimate was too low, and an ordinance was passed stating that the assessments first made
were not sufficient to pay the cost and expenses of the
work. Additional assessments amounting to $49,500 were
made; and, pursuant to ordinance of January 10, 1921,
respondent executed and, on March 8, 1921, delivered to
a purchaser additional bonds for $43,000. On that day
the mayor, clerk and treasurer of respondent issued a certificate under its seal stating that no litigation was pending or threatened in respect of the creation of the district,
the construction of the sewer or the issue of the bonds.
A transcript of the proceedings and that certificate were
submitted to the attorneys, who are acting for petitioner
in this case, for examination as to the validity of the
bonds. And they, it is alleged, relying upon the recitals
in the bonds and the statements in the certificate, gave a
written opinion that the bonds were valid. The complaint alleges that on July 13, 1921, petitioner, relying
upon such recitals, certificate and opinion, purchased
three of these bonds. And petitioner says that the statement in the certificate was material because no suit to enjoin the making of special assessments or to set them aside
may be brought after the expiration of thirty days from

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

the making of the assessment. § 4137, C. S. 1919. The
certificate was false. One Lucas, an owner of property
in the district, had brought suit against the city and its
officers to have the assessments in excess of the engineer's
estimate declared illegal and to enjoin their collection.
The trial court granted the relief sought; the Supreme
Court held that the city was limited and bound by the
original estimate and affirmed the judgment. 41 Idaho
35. Petitioner avers that under this decision his bonds
are worthless.
He insists that respondent was negligent in failing to
have a proper estimate and valid assessments made and
in causing the false certificate to be issued, and that the
damages claimed were caused by the negligence and misrepresentation. The suit is for tort. The demurrer was
rightly sustained, unless the complaint shows that a breach
by respondent of some duty it owed petitioner caused the
damage claimed.
Each bond states that respondent acknowledges itself
to be indebted and promises to pay bearer the sum stated;
it contains recitals to the effect that all the things by law
required in respect of the creation of the district, the construction of the sewer and the issue of the bond in order
to make it a valid obligation of the city have been done.
It states that the total cost of the work has been assessed
and that the assessments are liens upon the lamd; that
provision has been made for, and the city guarantees, the
collection of assessments sufficient to pay accruing interest
and principal at maturity. But, as required by. statute,
each bond declares that the holder shall have no claim
against the city except for the collection of the assessments; that his remedy in case of non-payment shall be
confined to their enforcement, and that the interest and
principal shall be payable out of that fund and not otherwise. The bonds are not negotiable. United States
Mortgage Co. v. Sperry, 138 U. S. 313, 343. It is clear

MOORE v. CITY OF NAMPA.
536

Opinion of the Court.

that respondent's faith or credit is not pledged and that
the value of the bond depends upon the validity and
worth of the assessments. The transcript furnished the
examining attorneys showed that the engineer's estimate
was too low and that the bonds in question were based on
assessments in excess of that amount. Petitioner treats
the transcript and false certificate as if furnished to him.
He is charged, as of the time he bought the bonds, with
notice of the invalidating facts and is held to have known
the law. His position is not strengthened by the fact that
respondent's officers, as well as the examining attorneys,
were mistaken as to the validity of the additional assessments and subsequent proceedings. Recitals that merely
reflect opinion as to the legal effect of the bonds or of the
statements therein are not actionable and furnish no
support for petitioner's claim.
The bonds were void, as held in the Lucas case, because
issued upon assessments made in excess of the engineer's
estimate. On the facts disclosed by the complaint, actionable negligence cannot be predicated on the failure of
respondent's officers properly to exert their powers and
perform their duties in respect of the estimate, assessment
and contract for construction of the sewer. Such failure
was not a breach of duty owed by respondent to petitioner.
He had no relation to the matter until long after the bonds
had been issued and sold to another. The facts showing
their invalidity were disclosed by the transcript and known
to the attorneys on whom he relied long before he purchased them. The complaint is not grounded on anything subsequently occurring.
It remains to be considered whether petitioner may recover by reason of the certificate issued March 8, 1921,
falsely stating that there was no suit in respect of the creation of the district, the construction of the sewer Qr the
issue of the bonds. No .law required or authorized the
making of any certificate. The statutes do not contem-

OCTOBER TERM. 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

plate any such statement. It is not a part of or material
to the prescribed proceedings. The city council is the
governing body of the city, but it did not make or authorize the statement. The officers who signed the certificate
were not authorized to define the improvement district,
make the assessment, issue or sell the bonds or to bind
the respondent to pqy for such improvements. It cannot reasonably be said that they are impliedly authorized
to make any statement or give assurance in respect of such
matters.
This action is not based on contract. Recovery is not
claimed on the ground that respondent was empowered
to pay for the work out of funds belonging to it or upon
any promise that it would do so. As no actionable negligence or misrepresentation is shown, the lower courts
rightly held that no cause of action is stated in the complaint. We find no conflict between the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in this case and thb decisions referred to in the petition for this writ.
Judgment affirmed.
DANCIGER AND EMERICH OIL COMPANY v.
SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FIFTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 224. Argued February 27, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. An adjudication in bankruptcy, until followed by the appointment

of a trustee, does not divest the bankrupt's title to a cause of
action against a third person or prevent him from instituting or
maintaining suit thereon. P. 545.
2. S assigned to some of his creditors, as security, a claim on which
he had begun suit; agreed to prosecute the suit for their account
and, more than four months thereafter, began voluntary bankruptcy proceedings in which no trustee was appointed and in
which he concealed the claim and Was discharged. Held that the

