134

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 33. Argued October 14, 1927; reargued January 4, 1928.-Decided February 20, .1928.
1. The provisions of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act creating criminal
and civil liability against unincorporated associations, necessarily
carry the implication that they may be proceeded against by their
common names to enforce the liability. P. 141.
2. In grand jury proceedings under the Sherman Act, a subpoena
duces tecum without an ad testificandum clause may issue to an
unincorporated association and be served upon the officer of the
association who has possession of the documents. P. 142.
3. A subpoena duces tecum commanding an association of manufacturers to produce all letters and telegrams, or copies thereof, passing between it and its predecessors, their officers and agents, and
the several members of such association, and the officers and agents
of suclj members, during a specified period of five and one-half
months, relating to the manufacture and sale of a specified class of
goods, and particularly with reference to certain specified meetings
and activities and aspects of the trade involved, held not too broad.
P. 142.
4. That the subpoena in this case was not objectionable is established by the fact that, prior to its issue, the documents called for
had been identified and produced, without undue interference with
the affairs of the association, under another subpoena containing the
same description. P. 143.
5. To support a claim that documents called for by a subpoena will
tend to incriminate him, the witness must produce them for inspection by the court, and his refusal to do so in itself constitutes a
failure to show reasonable ground for not complying with the writ.
P. 144.
6. In the absence from the record of anything but the witness's mere
assertion to show that his claim of privilege against production of
documents was justified, it may be assumed, upon review of a judgment committing him for contempt, that, by inspection of the
documents or by other facts, a want of substance in the claim was
disclosed to the District Court. P. 145.
Affirmed.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
134

Argument for Brown.

REVIEW of a judgment of the District Court sentencing
Brown for criminal contempt in refusing to comply with
a subpoena duces tecum. The case first reached this
Court upon a certification of questions from the Circuit
Court of Appeals. After argument, the entire record was
ordered up and the case was reargued.
Mr. Robert N. Golding, with whom Mr. Weymouth
Kirkland was on the brief, for Brown.
The outstanding difference between an unincorporated
association and a corporation, is that the former, like a partnership, is not a separate entity and possesses no individuality. It cannot, as such, own property; it cannot enter into
contracts; it cannot sue in the name its members have assumed for business purposes; nor can it, in the absence
of statute, generally be sued by such name. Society of
Shakers v. Watson, 68 Fed. 730; Moskal v. New Era
Commercial Ass'n, 228 Ill. App. 278; Pickett v. Walsh,
192 Mass. 572; In re Waters of Willow Creek, 119 Ore.
487; Brown v. Protestant Episcopal Church, 8 F. (2d)
149; Cousin v. Taylor, 115 Ore. 472; Thurmand v. Cedar
Spring Baptist Church, 110 Ga. 816; Tucker v. Eatough,
186 N. C. 504; State v. Stock Exchange, 211 Mo. 181.
The law has not been changed by the Hale and Coronado cases. This Court has not endowed unincorporated
associations with individuality. The reasoning of the
Hale case does not apply to this case. Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 43; Wilson v. U. S., 221 U. S. 361; U. S. v.
Brasley, 268 Fed. 59; Karges Furniture Co. v. Amalgamated Union, 165 Ind. 421. The Coronado case is based
upon the familiar theory of presence by representation.
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S.
344; Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566; Spaulding v. Evenson,
149 Fed. 713, affd., 150 Fed. 517; Nat'l Harness Mfrs.
Ass'n, v. Federal Trade Comm., 268 Fed. 705; Iron Molders Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45; Bobe v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Brown.

276 U. S.

Lloyds, 10 F. (2d) 731; United States and Cuba, etc., v.
Lloyds, 291 Fed. 889.
Corporate records may be reached by subpoena,
whether the custodian thereof be another corporation, a
partnership, or an individual. U. S. v. Invader Oil
Corp., 5 F. (2d) 715; Woodworth v. Old Second Nat'l
Bank, 154 Mich. 459; Martin v. D. B. Martin Co., 10
Del. Ch. 211.
Corporations and individuals may become members
of unincorporated associations, in which case, the books
and records belong to the individuals as well as to the
corporations. Houston v. Dexter & Carpenter, 300 Fed.
354; Quitman Oil Co. v. McRee, 18 Ga. App. 128; SalemFairfield Ass'n v. McMahan, 78 Ore. 477; Wilson v.
Carter Oil Co., 46 W. Va. 469; Amusement Syndicate Co.
v. Martling, 108 Kans. 798; Moore v. Hillsdale County
Co., 171 Mich. 388; Browning v. Cover, 108 Pa. 595; 14a
C. J. 293.
A subpoena would compel Brown to produce his own
documents, for use against himself in a criminal proceeding, in violation of his constitutional rights. Ballman v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186; U. S. Brasley, 268 Fed. 59;
Internal Revenue Agent v. Sullivan, 287 Fed. 138.
The subpoena was too broad. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U.
S. 43; In re American Sugar Refining Co., 178 Fed. 109;
Rawlins v. Halls-Epps Co., 217 Fed. 884; Ex parte
Jaynes, 70 Cal. 638; Ex parte Gould, 60 Tex. Cr. R. 442;
American Car Co. v. Water Co., 221 Pa. 529; State
v. Davis, 117 Mo. 614.
No showing of materiality was made. Miller v. Mutual Life Ass'n, 139 Fed. 864; U. S. v. Terminal Ass'n,
154 Fed. 268; Dancel v. Goodyear Shoe Machinery Co.,
128 Fed. 753; State v. Wurdeman, 176 Mo. App. 540;
Kullman, Salz & Co. v. Superior Court, 15 Cal. App. 276.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
134

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan,with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Rush H. Williamson and Ralstone R. Irvine, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
The subpoena was not invalid because directed at a
voluntary association. Wheeler v. 'United States, 226
U. S.478; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co.,
259 U. S.344. Conpiled Laws of Mich., 1915, §§ 12363
and 12432.
There was not an unreasonable search and seizure in
the sense that the subpoena was too broad or too indefinite. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.43; ConsolidatedRendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Wilson v. United
States, 221 U. S.361.
Brown failed to sustain the burden of showing justification for refusal to produce by failing to show that he was
a member of the association and that its members were
not corporations. Wilson v. United States, supra; Hale
v. Henkel, supra. See also Essgee Co. v. United States,
262 U. S. 151; Grant v. United States, 227 U. S. 74;
Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S.478.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case came here from the circuit court of appeals
upon a certificate submitting questions upon which instruction was desired. After argument upon the certificate, it was ordered that the entire record be certified to
this Court so that the whole matter in controversy might
be considered.
The questions to be determined upon that record arise
upon the following facts: The district court for the northern district of Illinois on July 13, 1925, issued its subpoena, addressed to the National Alliance of Furniture

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Manufacturers, commanding it to appear before the grand
jury at a time and place named and produce:
"All letters or copies of letters, telegrams or copies of
telegrams, incoming and outgoing, passing between the
National Alliance of Furniture Manufacturers and its
predecessor, the National Alliance of Case Goods Associations, their officers and agents, and the several members
of said National Alliance of Furniture Manufacturers and
its predecessor, the National Alliance of Case Goods Associations (including corporations, partnerships, and individuals, and their respective officers and agents) during
the period from January 1, 1922, to June 15, 1925, relating
to the manufacture and sale of case goods, and particularly with reference to"(a) general meetings of Alliance
"(b) zone meetings of Alliance members
"(c) costs of manufacture
"(d) grading of various types of case goods
"(e) issuing new price lists
"(f) discounts allowed on price lists
"(g) exchanging price lists
"(h) maintaining prices
"(i) advancing prices
"(j) reducing prices
"(k) rumors of charges of price cutting
"(1) discounts, terms and conditions of sale, etc.
"(m) curtailment of production
"(n) the pricing of certain articles or suits of furniture
by W. H. Coye
"(o) cost bulletins
"(p) intention of W. H. Coye and A. C. Brown to
attend furniture markets or expositions at Jamestown,
N. Y., Grand Rapids, Mich., Chicago, Ill., and New York
City, N. Y., and meetings of members held prior to and
during said furniture markets or expositions

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
134

Opinion of the Court.

"(q) conditions obtaining at various furniture markets
or expositions at Jamestown, N. Y., Grand Rapids, Mich.,
Chicago, Ill., and New York City, N. Y.,
"(r) manufacturers maintaining a fair margin of profit
between cost prices and selling prices."
The subpoena contained no ad testificaidum clause.
Service of this subpoena was made upon Arthur C.
Brown, Secretary of the Alliance, who appeared in person
before the grand jury; refused to say anything concerning
the matters set forth in the subpoena unless he should
first be subpoenaed and sworn; produced and read to the
grand jury a written statement in which, after reciting the
service of the subpoena upon him, he said that there was
no such person or entity as the National Alliance of Furniture Manufacturers capable of being served with subpoena or of appearing in answer to one, and that he appeared in deference to the official position of the grand
jury to inform them of that fact. He declined to say
whether his refusal to obey the subpoena was because to
do so would incriminate him in connection with his private and personal affairs. Counsel for the Government
informed him that the requirements of the subpoena were
not with reference to his private or personal affairs but
concerned him only as he was connected with the affairs
of the Alliance. The grand jury presented Brown to the
district court as a contumacious witness and requested
that steps be taken to compel him forthwith to comply
with the requirements of the subpoena.
To this presentment, Brown filed an answer admitting
service of the subpoena upon him, his appearance in person before the grand jury, and the making of the written
statement above referred to. He further stated that the
Alliance was a voluntary organization of furniture manufacturers, and not a corporation, either de jure or de facto;
that the matter then under investigation by the grand

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

jury was the same matter as had been investigated by a
previous grand jury, which had returned an indictment in
which he, Brown, was named as a defendant; that prior
to the issue of the subpoena in question, a subpoena duces
tecum had been served upon him directed to and commanding him to produce the same documents; that in
answer thereto he appeared before the grand jury and
brought with him the documents so requested, but declined to answer questions propounded unless sworn as a
witness; that, thereupon, he was excused from further
attendance upon the grand jury. He further answered
that "said organization being a voluntary one and not a
corporation," to compel him in response to the subpoena
set forth to produce documents in his possession would be
to compel him to submit to an unlawful seizure and to
produce evidence against himself, in violation of Amendments IV and V of the federal Constitution; that said
subpoena failed to show that the documents described
were important or material; that it was a blanket command to produce all letters or copies of letters and telegrams sent to or received from a large number, to-wit, 192
persons during a periQd of more than three years, and
called for many documents obviously harmless and of no
evidentiary value; and that said subpoena was not a bona
fide attempt to obtain evidence, but constituted a fishing
expedition, undertaken without knowledge whether or not
he had in his possession evidence desired by the United
States or the grand jury, but undertaken in the hope
that evidence might be discovered which could be used
against him on trial of the pending indictment or under a
new one.
After a hearing, the court held that no sufficient excuse
in law had been shown, and ordered Brown, then present
in court, forthwith to appear before the grand jury and
produce the evidence called for in the subpoena, whether
the grand jury saw fit to administer an oath to him or not.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
134

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently, Brown again appeared before the grand
jury and, being asked to produce the documentary evidence called for in the subpoena, refused to do so except
upon condition that he should be subpoenaed and sworn.
He was again presented to the district court as a contumacious witness, and as for a criminal contempt for the
last mentioned refusal to comply with the requirements
of the subpoena. Upon this presentment, the court adjudged Brown guilty of contempt and sentenced him to
imprisonment for thirty days.
The contentions on Brown's behalf are(1) The subpoena was a nullity because directed to an
unincorporated association; (2) it was invalid because too
broad and indefinite; (3) the order of the district court
compelled Brown to produce his own papers and thereby
submit to an unlawful seizure and to incriminate himself
in violation of his constitutional rights.
1. The general rule is that in the absence of statute an
unincorporated association is not a legal entity which may
be sued in the name of the association. Many of the
states have adopted statutes expressly providing that such
associations may be sued. But an express provision is
Such a suit may be maintained in
not indispensabl.
virtue of a necessary implication arising from statutory
provisions although the statute does not in terms so
provide. Here, such an implication arises from the provisions of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209. The act denounces as illegal every contract, combination and conspiracy in restraint of interstate and
foreign trade, and provides that every person who shall
make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Section 8 of the act provides that the word person shall be
deemed to include corporations and associations existing
under or authorized by the laws of the United States, of
any territory, state or foreign country. That the Alliance

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

was an association within the meaning of this section and,
therefore, subject to the provisions of the act is clear.
The provisions of the act creating criminal and civil
liability against such an association necessarily carry the
implication that it may be proceeded against by its common name to enforce the liability. Consequently, for a
violation of the Anti-Trust Act, it may be prosecuted,
indicted and convicted, and judgment rendered against it
and satisfied by execution out of its assets. United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S. 344, 385-391, 392;
Dowd v. United Mine Workers of America, 235 Fed. 1,
5-6. To say that an association thus may be prosecuted,
indicted, convicted, fined and judgment satisfied, and that
appropriate process may be issued and executed to these
ends but that a subpoena duces tecun without an ad
testificandum clause (Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S.
361, 372) cannot in the course of the very proceeding go
against it by its common name, would be to utter an
absurdity. While the subpoena duces tecum directed to
the officer in possession of the documents would have been
good, and perhaps preferable, the matter is not one of
substance, but purely of procedure, and we entertain no
doubt that the subpoena here directed to the association
and served on such officer is valid.
2. In Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, here cited in support
of Brown's second contention, this Court held that a subpoena duces tecum requiring a witness to produce all
understandings, contracts and correspondence between a
corporation named and six different companies, as well
as all reports made and accounts rendered by them from
the date of the organization of the corporation, and all
letters received by the corporation since its organization
from more than a dozen different companies, was too
sweeping to be regarded as reasonable. The limitation
in' respect of time embraced the entire period of the corporation's existence and there was no specification in re-

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
134

Opinion of the Court.

spect of subject matter; and this Court said that if the
return had required the production of all the books, papers
and documents found in the office of the corporation, it
would scarcely be more universal in its operation, or more
completely put a stop to the business of the company.
The subpoena here under consideration is very different.
It specifies a reasonable period of time and, with reasonable particularity, the subjects to which the documents
called for relate. The question is ruled, not by Hale v.
Henkel, but by Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont,
207 U. S. 541, 553-554, and Wheeler v. United States, 226 I
U. S. 478, 482-483, 489.
But the form of the subpoena aside, it appears from
Brown's own statement that, prior to the issue of the
subpoena in question, a subpoena duces tecum had been
directed to and served upon him personally, commanding
him to produce the same documents, and that in answer
thereto he had appeared before the grand jury with them.
This is equivalent to a demonstration that the description
contained in the subpoena was sufficient to enable Brown
to know what particular documents were required and to
select them accordingly. Having produced them once
without difficulty and without undue interference with
the affairs of the association, so far as appears, there is
no reason why he should not produce them again in response to another subpoena identical in terms. See Lee
v. Angas, L. R. 2 Eq. 59, 64; Starr v. Mayer & Co., 60
Ga. 546, 549.
The probable materiality of the documents is sufficiently indicated by the descriptions of their subject matter contained in the subpoena
3. Whether Brown's relation to the association or to the
documents in question was such as to entitle him under
any circumstances to assert the constitutional privilege,
we do not find it necessary to inquire. All other matters
aside, it is impossible for us to say, upon the record before

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

us, that the claim of such privilege was sustained. Upon
Brown's appearance before the grand jury in response to
the subpoena, he made no claim of the privilege, but
insisted only that there was no such person or entity as
the National Alliance capable of being served with a subpoena or of appearing in answer to one. This notwithstanding the fact that his attention was directed to the
subject of self-incrimination. Upon his presentment to
the district court as a contumacious witness, he answered,
among other things, that to compel him to produce the
documents set forth in the subpoena would be to submit
to an unlawful seizure and to produce evidence against
himself. There was a hearing, but the record fails to
disclose what was before the court for its consideration
upon that hearing. It appears only that the court held
that no sufficient excuse for Brown's conduct had been
shown, and he was ordered to again appear before the
grand jury and produce the documents called for, whether
that body saw fit to administer an oath to him or not.
Appearing before the grand jury, he again refused, except
on condition that he should be subpoenaed and sworn.
Thereupon, he was adjudged by the district court to be in
contempt for his failure to comply with its order, and
sentenced to imprisonment.
Whether the papers were produced for the inspection of
the court does not appear, but it may well be that they
were and that from an examination of them it appeared
that the claim of privilege was wholly without merit.
In any event it was Brown's duty to produce the papers
in order that the court might by an inspection of them
satisfy itself whether they contained matters which might
tend to incriminate. If he declined to do so, that alone
would constitute a failure to show reasonable ground for
his refusal to comply with the requirements of the subpoen& Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, supra,
pp. 552-553. As very pertinently said by the Court of

KORNHAUSER v. UNITED STATES.
134

Syllabus.

Appeals of Kentucky in Commonwealth v. Southern Express Co., 160 Ky. 1, 3: ". . . the individual citizen
may not resolve himself into a court and himself determine and assert the criminating nature of the contents of
books and papers required to be produced." See also,
Ex parteIrvine, 74 Fed. 954, 960; United States v. Collins,
145 Fed. 709, 712; Mitchell's Case, 12 Abb. Pr. 249, 260261. And see generally, Blair v. United States, 250 U. S.
273,
282.
From
the foregoing we may properly assume
in support of the judgment below that either from an inspection
of the papers or from other facts appearing there was
disclosed to the district court a want of substance in
Brown's claim of privilege. Certainly there is nothing in
the record, beyond Brown's mere assertion, that affirmatively shows or tends to show that the claim was well
founded.
Judgment affirmed.

KORNHAUSER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 162. Submitted January 12, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.
Claimant successfully defended an accounting suit brought by his
former law partner respecting shares of stock which claimant had
received for professional services, performed by him, as the partner
alleged, during the existence of the partnership, or, as claimant
maintained, after its termination. Held that, in computing claimant's net income under the Revenue Act of 1918, the attorney's
fees paid by him in defense of the suit were deductible from gross
income, not as a loss under § 214 (a) (4), but as an "ordinary
and necessary expense" incurred in carrying on a business, under
§ 214 (a) (1); that it was not within § 215, forbidding deduction
of "personal, living, or family expenses." P. 152.
62 Ct. Cls. 647, reversed.
318°-28-106

