OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

tiff in error concedes that the stage and wharf on which
deceased was working are to be deemed an extension of
the land (Cleveland Terminal R. R. v. Steamship Co., 208
U. S. 316, 321; Industrial Comm. v. Nordenholt Co., 259
U. S. 263, 275) and that the state law would apply if he
had been injured or killed by falling on the landing-place.
It argues that as no claim was made for injuries sustained
while deceased was on land and as the suit was solely for
death that occurred in the river, the case is exclusively
within the admiralty jurisdiction. But this is a partial
view that cannot be sustained. The blow by the sling was
what gave rise to the cause of action. It was given and
took effect while deceased was upon the land. It was the
sole, immediate and proximate cause of his death. The
G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 460. The substance and consummation of the occurrence which gave rise to the cause
of action took place on land. The Plymouth, supra. This
case cannot be distinguished from Johnson v. Chicago
Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 397 or Martin v. West, 222
U. S. 191, 196, The contention of plaintiff in error is
without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND W E S T E R N
RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOWN OF MORRIS-

TOWN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 147.

Argued January 6, 9, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

The railroad company constructed a driveway over its station
grounds to connect with the streets of the town. The railroad and
the town agreed that the driveway should be kept open and that
the town should exercise upon the station grounds, etc., all necessary
police powers for the regulation of traffic and for the enforcement
of the railroad's rules and regulations. The railroad granted a

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Argument for Petitioner.

cabman exclusive right to solicit passengers and baggage in the
station grounds and to park his vehicles in the driveway. The
town (claiming the right so to do under the contract) declared the
space so assigned, by the railroad a public hackstand and prohibited
parking elsewhere., Other cabinen thereupon entered the grounds
and used that space The railroad objected on the ground that its
property was being taken for municipal purposes without compensation. Held:
1. The taking of private property for public use is against the
common right, and authority so to do must be clearly expressed.
The agreement does not empower the town to establish, a public
hackstand on the company's land. P. 192.
2. Assuming that the creation of a public hackstand upon the
station grounds would be a proper exertion of the police power, the
due process MIause safeguards to the owner of the land just compensation for the use of its property. P. 193.
3. As against those not using it for purposes of transportation,
the railroad is private property in every legal sense, and if any
part of its land is capable of use that does not interfere with discharge of its obligations as a carrier, the railroad has the right to
use or permit others so to use it for any lawful purpose. P. 19t
4. A railroad is not bound to permit persons having no business
with it to enter its trains, station or grounds to solicit trade or
patronage for themselves, and the grant of such privilege to one
does not give rise to any duty to others. P. 194.
5. To compel the use of railroad station grounds for public hackstands without compensation is to take them in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 195.
14 F. (2d) 257, reversed; District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 686, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of permanent
injunction, and directed dismissal of the bill in a suit by
the railroad against the town and a number of taxicab
men, to prevent the use of its land for the parking, of
vehicles and enJoin theenforcement of an ordinance designating part of it as a public hackstand.
Mr. John W. Dwmi, with whom Mr. M. M. Stalman
was on the. brief, for petitioner.
Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the; ordinance ae repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment because they take petitioner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

276 U. S.

property without due process of law. It is not necessary,
in order to render the ordinance vulnerable to constitutional attack, that it must in terms or effect authorize an
absolute conversion of property, so long as it affects the
free use and enjoyment of the property or the power of
disposition at the will of the owner. Pumpelly v. Green
Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Penna. Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260
U. S. 393; Great Northern Rwy. v. Minnesota, 238 U. S.
340.
While the municipality has not in terms deprived petitioner of the title to its lands in establishing the hack
stand thereon and in prohibiting the use of other parts
of its property for parking space for private'vehicles and
taxicabs, it has deprived petitioner of the right to use
the land according to its own plans, purposes and requirements. The property of a railroad company cannot be
taken or appropriated, under the guise of regulation, exqpt for a purpose within the statutory duties of the
carrier. Great Northern Rwy. v. Minnesota, supra;
Great Northern Rwy. v. Cahill, 253 U. S. 71.
Taxicab service is no part of the business of petitioner,
and it cannot be compelled to furnish land for a public
hack stand under the guise of an exercise of the police
power. Great Northern Rwy. v. Minnesota, supra; Id.
v. Cahill, supra.
As to the cab drivers, they have no right to make use
of the company's premises, and such a right cannot be
conferred upon them by a municipal ordinance. Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279; Thompson's
Express Co. v. Mount, 91 N. J. Eq. 497. Cf. Welsh v.
Morristown, 98 N. J. L. 630. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service
Corp'n, 248 U. S. 372; Producers Transportation Co. v.
R. R. Comm., 251 U. S. 228; and Wolff v. Court of
Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522, distinguished.

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

185

Argument for Respondents.

As the railroad company is not required to furnish
taxicab facilities, and no charge for such facilities is impliedly included in the rates of fare, and as no compensation is provided for the use of the land devoted to parking
of taxicabs, the situation comes squarely within the opinion in Banton v. Belt Line Rwy., 268 U. S. 413. See also,
Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393.
The ordinance cannot be upheld as securing the performance of a legal duty owing by the railroad company
to its passengers, i. e., as a regulation of transportation.
There is nothing in Welsh v. Morristown, 98 N. J. L.
630, that casts any doubt on the proposition that the
town was without jurisdiction under the local law.
The contract of 1912 did not operate to grant to or
confer upon the municipality the right to exclude the
petitioner from the use of its own land and to establish
thereon a public hackstand against its express objection.
Such regulation, however, is appropriate only over a
public highway and any intent to dedicate the driveway
here in question is negatived by the express terms of the
contract. It is well settled under New Jersey law that
in the face of an express disclaimer of an intent to
dedicate, mere sufferance by an owner of general public

user of his premises is insufficient to establish a dedication. Wood v. Hurd, 34 N. J. L. 87. See also, Irwin v.
Dixion, 9 How. 10; McKey v. Hyde Park, 134 U. S. 84;
Folkestone Corp'n v. Brockman, A. C. 338.
. Mr. Conover English, with whom Messrs. R. H. McCarterand N. C. Toms were on the brief, for respondents.
The establishment of a parking place on the driveway
in question was not contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, but was justified under the police power by the
public necessities for the safety, welfare and comfort of
the public using the driveway and was authorized under

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondents.

276 U.S.

the express agreement of the railroad company set forth
in the contract. This driveway is to all intents and
purposes a public street leading to and alongside of a
busy railroad station. The fact that only that part of the
public having business with the railroad company and
those of the public having occasion to go to and from
Saw Mill Lane use this driveway, does not deprive it of
its public character. Van Dyke v. Geary, 244 U. S. 39.
The property being devoted to a public use and so
clothed with a public interest, is subject to reasonable
regulation. Munn v. Illinois, 94'U. S. 113; Chicago etc.
R. R. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Missouri Pacific Rwy. v. Omaha,
235 U. S. 121; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public
Service Corp'n, 248 U. S. 372; Producers
Transportation
Co. v. R. R. Comm., 251 U. S. 228; Block v. Hirsh, 256
U. S.135; Milheim v. Moflat Tunnel Dist., 262 U. S.710.
The railroad by its contract consented to a taking for
the purpose of regulating traffic when it opened its driveway to public traffic and permitted the town to exercise
all necessary police power upon it to regulate that traffic.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548; Welsh v.
Morristown, 98 N. J. L. 630.
The general rule is that property may be regulated to
a certain extent to protect the public hehlth, safety, welfare, comfort or morals from dangers threatened. It is
only when the regulation goes too far that it will be
recognized as a taking. Penna. Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260
U. S.393.
The town under its police power has power to regulate
traffic by ordinance, including the establishment of cab
stands. Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279.
See also, Swan v. Mayor of Baltimore,132 Md. 256; Dillon
on Municipal Corporations, Vol. 3 (5th ed.), § 1167.
Nor does the contract between Welsh and the railroad
company militate against the power of the town to pass

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Argument for Respondents.

an ordinance to establish a cab stand as a regulation of
traffic. Thompson's Express Co. v. Mount, 91 N. J. Eq.
497; Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., supra; Welsh v. Morristown, 98 N. J. L. 630, distinguishing Thompson's Express Co. v. Mount, supra. See also, Emerson v. Town
of McNeil, 84 Ark. 552; St. Paul v. Smith, 27 Minn. 364;
Lindsey v. Mayor of Anniston, 104 Ala. 257; Seattle v.
Hurst, 50 Wash. 424; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79;
Ex Parte Barmore, 174 Cal. 286; Ex Parte Maynard, 98
Tex. Cr. Rep. 204.
The lands taken are devoted to a public use. The
driveway constitutes the only street approach to the easterly side of the railroad station and is so clothed with a
public interest that it is subject to reasonable regulation
with respect to the traffic thereon.
The ordinance was passed pursuant to authority delegated to the town by the legislature of the State and as
such it is a state law within the meaning of the Constitution. Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548;
Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171.
The railroad has to a certain extent voluntarily enlarged its duties to include a taxicab service by the contract it made with Welsh. The railroad grants special
privileges to Welsh in its station, building and grounds,
and receives in return 10% of "the gross receipts from
all business to and from said Morristown Station."
The town had the right to pass the ordinance of October
22, 1924, because of the express agreement of the railroad
company set forth in the contract of 1912. The establishment of a parking place by the ordinance is within
the terms of the contract in that it constitutes a regulation of foot and vehicular traffic at the station. See
Masterson v. Short, 30 N. Y. 241; The Taxicab Cases,
143 N. Y. Supp. 279; Waldorf-Astoria Hotel Co. v. New
York, 212 N. Y. 97.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The parties to the suit, namely, the railroad company
and the town, by their conduct over a period of ten years
practically have construed the contract to empower the
town to establish a parking place on the driveway in
question. Van Dyke v. Anderson, 83 N. J. Eq. 568;
Dennis v. Jones, 44 N. J. Eq. 513; Clampitt v. Doyle, 73
N. J. Eq. 678; Faulkner v. Wassmer, 77 N. J. Eq. 537.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

October 30, 1924, petitioner brought this suit -in the
district court of New Jersey against the Town of Morristown and sixteen operators of taxicabs to restrain the
town from enforcing an ordinance establishing a public
hackstand in a driveway on petitioner's station grounds,
to prevent the use of its land for parking of taxicabs and
other vehicles and to restrain the individual defendants
from going on its premises to solicit patronage and from
using its grounds as a hackstand.
The Morris and Essex Railroad Company owns the
railroad and petitioner operates it as lessee in perpetuity.
September 24, 1912, an agreement was made between the
town and the companies providing for the elevation of
the tracks in order to eliminate certain grade crossings.
The agreement was fully performed. The tracks run
north and south through station grounds of somewhat
irregular shape containing about four acres. The main
station building is on the west side of the tracks and on
the east side there is a platform roofed over, called the
shelter house. The town agreed to lay out and construct
a new street extending to the station grounds on the east
side of the tracks. The companies agreed to "dedicate
any lands owned by them necessary for the laying out of
such new street." Petitioner constructed and maintains
driveways within its grounds, one of which passes under
the tracks along the north boundary and thence south
parallel to the tracks and near the east side of the shelter

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of the Court.

house to the south boundary of the grounds where it connects with the new street. It was agreed that: "Said
driveway shall be kept open at all times for passengers,
.
vehicular traffic to
pedestrians . . . and
on
the
easterly side of said
and from the station grounds
Railroad and for the use of those now having rights of
egress to Morris Street in Saw Mill Lane, but this contract
shall not be construed as a dedication of said driveway as
a public highway." It was further agreed "that the Town
may and shall exercise all necessary police powers in and
upon the station, station grounds, approaches and driveways, for the purpose of regulating foot and vehicular
traffic at said station, and for the enforcement of the rules
and regulations of the Railroad Companies in respect
thereto."
Passengers arriving on trains from New York get off on
the east side and leave the station grounds by the driveway described. Prior to 1922, operators of taxicabs were
accustomed to drive into the grounds to meet these trains
and there solicit patronage. It is a matter of common
knowledge that such competition for the transportation
of passengers and their baggage from railway stations is
liable, if not indeed certain, to be attended by crowding
together of cabmen, confusion, noisy solicitations, importunities and contentions resulting to the annoyance and
disadvantage of those sought to be served.* And the
record shows that these or similar abuses prevailed or
were liable to occur at the Morristown station. December
* Donovan v. PennsylvaniaCompany, 199 U. S. 279, 295; Common-

wealth v. Power, 7 Metc. 596; Napman v. The People, 19 Mich. 352,
356; Dinngman v. Duluth, etc. R. Co., 164 Mich. 328, 330-331; Hed.
ding v. Gallagher,72 N. H. 377, 395; Thompson's Co. v. Whitemore
88 N. J. E. 535, 536; Railroad v. Kohler, 107 Kan. 673, 677; Brown
v. Railroad Co., 75 Hun. 355, 362; Rose v. Public Service Commission,
75 W. Va. 1, 6; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Scovill, 71 Conn. 136,
137, 148; Landrigan v. State, 31 Ark. 50; Union Depot & Ry. Co. v.
Meeking, 42 Colo., 89, 97.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

28, 1922, petitioner made an agreement with one Welsh
in which it was stated that petitioner desired to establish
adequate cab service for the accommodation of its passengers and to regulate the solicitation of business in its
station and upon its station grounds and the parking of
vehicles there. It granted to him the privilege, under the
control of petitioner's manager, to solicit business as a
cabman in the station and on its grounds, to have a stand
and telephone facilities in the station and to park his vehicles upon a specified space in the driveway east of the
shelter house. Welsh agreed to have a sufficient number
of vehicles, to maintain them at the highest standard of
efficiency and to give satisfactory service at specified rates
which should "in no wise exceed the rates now or hereafter
prescribed by municipal ordinance." Then, on February
7, 1923, the municipal authorities, conceiving that this
agreement created a monopoly and was unjust to other
taxicabmen, adopted an ordinance prohibiting the standing of automobiles upon the space set aside for Welsh for
"a longer time than is necessary to. take on and let off
passengers, expressage or baggage", and prohibiting such
standing of vehicles on any other part of the driveway.
In a suit brought by Welsh against the town the State
'Supreme Court held this ordinance to be a valid regulation of traffic under general power of the town and under
the track elevation agreement. 98 N. J. L. 630, affirmed
by the Court of Errors and Appeals sub nomine Welsh v.
Potts, 99 N. J. L. 528. Upon the termination of that litigation, the town, October 22, 1924, passed the ordinance
here in question. It declares a space including that set
aside by the petitioner for the use of Welsh's vehicles to be
"an additional public hackstand" and prohibits the parking of vehicles in other parts of the driveway. Immediately upon the passage of this ordinance, the individual
defendants entered the station grounds, parked their vehicles upon the space so designated and solicited patronage.

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

191

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner brought this suit claiming that the
enforcement of the ordinance would take its property for
municipal purposes without due process of law in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. In defense the
respondents maintain that the establishment of the public
hack stand does not amount to a taking of petitioner's
property but is a mere traffic regulation that the town
is authorized to make under the track elevation agreement and also by the exertion of its police power.
After trial, the district court entered its final decree
declaring the ordinance repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment and restraining the town from taking the
company's land for a public hack stand and preventing
it from interfering with the company's use of its premises
or control of vehicles thereon and commanding-the individual defendants to refrain from parking vehicles or
soliciting patronage on the station grounds.

The Circuit

Court of Appeals reversed the decree and directed the
district court to dismiss the case. 14 F. (2d) 257. This
Court granted a writ of certiorari. 273 U. S. 686.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the track elevation agreement authorized the town to establish a public
hack stand on the driveway in the station grounds. The
principal purposes of that agreement was to eliminate
grade crossings; regulation of traffic to and from the station was incidental. The town has not acquired by purchase oreminent domain any part of petitioner's land or
the right to establish a public hack stand there. It is not
claimed that the agreement expressly authorizes the town
to make such an appropriation of petitioner's land. And
there is nothing from which such a grant may be implied.
The intention of the parties is plainly expressed. There
is an express dedication by the companies of their lands
within the new street opened by the town outside the
station grounds. But, there being no such purpose in
respect of land within the grounds, the agreement declares

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

"this contract shall not be construed as a dedication of
said driveway as a public highway." There is no room
for construction. And, even in the absence of that clause,
the facts disclosed by the record are not sufficient to raise
a presumption of dedication. Wood v. Hurd, 34 N. J.
L. 87.
While petitioner owed its passengers the duty of providing a suitable way for them to reach and leave its
station, it was not bound to allow cabmen or others to
enter upon or use any part of its buildings or grounds
to wait for fares or to solicit patronage. Donovan v.
Pennsylvania Company, 199 U. S. 279, 295. Thompson's
Express Co. v. Mount, 91 N. J. Eq. 497. Its agreement
to keep the driveway "open for traffice to and from the
station" did not add to its obligations or enlarge the
powers of the town. Respondents put much reliance
upon the clause providing that the town "may and shall
exercise all necessary police powers " in and upon the
station grounds "for the purpose of regulating traffic" at
the station and for the enforcement of petitioner's rules
and regulations in respect thereto. But it is to be borne
in mind that the taking of private property for public
use is deemed to be against the common right and authority so to do must be clearly expressed. Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Penn. R. R., 195 U. S. 540, 569. Lewis
on Eminent Domain (3rd ed.), § 371. Inhabitants of
Springfield v. Connecticut River RailroadCo., 44Cush. 63,
69-72. Holyoke Company v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, 507.
Cf. Richmond v. Southern Bell Telephone Co., 174 U. S.
761, 777. The provision relied on is merely petitioner's
authorization and the town's agreement that the municipal power of police shall be exerted for the purpose of
regulating, and to carry into effect petitioner's rules in
respect of, the traffic at the station. The agreement does
not empower the town so to appropriate petitioner's
land.

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of the Court.

Is the provision of the ordinance of October 22, 1924,
declaring a part of the driveway to be a public hack stand
a valid exercise of the police power? We assume that by
the laws of the State the town is authorized to regulate
traffic and to establish public hack stands in its streets
and other public places. It does not claim the power to
take or appropriate private property for such a purpose
without giving the owner just compensation, but it contends that the establishing of this hack stand "was justified under the police power by the public necessities for
the safety, welfare and comfort of the public using the
driveway" and that it does not take private property for
public use without compensation "because the lands
taken are devoted to a public use." But, assuming that
under the circumstances the creation of the public hack
stand would be a proper exertion of the. police power, it
does not follow that the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment would not safeguard to the owner just
compensation for the use of its property. Penna. Coal
Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 416. The police power may
be and frequently it is exerted to effect a purpose or consummate an enterprise in the public interest that requires
the taking of private property; but, whatever the purpose
or the means employed to accomplish it, the owner is entitled to compensation for what is taken from him. The
railroad grounds, station, platforms, driveways, etc., are
used by the petitioner for the purposes of its business as a
common carrier; and, while that business is subject to
regulation in the public interest, the property used belongs to petitioner. The State may not require it to be
used in that business, or take it for another public use,
without just compensation, for that would contravene the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Reagan v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 396, et
seq. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 523, 526. Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Penna. R. R., supra, 571. Producers
318*-28----13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

TransportationCo. v. RailroadCommission, 251 U. S. 228.
Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, 577-578.
As against those not using it for the purpose of transportation, petitioner's railroad is private property in every
legal sense. The driveway in question is owned and held
by petitioner in the same right and stands on the same
footing as its other facilities. Its primary purpose is to
provide means of ingress and egress for patrons and others
having business with the petitioner. But, if any part of
the land in the driveway is capable of other use that does
not interfere with the discharge of its obligations as a carrier, petitioner as an incident of its ownership and in order
to make profit for itself has a right to use or permit others
to use such, land for any lawful purpose. Donovan v.
Pennsylvania Company, supra, 294.
There was no. duty upon petitioner to accord to other
taxicabmen the use of its lands simply because it had
granted Welsh the privileges specified in its contract with
him. Petitioner is not bound to permit persons having no
business with it to enter its trains, stations or grounds to
solicit trade or patronage for themselves; they have no
right to use its property to carry on their own business.
Petitioner had no contract relations with taxicabmen
other than Welsh and owed them no duty because they
did not have any business with it. The enforcement of
the ordinance here assailed would operate to deprive petitioner of the use of the land in question and hand it over
to be used as a public hack stand by the individual defendants and others. As to them, and so far as concerns
its use as a public hack stand, the driveway was petitioner's private property and could not be so appropriated
in whole or in part except upon the payment of compensation.
Under the guise of regulation, the town cannot require
any part of the driveway to be used in a service that peti-

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of

195

BRANDEIS, J.

tioner is under no duty to furnish. And, as petitioner's
duty here involved is confined to the business of carrying
passengers by railroad, the declaration of the ordinance
that the specified part of the driveway "is hereby designated and established as an additional public hack stand"
clearly transcends the power of regulation. To compel
the use of petitioner's land for that purpose is to take it
without compensation in contravention of the constitutional safeguard here invoked. •Great Northern Ry. Co.
v. Minnesota, 238 U. S. 340, 346. Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Cahill, 253 U. S. 71.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed, and the decree of the district court is
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

concurring in part.

I agree that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
directing a dismissal of the Railroad's bill, should be reversed. But I think that the decree of the District Court
requires serious modification. That decree ordered among
other things, "that the Town of Morristown, do desist and
refrain, and is hereby forever restrained and enjoined
by the attempted enforcement of said ordinance or otherwise, from in any manner interfering with or hindering or
obstructing the complainant, the Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western Railroad Company, in the occupation, use or
control of its said station grounds, or in regulating the
place, manner or time in which public or private vehicles
going to and from said station grounds shall enter, stand
or wait thereon or depart from the same." This part of
the decree is, in my opinion, inconsistent with the terms of
the contract between the Railroad and the town, with the
decision of the highest court of the State construing the
same, Welsh v. Morristown, 98 N. J. L. 630, affirmed sub

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of BRANDEIS, J.

276 U. S.

norn. Welsh v. Potts, 99 N. J. L. 528, and with the general law of New Jersey. It seems to me inconsistent, also,
with the law concerning the obligations of railroads as
heretofore declared by this Court.
The situation which confronted the town authorities
was this: About 3,000 passengers are handled in and out
of the station each day. Continuously, for nearly ten
years after the elimination of the grade crossings, cabs
had, under the direction of the town authorities and with
the acquiescence of the Railroad, parked at the place
later assigned by the ordinance here in question. Then,
in 1922, arose the controversy which gave rise to the
Welsh case and to the case at bar. The bulk of the traffic
passing through the station is composed of persons commuting to Newark and New York. Accordingly, the demand for taxicabs at the station is largely concentrated in
the late afternoon hours. There are forty-two licensed
cabs in Morristown. About twenty-five of them were
accustomed to park at the station, at various times of
the day. Presumably most of them were available for
service at the rush hour in the late afternoon. Welsh,
for whom the Railroad asserts the exclusive privilege of
using the driveway as a hack stand, has only three licensed
cabs. Obviously, these are insufficient to give an adequate service. It is true that Welsh made application for
additional licenses, and that these have been denied by the
town authorities. But the testimony shows that the authorities were of the opinion that there were already more
taxicabs in the town than could be operated profitably.
No new license had been granted to any one since a date
preceding Welsh's application; and no cabman had a
license to operate more than three cabs.
The Railroad presented this alternative to the town:
"Either grant to Welsh licenses sufficient in number to
enable him to supply the needs of all passengers arriving
at the station, or submit to a denial to such passengers of

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of

197

BRANDEIS, J.

the facilities customary on leaving the station." To escape from that dilemma the town first resorted to the
means upheld by the New Jersey courts in the Welsh case.
It prohibited all parking on the driveway, and located a
public taxi-stand on a public street adjacent thereto.
While this provided a service adequate so far as the number of vehicles was concerned, it proved unsatisfactory in
other respects. The taxi-stand was several hundred feet
distant from the shelter house; was not easily visible
therefrom; and was difficult of access in inclement
weather. The town then passed the ordinance which
gave rise to the present suit. It undertook to establish
near the station door a public taxi-stand on the Railroad's land. That it clearly had no right to do; for the
contract between it and the Railroad had not made the
driveway a public street. Obviously a railroad's property
cannot be taken without compensation for a purpose unconnected with its rail transportation. Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 238 U. S. 340, 346; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Cahill, 253 U. S. 71. A public taxi-stand is
such an unconnected purpose. It would be open to use by
cabs which do not serve the patrons of the Railroad, as
well as those which do. In establishing this public taxistand, the town exceeded its powers. Enforcement of
this ordinance was properly enjoined. And since the individual defendants must base their claims on the ordinance, the injunction against them also was proper.
Compare Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279;
Thompson's Express & Storage Co. v. Mount, 91 N. J.
Eq. 497.
But the injunction granted by the District Court was so
broad as to prevent the town from making, by future
ordinance, provisions which it may deem necessary to
assure to its inhabitants adequate cab facilities. While
the contract between the town and the Railroad did not
make the driveway a public highway, it did not restrict

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of BRANDEIS, J.

276 U. S.

rights which the town would otherwise have had under
the New Jersey Law and under decisions of this Court.
Under the New Jersey law the Railroad was bound to keep
the driveway open to all persons seeking access to and
from the station on legitimate business. It could not
obstruct the driveway by physical enclosure. PublicService Ry. Co. v. Weehawken, 94 N. J. Eq. 88, 92. It could
not, by its private contract with Welsh, interfere with the
power of the municipality to make appropriate regulations
as to traffic there. Welsh v. Morristown, supra. For as
the New Jersey court said, "the driveway in question was
and is devoted to public use, although the fee thereof
remained in the railroad company." Like all property of
a carrier by railroad, the driveway was subject to the
power of the State to compel the provision of adequate
facilities incident to the rail transportation.
In these days, the ability of the traveller to obtain
conveniently, upon reaching the street door of the station,
a taxicab to convey him and his hand-baggage to his
ultimate destination, is an essential of adequate rail
transportation. The duties of a rail carrier are not necessarily limited to transporting freight and passengers to
and from its stations. It must, in connection with its
stations, provide adequately for ingress and for egress.
And if it does not itself provide the facilities essential
for the convenient removal of freight and passengers from
the station, it may be required to let others provide them.
That a railroad's obligations may be extended beyond its
rails, is settled by numerous decisions of this Court.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. CorporationCommission,
206 U. S. 1, 21-22; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry.
Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334; Michigan Central R. R. Co.
v. Railroad Commission, 236 U. S. 615; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416; Lake Erie &
Western R. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 249

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of

199

BRANDEIS, J.

U. S. 422. A State may require a railroad to construct
stations. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53. It may compel the building of a crossing for the convenience of shippers in removing freight.
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission,
265 U. S. 70, 74. Its power to require adequate provision
for carrying passengers to their ultimate destination rests
on the same basis. Compare Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Knight, 192 U. S. 21, 26.
The Lackawanna Railroad recognized the importance of
proper cab service. It undertook to provide it by the
contract with Welsh. But Welsh was in no position to
furnish adequate service. He had only three licensed
cabs. The Railroad answers that Welsh agreed by his
contract with it to supply as many cabs as were needed
and that, but for the refusal of the town to grant him more
licenses, he would have supplied the requisite number.
The town was not obliged to issue additional licenses to
Welsh. Its refusal to do so was not arbitrary or unreasonable. The ground of its refusal was that the granting
of additional licenses would ruin the business of the established cabmen who had long been engaged in serving its
inhabitants, and thus would impair the cab service of the
general public throughout the town. The principle on
which the town acted is one that is general in motor
vehicle regulation today.' It is one that has been ap1 In

at least nine states the commission charged with the duty of

licensing bus operators is specifically directed to consider the transportation service already furnished and the effect which the proposed
.service would have upon it, Colorado, Compiled Laws, 1921, § 2946;
Kansas, Laws, 1925, c. 206, § 4; Kentucky, Acts, 1926, c. 112, § 4;
Montana, Laws, 1923, c. 154, § 4; North Dakota, Laws, 1925, c. 91,
§§ 4, 5, 8; Ohio, Page's Code, 1926, § 614-87; South Dakota, Laws,
1925, c. 224, § 3; West Virginia, Barnes' Code, 1925, c. 43, § 82;
Wyoming, Compiled Statutes, 1920, § 5497. The principle of safeguarding established, adequate facilities, is applied by commissions in

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of

BRANDEIS,

J.

276 U. S.

proved by this Court. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf,
Colorado& Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 277; Interstate Busses Corp. v. Holyoke Street Ry. Co., 273 U. S.
45, 52. Compare Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 145;
Frost & Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission, 271
U. S. 583, 599-600.
The record shows that the service which Welsh can
furnish is inadequate, that to grant him sufficient licenses
to enable him to furnish such service would impair taxi
service throughout the town, and that a taxi-stand located
elsewhere than on the driveway does not satisfy the needs
of travellers leaving the station. If, under these circumstances, the town should pass an ordinance establishing,
passing upon applications for certificates of convenience and necessity, and by courts in reviewing their orders, although there is not a
specific direction in the statute. In the following cases the orders of
commissions granting certificates of convenience and necessity were
set aside on the ground that it did not sufficiently appear that existing
facilities were inadequate: West Suburban Transportation Co. v.
Chicago & West Towns Ry. Co., 309 Ill. 87; Choate v. Commerce
Commission, 309 Ill. 248; Superior Motor Bus Co. v. Community
Motor Bus Co., 320 Ill. 175; Cooper v. McWilliams & Robinson,
298 S. W. 961 (Ky.); Cincinnati Traction Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 112 Ohio St. 699; East End Traction Co. v. Public Utilities

Commission, 115 Ohio St. 119; Columbus Ry., Power & Light Co.
v. Public Utilities Commission, 116 Ohio St. 36; Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. State, 123 Okla. 190. In Red Star Transportation Co. v. Red Dot Coach Lines, 220 Ky. 424; McClain v. Public
Utilities Commission, 110 Ohio St. 1; and Abbott v. Public Utilities
Commission, 136 Atl. 490 (R. I.), orders denying certificates were
sustained, on the ground that the proposed operation would have
impaired adequate transportation facilities already established. The
same principles apply with regard to municipal regulation of jitney
busses. Cloe v. State, 209 Ala. 544, 545-546; Birmingham Interurban
Taxicab Service Corp. v. McLendon, 210 Ala. 525; State v. City of
Spokane, 109 Wash. 360. That a railroad has no preferred claim to
the grant of a certificate, see Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Department
of Public Works, 256 Pac. 333 (Wash.). Compare Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co. v. State Road Commission, 139 S. E. 744 (W. Va.).

DEL., L. & W. R. R. v. MORRISTOWN.
182

Opinion of

201

BRANDEIS, J.

on the driveway, a taxi-stand available only to incoming
passengers, I see no reason why, under the contract between it and the Railroad or under the general laws of
New Jersey, it may not do so. Certainly Donovan v.
Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279, presents no obstacle.
For in that case, the Court expressly left open the question
whether the State, to secure adequate service, might
require what the cabmen there asserted of their own right.
P. 298. Compare Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Public
Service Commission, supra.
Moreover, the decree is subject to another infirmity.
By its broad language, it restrains the town from making
and enforcing reasonable traffic regulations applicable to
the driveway. In so doing it conflicts with both the terms
of the contract and the decision of the New Jersey courts
in the Welsh case. The contract between the Railroad
and the town expressly declares that the driveway "shall
b8 kept open at all times for passengers, pedestrians, carriages, wagons, automobiles and general vehicular traffic
to and from the station grounds "; and that "the Town
may and shall exercise all necessary police powers in and
upon the station, station grounds, approaches and driveways, for the purpose of regulating foot and vehicular
traffic." It was decided in Welsh v. Morristown, 98
N. J. L. 630, affirmed sub nom. Welsh v. Potts, 99 N. J. L.
528, that under this contract the town had power to prohibit all parking on the driveway. That construction,
being a ruling on a matter of law, is binding upon us.
St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water
Commissioners, 168 U. S.349, 358; Gufley v. Smith, 237
U. S. 101, 112-113. Compare Detroit v. Osborne, 135
U. S.492, 497-500; Hartford Insurance Co. v. Chicago.
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 175 U. S.91, 100.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

concurs in this opinion.

