TOLEDO, ST. L. & W. R. R. v. ALLEN.
160

0

165

Syllabus.

biguous findings above referred to, the lower court should
again consider the case and make definite determination
of the controlling facts and give judgment thereon.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings in harmony with
this opinion.

TOLEDO, ST. LOUIS & WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. ALLEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 160. Argued January 10, 11, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.
Plaintiff, while checking cars in a switching yard, was struck by a car
shunted down the next track. While the space between the two
tracks (in which he was standing) was sufficient to enable him to
keep out of the way of moving cars, the danger attending his work
would have been lessened if the space had been greater. The accident occurred at night. The cars moved at from four to six miles
an hour; they were unlighted and unattended and no one warned
plaintiff of their approach. He knew that switching was being
done. There was nothing to show that the ordinary practice was
departed from. He brought suit under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, alleging that his injuries had been caused by the
failure to maintain an adequate space between tracks and by the
failure to warn him of the approach of the car. Held:
1. The evidence is not sufficient to warrant a finding that defendant failed in any duty owed plaintiff in respect of the distance
between tracks. Carriers, like other employers, have much freedom of choice in providing facilities and places for their employees,
and courts will not prescribe the space to be maintained between
tracks nor leave such questions to the uncertain and varyingopinions of juries. P. 169.
2. In the absence of proof that plaintiff was exposed to some
unusual danger by reason of a departure from the practice generally followed, it cannot be held that defendant was in duty bound
to give warning by ringing the engine bell or otherwise. P. 170.
3. Except as specified in ยง 4 of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, the employee assumes the ordinary risks of his employment

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

276 U.S.

and, when obvious or fully known and appreciated, the extraordinary risks and those due to negligence of his employer and fellow
employees. On the evidence it is held that plaintiff assumed the
risk. P. 171.
292 S. W. 730, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 688, to a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Missouri, affirming a recovery of damages for
personal injuries, in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Frank H. Sullivan, with whom Messrs. Walter A.
Eversman, James C. Jones and Lon .0. Hocker were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Holland R. Polak, with who'm Mr. James J.
O'Donohoe was on the brief, for respondent.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not undertake to define negligence, except as to assumption of risk;
aside from this, negligence is to be determined by the
,principles of common law. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton,
233 U. S. 492.
The opinion of the Missouri Court was based on the
negligent failure to warn, a non-federal question, and a
question of fact, and broad enough to maintain the
judgment.
No privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed
under any statute. This Court is therefore without jurisdiction. Capital Nat'l Bank v. First Nat'l Bank, 172
U. S. 425.
The Missouri Court followed Chesapeake & Ohio R. R.
v. Proffitt, 241 U. S. 462; C. & 0. R. R. v. DeAtley, 241
U. S. 341, and distinguished, Aerkfetz v. Humphreys, 145
U. S. 418, which is inapplicable, as is also Pryor v.
Williams, 254 U. S.43.
Petitioner, by requesting an instruction on assumption
of risk, is bound by the finding on that subject.
It is negligent to move cars in an unlighted yard, without bell or other warning, when such movement is likely

TOLEDO, ST. L. & W. R. R. v. ALLEN.
165

167

Opinion of the Court.

to subject employees working therein to danger. Texas
etc. Rwy. v. Gentry, 163 U. S. 353; Frazier v. Railroad
Co., 264 Fed. 96; Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. v. Proffitt, 241
U. S. 462; Norfolk & Western Rwy. v. Earnest, 229 U. S.
114; Davis v. Hynde, 4 F. (2d) 656; St. Louis etc. Rwy.
v. Martin, 266 U. S. 623.
Even if custom and rules permit, such movement under
such circumstances is negligent. Norfolk & Western Rwy.
v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114; Texas & Pacific Rwy. v.
Behymer, 189 U. S. 468; C. R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Wright,
239 U. S. 548; Boos v. M. St. P. etc. R. R., 127 Minn. 381;
Chesapeake & Ohio Rwy. v. Proffitt, 241 U. S. 462.
An employee does not assume an unusual risk occasioned by the master's negligence unless he becomes
aware of and appreciates it.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

October 27, 1922, petitioner's railway system was being
operated by a receiver as a common carrier of interstate
commerce. Respondent was a car checker in the service
of the receiver; and, while employed in such commerce in
petitioner's railroad yard at Madison, Illinois, he was
struck and injured by a shunted car. He brought this
action in the Circuit Court of Saint Louis, Missouri,
claiming damages under the Employers' Liability Act,
U. S. C., Tit. 45, c. 2, ยง 51. The amended petition alleged
that plaintiff's injuries were caused by the defendant's
failure to maintain an adequate space between the tracks
in the yard and by the negligent failure of other employees
to warn him of the approach of the car. After the suit
was commenced, the receiver was discharged and the
railroad was returned to petitioner. The latter assumed
the obligations of the receiver and was substituted for him
as defendant. There was a verdict and judgment for
plaintiff. The defendant, alleging numerous grounds,
moved for a new trial. It was denied. The case was

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

taken to the Supreme Court where the judgment was
affirmed. 292 S.W. 730. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari. 273 U. S. 688.
The yard where plaintiff was injured included a lead
track and, connected with it, a number of parallel switch
tracks, the centers of which were about 12 feet apart.
Plaintiff had been regularly employed there as car checker
for about 18 months, and his hours were from eleven in
the evening to seven in the morning. His work required
him to be in the yard while switching was being done and
to go from place to place to check and list cars that had
been switched and arranged on various tracks for the purpose of making up trains. At the time of the accident, he
was checking a string of cars that had been placed on
track 5 and was between it and track 7, about 125 yards
from the lead. A switching crew was at work in the yard.
The engine was on the lead attached to from 20 to 25
cars that were between it and switch 4. Two cinder
cars were detached from the end while the string of cars
was being pushed by the engine. They were shunted by
means of the switch to track 4 and by their own momentum moved to the place where plaintiff was struck. The
yard was not artificially lighted. It was an ordinary starlight night without moon. The shunted cars moved at
moderate speed-four to six miles per hour-and made
noise enough to be heard at a distance of one or two car
lengths. They were unlighted and unattended and no
person warned plaintiff of their approach.
The Act of Congress under which plaintiff seeks recovery took possession of the field of liability of carriers
by railway for injuries sustained by their employees while
engaged in interstate commerce, and superseded state laws
upon that subject. Second Employers' Liability Cases,
223 U. S. 1, 55. This case is governed by that Act and
the principles of the common law as applied in the.courts
of the United States. The plaintiff cannot recover in the

TOLEDO, ST. L. & W. R. R. v. ALLEN.
165

169

Opinion of the Court.

absence of negligence on the part of defendant. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 502. And, except as specified in ยง 4 of the Act, the employe assumes
the ordinary risks of his employment and, when obvious
or fully known and appreciated by him, the extraordinary
risks and those due to negligence of his employer and
fellow employees. Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 245
U. S. 441, 445; Ches. & Ohio Ry. v. Nixon, 271 U. S. 218.
If, upon an examination of the record, it is found that as
a matter of law the evidence is not sufficient to sustain
the essential findings of fact, the judgment will be reversed. C. M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S.
472, 474.
The court authorized the jury to find defendant guilty
of negligence if the space between the tracks was found to
be so narrow that when track 5 was occupied plaintiff was
in danger of being struck by cars moving on track 4. It
was shown, as stated by the Supreme Court, that the
clearance between the car that plaintiff was checking on
track 5 and the moving cars on track 4 was about two
feet and nine inches without considering the grab-irons
on the cinder cars which projected four and one-half
inches from each corner. While this space was sufficient
to enable plaintiff to keep out of the way of the moving
cars, the danger attending his work would have been
lessened if the distance between the tracks had been
greater. The work of checking cars in a yard at night
where switching is being done is necessarily attended by
much danger. But fault or negligence may not be inferred from the mere existence of danger or from the
fact that plaintiff was struck and injured by the moving
car. Defendant did not owe to plaintiff as high a degree
of care as that due from carriers to their passengers or
others coming on their premises for the transaction of
business. The reason for the distinction is .that plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

tiff's knowledge of the situation and the dangers existing
because of the narrow space between the tracks was at
least equal to that chargeable against the defendant.
Missouri Pacific Railroad Co. v. Aeby, 275 U. S. 426. The
rule of law which holds the employer to ordinary care to
provide his employees a reasonably safe place in which to
work did not impose upon defendant an obligation to
adopt or maintain any particular standard for the spacing
or construction of its tracks and yards. Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521, 529. Carriers,
like other employers, have much freedom of choice in providing facilities and places for the use of their employees.
Courts will not prescribe the space to be maintained between tracks in switching yards, nor leave such engineering questions to the uncertain and varying opinions of
juries. Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, 122 U. S. 189, 194;
Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 109 U. S.478,482;
Washington, &c. Railroad Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554,
570. Having regard to plaintiff's knowledge of the situation, it is clear that the evidence when taken most favorably to him is not sufficient to warrant a finding that
defendant failed in any duty owed him in respect of the
space between the tracks. Missouri Pacific Railroad Co.
v. Aeby, supra. The court erred in submitting that question to the jury.
And the court authorized the jury to find defendant
negligent in failing to cause the engine bell to be rung and
in sending the cars along track 4 without a light and unattended. The opinion below declares that the starting
or running of the switch engine without ringing a bell or
blowing a whistle was evidence of negligence; and that if,
according to the practice, cars could be shunted dangerously near to the place where plaintiff was working, without any warning to him or "knowledge of such custom or
practice on his part," the system of doing the work was

TOLEDO, ST. L. & W. R. R. v. ALLEN.
165

171

Opinion of the Court.

not reasonably safe and plaintiff was not provided with a
reasonably safe place in which to work and did not assume the risk. Obviously the ringing 'of the bell when
and after the cinder cars were uncoupled or when the engine started or while it was running would not have been
useful as a warning to plaintiff. When the cars were detached, he was from three to four hundred feet from the
lead track and the engine was at the other end of the
string of cars. The decision on this point is contrary to
the rule followed in the Federal courts. Aerkfetz v. Humphreys, 145 U. S. 418, was a case presenting a situation
similar to that here involved. It is there said (p. 420):
"The ringing of bells and the sounding of whistles on
trains going and coming, and switch engines moving forwards and backwards, would have simply tended to confusion." And see Rosney v. Erie R. Co., 135 Fed. 311,
315; Connelley v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 201 Fed. 54, 57.
And there is no support for the assumption that plaintiff
was without knowledge of the switching practice followed
in that yard or that the movement in question created an
unusual hazard. On the evidence it must be held that he
knew how switching was done there; and, in the absence
of proof that he was exposed to some unusual danger by
reason of a departure from the practice generally followed, it cannot be held that defendant was in duty bound
to give him warning. The members of the switching crew
had a right to believe that he would keep out of the way
of the shunted car. Aerkfetz v. Humphreys, supra.
In any event plaintiff assumed the risk. He was familiar with the yard and the width of the space between
the tracks and knew that cars were liable to be shunted
without warning to him. The dangers were obvious and
must have been fully known and appreciated by him.
Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., supra; Ches. & Ohio Ry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

v. Nixon, supra; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
supra; Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, supra
The amended petition alleged that the employees in
charge of the engine and cars "saw, or by the exercise of
ordinary care could have seen, plaintiff between said
tracks, and in a position of peril and oblivious thereof in
time thereafter, by the exercise of ordinary care, with the
means and appliances at hand, to have either held said
cars stationary, or after having started said cars, stopped
them, or slackened the speed thereof in time . . to
have avoided striking and injuring plaintiff; but that said
. . employes failed and neglected so to do." Defendant requested the court to charge that plaintiff was not
entitled to recover on that ground. The court refused
and submitted the question to the jury.
Defendant contends that the evidence is not sufficient
to warrant a determination of that issue in favor of the
plaintiff. Immediately prior to the switching movement
in question, the engine working on the lead was headed
westerly attached to the easterly end of the string. The
crew consisted of a foreman, two switchmen-one in the
field and the other following the engine-the engineer
and fireman. The plaintiff was then at the place of the
accident. There is no claim that he was not about his
work in the usual way or that he could not have avoided
the cars if he had known they were coming. A slight
movement on his part would have been enough. When
the engine pushed the string westerly along the lead to
give the cinder cars momentum, the field man was on the
south side of the lead and turned switch 4 to shunt them
to that track. There is no evidence that he saw plaintiff
or knew where he was while the switching movement was
being made. The foreman of the crew was on the north
side near the westerly end of the string of cars' He lifted
the coupling pin to detach the cinder cars and gave sig-

TOLEDO, ST. L. & W. R. R. v. ALLEN.
165

173

Opinion of the Court.

nals for the starting and stopping of the engine in order
to give them the desired impulse. He saw the lantern
carried by plaintiff on the north side of the cars on track
5 and assumed that plaintiff was at work there. Plaintiff's son was the other switchman. He was on the north
side near the middle of the string of cars and received from
the foreman and transmitted to the engineer the signals
for the starting and stopping of the engine. He also saw
plaintiff's lantern. Neither engineer nor fireman knew
where plaintiff was. The mere fact that the foreman and
plaintiff's son saw the lantern and knew that plaintiff was
checking cars on track 5 is not sufficient. There is nothing
to sustain a finding that plaintiff was in any danger other
than such as was usually incident to his employment or
that any member of the crew knew or had any reason to
believe that he was oblivious of the situation. Illinois
Central Railroad Co. v. Ackerman, 144 Fed. 959, 962. In
the absence of knowledge on their part that he was in a
place where he was liable to be struck and oblivious of that
danger, they were not required to vary the switching practice customarily followed in that yard or to warn or to
take other steps to protect him. There is no evidence to
sustain the allegation that the other employees saw, or
negligently failed to discover, plaintiff in a "position of
peril and oblivious thereof." There was no foundation
for a finding in favor of the plaintiff on that issue. Cf.
Inland & Seaboard Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551,
558-559; Grand Trunk Railway Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S.
408, 429; Washington & Georgetown R'd v. Harmon, 147
U. S. 571, 581-583; Chunn v. City & Surburban Railway,
207 U. S. 302, 309; Denver City Tramway Co. v. Cobb,
164 Fed. 41, 43; Kanoas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Ellzey,
275 U. S.236.
Judgment reversed.

