454,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

said with respect to an act of Congress: "Every possible
presumption is in favor of the validity of a statute, and

this continues until the contrary is shown beyond a rational doubt. One branch of the government cannot
encroach on the domain of another without danger. The
safety of our institutions depends in no small degree on
a strict observance of this salutary rule." The presumption in favor of the validity of an act of Congress, often
adverted to, has been acted upon as recently as The
Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564; and Hampton, Jr., &
Co. v. United States, ante, p. 394. The presumption should
be particularly strong where, as here, the objection to an
act arises not from a specific limitation or prohibition on
Congressional power but only out of the "vague contours
of the Fifth Amendment, prohibiting the depriving any
person of liberty or property without due process of law,"
MR. 'JUSTICE HOLMES, in Adkins v. Children's Hospital,
261 U. S. 525, 568. I find no reason for thinking that
the presumption has been overcome.

WILSON

ET AL.

v. PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP
COMPANY ET AL.

PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY
WILSON ET AL.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 146 and 173.

Argued January 6, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

In fine, clear weather, on a smooth, open sea, the Newport, an iron
passenger steamer, proceeding eastward at nine knots, rammed the
port side of the Svea, a wooden steam schooner, steaming northward at eight knots. They had been approaching each other in
full view for more than half an hour. Twenty minutes before the
collision, the master of the Newport quitted the bridge, leaving an

WILSON v. PACIFIC S. S. CO.
454

Argument for Wilson et al.

inexperienced officer in charge; and, at the trial, he failed to explain
this conduct or to show what, if any, directions he gave or precautions he took to insure proper navigation. Each vessel held her
course and speed up to the moment of the collision. The Svea had
tried, in vain, by repeated blasts of her whistle, to ascertain the
Newport's intention. The Newport could have averted the collision by porting her helm or reversing her engines two minutes
before it occurred, and there was nothing to inform the Svea that
this would not be done until too late for her master to maneuver
into safety. Held:
1. That the master of the Newport was presumptively negligent
and, in the absence of clear exonerating evidence, was personally
liable. P. 460.
2. The Svea was not at fault in maintaining her course and
speed, pursuant to the fundamental rule of the International Rules
for Navigation at Sea. Her master could not possibly know the
result of departing from it, and, on the facts, could not be held
indiscreet in following it. P. 460.
15 F. (2d) 342, (C. C. A.,) reversed in part, affirmed in part.
District Court (Am. Mar. Cas. 1924, 1285,) affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 686, 690, to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed one by the District
Court in libel proceedings growing out of a collision at
sea. The District Court held the Newport and her
master liable and exonerated the Svea. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held both ships at fault and the master
of the Newport also liable.

Mr. Louis T. Hengstler, with whom Mr. Frederick W.
Dorr was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 146 and

respondents in No. 173.

Both vessels have distinct legal obligations; neither the
one nor the other is privileged in any proper sense.

That

this view is the correct one appears from the language

of the rule itself: "shall keep her course and speed."
This is as imperative a duty as the duty of the other
vessel, that it "shall keep out of the way." The Delaware, 161 U. S. 459; The Orduna,14 Asp. 574; The Haida,
191 Fed. 623.

456

OCTOBER, TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Steamship Co.

276 U. S.

Any distinct indication that the Newport was about to
fail in her duty to avoid the Svea being absent, the Svea
was not in fault under the Delaware case for maintaining
her course and speed until the vessels were in extremis.
Under the settled law, the Newport, being admittedly
at fault, assumed the burden of showing beyond any
doubt that some fault of the Svea contributed to the
collision. The City of New York, 147 U. S. 72; The Victory &f The Plymothian, 168 U. S. 410.
The record fails to show that the master was free from
negligence. It contains affirmative evidence of his negligence. It fails to identify the admitted fault of the ship
with any negligence of the subordinate.
The courts below have made no finding that the evidence absolves the master from personal negligence.
Cross-petitioners' petition having been presented on a
moot question, the writ of certiorari was improvidently
granted, and should be dismissed. Furness Co. v. Insurance Ass'n, 242 U. S. 430; Southern Power Co. v. Public.
Service Co., 263 U. S. 508.
The master of a ship is legally liable for the negligence
of a subordinate to whom he delegates the function of
navigating the ship on the high seas. The reason for the
rule is stronger under modern conditions.
Mr. Farnham P. Griffiths, with whom Messrs. Edward
J. McCutchen and Warren Olney, Jr., were on the brief,
for respondents in No. 146 and cross-petitioners in No.
173.
The rule requiring the privileged vessel on crossing
courses to hold course and speed (Article 21) is not unqualified, but is subject to the provisions of the note to
Article 21, the general prudential rule (Article 27) and
the rule of good seamanship (Article 29), under which,
in special circumstances, the privileged vessel must depart
from her primary duty in order to avoid immediate danger
of collision.

WILSON v. PACIFIC S. S. CO.
454

Argument for the Steamship Co.

These rules, by their very terms, qualify all the other
rules, thus recognizing and enforcing the doctrine of this
Court that "every navigator ought to know that rules of
navigation are ordained, not to promote collisions, but
to save life and property by preventing such disasters."
The Sunnyside, 91 U. S. 208; The New York, 175 U. S.
187; The America, 92 U. S.432.
The lower federal courts have repeatedly called attention to the qualification under special circumstances of
the primary rules. La Lorraine, 12 F. (2d) 436; The
Admiral Watson, 266 Fed. 122; The George S. Tice, 287
Fed. 127; The Senator Rice, 223 Fed. 524; The Devonian,
110 Fed, 588; The Southern, 224 Fed. 210; The Jason,
288 Fed. 57; The Non Pareille,33 Fed. 524; The Aurania
and The Republic, 29 Fed. 98.
A case of special circumstances arises and the privileged
vessel must depart from her primary duty and take affirmative action to avert collision if she receive distinct
indication that the giving way vessel is about to fail in
her duty. The Delaware, 161 U. S.459; The New York,
175 U. S. 182; The Sunnyside, 91 U. S.208.
In a collision, occurring as this did, on the open ocean
with perfect visibility and nothing to obstruct navigation,
there is a presumption of mutual fault, and the vessel
(Svea) seeking to be excused, must exonerate herself by
the clearest evidence. The City of New York, 147 U. S.
72; The Victory and The Plymothian, 168 U. S. 410;
The Binghamton, 271 Fed. 69; The Tasmania, 6 Asp. 517.
The courts have repeatedly stated that collisions of this
character seem impossible without the concurring negligence of both sets of navigators; that it is hardly possible
that the stupidity or obstinacy of a single master can produce them; and that both vessels will be deemed prima
facie negligent and neither exonerated unless "upon the
closest scrutiny of the navigation of each vessel it can be
discovered that *one of them was free from all culpable

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Steamship Co.

276 U. S.

blame." The Tenadores, 298 Fed. 740; The Senator Rice,
223 Fed. 524; The Coamo, 280 Fed. 282; Insurance Ass'n
v. Furness Co., 215 Fed. 859; The Comus, 19 F. (2d) 774;
The West Hartland,2 F. (2d) 834; The Tasmania, supra.
See also David Wright Smith, in The Law Relating to the
Rules of the Road at Sea.
Apart from presumption, the Svea received distinct indication that the Newport was not going to give way.
The combination of an apparently deserted bridge, three
successively unacknowledged whistle signals, two of them
danger blasts, and an unchanging course of a vessel whose
unquestionable duty it was to give way, seem to us as
powerful a grouping of indications that the .burdened
vessel was falling in her duty as one could put together.
The Senator Rice, 223 Fed. 524; The Tenadores, 298 Fed.
740; The New York, 175 U. S.187; The Sunnyside, 91
U. S.208; Nautik v. Oostvoorne, 6 Lloyds List 110; The
Coamo, 280 Fed. 282; The Jason, 288 Fed. 57; The George
S. Tice, 287 Fed. 127; The Devonian, 110 Fed. 588.
Having received distinct indication, the Svea was at
fault for not acting. City of Corinth v. Tasmania, 15
A. C. 223; The Zampa, 113 Fed. 541; The Charles A.
Campbell, 142 Fed. 996; The Queen Elizabeth, 122 Fed.
406; The Shawmut, 261 Fed. 616; The Montauk, 180
Fed. 697.
The time for action by the Svea was when there was
room for her to act effectively so as to avert the threatened collision by her action alone. The Delaware, 161
U. S.459; The Lepanto, 21 Fed. 651; The Aurania, 29
Fed. 98; The Normandie, 43 Fed. 151.
The ruling that the master of a vessel, although not
personally negligent, is legally liable for the torts of his
subordinates, is in conflict with the established doctrine
of respondeat superior. Stone v. Cartwright, 6 Term.
Rep. (Durn & East 411); Brown & Sons Lumber Co. v.

WILSON v. PACIFIC S. S. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

Sessler, 128 Tenn. 665; American Annotated Cases, 1915,
c. 103; Mechem's Agency, 2d Ed. § 1643.
The authorities relative to the liability of a shipmaster
for the torts of subordinates are in conflict. Those holding him liable, although free from personal fault, are
based either upon fallacious reasoning or upon a misconception of previous authorities.
Even if there once were a possible basis for holding a
shipmaster liable for the negligent acts of his subordinates, the reason for such harsh doctrine has ceased to
exist and the rule should no longer be applied.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
. Twelve miles off the shore of California, 9:53 A. M.,
November 29, 1922, sky clear, sea smooth and uninterrupted, the Newport, an iron passenger steamer 337 feet
long-2,643 tons-drove her prow amidships into the port
side of the Svea, a wooden lumber steam schooner of 618
tons and 170 feet long. Both vessels were seriously injured. The owner of the Svea libeled the Newport, her
owners and master in the District Court, Southern District of California. They charged that the collision resulted from the sole fault of the Newport and her navigators and asked for full damages. A cross libel admitted
fault, but claimed that the other vessel contributed, and
prayed for application of the half-damage rule.
The trial court concluded that the collision resulted
solely from the gross negligence and plain fault of the
Newport, and granted a decree against her and the
master-McKinnon-for all established damages. The
Circuit Court of Appeals held there was mutual fault,
divided the damages, and definitely declared that under
the approved rule the master was responsible for the negli-

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

gence of subordinates without regard to his personal
fault.
Counsel for cross-petitioner McKinnon earnestly maintain that, considering present conditions of navigation,
the master, when free from fault, ought not to be held
liable for the action of others. But it is unnecessary
now to discuss that question.
Here the record fails to disclose that the master met
the exacting duties voluntarily assumed. An amazing
casualty occurred while he commanded and presumably,
at least, he participated in the admitted fault of his ship.
Certainly, nothing short of very clear evidence of intelligent care could possibly absolve him.
The day was fine; the horizon ten miles away. The
Newport was proceeding eastward at nine knots with the
Svea off her starboard side steaming northward at eight
knots. They were approaching each other upon crossing
courses and in full view for more than half an hour.
Twenty minutes before the collision Captain McKinnon
quit the bridge of the Newport, leaving the third officer in
charge. Of this subordinate he testified: "This young
man was just keeping his first watch on ship; he just
shipped the day before, and was making his first voyage."
When upon the witness stand, the Captain failed to show
what, if any, directions he gave, or that he took reasonable precaution to insure proper navigation in circumstances of obvious danger. He gave no excuse, nor did
he indicate any necessity for leaving the bridge. It is
impossible for us to say that he acted prudently.
The International Rules for Navigation at Sea (Act
1890, ch. 802, 26 Stat. 327, Act 1894, ch. 83, 28 Stat.
82; U. S. C., Title 33, §§ 104, 106, 112, 121, p. 1055)
direct"Art. 19. When two steam vessels are crossing, so as to
involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other on

WILSON v. PACIFIC S. S. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the
other.
"Art. 21. Where, by any of these rules, one of two vessels is to keep out of the way the other shall keep her
course and speed.
"Note.-When, in consequence of thick weather or
other causes, such vessel finds herself so close that collision
can not be avoided by the action of the giving-away vessel
alone, she also shall take such action as will best aid to
avert collision.
"Art. 27. In obeying and construing these rules due regard shall be had to all dangers of navigation and collision,
and to any special circumstances which may render a departure from the above rules necessary in order to avoid
immediate danger.
"Art. 29. Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any vessel, or the owner or master or crew thereof, from the
consequences of any neglect to carry lights or signals, or
of any neglect to keep a proper lookout, or of the neglect
of any precaution which may be required by the ordinary
practice of seamen, or by the special circumstances of the
case.)
The Newport kept her course and speed up to the moment of collision and it is admitted that in so doing she
was at fault. But her counsel claim that the Svea also
was at fault in holding her course and speed and that by
acting differently she should have avoided the accident.
The evidence does not support that view. Consideration
must be given to the circumstances as they appeared at
the time; not as they are now known. The Svea adhered
to the fundamental rule. If in the difficult circumstances
forced upon him her navigator, whose qualifications are
not questioned, exercised his best judgment in not departing therefrom, the burdened vessel must accept the
consequences. Having driven him into a perplexing

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

situation, the Newport cannot complain because he failed
to make the most judicious choice between the hazards
presented.
Without stopping to set out the evidence, it is enough
to say that we think there is no clear proof that the Svea
failed in her duty. She tried in vain by repeated blasts
to ascertain the Newport's intention. Her master could
not possibly know the result of departing from the prescribed rule, and we cannot say that he acted indiscreetly
in following it.
Big vessels may not insolently disregard smaller ones;
super size gives no right to domineer. The Newport was
a handy vessel. By porting her helm or reversing her
engines two minutes or less before the collision occurred
she could have avoided it easily. There was nothing to
show that she would not do one of these things until too
late for the Svea's master 'to maneuver his vessel into
safety.
The applicable doctrine is plainly announced in The
Delaware, 161 U. S. 459, 469"The cases of The Britannia, 153 U. S. 130, and The
Northfield, 154 U. S. 629, must be regarded, however, as
settling the law that the preferred steamer will not be held
in fault for maintaining her course and speed, so long as
it is possible for the other to avoid her by porting, at least
in the absence of some distinct indicationthat she is about
to fail in her duty. If the master of the preferred steamer
were at liberty to speculate upon the possibility, or even
of the probability, of the approaching steamer failing to
do her duty and keep out of his way; the certainty that
the former will hold his course, upon which the latter has
a right to rely, and which it is the very object of the rule
to insure, would give place to doubts on the part of the
master of the obligated steamer as to whether he would
do so or not, and produce a timidity and feebleness of

UNITED STATES v. MANZI.
Counsel for Parties.

454

action on the part of both, which would bring about more
collisions than it would prevent. Belden v. Chase, 150
U. S. 674; The Highgate, 62 L. T. R. 841; S. C. 6 Asp.
Mar. Law Cases, 512."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in 146 is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed. In
173 the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
No. 146, reversed.
No. 173, affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MANZI.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 204.

Argued February 23, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. The widow of an alien who died after declaring his intention to
become a citizen but before completing his naturalization, must, in
order to obtain the statutory benefit of his declaration, file her
petition for naturalization not less than two nor more than seven
years after the date of her deceased husband's declaration of intention. P. 464.
2. Doubts concerning a grant of citizenship must be resolved against
the claimant. P. 467.
16 F. (2d) 884, reversed.

274 U. S. 730, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment dismissing
the petition of the United States for the cancellation of
a certificate of naturalization.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
No appearance for respondent.

