OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

it must be annexed to it, or so marked by letter, number,
or other means of identification mentioned in the bill, as
to leave no doubt, when found in the record, that it is the
one referred to in the bill of exceptions."
And again, in Jones v. Buckell, supra, at 556, Chief
Justice Waite, in making a similar ruling, said:
"Of course, evidence may be included in a bill of exceptions by appropriate reference to other parts of the record,
and if that had been done here it might have been
enough."
As we have said, we think the identifying references,
in the bill, to the exhibits are sufficient.
The result is that the Circuit Court of Appeals should
have considered the issues before it on the bill of exceptions as containing all the evidence below, and that the
dismissal for lack of it was erroneous.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings.
Reversed.
J. W. HAMPTON, JR., & COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS
APPEALS.

No. 242. Argued March 1, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Section 315 (a), Title III, of the Tariff Act of Sept. 21, 1922,
empowers and directs the President to increase or decrease duties
imposed by the Act, so as to equalize the differences which, upon
investigation, he finds and ascertains between the costs of producing
at home and in competing foreign countries the kinds of articles to
which such duties apply. The Act lays down certain criteria to be
taken into consideration in ascertaining the differences, fixes certain limits of change, and makes an investigation by the Tariff
Commission, in aid of the President, a necessary preliminary to any
proclamation changing the duties.

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

395

Argument for Petitioner.

Held that the delegation of power is not unconstitutional. P. 405.
2. Congress has power to frame the customs duties with a view to
protecting and encouraging home industries. P. 411.
14 Ct. Cust. App. 350, affirmed.

274 U. S. 735, to a judgment of the Court
of Customs Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of the
United States Customs Court, 49 Treas. Dec. 593, sustaining a rate of duty as increased by proclamation of the
President.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Walter E. Hampton for petitioner.
The difference in cost of production at home and abroad
cannot be found as a fact without using discretion and
judgment, choice between different results, at every stage,
thus expressing the exercise of the legislative will.
The fact that the cost of joint products and by-products
cannot be separated except arbitrarily, that alone, and
by itself, makes § 315 unconstitutional.
, There is no magic about the word "finding." The act
,of making the "finding" itself has no creative power.
The complete breakdown of any argument from necessity as sanction for § 315, because Congress has itself been
fixing tariff rates without difficulty, since the beginning,
completely distinguishes the cases cited by the Government where the question of delegating legislative power
was actually raised and discussed by this Court. Buttfield v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470; Waite v. Macy, 246 U. S.
1606, T. D. 37647; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364;
Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.177;
Hannibal Bridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 194;
United States v. Chemical Foundation,272 U. S.1; Field
v. Clark, 143 U. S.649; In re Brig Aurora, 7 Cranch 382.
The expression in sub-section C, "the President in so
far as he finds it practicable shall take into consideration
any other advantages or disadvantages in comI

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

276 U. S.

petition," in itself, renders § 315 unconstitutional. On
account of its presence alone, we submit, this Court should
declare the section unconstitutional without even considering the question of the unconstitutionality of the
"difference in cost of production " formula.
The court below makes the fatal admission that the
difference in cost of production at home and abroad cannot be precisely established, and further that a discretion
is bestowed on the President as to how he shall find such
cost differences.
The Countervailing Duty cases, Downs v. United
States, 187 U. S. 496, and Nicholas v. United States, 249
U. S. 34, do not support the legality of § 315.
In countervailing duty, Congress itself provides that
whenever any country gives a bounty, rebate or grant
upon the exportation of merchandise dutiable under our
tariff, an additional duty "equal to the net amount of
such bounty or grant" shall be levied on such merchandise upon importation here.
The appraisement cases have no place in this discussion. The distinction between executing or applying an
existing ad valorem to a particular importation on the
day of exportation, and making a new rate of taxation to
apply in the future by changing an existing tariff rate,
should be self-evident. The fact that some kind of cost
calculations occasionally crept into finding ad valorem
market value, would not make the two processes similar
in any respect. One still applies an existing rate and
the other fixes a new tax rate for the future.
A non justiciable subject-matter, such as this, cannot
be made into a judicial process, nor can the ultimate duty
be laid upon the courts, by review of this machinery, to
take part in fixing the tax rate. Consequently the Interstate Commerce Commission cases which deal with a
justiciable subject-matter are not in point and are not
authority for the legality of a flexible tariff.

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

397

Argument for Petitioner.

The currency cases do not support the Government's
position. Cramer v. Arthur, 102 U. S. 612; Arthur v.
Richdrds, 90 U. S. 259; Hadden v. Merritt, 115 U. S. 25;
United States v. Klingenberg, 153 U. S. 93. Congress
has a right to place any value for customs purposes it
pleases on foreign money. It authorized the Secretary
of the Treasury to proclaim such value for a year and
from quarter to quarter, thus coming nearer the true
value, and being a fairer way of doing it. It was plain
that Congress could not pass such a currency valuation
statute every quarter. Many months Congress is not
even in session. To thus relax the arbitrary rule and
make it less arbitrary was not delegating legislative power
or taxing power.
The Chemical Foundation case, 272 U. S. 1, is not in
point.
A levy frankly stated to be for the purpose of protection, irrespective of revenue, is illegal. Bailey v. Drexel
FurnitureCo., 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44;
Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.
Had there been no tax clause in the Constitution, could
§ 315 have been enacted under the power to regulate commerce? But even if Congress can tax under the commerce clause alone, it cannot make a levy for a, private
purpose. A tax to equalize foreign and domestic cost
differences is not in any rational sense of the word a regulation of commerce. Commerce cannot be regulated for
a frankly declared private purpose.
The President cannot be delegated the authority to levy
taxes for the regulation of commerce any more than he
can be delegated authority to levy taxes for the raising
of revenue.
On the other hand, assuming, for the purpose of the
argument only, that the section is a legal delegation, the
commerce clause gives it no support or sanction as being
on its face for the private purpose of "protection" to

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

certain purely domestic industries.

276 U. S.

Otherwise the com-

merce clause could be invoked as authority for a direct
subsidy out of the public treasury paid to domestic manufacturers to make up "cost differences." Such a duty
levied to meet "cost differences" no more affects commerce than such a direct subsidy paid to make up such
differences.
We are dealing here with a limitation on the powers of
Congress not to delegate to the executive the power of
legislation or the power of taxation. This limitation is
not to be destroyed by an implication expanding the
powers which it expressly limits. Fairbank v. United
States, 181 U. S. 283; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312; I. C. C. v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 447.
Even if Congress can tax under the commerce clause,
such tax must still be laid by Congress itself, without delegation to executive authority, and such tax must still be
levied for the "general welfare," and not for a private
purpose plainly expressed upon the face of the statute.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Lawrence and Messrs. Marion De Vries,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Robert P.
Reeder, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on
the brief, for the United States.
The statute does not attempt an unlawful delegation of
legislative authority. It delegates to the President the
power to find facts, not the power to make law. He is
to determine, with the assistance of the Commission, the
domestic and foreign costs of production and the difference between them. The rules to be applied to the facts
so found, in order to determine the new rate of duty, are
prescribed by the statute. Congress may delegate to
others a fact-finding power which the legislature may

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

399

Argument for the United States.

rightfully exercise itself. Although Congress cannot delegate its power to make the law, it can make a law delegating a power to determine some fact or state of things
upon which the law makes, or intends to make, its own
action depend. The rule of law prescribed by this statute
is, that within the limits fixed in the statute, tariffs shall
be adjusted to equalize the difference in the costs of production of foreign and domestic merchandise.
That in some case such costs may not be ascertainable,
does not make the statute invalid, but merely renders it,
inoperative in the particular case. That there may be
difficulty in ascertaining the exact costs of production does
not render it invalid. Because of limits fixed by the statute upon changes in rates, exact costs of production are
not necessary to be known in the majority of cases. In
them it is enough to know that the costs are not less in
some cases or more in others than stated amounts. The
discretion left to the President under this statute is a
discretion in matters of fact and in respect of the weight
of evidence, and not as to the rules or principles to be
applied. The Brig Aurora, 7 Cranch 382; Wayman v.
Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649;
Miller v. Mayor of New York, 109 U. S. 385; Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Monongahela Bridge
Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Red "C " Oil Mfg. Co. v. North Carolina,
222 U. S. 380; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Goodrich
Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194; Mutual Film Corp'n v. Ohio
Industrial Comm., 236 U. S. 230; Mutual Film Corp'n v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 258; United States v. Grimaud,220 U. S.
506.
It is too late in the day to question the power of Congress to protect American industry, through the operation of laws imposing duties on imports. In the first session of the first Congress, the second law placed on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

statute books (Act of July 4, 1789, c. 2, 1 Stat. 24) declared that the duties there named were imposed not only
for the support of the Government and to pay debts, but
also for the encouragement and protection of manufacturers.
Congress has power not only to tax foreign commerce,
but to regulate it. Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 492.
See also The Abby Dodge, 223 U. S. 166; Brolan v. United
States, 236 U. S. 216; Weber v. Freed, 239 U. S. 325; Yee
Hem v. United States, 268 U. S. 178; Oceanic Navigation
Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; StrathearnS. S. Co. v.
Dillon, 252 U. S. 348.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
J. W. Hampton, Jr., & Company made an importation
into New York of barium dioxide, which the collector of
customs assessed at the dutiable rate of six cents per
pound. This was two cents per pound more than that
fixed by statute, par. 12, ch. 356, 42 Stat. 858, 860. The
rate was raised by the collector by virtue of the proclamation of the President, 45 Treas. Dec. 669, T. D. 40216,
issued under, and by authority of, § 315 of Title III of
the Tariff Act of September 21, 1922, ch. 356, 42 Stat.
858, 941, which is the so-called flexible tariff provision.
Protest was made and an appeal was taken under § 514,
Part 3, Title IV, ch. 356, 42 Stat. 969-70. The case came
on for hearing before the United States Customs Court,
49 Treas. Dec. 593. A majority held the Act constitutional. Thereafter the case was appealed to the United
States Court of Custoins Appeals. On the 16th day of
October, 1926, the Attorney General certified that in his
opinion the case was of such importance as to render expedient its review by this Court. Thereafter the judgment of the United States Customs Court was affirmed.

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.

401

Opinion of the Court.

394

14 Ct. Cust. App. 350. On a petition to this Court for
certiorari, filed May 10, 1927, the writ was granted, 274
U. S. 735. The pertinent parts of § 315 of Title III of
the Tariff Act, ch. 356, 42 Stat. 858, 941 U. S. C., Tit. 19,
§§ 154, 156, are as follows:
" Section 315(a). That in order to regulate the foreign
commerce of the United States and to put into force and
effect the policy of the Congress by this Act intended,
whenever the President, upon investigation of the differences in costs of production of articles wholly or in part
the growth or product of the United States and of like
or similar articles wholly or in part the growth or product of competing foreign countries, shall find it thereby
shown that the duties fixed in this Act do not equalize tho
said differences in costs of production in the United
States and the principal competing country he shall, by
such investigation, ascertain said differences and determine and proclaim the changes in classifications or increases or decreases in any rate of duty provided in this
Act shown by said ascertained differences in such costs
of production necessary to equalize the same. Thirty
days after the date of such proclamation or proclamations, such changes in classification shall take effect, and
such increased or decreased duties shall be levied, collected, and paid on such articles when imported from any
foreign country into the United States or into any of its
possessions (except the Philippine Islands, the Virgin
Islands, and the islands of Guam and Tutuila): Provided,
That the total increase or decrease of such rates of duty
shall not exceed 50 per centum of the rates specified in
Title I of this Act, or in any amendatory Act. . ..
"(c). That in ascertaining the differences in costs of
production, under the provisions of subdivisions (a) and
(b) of this section, the President, in so far as he finds it
practicable, shall take into consideration (1) the differ318-28-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

ences in conditions in production, including wages, costs
of material, and other items in costs of production of
such or similar articles in the United States and in competing foreign countries; (2) the differences in the wholesale selling prices of domestic and foreign articles in the
principal markets of the United States; (3) advantages
granted to a foreign producer by a foreign government,
or by a person, partnership, corporation, or association in
a foreign country; and (4) any other advantages or disadvantages in competition.
"Investigations to assist the'President in ascertaining
differences in costs of production under this section shall
be made by the United States Tariff Commission, and no
proclamation shall be issued under this section until such
investigation shall have been made. The commission
shall give reasonable public notice of its hearings and
shall give reasonable opportunity to parties interested to
be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard. The
commission is authorized to adopt such reasonable procedure, rules, and regulations as it may deem necessary.
"The President, proceeding as hereinbefore provided
for in proclaiming rates of duty, shall, when he determines that it is shown that'the differences in costs of
production have changed or no longer exist which led to
such proclamation, accordingly as so shown, modify or
terminate the same. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a transfer of an article from the dutiable list to the free list or from the free list to the dutiable
list, nor a change in form of duty. Whenever it is provided in any paragraph of Title I of this Act, that the
duty or duties shall not exceed a specified ad valorem rate
upon the articles' provided for in such paragraph, no rate
determined under the provision of this section upon such
articles shall exceed the maximum ad valorem rate so
specified."

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

403

Opinion of the Court.

The President issued his proclamation May 19, 1924.
After reciting part of the foregoing from § 315, the
proclamation continued as follows:
"Whereas, under and by virtue of said section of said
act, the United States Tariff Commission has made an
investigation to assist the President in ascertaining the
differences in costs of production of and of all other
facts and conditions enumerated in said section with
respect to. . . barium dioxide, . . .
"Whereas in the course of said investigation a hearing
was held, of which reasonable public notice was given
and at which parties interested were given a reasonable
opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to
be heard;
"And whereas the President upon said investigation
. . .has thereby found that the principal competing
country is Germany, and that the duty fixed in said
title and act does not equalize the differences in costs
of production in the United States and in .. . Germany,
and has ascertained and determined the increased rate
of duty necessary to equalize the same.
"Now, therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge, President of the
United States of America, do hereby determine and proclaim that the increase in the rate of duty provided in
said act shown by said ascertained differences in said
costs of production necessary to equalize the same is as
follows:
"'An increase in said duty on barium dioxide (within
the limit of total increase provided for in said act) from
4 cents per pound to 6 cents- per pound.
"'In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
"' Done at the City of Washington this nineteenth day
of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-four, and of the Independence of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

United States of America the one hundred and fortyeighth.
"' Calvin Coolidge.
"'By the President: Charles E. Hughes, Secretary of
State.' "
The issue here is as to the constitutionality of § 315,
upon which depends the authority for the proclamation
of the President and for two of the six cents per pound
duty collected from the petitioner. The contention of
the taxpayers is two-fold-first, they argue that the section is invalid in that it is a delegation to the President
of the legislative power, which by Article I, § 1 of the
Constitution, is vested in Congress, the power being that
declared in § 8 of Article I, that the Congress shall
have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises. The second objection is that, as § 315 was enacted with the avowed intent and for the purpose of
protecting the industries of the United States, it is invalid
because the Constitution gives power to lay such taxes
only for revenue.
First. It seems clear what Congress intended by § 315.
Its plan was to secure by law the imposition of customs
duties on articles of imported merchandise which should
equal the difference between the cost of producing in a
foreign country the articles in question and laying them
down for sale in the United States, and the cost of producing and selling like or similar articles in the United
States, so that the duties not only secure revenue but at
the same time enable domestic producers to compete on
terms of equality with foreign producers in the markets
of the United States. It may be that it is diffi-ult to
fix with exactness this difference, but the difference which
is sought in the statute is perfectly clear and perfectly
intelligible. Because of the difficulty in practically determining what that difference is, Congress seems to have

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

405

Opinion of the Court.

doubted that the information in its possession was such
as to enable it to make the adjustment accurately, and
also to have apprehended that with changing conditions
the difference might vary in such a way that some readjustments would be necessary to give effect to the principle on which the statute proceeds. To avoid such difficulties, Congress adopted in § 315 the method of describing with clearness what its policy and plan was and then
authorizing a member of the executive branch to carry
out this policy and plan, and to find the changing difference from time to time, and to make the adjustments
necessary to conform the duties to the standard underlying that policy and plan. As it was a matter of great
importance, it concluded to give by statute to the President, the chief of the executive branch, the function of
determining the difference as it might vary. He was provided with a body of investigators who were to assist
him in obtaining needed data and ascertaining the facts
justifying readjustments. There was no specific provision by which action by the President might be invoked
under this Act, but it was presumed that the President
would through this body of advisers keep himself advised
of the necessity for investigation or change, and then
would proceed to pursue his duties under the Act and
reach such conclusion as he might find justified by the
investigation, and proclaim the same if necessary.
The Tariff Commission does not itself fix duties, but
before the President reaches a conclusion on the subject
of investigation, the Tariff Commission must make an investigation and in doing so must give notice to all parties
interested and an opportunity to adduce evidence and
to be heard.
The well-known maxim " Delegata potestas non potest
delegari," applicable to the law of agency in the general
and common law, is well understood and has had wider

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

application in the construction of our Federal and State
Constitutions than it has in private law. The Federal
Constitution and State Constitutions of this country
divide the governmental power into three branches. The
first is the legislative, the second is the executive, and
the third is the judicial, and the rule is that in the actual
administration of the government Congress or the Legislature should exercise the legislative power, the President
or the State executive, the Governor, the executive power,
and the Courts or the judiciary the judicial power, and
in carrying out that constitutional division into three
branches it is a breach of the National fundamental law if
Congress gives up its legislative power and transfers it to
the President, or to the Judicial branch, or if by law it
attempts to invest itself or its members with either executive power or judicial power. This is not to say that the
three branches are not co-ordinate parts of one government and that each in the field of its duties may not invoke the action of the two other branches in so far as the
action invoked shall not be an assumption of the constitutional field of action of another branch. In determining what it may do in seeking assistance from another
branch, the extent and character of that assistance must
be fixed according to common sense and the inherent
necessities of the governmental co-ordination.
The field of Congress involves all and many varieties
of legislative action, and Congress has found it frequently
necessary to use officers of the Executive Branch, within
defined limits, to secure the exact effect intended by its
acts of legislation, by vesting discretion in such officers
to make public regulations interpreting a statute and
directing the details of its execution, even to the extent
of providing for penalizing a breach of such regulations.
United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506, 518; Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Buttfield v.

HIAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

407

Opinion of the Court.

Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526;
Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320.
Congress may feel itself unable conveniently to determine exactly when its exercise of the legislative power
should become effective, because dependent on future
conditions, and it may leave the determination of such
time to the decision of an Executive, or, as often happens
in matters of state legislation, it may be left to a popular
vote of the residents of a district to be effected by the
legislation. While in a sense one may say that such residents are exercising legislative power, it is not an exact
statement, because the power has already been exercised
legislatively by the body vested with that power under
the Constitution, the condition of its legislation going
into effect being made dependent by the legislature on
the expression of the voters of a certain district. As
Judge Ranney of the Ohio Supreme Court in Cincinnati,
Wilmington and Zanesville Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 1 Ohio St. 77, 88, said in such a case:
"The true distinction, therefore, is, between the delegation of power to make the law, which necessarily involves
a discretion as to what it shall be, and conferring an
authority or discretion as to its execution, to be exercised
under and in pursuance of the law. The first cannot be
done; to the latter no valid objection can be made."
See also Moers v. Reading, 21 Penn. St. 188, 202; Locke's
Appeal, 72 Penn. St. 491, 498.
Again, one of the great functions conferred on Congress by the Federal Constitution is the regulation of interstate commerce and rates to be exacted by interstate
carriers for the passenger and merchandise traffic. The
rates to be fixed are myriad. If Congress were to be required to fix every rate, it would be impossible to exercise
the power at all. Therefore, common sense requires that
in the fixing of such rates, Congress may provide a Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S,

mission, as it does, called the Interstate Commerce Commission, to fix those rates, after hearing evidence and argument concerning them from interested parties, all in accord with a general rule that Congress first lays down,
that rates shall be just and reasonable considering the
service given, and not discriminatory. As said by this
Court in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich
Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194, 214, "The Congress may not
delegate its purely legislative power to a commission, but,
having laid down the general rules of action under which
a commission shall proceed, it may require of that commission the application of such rules to particular situations and the investigation of facts, with a view to making orders in a particular matter within the rules laid
down by the Congress."
The principle upon which such a power is upheld in
state legislation as to fixing railway rates is admirably
stated by Judge Mitchell, in the case of State v. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company, 38 Minn. 281,
298 to 302. The learned Judge says-on page 301:
"If such a power is to be exercised at all, it can only
be satisfactorily done by a board or commission, constantly in session, whose time is exclusively given to the
subject, and who, after investigation of the facts, can
fix rates with reference to the peculiar circumstances of
each road, and each particular kind of business, and who
can change or modify these rates to suit the ever-varying
conditions of traffic. . . . Our legislature, has gone a
step further than most others, and vested our commission with full power to determine what rates are equal
and reasonable in each particular case. Whether this
was wise or not is not for us to say; but in doing so we
can not see that they have transcended their constitutional authority. They have not delegated to the commission any authority or discretion as to what the law

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

409

Opinion of the Court.

shall be,-which would not be allowable,-but have
merely conferred upon it an authority and discretion, to
be exercised in the execution of the law, and under and
in pursuance of it, which is entirely permissible. The
legislature itself has passed upon the expediency of the
law, and what it shall be. The commission is intrusted
with no authority or discretion upon these questions."
See also the language of Justices Miller and Bradley in
the same case in this Court. 134 U. S. 418, 459, 461,
464.
It is conceded by counsel that Congress may use executive officers in the application and enforcement of a policy
declared in law by Congress, and authorize such officers in
the application of the Congressional declaration to enforce it by regulation equivalent to law. But it is said
that this never has been permitted to be done where Congress has exercised the power to levy taxes and fix customs
duties. The authorities make no such distinction. The
same principle that permits Congress to exercise its rate
making power in interstate commerce, by declaring the
rule which shall prevail in the legislative fixing of rates,
and enables it to remit to a rate-making body created in
accordance with its provisions the fixing of such rates,
justifies a similar provision for the fixing of customs duties
on imported merchandise. If Congress shall lay down
by legislative act an intelligible principle to which the
person or body authorized to fax such rates is directed
to conform, such legislative action is not a forbidden
delegation of legislative power. If it is thought wise to
vary the customs duties according to changing conditions
of production at home and abroad, it may authorize the
Chief Executive to carry out this purpose, with the advisory assistance of a Tariff Commission appointed under
Congressional authority. This conclusion is amply sustained by a case in which there was no advisory commis-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

sion furnished the President-a case to which this Court
gave the fullest consideration nearly forty years ago. In
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 680, the third section of the
Act of October 1, 1890, contained this provision:
"That with a view to secure.reciprocal trade with countries producing the following articles, and for this purpose, on and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, whenever, and so often as the President shall be satisfied that the government of any country
producing and exporting sugars, molasses, coffee, tea and
hides, raw and uncured, or any of such articles, imposes
duties or other exactions upon the agricultural or other
products of the United States, which in view of the free
introduction of such sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides
into the United States he may deem to be reciprocally
unequal and unreasonable, he shall have the power and it
shall be his duty to suspend, by proclamation to that
effect, the provisions of this act relating to the free introduction of such sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, the
production of such country, for such time as he shall deem
just, and in such case and during such suspension duties
shall be levied, collected, and paid upon sugar, molasses,
coffee, tea and hides, the product of or exported from such
designated country as follows, namely: "
Then followed certain rates of duty to be imposed. It
was contended that this section delegated to the President both legislative and treaty-making powers and was
unconstitutional. After an examination of all the authorities, the Court said that while Congress could not
delegate legislative power to the President, this Act did
not in any real sense invest the President with the power
of legislation, because nothing involving the expediency
or just operation of such legislation was left to the determination of the President; that the legislative power
was exercised when Congress declared that the suspension should take effect upon a named contingency. What

HAMPTON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
394

411

Opinion of the Court.

the President was required to do was merely in execution of the act of Congress. It was not the making of
law. He was the mere agent of the law-making department to ascertain and declare the event upon which its
expressed will was to take effect.
Second. The second objection to § 315 is that the declared plan of Congress, either expressly or by clear
implication, formulates its rule to guide the President and
his advisory Tariff Commission as one directed to a tariff
system of protection that will avoid damaging competition to the country's industries by the importation of
goods from other countries at too low a rate to equalize
foreign and domestic competition in the markets of the
United States. It is contended that the only power of
Congress in the levying of customs duties is to create
revenue, and that it is unconstitutional to frame the customs duties with any other view than that of revenue raising.. It undoubtedly is true that during the political life
of this country there has been much discussion between
.parties as to the wisdom of the policy of protection, and
we may go further and say as to its constitutionality, but
no historian, whatever his view of the wisdom of. the
policy of protection, would contend that Congress, since
the first revenue Act, in 1789, has not assumed that it
was within its power in making provision for the collection of revenue, to put taxes upon importations and to
vary the subjects of such taxes or rates in an effort to
encourage the growth of the industries of the Nation by
protecting home production against foreign competition.
It is enough to point out that the second act adopted
by the Congress of the United States, July 4, 1789, ch. 2,
1 Stat. 24, contained the following recital.
"SEc. 1. Whereas it is necessary for the support of government, for the discharge of the debts of the United
States, and the encouragement and protection of manu-

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

factures, that duties be laid on goods, wares and merchandises imported: Be it enacted, etc."
In this first Congress sat many members of the Constitutional Convention of 1787. This Court has repeatedly
laid down the principle that a contemporaneous legislative exposition of the Constitution when the founders of
our Government and framers of our Constitution were
actively participating in public affairs, long acquiesced
in, fixes the construction to be given its provisions.
Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 175, and cases cited.
The enactment and enforcement of a number of customs
revenue laws drawn with a motive of maintaining a
system of protection, since the revenue law of 1789, are
matters of history.
More than a hundred years later, the titles of the Tariff
Acts of 1897 and 1909 declared the purpose of those acts,
among other things, to be that of encouraging the industries of the United States. The title of the Tariff Act of
1922, of which § 315 is a part, is "An Act to provide revenue, to regulate commerce with foreign countries, to encourage the industries of the United States and for other
purposes." Whatever we may think of the wisdom of a
protection policy, we can not hold it unconstitutional.
So long as the motive of Congress and the effect of its
legislative action are to secure revenue for the benefit of
the general government, the existence of other motives
in the selection of the subjects of taxes can not invalidate
Congressional action. As we said in the Child Labor Tax
Case, 259 U. S. 20, 38: "Taxes are occasionally imposed
in the discretion of the legislature on proper subjects with
the primary motive of obtaining revenue from them, and
with the incidental motive of discouraging them by making their continuance onerous. They do not lose their
character as taxes because of the incidental motive."

CASEY v. UNITED STATES.
394

Statement of the Case.

And so here, the fact that Congress declares that one of
its motives in fixing the rates of duty is so to fix them
that they shall encourage the industries of this country in
the competition with producers in other countries in the
sale of goods in this country, can not invalidate a revenue
act so framed. Section 315 and its provisions are within
the power of Congress. The judgment of the Court of
Customs Appeals is affirmed.
Affirmed.
CASEY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 500.

Argued January 11, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. Where evidence in a criminal trial tends to prove inferentially that
the offence was within the venue, and supplementary evidence on
that point might be produced if attention were called to it, objection
that the venue has not been established should be -made specifically
and not rested upon a general request to direct a verdict for want
of sufficient evidence. P. 417.
2. Section 1 of the Anti-Narcotic Act in providing that absence of
the required stamps from any of the drugs shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of the section by the person in whose possession such drugs are found, is merely a regulation of the burden
of proof. P. 418.
3. This provision is constitutional as applied to a person charged with
unlawful purchase of morphine who possessed the drug under circumstances warranting suspicion. P. 418.
4. Upon the evidence in this case, the court, acting on its own motion,
would not be justified in deciding that the Government induced the
crime. P. 418.
5. The amended Anti-Narcotic Act, as applied to this case, is within
the power of Congress. P. 420.
20 F. (2d) 752, affirmed in part.
CERTIORARI,

275 U. S. 517, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, affirming a conviction under the Anti-

