OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

ant. Notice was in fact given. And it was admitted at
the bar that the defendant had, at all times, actual knowledge and the opportunity to defend. The cases cited by
the Court as holding that he could deliberately disregard
that notice and opportunity and yet insist upon a defect
in the statute as drawn, although he was in no way prejudiced thereby, seem hardly reconcilable with a long line
of authorities. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Schmidt, 177. U. S. 230, 238-239; Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S.
427, 436-437; Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. -.215, 227-228;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Hostetter, 240 U. S. 620;
Aikens v. Kingsbury, 247 U. S. 484, 489. For the reasons
stated, I do not need to attempt to reconcile them.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I agree that the judgment should be reversed and the
cause remanded, but with leave to the state court to determine whether the notice given to the plaintiff in error by
the Secretary of State was required by the statute.
LINSTEAD, EXECUTRIX, v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 171.

Submitted January 11, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

Train crews of the Big Four Railroad, operating under a reciprocal
arrangement for freight exchange between it and the C. & 0. Rail-

road, ran Big Four locomotives and cabooses from the common
terminal over a twelve-mile stretch of C. & 0. track, on which were
several stations, to a point on the C. & 0. where they picked up
trains of freight cars destined for the Big Four and returned with
them to its line. Though the men were paid 'by the Big Four and
subject to discharge or suspension only by it, the traffic was C. & 0.
traffic, paid for under its tariffs, and the work was done under the
rules of that railroad and under the immediate supervision of its
trainmaster.

LINSTEAD v. CHES. & OHIO RY.
Opinion of the Court.

28

Held that a member of such a crew, injured while so engaged, was
pro hac vice an employee of the C. & 0. Railroad, within the
Employers' Liability Act. P. 32.
14 F. (2d) 1021, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 690, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, reversing a judgment recovered by the

above-named petitioner in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, for the death of her husband in
an accident on the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway.
Mr. John W. Cowell was on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. Frank M. Tracy was on the brief for respondent.
Linstead was not an employee of The Chesapeake &
Ohio Railway Company within the meaning of the Fed-

eral Employers' Liability Act. Hull v. Philadelphia &
Reading Rwy., 252 U. S. 475; Wagner v. C. & A. R. R.,
265 Ill. 250; M. K. & T. Rwy. v. West, 38 Okla. 581;
M. K. & T. Rwy. v. Blalack, 105 Tex. 296; Drago v.
Central R. R., 93 N. J. L. 176.
The case at bar can not be distinguished from the Hull
case, either upon the ground that the Big Four did not retain control over Linstead after he went upon the lines

of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, or upon
the ground that Linstead, when on the lines of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, was doing the work
of that Company and not work of the Big Four Company.
Linstead's service was for his own company, as was

Hull's. In each case the employee is subject to the rules
and regulations of the connecting carrier when on its lines.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act against the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Com-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

pany, of Virginia, by Katherine Linstead, as executrix, to
recover damages for the death of her husband, who was a
conductor in the employ of the Cleveland, Cincinnati,
Chicago & St. Louis Railway Company, known as the
Big Four, but who was working upon a freight train running upon the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company's
tracks between Stevens, Kentucky, and Riverside, Ohio,
near Cincinnati. The question in the case is, for whom
he was working when he was killed, whether for the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, the respondent, or the
Big Four Company. He was one of a train crew of the
Big Four Company composed of an engineer, a conductor
and two brakemen. The Chesapeake & Ohio Company
comes from the east to Cincinnati along the southern bank
of the Ohio River and crosses that river at Cincinnati.
The Big Four Company has no line in Kentucky but receives traffic and business from the Chesapeake & Ohio
Company at Cincinnati, or near thereto on the north side
of the river, delivering the traffic to the northwest. The
terminal yard, so-called, of the Chesapeake & Ohio reaches
from a station called Stevens, in Kentucky, for some twelve
or thirteen miles to Riverside, near Cincinnati on the
Ohio side, and in this twelve or thirteen miles the Chesapeake & Ohio line passes five stations, called Brent, Altamont, Newport Waterworks, Brick House and Cold
Haven, and over an Ohio River bridge. It is convenient
for both railroads in the interchange of traffic to make
an arrangement by which the Big Four lends to the Chesapeake & Ohio a locomotive and caboose and a train crew
to take the freight trains that come into Stevens, Kentucky, from the east to the Big Four Company at Riverside, Ohio, over the rails of the Chesapeake & Ohio. The
Chesapeake & Ohio does not pay the Big Four Company
any rental for the lending of its locomotive and caboose
and crew in this matter, but it pays the consideration by
a reciprocal service rendered to the Big Four by a train

LINSTEAD v. CHES. & OHIO RY.
28

Opinion of the Court.

crew and locomotive and caboose of the Chesapeake &
Ohio. When the Big Four train crew and locomotive and
caboose run on the track of the Chesapeake & Ohio between Stevens and Riverside, near Cincinnati, they are
furnished with time-tables and rule books of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway. They are under the supervision
and control, so far as their work is concerned, of the train
master of the Chesapeake & Ohio Company, whose jurisdiction reaches from Stevens to Riverside in the operation
of the Chesapeake & Ohio road. The Big Four crew is
not subject to discharge by any officer of the Chesapeake
& Ohio road. In the operation of the train over the
Chesapeake & Ohio line, they obey the signals of the
switch tenders of that company and comply with the rules
for operation on its line. The Big Four crew attends to
nothing while on the Chesapeake & Ohio line but the
train which it is sent over to Stevens to bring to the junction point at Riverside on the Ohio side. All of the members of the train crew, including the deceased, were paid by
the Big Four Company.
On the morning of the accident, Linstead, the deceased,
as conductor, had brought over his crew with the Big
Four locomotive and caboose to Stevens, had attached the
locomotive and caboose to a train of cars containing twenty-two loads and eighteen empties, and was proceeding to
take them to Cincinnati and the junction with the Big
Four load. The train had proceeded only a few miles
on the Chesapeake & Ohio track when it was overtaken and
run into by a commutation passenger train of the Chesapeake & Ohio Company running from Stevens to Cincinnati and back again. It was a train operated by the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway for the convenience of early morning passengers, and was not on the time-table. It was
called the "Chippy." Linstead was in the caboose at the
rear of his freight train. The caboose was shattered to
pieces and Linstead was killed.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The trial was had in the District Court in Kentucky,
held at Covington, and in the charge the Court used this
language, which was duly excepted to:
"First, under the evidence here, you are authorized to
believe, you couldn't find otherwise, that the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway is a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce, carrying freight and passengers between
the states.
"Second, under the evidence you would be authorized
to find, you couldn't find otherwise, that the defendant,
her husband, on the occasion of the injury was in the
employ of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company and
engaged in interstate commerce work."
The result of the trial was a verdict for $16,500, upon
which judgment was entered.
By writ of 6rror, the case was carried to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. That Court, by per curiam, reversed
the judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings. The language of the Court was:
"We are unable effectively to distinguish the facts of
this case from those of Hull v. Philadelphia,etc., Ry., 252
U. S. 475,-an opinion which apparently was not brought
to the attention of the trial court." The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was brought here by certiorari.
273 U. S. 690.
The legal consequences of the relation between one in the
general service of another who is in the special service of a
third person are set forth in the case of the Standard Oil
Company v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215, 221. In that case the
plaintiff was employed as a longshoreman by a master
stevedore, who under contract with the defendant was engaged in loading a ship. The plaintiff was working in the
hold, where, without fault on his part, he was struck and
injured by a draft or load of cases containing oil, which
was unexpectedly lowered from a winch, and the question
presented was whether the winchman whose negligence

LINSTEAD v. CHES. & OHIO RY.
28

Opinion, of the Court.

probably produced the injury was the servant of the
owner of the ship or of the stevedore. After reference to
the opinion of Chief Justice Shaw in the case of Farwell
v. Boston & Worcester Railroad Corporation,4 Metcalf,
49, this Court said that the master was answerable for the
wrongs of his servant, not because he had authorized them
nor because the servant in his negligent conduct represented the master, but because he was conducting the master's affairs, and the master was bound to see that his
affairs were so conducted that others were not injured,
and that this principle rested on the great principle of
social duty adopted from general considerations of policy
and security. The opinion continues:
"The master's responsibility cannot be extended beyond the limits of the master's work. If the servant is
doing his own work or that of some other, the master is
not answerable for his negligence in the performance of it.
"It sometimes happens that one wishes a certain work
to be done for his benefit and neither has persons in his
employ who can do it nor is willing to take such persons
into his general service. He may then enter into an
agreement with another. If that other furnishes him
with men to do the work and places them under his exclusive control in the performance of it, those men became
pro hac vice the servants of him to whom they are furnished. But, on the other hand, one may prefer to enter
into an agreement with another that that other, for a consideration, shall himself perform the work through servants of his own selection, retaining the direction and control of them. In the first case, he to whom the workmen
are furnished is responsible for their negligence in the
conduct of the work, because the work is his work and
they are for the time his workmen. In the second case,
he who agrees to furnish the completed work through
servants over whom he retains control is responsible for
their negligence in the conduct of it, because, though it is
318°-28-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

done for the ultimate benefit of the other, it is still in its
doing his own work. To determine whether a given case
falls within the one class or the other we must inquire
whose is the work being performed, a question which is
usually answered by ascertaining who has the power to
control and direct the servants in the performance of their
work. Here we must carefully distinguish between authoritative direction and control, and mere suggestion as
to details or the necessary co5peration, where the work
furnished is part of a larger undertaking."
Now the work which was being done here by Linstead
and his crew was the work of the Chesapeake & Ohio
Railway. It was the transportation of cars, loaded and
empty, on the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway between Stevens and Cincinnati. It was work for which the Chesapeake and Ohio road was paid according to the tariff approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission; it was
work done under the rules adopted by the Chesapeake &
Ohio Railway Company; and it was done under the immediate supervision and direction of the trainmaster in
charge of the trains running from Stevens to Cincinnati,
and that trainmaster was a superior employee of the
Chesapeake & Ohio road. We do not think that the fact
that the Big Four road paid the wages of Linstead and his
crew or that they could only be discharged or suspended
by the Big Four, prevented their being the servants of the
Chesapeake & Ohio Company for the performance of this
particular job.
The case of Hull v. Philadelphia & Reading Railway
Company, 252 U. S. 475, which controlled the view of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, is to be distinguished from
this. In that case, Hull, the plaintiff's deceased, was in
the employ of the Western Maryland Railway Company
as a brakeman and was killed. The Western Maryland
Company was an interstate carrier operating a railway
from Hagerstown, Maryland, to Lurgan, Pennsylvania,

LINSTEAD v. CHES. & OHIO RY.
28

Opinion of the Court.

at which point it connected with a railway owned and
operated by the defendant, the Philadelphia & Reading
Railway Company, which extended from Lurgan to Rutherford in Pennsylvania. By arrangement between the
two companies, through freight trains were operated from
Hagerstown to Rutherford, one-half over one line, and
one-half over the other, and each company ran its own
locomotives and freight trains over the united line from
Hagerstown to Rutherford, observing the rules of each
company on its respective line. It was held that Hull
was not a servant of the Philadelphia & Reading Company, by which he was killed, but only the servant of
the Western Maryland Company. That was because the
work which Hull was doing was the work of the Western
Maryland Company, even though it was carried on for a
part of the way over the rails of.the Philadelphia & Reading Company. The locomotive belonged to the Western
Maryland Company, the cars belonged to the Western
Maryland Company and the loads that were carried were
being carried for the Western Maryland Company, and
presumably the rates which were received for the transportation were the receipts of the Western Maryland
Company. In other words, the whole line between
Hagerstown and Rutherford was exactly as if it had
been jointly owned by the two companies, and jointly
used by them for their freight trains. Therefore the
work was done by the Western Maryland for itself and
the mere transfer of the train owned by the Western
Maryland and operated by it on to the rails of the Philadelphia & Reading Railway did not transfer the relation
of the deceased from the general employment of the
Western Maryland to a special employment by the Philadelphia and Reading as another master.
In the present case there was such a transfer and the
line over which the transportation was effected and on
which the work of transportation was done by the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

ceased was the line of the Chesapeake & Ohio, which was
master and remained in charge of the operation, with the
immediate supervision of the Big Four crew which was
lent for the very purpose of doing the work of the Chesapeake & Ohio.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must be reversed and the judgment of the
District Court of Kentucky restored.
Reversed.

HARKIN

RECEIVERS, v. BRUNDAGE,
RECEIVER, ET AL.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 117.

Argued December 5, 6, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. As between two courts of concurrent and co~rdinate jurisdiction,
the court which first obtains jurisdiction and constructive possession of property by the filing of a bill is entitled to retain it without interference and can not be deprived of its right to do so because
it may not have obtained prior physical possession by its receiver
of the property in dispute; but where the jurisdiction is not the
same or concurrent, and the subject matter in litigation in the one
is not within the cognizance of the other, or there is no constructive
possession of the property in dispute by the filing of a bill, it is the
date of the actual possession of the receiver that determines the
priority of jurisdiction. P. 43.
2. A stockholders' suit having been brought in a state court, to protect
the assets of a corporation from wasteful and dishonest management and to restore them, when in safe condition, to the corporation after election of a new management, the attorney for the
corporation fraudulently procured a postponement of a motion for
receivers by agreeing in the state court that nothing would be done
in the interim to affect the status quo, the real intention being to
secure a prior receivership in the federal court. To this end, during the continuance, a collusive creditors' suit was begun against the
corporation by a non-resident, a receiver was appointed with the
corporation's consent, the bill, answer and consent being filed simultaneously, and the receiver took custody of the corporate property.

