CHES. & OHIO RY. v. LEITCH.
Syllabus.

413

There is no evidence in the record that reasonably
tends to show that defendant purchased the 3.4 grains
of morphine or that, when purchased, it was not in or
taken from the original stamped package.
I am of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
1n. JUSTICE SANFORD,

dissenting.

I think that the case is not made out by the statutory
provision as to prima faie evidence, and that the judgment should be reversed.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. LEITCH.
CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF WEST
VIRGINIA.

No. 98. Argued March 14, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1028.
A locomotive engineer assumes the risk of being struck by a mail

crane or mail sack hanging from it (Southern Pacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415), even though placed some inches closer to the
track than the general plan for the railroad provided, no unquestionable disregard of obvious precautions being shown. P. 430.
101 W. Va. 230, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 678, to a judgment of the Su-

preme Court of Appeals of West Virginia, sustaining a
recovery. in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.
Mr. Douglas W. Brown for petitioner.
Mr. John H. Holt, with whom Messrs. George B. Martin and Rufus S. Dinkle were on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

276 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought by the respondent, an engineer, to recover from the petitioner for injuries suffered
by him through contact with a mail crane, or mail sack
hanging from it, as he-looked from the window of his
engine, upon the petitioner's road. There is no doubt
that the case is governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, but the respondent got a verdict in the State
Court which was sustained by the Supreme Court of Appeals, 101 W. Va., 230, and the question is whether there
is any sufficient distinction between this and Southern
Pacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415, in which it was held
that the engineer took the risk. The grounds of that
decision were that it is impracticable to require railroads
to have no structures so near to their tracks as to endanger
persons who lean from the windows of the cars; that they
are obliged to erect mail cranes near enough to the tracks
for the traing to pick up mail sacks without stopping;
that it is almost if not quite impossible to set the cranes
so far away as to leave no danger to one leaning out,
and that in dealing with a well known incident of the
employment, adopted in the interest of the public, it is
unreasonable to throw the risk of it upon those who were
compelled to adopt it.
Of course it is answered that these general considerations should not exonerate the railroads from using such
care as they can within the conditions. But it seems to
us unjust to let the risk of a danger that in any event
is imminent vary upon disputed evidence that the danger
was brought an inch or two nearer than it would have
been if a blue print adopted for the whole line had been
followed with a more precisely mathematical accuracy.
In the Berkshire case the testimony for the plaintiff left
a distance of fourteen inches from the end of the crane to
the car. Here the plaintiff's witness makes it ten. The

LARKIN v. PAUGH.
429

Syllabus

witnesses for the petitioner with greater plausibility make
it appreciably more. If there is to be a standard in these
cases, and if, as decided, the general rule is that the engineer takes the risk, the railroad should not be made liable
for this class of injury except where some unquestionable
disregard of obvious precautions is shown. The plaintiff
here, as in Berkshire's case, well knew of the existence of
the crane, which had been in place for three or four years.
He was an experienced engineer and, although here as
there presumably he never had measured the distance, he
like Berkshire knew the fact that threatened danger. At
the trial Leitch testified that he was looking to see the
position of a block signal, pointedly contradicting a statement that he dictated and signed near the time of the
accident. He admitted, however, that it was the fireman's business to look out for the block and notify him,
and the fireman's more favorable position for seeing and
other circumstances sufficiently indicate that there was no
great or sudden emergency, if that would affect the case.
Without discussing the evidence in detail we are satisfied
upon a consideration of it that it does not show grounds
for making an exception to the general rule.
Judgment reversed.

LARKIN v. PAUGH ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA

No. 137. Argued December 9, 1927.--Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Rev. Stats., ยง 2448, providing that where a patent for "public
lands" shall issue in pursuance of any law of the United States,
to a person who has died before the date of the patent, the title
shall inure to, and become vested in, the "heirs, devisees, or
assignees" of the deceased patentee as if the patent had issued to
him during life, held applicable where an Indian holding land by
"trust patent" under the General Allotment Act, applied to the
Secretary of the Interior, under the Act of March 1, 1907, for a

