ALASKA PACKERS ASSO. v. ACCDT. COMM. 469
Opinion of the Court.

467

challenged here upon the sole ground that when injured
he was doing maritime work under a maritime contract
and that the rights and liabilities of the parties must be
determined by applying the general rules of maritime law,
and not otherwise. Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S.
308, Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and
similar cases, are relied upon.
Whether in any possible view the circumstances disclose
a cause within the admiralty jurisdiction, we need not
stop to determine. Even if an affirmative answer be assumed, the petitioner must fail. Peterson was not employed merely to work on the bark or the fishing boat.
He also undertook to perform services as directed on land
in connection with the canning operations. When injured certainly he was not engaged in any work so directly
connected with navigation and commerce that to permit
the rights of the parties to be controlled by the local law
would interfere with the essential uniformity of the general maritime law. The work was really local in character. The doctrine announced in Grant Smith-Porter
Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, and Millers' Ind. Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59, 64, is incompatible with
the petitioner's claim.
The judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
LAMBORN

AL. v. THE NATIONAL BANK OF
COMMERCE OF NORFOLK.
ET

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 163.

Argued January 12, 1928.&-Decided April 9, 1928.

On behalf of a client who had agreed to buy and pay for Java
upon delivery f. o. b. cars at Philadelphia, a bank issued a
of credit to meet the sellers' drafts, which provided, among
conditions, that shipment be made by steamer or steamers

sugar
letter
other
from

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Java to Philadelphia. Held that the condition was complied with
where the consignment came from Java to Philadelphia by a
steamer originally destined from Java "to Port Said, option New
York," but which was diverted while on the high seas, so that she
pursued the same route to Philadelphia as if she had been destined
to that port from the beginning of the voyage. P. 471.
15 F. (2d) 473, reversed.

273 U. S.688., to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, affirming a judgment for the respondent
bank in an action by the petitioners to recover damages.
for the bank's refusal to honor a sight draft drawn against
a letter of credit. See also 2 F. (2d) 23.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Louis 0. Van Doren, with whom Messrs. Edward R.
Baird, Jr., H. G. Connor, Jr., and Edward S. Bentley were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Tazewell Taylor for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought in the federal court for eastern
Virginia by Lamborn & Company, of New York City,
against The National Bank of Commerce of Norfolk.
The jurisdiction of the District Court rested upon diversity of citizenship. The plaintiffs sought damages for
the refusal to honor a sight draft drawn against a letter
of credit, given pursuant to a contract of T. S. Southgate
& Company to buy 1,000 bags of Java white sugar at 22
cents per pound less 2%, duty paid, f. o. b. Philadelphia,
landed weights. Payment was to be made in New York
City upon presentation of sight draft with invoice and
railroad order notify bill of lading attached. The letter
of credit provided: "Shipment to be made during August/September, 1920, at option of the sellers from Java
by Steamer or Steamers to Philadelphia."
The sugar tendered had been shipped on the West Cheswald, a steamer which sailed from Java on September 30,

LAMBORN v. NAT'L BANK OF COMMERCE.
469

471

Opinion of the Court.

and by a continuous voyage arrived in Philadelphia on
December 16. Then followed promptly the discharge of
1,000 bags of sugar; the ascertainment of the net landed
weight; the payment of the duty; the shipment free on
board failroad cars at Philadelphia of the specified quantity of sugar to T. S. Southgate & Company; the drawing
against the letter of credit of a sight draft for the purchase
price, $48,009.81; its presentation, together with the appropriate shipping documents, for payment; and the refusal to honor. All this was done long before the expiration of the letter of credit. Between April 23, 1920, the
date of the contract, and the tender of the sugar, the
market price had fallen 11 cents.
The Bank claimed that the sugar tendered failed to
satisfy the requirements of the contract, because it had
come, not on a steamer which had been continuously
destined from Java to Philadelphia, but upon one which,
originally destined from Java "to Port Said, option New
York," was diverted by the charterers to Philadelphia,
while on the high seas. The West Cheswald had sailed
by a direct route from Java to Philadelphia, the diversion
having been made while she was near Bermuda, about
three days from port, so that she could pursue the same
route to Philadelphia as if she had at all times been destined for that port. In fact, another steamship bearing
sugar shipped by plaintiffs-the Washington Maruwhich sailed from Java two days earlier and had at all
times been destined to Philadelphia, arrived there three
days after the West Cheswald. The case was tried twice
before a jury. The only question in serious controversy
was one of construction-the meaning to be given to the
clause in the letter of credit quoted above. At the first
trial both parties requested a directed verdict. The verdict was directed for the plaintiffs. The Court of Appeals
reversed the judgment entered thereon and ordered a new
trial. 2 F. (2d) 23. At the second trial, the presiding

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

judge, applying the rule declared by the appellate court,
directed a verdict for the defendant. The judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 15
F. (2d) 473. This Court granted a writ of certiorari, 273
U. S. 688, because of conflict with cases decided by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, Matthew
Smith Tea, Coffee & Grocery Co. v. Lamborn (and other
cases), 276 Fed. 325, 10 F. (2d) 697, certiorari denied,
271 U. S. 683, 685, 686.
The defendant is obviously not liable unless there was
a tender of sugar which met with the requirements of
the letter of credit as to amount and quality of the sugar,
as to the time, Norrington v. Wright, 115 U. S. 188, and
the place, Filley v. Pope, 115 U. S. 213, of shipment; and
as to the manner of shipment and the ultimate destination.1 The clause "shipment by Steamer or Steamers to
Philadelphia" states the manner of shipment and the
ultimate destination. Compliance with its provisions was
confessedly a condition of liability. The Bank contends
that there was not a compliance because the sugar tendered did not come by a steamer which at all times since
leaving Java was destined to Philadelphia.
We find nothing either in the words of the letter of
credit, in the custom of the trade, or in reason, which
justifies implying the condition that, from the inception
of the voyage, Philadelphia must have been the destination intended. The transaction is not like the ordinary contract for goods to be shipped. It is not like the
common c. i. f. contract for shipment from a foreign to
an American port, where delivery to the ship at the port
I Compare Bowes v. Shand, 2 App. Cas. 455; Ashmore & Son v.
Cox & Co., [1899] 1 Q. B. 436; Landauer & Co. v. Craven &
Speeding Bros., [1912] 2 K. B. 94; Hansson v. Hamel & Horley, Ltd.,
[1922] 2 A. C. 36; Merchants Bank v. Griswold, 72 N. Y. 472;
Bank of Montreal v. Recknagel, 109 N. Y. 482; Mora y Ledon v.
Havemeyer, 121 N. Y. 179; Iasigi v. Rosenstein, 141 N. Y. 414.

LAMBORN v. NAT'L BANK OF COMMERCE.
469

473

Opinion of the Court.

of lading is delivery to the purchaser. Nor is it like those
contracts where shipment is to be made by a named vessel. Here, the contract was for a sale f. o. b. cars Philadelphia-and the buyer was not to acquire any interest
in the sugar, legal or equitable, until so delivered. Thus,
the contract resembles that involved in Filley v. Pope, 115
U. S. 213, upon which the Bank relies. But the question
for decision here is an entirely different one. There the
contract of sale provided for a " shipment from Glasgow." The meaning of the words used was clear; the
question was as to their legal effect. Was shipment from
Glasgow a condition? This Court held that it was.
Here it is admitted that the term " shipment from Java
by Steamer or Steamers to Philadelphia" is a condition.
The only question is whether that phrase means not
merely that the sugar must be shipped by steamer from
Java to Philadelphia, but also that the steamer which
carried it must, from the inception of the voyage from
Java, have been continuously destined to Philadelphia.
No such requirement is stated in the contract. While
the original letter of credit had required the seller to
furnish a copy of the "Ocean Bill of lading covering shipment Java to Philadelphia," that requirement had been
eliminated on the seller's representation that compliance
with it would be impracticable under the form of shipment contemplated; and its inclusion in the letter must
be deemed to have been inadvertent. As was said in
Harrisonv. Fortlage, 161 U. S. 57, 63: "The court is not
at liberty, either to disregard words used by the parties,
descriptive of the subject matter, or of any material incident, or to insert words which the parties have not made
use of."
The plaintiffs were entitled to a directed verdict. The
conclusion which we have reached is in accord, not only
with that reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, but also with that of the state courts
which have had occasion to construe the same provision

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

276 U. S.

in other contracts of Lamborn & Company made under
like circumstances.2 As the letter of credit is complete in
itself, we have no occasion to consider the terms of the
contract between Lamborn & Company and T. S. Southgate & Company, or the circumstances which led to the
diversion of the West Cheswald to Philadelphia, which
counsel have discussed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.

I think the judgment below should be affirmed. I cannot agree that a condition in a commercial letter of credit,
that drafts are to be drawn against merchandise "shipment . . . from Java by Steamer or Steamers to
Philadelphia" is satisfied by a shipment "from Java to
Port Said, option New York," even though the cargo ultimately reaches Philadelphia. I had supposed, as the
opinion below seems to me to show, that the character of
a shipment is fixed at the time it is made, and hence that
language in a mercantile contract indicating that a shipment is to be made from one point to another could only
mean that the point of destination is to be known and
specified at the time of shipment. Hannson v. Hamel &
Horley, Ltd., [1922] 2 A. C. 36; Landauer& Co. v. Craven
& Speeding Brothers, [1912] 2 K. B. 94; Mora y Ledon v.
Havemeyer, 121 N. Y. 179; Iasigi v. Rosenstein, 141 N. Y.
414, 417.
But even if this were doubtful as a general proposition,
there would seem to be no room for doubt in the present
2H. 0. Wilbur & Sons, Inc. v. Lamborn, 276 Pa. 479, 487; Williams
Ice Cream Co., Inc. v. Chase National Bank, 120 N. Y. Misc. 301;
210 App. Div. 179; J. Hunger!ord Smith Co. v. Lamborn, 200 N. Y.
Supp. 292; Telling Belle Vernon Co. v. Lamborn, N. Y. Law Journal,
December 22, 1920; Pennsylvania Milk Products Co. v. Lamborn
(and other cases), N. Y. Law Journal, January 4, 1921. See also
Central Sugar Co. v. Lamborn, 200 N. Y. Supp. 499, 195 App. Div.
909; Lamborn & Co. v. Log Cabin Products Co., 291 Fed. 435;
Lamborn v. Hardie Co., 1 F. (2d) 679.

TEXAS &c. R. R. v. NORTHSIDE RY.
469

Syllabus.

case. Here the letter of credit specified that drafts when
presented should be accompanied by " copy of ocean bill
of lading covering shipment Java to Philadelphia." Obviously such a bill of lading would be impossible unless
the shipment were continuously destined for Philadelphia.
It is true that, for the convenience of the seller, the bank,
at the buyer's direction, later waived physical presentation
of a copy of the ocean bill of lading. But the record does
not show that the bank had any reason to suppose that
the requirement had originally been inserted in the letter
of credit by mere inadvertence; so far as it was aware,
there was still to be an "ocean bill of lading covering shipment Java to Philadelphia," but the seller was to be excused from presenting it. The clause "shipment
from Java by Steamer or Steamers to Philadelphia" was
not waived and its meaning on the date of presentation
of the draft remained the same as when the credit was
issued. The provision in the letter of credit that "conditions embodied in this credit must be adhered to, otherwise
payment will not be effected," only expresses the rule,
with which we all agree, that liability upon a mercantile
contract may be established only by strict compliance with
its conditions. Filley v. Pope, 115 U. S. 213; Norrington
v. Wright, 115 U. S. 188; Bowes v. Shand, 2 App. Cas. 455.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD join in this dissent.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY v.
THE NORTHSIDE BELT RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 231. Argued February 28, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. A suit under paragraphs 18 to 20 of ยง 1 of the amended Act to
Regulate Commerce, to enjoin a railroad company from prosecuting proceedings to condemn plaintiff's land and from constructing, maintaining, or operating a railroad over it, upon the ground

