NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
IN EQUITY.

ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 2, Original.

Decided April 9, 1928.

Correction of the opinion delivered in this case December 5, 1927.

The corrections specified by the following memorandum
are embodied in the original opinion as printed in 275
U. S. 279.
Mr. J. Harry Covington submitted the petition for
rehearing, on behalf of the complainant.
Mr. W. A. Keeling, Attorney General of Texas, with
whom Messrs. John C. Wall, Wallace Hawkins, Assistant
Attorneys General, and W. W. Turney were on the briefs,
for defendant.

Memorandum opinion by MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD.

A petition for rehearing has been presented by the
State of New Mexico, which we think must be denied.
But it points to an error in our opinion announced December 5, 1927, which, while not affecting the ultimate
decision, requires correction. The petition invites special
attention to some evidence which shows that the statements made in the opinion to the effect that the State
of Texas and the United States had prior to 1912 recognized and acquiesced in the line of the Rio Grande River
as it was located in 1850, as the boundary between the
Territory of New Mexico and Texas, without reference
to subsequent changes by accretion, are not accurate, and,
with the observations based on them, should be recalled.
The order will be that the fifth paragraph of that portion
of the opinion under the heading "Accretions" and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

first part of the next paragraph down to and including
the words "in its own Constitution," be stricken from
the opinion, and the following substituted:
New Mexico, when admitted as a State in 1912, explicitly declared in its Constitution that its boundary ran
"along said thirty-second parallel to the Rio Grande
as it existed on the ninth day of September, one
. .
thousand eight hundred and fifty; thence, following the
main channel of said river, as it existed on the ninth day
of September, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, to
the parallel of thirty-one degrees, forty-seven minutes
north latitude." This was confirmed by the United States
by admitting New Mexico as a State with the line thus
described as its boundary; and Texas has also affirmed
the same by its pleadings in this cause.
Opinion modified; rehearing denied.
NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
IN EQUITY.

No. 2, Original.

Decree entered April 9, 1928.

Decree overruling the exceptions of New Mexico to the master's
report and sustaining those of Texas; dismissing the bill and sustaining the cross bill; declaring the boundary between the two
States at the place in question; appointing a commission to run,
locate and mark it as so defined, subject to the approval of the
Court; with other incidental provisions touching the qualifica-

tion of the Commissioner, his work, his report, exceptions thereto,
costs, etc.

For the opinions in this case, see 275 U. S. 279, and p.
557 of this volume.
Announced by MR. JUSTICE SANFORD.

This cause having been heard and submitted upon the
pleadings, the report of the special master and the ex-

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
558

Opinion of the Court.

ceptions thereto, and the Court having considered the
same and announced its conclusions in an opinion of
December 5, 1927, this day modified in certain respects, it
is ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows:
1. The exceptions of the State of New Mexico to the
master's report are overruled, and the exceptions of the
State of Texas are sustained.
2. The bill of the State of New Mexico is dimissed, and
the cross-bill of the State of Texas sustained.
3. The true boundary between the State of New Mexico
and the State of Texas in the valley of the Rio Grande
River, extending southwardly from the parallel of 32
degrees north latitude to the parallel of 31 degrees 47
minutes on the international boundary between the
United States of America and the United States of Mexico,
is the middle of the channel of the Rio Grande River as
it existed on the 9th day of September, 1850, as outlined
by the special master in Section V(1) of his report; the
intersection of the east bank of the river with the line of
the 32nd parallel to be taken at a point 600 feet west
from the Clark Monument No. 1 as re-established by the
Scott-Cockrell Commission, and the middle line of the
channel to be taken 150 feet from the east and west banks
of the river, respectively, as found by the special master.
4. Samuel S. Gannett, geodetic and astronomic engineer, is designated as commissioner to run, locate and
mark the boundary between the two States as determined
by this decree. In ascertaining and locating the line
of said boundary, the commissioner shall use the most
accurate method now known to science and applicable in
that locality; and he shall mark the boundary, as thus ascertained, by establishing permanent monuments thereon,
suitably marked and at appropriate distances.
5. The commissioner shall include in his report a description of the monuments so established and of their
locations. And he shall file with his report the field notes

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

of his survey, showing the method used by him in ascertaining and locating the line of the boundary, and a map
showing the boundary line as run and marked by him;
also ten copies of his report and map.
6. Before entering upon his work the commissioner shall
take and subscribe his oath to perform his duties faithfully and impartially. He shall prosecute the work with
diligence and dispatch, and shall have authority to employ
such assistants as may be needed therein; and he shall
include in his report a statement of the work done, the
time employed and the expenses incurred.
7. The work of the commissioner shall be subject in all
its parts to the approval of the Court. One copy each
of the commissioner's report and map shall be promptly
transmitted by the clerk to the Governors of the two
States; and exceptions or objections to the commissioner's
report, if there be such, shall be presented to the Court,
or, if it be not in session, filed with the clerk, within forty
days after the report is filed.
8. If, for any reason, there occurs a vacancy in the commission when the Court is not in session, the same may be
filled by the designation of a new commissioner by the
Chief Justice.
9. All the costs of the cause not heretofore adjudged,
including the compensation and expenses of the commissioner, shall be borne in equal parts by the two States.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
BRAFFET, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 344. Argued March 8, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Under Rev. Stats. ยง 2347, and Rule I of the Regulations of the
Land Department of March 6, 1903, an application to purchase coal

