OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

cifically directed the lower court to determine the claim
of plaintiffs on the merits and to enter judgment thereon
"upon the present pleadings, evidence and findings of
fact." Unquestionably the findings of fact are sufficient
to sustain the judgment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, and MR.
JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration or deci-

sion of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in

the result.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 566.

Argued March 28, 29, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

1. The rule which exempts the United States and the States from
the operation of statutes of limitations rests not upon any inherited notion of royal prerogative but upon the public policy of protecting the public rights, and thereby the citizen, from injury
through negligence of public officers. P. 132.
2. The benefit of this rule does not extend to a foreign sovereign
suing in a state or federal cGurt. P. 133.
In such cases, the reason for the rule-the considerations of public policy above mentioned-are absent.
just compensation under the Constitution for the taking of the
87,000 acres of their lands judicially determined on its merits without regard to the grossly inequitable settlement heretofore made."
H. Rep. No. 2354, 74th Cong., 2nd Sess.
. The Report of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs stated:
"The purpose of the bill is to enable these Indian tribes to obtain
just compensation for the taking of a'part of their reservation in
the State of Oregon by the Secretary of the Interior under authority of an Act of Congress approved June 21, 1906." S. Rep. No1749, 74th Cong., 2nd Sess.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. -S.
126

127

Syllabus.

3. The rights of a sovereign State are vested in the State rather than
in any particular government which may purport to represent it,
and suit in its behalf may be maintained in our courts only by
that government which has been recognized by the political department of our own government as the authorized government of the
foreign state. P. 136.
4. What government is to be regarded here as representative of a
foreign sovereign state is a political rather than a judicial question,
and is to be determined by the political department of our government. The action of that department in recognizing a foreign government and in receiving its diplomatic representatives is conclusive
on all domestic courts, which are bound to accept that determination, although they are free to decide for themselves its legal consequences in litigations pending before them. P. 137.
5. After the overthrow of the Imperial Russian Government, the
United States recognized, March 22, 1917, the Provisional Government of Russia; and thereafter the United States continued
to recognize the Provisional Government and to recognize, as its
representatives in this country, its Ambassador and the Financial
Attach6 of its Embassy,-until November 16, 1933, when the
Soviet Government, which on November 7, 1917, had overthrown
the Provisional Government, was for the first time recognized by
the United States. At that same time the United States, through
an agreement between the President and a representative of the
Soviet Government, took from that government an assignment of
all "amounts admitted to be due or that may be found to be due
it, as the successor of prior Governments of Russia, or otherwise,
The United
from American nationals, including corporations .
States, as such assignee, then sued in a federal court in New York
to recover from a New York bank the amount of a deposit which
had stood to the credit of the Provisional Government. The bank:
set up the New York statute of limitations, claiming that in February, 1918, it had off-set the deposit against indebtedness due i;
by the Russian Government, and that on that date it had repudiated all liability on the deposit account, and that, prior to Jun.,
30, 1922, it had given due notice of such repudiation to both th,
Financial Attach6 and the Ambassador of the Provisional Government, thus starting the running of the limitation period. Held:
(1) That such notice of repudiation, given to the then dul,
recognized diplomatic representatives, was notice to the Russiaii
State. P. 139.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

304 U. S.

(2) That the later recognition of the Soviet Government left
unaffected those legal consequences of thl previous recognition of
the Provisional Government and its representatives, which attached to action taken here prior to the later recognition. P. 140.
(3) That if the statutory period has run against the claim of
the Russian Government, the claim of the United States, as
assignee, is likewise barred since:
(a) Proof that the statutory period had run before the assignment offends against no policy of protecting the domestic
sovereign. It deprives the United States of no right, for the
proof demonstrates that the United States never acquired a right
free of a preexisting infirmity, the running of limitations against its
assignor, which public policy does not forbid. P. 141.
(b) Assuming that the respective rights of the bank and the
Soviet Government could have been altered, and the bank's right
to plead the statute of limitations curtailed, by force of an executive agreement between the President and the Soviet Government,
there is nothing in the agreement and assignment of November
16, 1933, purporting to enlarge, the assigned rights in the hands
of the United States, or to free it from the consequences of the
failure of the Russian Government to prosecute its claim within
the statutory period. P. 142.
(4) Even the language of a treaty will be construed, wherever
reasonably possible, so as not to override state laws or to impair
rights arising under them. P. 143.
91 F. 2d 898, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 681, to review the reversal of a

judgment dismissing the complaint in an action by the
United States to recover from the present petitioner the

amount of a, bank deposit which the United States
claimed as assignee of the Russian Government. The
motion was based on the New York statute of limitations.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Ralph M. Carson

was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, with whom
Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. David E. Hudson,
Paul A. Sweeney, and Edward J. Ennis were on the brief,
for the United States.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

126

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The principal questions for decision are whether, in a
suit at law brought in a federal district court to recover
the deposit of a foreign government with a New York
bank, such government is subject to the local statute of
limitations as are private litigants; and,, if so, whether
the assignment of November 16, 1933, by the Russian
Soviet Government to the United States of the right of
the former to the bank account restricts o' overrides'the
operation of the statute of limitations. A subsidiary
question is whether in the circumstances of the case the
running of the statute of limitations, if otherwise applicable, was affected by our nonrecognition of the Soviet
Government during the interval of approximately sixteen years between recognition of the Provisional Government of Russia and recognition of its successor.
On July 15, 1916, the Imperial Russian Government
opened a bank account with petitioner, the Guaranty
Trust Company, a New York banking corporation. On
March 16,. 1917, the Imperial Government was overthrown and was succeeded by the Provisional Government of Russia which was recognized by the United
States on March 22, 1917. On 'July 5, 1917, Mr. Boris
Bakhmeteff was officially recognized by the Pcesident as
the Ambassador of Russia. On July 12, 1917, the account
being overdrawn, $5,000,000 was deposited in the account
by Mr. Serge Ughet, Financial Attache of the Russian
Embassy in the United States. On November 7, 1917,
the Provisional Government was overthrowni and was
succeeded by the government of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, which will be referred to ar the Soviet
Government. At that time there remained on deposit
in the account the sum of approximately $5,000,000. On
November 28, 1917, the Soviet Government dismissed
Bakhmeteff as Ambassador and Ughet as Financial At81638o

38

-9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tache. But the United States continued to recognize
Bakhmeteff as Ambassador until on June 30, 1922, he
withdrew from his representation of the Russian Government. Thereafter, until November 16, 1933, it continued to recognize the Financial Attache, and after the
retirement of Bakhmeteff as Ambassador it recognized the.
former as custodian of Russian property in the United
States.
On November 16, 1933, the Uiited States recognized
the Soviet Government, and on that date took from it an
assignment of all "amounts admitted to be due that may
be found to be due it, as the successor of prior Governments of Russia, or otherwise, from-American nationals,
including corporations . . ." After making demand upon
the petitioner for payment of the balance of the account
the United States, on Setember 21, 1934, brought
the. present suit in the district court for southern New
York to recover the deposit. Petitioner then moved under
the Conformity Act, 28 U. S. C. § 724; New York Civil
Practice Act, § 307; and Rules 107 and 120 of the New
York Rules of Civil Practice, to dismiss the complaint on
the ground that the recovery was barred by the New
York six year statute of limitations.
In support of the motion petitioner submitted numerous affidavits, two depositions, and other documentary
proof tending to show that on February 25, 1918, it. had
applied the balance of the account as a credit against
indebtedness alleged to be due to it by the Russian Government by reason of the latter's seizure of certain ruble
deposit accounts of petitioner in Russian private banks;
that on that date it had repudiated all liability on the deposit account; and that it had then given notice of such
repudiation to the Financial Attache of the Russian
Embassy and later both to the Financial Attache and to
Bakhmeteff as Ambassador. The United States submitted
affidavits and exhibits in opposition. The district court

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

found that petitioner had repudiated liability on the account on February 25, 1918; that it had given due notice
of repudiation prior to June 30, 1922 to both the Financial
Attache and Ambassador Bakhmeteff; and that recovery
was barred by the applicable six year statute of limitations of New York. New York Civil Practice Act, § 48.
The Court of Appeals for the second circuit reversed the
judgment for petitioner, holding that the New York
statute of limitations does not run against a foreign
sovereign. 91 F. (2d) 898. Moved by the importance of
the questions involved, we granted certiorari.
Respondent argues that the Soviet Government, in a
suit brought in the federal courts, is not subject to the
local statute of limitations, both because a foreign, like
a domestic, sovereign is not subject to statutes of limitations, and its immunity as in the case of a domestic
sovereign constitutes an implied exception to that statute and to the Conformity Act; and because in any case,
since no suit to recover the deposit could have been maintained in New York by the Soviet Government prior to
its recognition by the United States, and since according
to New York law the statute does not run during the
period when suit cannot be brought, the present suit is
not barred. It is insisted further that even though the
Soviet Government is bound by the local statute of limitations the United States is not so bound, both because
the New York statute which bars the remedy but does
not extinguish the right is not applicable to the United
States, and because the statute is inoperative and ineffective since it conflicts with and impedes the execution
of the Executive Agreement between the Soviet Government and the United States by which"the assignment was.
effected. Finally, the Government assails the finding of
fact of the district court that petitioner repudiated the
liability upon the deposit account, and contends that notice of the repudiation given by petitioner to representa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tives of the Provisional Government was ineffective to
set the statute running against the Soviet Government
and in favor of petitioner.
First. The rule quod nullum tempus occurrit regithat the sovereign is exempt from the consequences of its
laches, and from the operation of statutes of limitations-appears to be a vestigial survival of the- prerogative of
the Crown. See Magdalen College Case, 11 Co. Rep. 66b,
74b; Hobart, L. C. J. in Sir Edward Coke's Case, Godb.
289, 295; Bracton, De Legibus, Lib. ii, c. 5, § 7. But
whether or not that alone accounts for its origin, the
source of its continuing vitality where the royal privilege no longer exists is to be found in the public policy
now underlying the rule even though it may in the beginning have had a different policy basis. Compare
Maine, Ancient Law (10th ed., 1930) 32 et seq. "The
true reason . . . is to be found in the great public policy
of preserving the public rights, revenues, and property
from injury and loss, by the negligence of public offi7
cers. And though this is sometimes called a prerogative
right, it is in fact nothing more than a reservation, or
exception, introduced for the public benefit, and equally
applicable to all governments." Story,. J., in United
States v. Hoar, Fed. Cas. No. 15,373, p. 330. Regardless
of the form of government and independently of the royal
prerogative once thought sufficient to justify it, the rule
is supportable now because its benefit and advantage extend to every citizen, including the defendant, whose
plea of laches or limitation it precludes; and its uniform
survival in the United States has been generally accounted for and justified on grounds of policy rather than
upon any inherited notions of the personal privilege of
the king. United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720,
735; United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 315; United
States v. Thmpson, 98 U. S. 486, 489; Fink V. O'Neil,
106 U. S. 272, 281; United States v. Nashville, C. & St. L.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

R. Co., 118 U. S. 120, 125. So complete has been its
acceptance that the implied immunity of the domestic
"sovereign," state or national, has been universally
deemed to be an exception to local statutes of limitations
where the government, state or national, is not expressly
included; and to the Conformity Act. See United States
v. Thompson, supra.
Whether the benefit of the rule should be extended to
a foreign sovereign suing in a state or federal court is a
question to which no conclusive answer is to be found in
the authorities. , Diligent search of counsel has revealed
no judicial decision supporting such an application of the
rule in this or any other country. The alleged immunity
was doubted in French Republic v. SaratogaVichy Spring
Co., 191 U. S.427, 437, and in Commissioners of the Sinking Fund v. Buckner, 48 Fed. 533. It was rejected in
Western Lunatic Asylum v. Miller, 29 W. Va. 326, 329;
1 S. E. 740, and was disregarded in Royal Italian Government v. InternationalCommittee of Y. M. C. A., 273 N. Y.
468; 6 N. E. 2d 407, where neither appellate court delivered an opinion.
The only support found by the court below for a different conclusion is a remark in the .opinion of the Court in
United States v. Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co., supra,
where its holding that the United States, suing in a federal court, is not subject to the local"statute of limitations,
was said to rest upon a great principle of public policy
"applicable to all governments alike." The statement is
but a paraphrase, which has frequently appeared in judicial opinion,1 of Mr. Justice Story's statement in United
States v. Hoar, supra, already quoted. His reference to
the public policy supporting the rule that limitation does
not run against a domestic sovereign as "equally appliUnited States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 315; Gibson v. Chouteau,
13 Wall. 92, 99; United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486, 490;
Fink v. O'Neil, 106 U. S. 272, 281.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1937'
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

cable to all governments" was obviously designed to point
out that the policy is as applicable to our own as to a
monarchical form of government, and is therefore not to be
discarded because of its former identity with the royal
prerogative. We can find in that pronouncement and in
its later versions no intimation that the policy underlying
exemption of the domestic sovereign supports its extension
to a foreign sovereign suing in our courts.
It is true that upon the principle of comity foreign
sovereigns and their public property are held not to be
amenable to suit in our courts without their consent.
See The Exchange, 7 Cranch 116; Berizzi Bros. Co. v.
S. S. Pesaro, 271 U. S. 562, Compania Espanola v. The
Navemar, 303 U. S. 68. But very different considerations
apply where the foreign sovereign avails itself of the
privilege, likewise extended by comity, of suing in our
courts. See The Sapphire, 11 Wall. 164, 167; Russian S.
F. S: Republic v. Cibrario,235 N. Y. 255; 139 N. E. 259.
By voluntarily appearing in the r6le of suitor it abandons
its immunity from suit and subjects itself to the procedure and rules of decision governing the forum which it
has sought. Even the domestic sovereign by joining in
suit accepts whatever liabilities the court may decide to
be a reasonable incident of that act. United States v.The
Thekla, 266 U. S.328, 340, 341; United States v. Stinson,
197 U. S.200, 205; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15; The Siren, 7
Wall. 152, 159.2 As in the case of the domestic sovereign
'A foreign sovereign as suitor is subject to the local rules of the
domestic forum as to costs, Republic of Honduras v. Soto, 112 N. Y.
310; 19 N. E. 845; Emperor of Brazil v. Robinson, 5 Dowl. Pr. 522;
Otho, King of Greece, v. Wright, 6 Dowl. Pr. 12; The Beatrice, 36
L. J. Rep. Adm. (N. S.) 10; Queen of Holland v. Drukker, (1928)
Ch. 877, 884, although the local soverign does not pay costs. United
States v. Verdier, 164 U. S. 213, 219. The foreign sovereign suing, as
a plaintiff must give discovery. Rothschild v. Queen of Portugal,
3 Y. & C. Ex. 594, 596; United States v. Wagner, L. R. 2 Ch. App.
582, 592, 595; Prioleau v. United States, L. R. 2 Eq. 659. A foreign

GUARANTY ,TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

135

Opinion of the Court.

in like situation, those rules, which must be assumed to be
founded on principles of justice applicable to individuals,
are to be relaxed only in response to some persuasive demand of public policy generated by the nature of the
suitor or of the claim which it asserts. That this is the
guiding principle sufficiently appears in the many instances in which courts have narrowly restricted the application of the rule nullum tempus in the case of the
domestic sovereign.' It likewise appears from those cases
which justify the rule as applied to the United States suing in a state court, on, the ground that it is sovereign
within'the state and that invocation of the rule nullum
tempus protects the public interest, there as well as in
every other state. United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338;
Swearingen v. United States, 11 Gill. & J. 373; McNamee
v. United States, 11 Ark. 148; cf. United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175, 186.
We are unable to discern in the case where a foreign
sovereign, by suit, seeks justice according to' the law of
the forum, any of. the considerations of public policy
sovereign plaintiff "should so far as the thing can be done be put
in the same position as a body corporate." Republic of Costa Rica
v. Erlanger, L. R. '1 Ch. D. 171, 174; Republic of Peru v. Weguelin,
L. R. 20 Eq. 140, 141; cf. King of Spain v. Huilett, 7 Bligh N. S.
359, 392.
'The presumption of a grant by lapse of time will be indulged
against the domestic sovereign. United States v. Chaves, 159 U. S.
452, 464. The rule nullum tempus has never been extended to
agencies or grantees of the local sovereign such as municipalities,
county boards, school districts and the like. Metropolitan R. Co.
v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1; Boone County v. Burlington &
Missouri River R. Co., 139 U. S. 684, 693. It has been held not to
relieve the sovereign from giving the notice required by local law to
charge endorsers of negotiable paper, United States v. Barker, 12
Wheat. 559; cf. Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389, 398; 'Wilber
National Bank v. United States, 294 U. S. 120, 124, and in tax cases
has been narrowly construed against the domestic sovereign. Bowers
v. New York & Albany Lighterage Co. 273 U. S. 346, 350. Compare
United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301; Fink v. O'Neil, 106 U. S. 272.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

which support the application of the rule nullum tempus
to a domestic sovereign. The statute of limitations is
a statute of repose, designed to protect the citizens from
stale and vexatious claims, and to makE an end to the
possibility of litigation after the lapse of a reasonable
time. It has long been regarded by this Court and by
the courts of New York as a meritorious defense, in itself
serving a public interest. Bell v. Morrison, 1 Pet. 351,.
360; M'Cluny v. Silliman, 3 Pet. 270, 278; Campbell v.
Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610, 617; United States v. Oregon
Lumber Co., 260 U. S. 290; Brooklyn Bank v. Barnaby,
197 N. Y. 210, 227; 90 N. E. 834; Schmidt v. Merchants
Despatch Transportation Co., 270 N. Y. 287, 302; 200
N. E. 824. Denial of its protection against the -demand
of the domestic sovereign in the interest of the domestic
community of which the debtor is a part could hardly
be thought to argue for a like surrender of the local
interest in favor of a foreign sovereign and the community which it represents. We cannot say that the public
interest of the forum goes so far.
We lay aside questions not presented here which might
arise if the national government, in the conduct of its
foreign affairs, by treaty or other appropriate action,
should undertake to restrict the application of local
statutes of limitations against foreign governments, or
if the states in enacting them should discriminate against
suits brought by a foreign governmenf. We decide .only
that in the absence of such action the limitation statutes
of the forum run against a foreign government seeking a
remedy afforded by the forum, as they ran against private
,litigants.
Second. Respondent, relying on the New York rules
that the statute of limitations does not run against a
suit to recover a bank account until liabili t y upon it is
repudiated, Tillman v. Guaranty Trust Co., 253 N. Y.
295; 171 N. E. 61, and that 'the statute of limitations

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

does not run against a plaintiff who has no forum in
which to assert his rights, Oswego & Syracuse R. Co. v.
State, 226 N. Y. 351, 359, 362; 124 N. E. 8; Cayuga
County v. State, 153 N. Y. 279, 291; 47 N. E. 288; Parmenter v. State, 135 N. Y. 154, 163; 31 Nj E. 1035, argues
that until recognition of the Soviet Government there was
no person to whom notice of petitioner's repudiation
could be given and no court in which suit could be maintained to recover the deposit. "
It is not denied that, in conformity to generally accepted
principles, the Soviet Government could not maintain a
suit in our courts before its recognition by the political department of the Government. For this reason access to
the federal and state courts was denied to the Soviet Government before recognition. The Penza, 277 Fed. 91;
The Rogdai, 278 Fed. 294; Russian S. F. S. Republic v.
Cibrario, 235 N. Y. 255; Preobazhenski v. Cibrario, 192
N. Y. Supp. 275. But the argument ignores the principle
controlling here and recognized by the courts of New York
that the rights of a sovereign state are vested in the state
rather than in any particular government which may purport to represent it, The Sapphire, supra, 168, and that
suit in its behalf may be maintained in our courts only by
that government which has been recognized by the political department of our own government as the authorized
government of the foreign state. Jones v. United States,
S137 U. S. 202, 212; Russian Government v. Lehigh Valley
R. Co., 293 Fed, 133, 135, aff'd sub nom. Lehigh Valley
R. Co. v. State of Russia, 21 F. (2d) 396, 409; Matter of
Lehigh Valley R. Co., 265 U. S. 573; Russian S. F. S. Republic v. Cibrario, supra; Moore, International Law Digest, §§ 75, 78.
What government is to be regarded here as representative of a foreign sovereign state is a political rather than
a judicial question and is to be determined by the political
department of the government Objections to its deter-

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

mination as well as to the underlying policy are to be addressed to it and not to the courts. Its action in recognizing a foreign government and in receiving its diplomatic
representatives is conclusive on all domestic courts, which
'are bound to accept that determination, although they are
.free to draw for themselves its legal consequences in litigations pending before them. Jones v. United States,
supra, 212; Agency of CanadianCar & F. Co. v. American Can Co., 258 Fed. 363; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. State
of Russia, supra.

We accept as conclusive here the determination of our
own State Department that the Russian State was rep-

resented by the Provisional Government through its duly
recognized representatives from March 16, 1917 to November 16, 1933, when the Soviet Government was recognized.4 There was at all times during that period a recog'The United States accorded recognition to the Provisional Government March 16, 1917 and continued to recognize it until November 16, 1933, when the Soviet Government was recognized. During
that period the United States declined to recognize the Soviet Government or to receive its accredited representative, and so certified
in litigations pending in the federal courts. The Penza, supra; The
Rogdai, supra. It recognized Mr. Bakhmeteff as Russian Ambassador from July 5, 1917 until June 30, 1922, when he retired, having
designated Mr. Ughet as custodian of Russian property in the
United States. Mr. Ughet, after his appointment as Financial Attache April 7, 1917, continued to be recognized as such by the
United States until November 16, 1933. He was recognized by the
United States as Charge d'Affaires ad interim, during the absence
of the Ambassador from December 3, 1918 to July 31, 1919. Their
diplomatic status as stated was certified in the present suit by the
Secretary of State, who stated that he considered Mr. Ughet's status
unaffected by the termination of the Ambassador's duties.
Their status was certified to by the Department on October 31,
1918 and July 2, 1919, respectively, in Russian Government v. Lehigh
Valley R. Co., 293 Fed. 133. Mr. Bakhmeteff's status as Ambassador was certified May 18, 1919 in Agency of Canedian Car & Foundry
Co. v. American Can Co., 258 Fed. 363, 368; on April 6, 1920 in
The Rogdai, 278 Fed. 294, 295; on June 24, 1919 in The Penza,

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

nized diplomatic representative of the Russian State to
whom notice concerning its interests within the United
States could be communicated, and- to whom our courts
were open for the purpose of prosecuting suits in behalf
of the Russian State. In fact, during that period suits
were brought in its behalf in both the federal and state
courts, which consistently ruled that the recognized Ambassador and Financial Attache were authorized to
maintain them.'
We do' not stop to inquire what the "actual" authority
of those diplomatic representatives may have been.
When the question is of the running of' the statute of
limitations, it is enough that our courts have been open
to suit on behalf of the Russian State in whom the right
to sue upon the petitioner's present claim was vested, and
that the political department of the Government has accorded recognition to a government of that state, received its diplomatic representatives, and extended to
them the privilege of maintaining suit in our courts in
behalf of their state. The right and opportunity to sue
upon the claim against petitioner was not suspended; and
notice of repudiation of the liability given to the duly recognized diplomatic representatives must, so far as our
277 Fed. 91, 93. Certificate with respect to both Mr. Bakhmeteff and Mr. Ughet was given February 19, 1923 and with respect to Mr. Ughet December 22, 1927. On the faith of the
two last mentioned certificates the Court, in the Lehigh Valley
Railroad case, supra, as stated by the Government's brief in the
present case, ordered to be paid to Mr. Ughet approximately
$1,000,000, of which more than $700,000 was paid to the United
States Treasurer "on account of interest due on obligations of the
Provisional Government of Russia by the Treasurer."
'Russian Government v. 'Lehigh Valley R. Co., 293 Fed. 133; 293
Fed. 135, aff'd 21 F. (2d) 396; State of Russia v. Bankers' Trust
Co., 4 F. Supp. 417, 419, aff'd 83 F. (2d) 236. See also Agency of
Canadian Car & Foundry Co. v. American Can Co., 258 Fed. 363.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

own courts are concerned, be taken as notice to the state
which they represented.
The Government argues that recognition of the Soviet
Government, an action which for many purposes validated here that government's previous acts within its
own territory, see Underhill v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250;
Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246 U. S. 297; Ricaud v.
American Metal Co., 246 U. S. 304; United States v.
Belmont, 301 U. S. 324; Dougherty v. Equitable Life Assurance Society, 266 N. Y. 71, 84,85; 193 N. E. 897;
Luther v. Sagor & Co., [1921] 3 K. B.,D. 532, operates
to set at naught all the legal consequences of the prior
recognition by the United States of the Provisional Government and its representatives, as though 'such recognition had never been accorded. This is tantamount to saying that the judgments in suits maintained here by the
diplomatic representatives of the Provisional Government, valid when rendered, became invalid upon recognition of the Soviet Government. The argument thus
ignores the distinction between the effect of our recognition of a foreign government with respect to its acts
within its own territory prior to recognition, and the effect
upon previous transactions consunmated here between its
predecessor and our own nationals. The one operates
only to validate' to a limited extent acts of a de facto
government which by virtue of the recognition, has become a government de jure. But it does not follow that
recognition renders of no effect transactions here with a
prior recognized government in conformity to the declared policy of our own Government. The *very purpose of the recognition by our Government is that our
nationals may be conclusively advised with what government they may safely carry on business transactions
and who its representatives are. If those transactions,
valid when entered into, were to be disregarded after the
later recognition of a successor government, recognition

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

would be but an idle ceremony, yielding none of the
advantages of established diplomatic relations in enabling
business transactions to proceed, and affording no protection to our own nationals in carrying them on.
So far as we are advised no court has sanctioned such
a doctrine. The notion that the judgment in suits maintained by the representative of the Provisional Governrnent would not be conclusive upon all successor governments, was considered and rejected in Russian Government v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., supra. An application for
writ of prohibition was denied by this Court. 265 U. S.
573. We conclude that the recognition of the Soviet
Government left unaffected those legal consequences of
the previous recognition of the Provisional Government
and its representatives, which attached to action taken
here prior to the later recognition.
Third. If the claim of the Russian Government was
barred by limitation the United States as its assignee can
be in no better position either because of the rule nullum
tempus or by virtue of the terms of the assignment. We
need waste no time on refinements upon the suggested
distinction between rights and remedies, for we may assume for present purposes that the United States acquired
by the assignment whatever rights then survived the running of the statute against the Russian Government, and
that it may assert those rights subject to such plea of limitations as may be made by petitioner.
As has already been noted, the rule nullum tempus rests
ou the public policy of protecting the domestic sovereign
from omissions of its own officers and agents whose neglect, through lapse of time, would otherwise deprive it of
rights. But the circumstances of the present case admit of
no appeal to such a policy. There has been no neglect or
delay by the United States or its agents, and it has lost
no rights by any lapse of time after the assignment. The
question is whether the exemption of the United States

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U.S.

from the consequences of the neglect of its own agents is
enough to relieve it from ithe consequences of the Russian
Government's failure to prosecute the claim. Proof,
under a plea of limitation, that the six-year statutory period had run before the assignment offends .against no
policy of protecting the domestic sovereign. It deprives
the United States of no right, for the proof demonstrates
that the United States n~ver acquired a right free of a preexisting infirmity, the running of limitations against its
assignor, which public ,policy does not forbid. United
Statesv. Buford, 3 Pet, 12, 30; King v. Morrall, 6 Price
24, 28, 30.
Assuming that the respective rights of petitioner and
"the Soviet Government could have been altered and that
petitioner's right to plead the statute of limitations- curtailed by force of an executive agreement between the
President and the Soviet Government, we can find nothing in the agreement and assignment of November 16,
1933, which purports to enlarge the assigned rights in.
the
hands of the United States, or to free it from the conse'quences of the failure of the Russian Government to
prosecute its claim within the statutory period.
The agreement and assignment are embodied in a letter of Mr. Litvinov, People's Commissar of Foreign Affairs
of the Soviet Government, to the President and the President's letter of the same date in reply. So-far as now
relevant the document signed in behalf of the Soviet
Government makes mention of "amounts admitted to be
due or that may be found to be due it as the successor of
prior governments or otherwise,,from American nationals,
including corporations, companies, partnerships .or associations." It purports to "release and asign all such
amounts to the Government of the United States" and
the Soviet Government agrees, preparatory to final settle-ment of claims between it and the United States and the
claims of their nationals, "not to make any claims with

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. U. S.
126

respect to

Opinion of the Court.

.

.

.

(b) Acts done or settlements made by

or with the Government of the United States, or public
officials of the United States, or its nationals, relating to
property, credits, or obligations of any Government of
Russia or nationals thereof." The relevant portion of the
document signed by the President is expressed in the following paragraph:
"I am glad to have these undertakings by your Government and I shall be pleased to notify your Government
in each case of any amount realized by the Government
of the United States from the release and assignment to
it of the amounts admitted to be due, or that may be
found to be due."
There is nothing in either document to suggest that
the United States was to acquire or exert any greater
rights than its transferor or that-the President by mere

executive action purported or intended to alter or diminish the rights of the debtor with respect to any assigned
claims, or that the United States, as assignee, is to do
more than the Soviet Government could have done after
diplomatic recognition-that is, collect the claims in conformity to local law. Even the language of a treaty
wherever reasonably possible will be construed so as not
to override state laws or to impair rights arising under
them. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 748;
Haver v. Yaker, 9 Wall. 32, 34; Dooley v. United States,
182 U. S.222, 230; Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U. S.47, 52;
Todok v. Union State Bank, 281 U. S. 449, 454. The
assignment left unaffected the right of petitioner to set
up against the United States the previous running of
the statute :of limitations.
Fourth. Respondent assails the finding of the district
court that there was an unqualified repudiation by petitioner of its liability on the account, and in support of
its contention presents an elaborate review of the evidence. The evidence is said to establish that petitioner's

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

alleged repudiation was tentative and conditional, to
await negotiations with a stable Russian government
upon its recognition by the United States. If this contention be rejected, respondent insists that at least there
'is a conflict in the evidence and in the inferences which
may be drawn from it which, under the local practice,
should have been resolved by a full trial rather than
summarily on motion. As these questions were not
passed on by the Court of Appeals, the case will be remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. CAROENE PRODUCTS CO.
.PPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 640. Argued April 6, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.
The Filled Milk Act of Congress of Mar. 4, 1923, defines the term
Filled Milk' as meaning any milk, cream, or skimmed milk, whether
or not condensed or dried, etc., to which has been added, or which
has been blypded or compounded with, any fat or oil other than
milk fat, - that the resulting product is in imitation or semblance
of milk, cream, or skimmed milk, whether or not condensed, dried,
etc.; it declares that Filled' Milk, as so defined, "is an adulterated
article of food, injurious to the public health, and its sale constitutes a fraud upon the public"; and it forbids and penalizes the
shipment of such Filled Milk in interstate commerce. Defendant
was indicted for shipping interstate certain packages of an article
described in the indictment as a compound of condensed skimmed
milk and coconut oil made in the imitation or semblance of condensed milk or cream, and further characterized by the indictment,
in the words of the statute, as "an adulterated article of food,
injurious to the public health." Held:

