ZERBST v. KIDWELL.
Syllabus.

351

should adopt a liberal construction of the Act to effectuate
the intent of Congress even though the payments in ques-

tion do not fall within the strict meaning of the words
used. But we are not permitted to speculate as to the reasons why the policy evidenced with respect to other
forms of gift was not extended to claims upon promises
enforceable by state law. We are bound to observe the

alterations made in the successive acts which, in the plain

,meaning of the language employed, exclude deduction of
enforceable claims of the sort here involved, even though

the case be a hard one.

The testatrix was bound to bring

her transactions within the letter of the statutory provisions and the regulations at the risk that non-compliance
might deprive her estate of tax immunity as respects the
pledges.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ZERBST, WARDEN, v. KIDWELL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFIH

No. 782.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 27, 1938.Decided May 16, 1938.

A prisoner sentenced to a federal penal institution for an offense
committed while he was on parole from such an institution may
be required by the Parole Board to serve the unexpired portiou
of his first sentence after the expiration of his second sentence.
P. 363.
92 F. 2d 756, reversed.
Together with No. 783, Zerbst, Warden, v. Smith; No. 784, Same
v. Collins; No. 785, Same v. Owens; No. 786, Same v. Peel; No. 787,
Same v. Jones; No. 788, Same v. Stone; and No. 789, Same v. Su/livan, also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court &fAppeals for the
Fifth Circuit.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 632, to review judgments affirming orders of the District Court discharging prisoners from
custody, in habeas corpus proceedings.
Mr. Bates Booth argued the cause, and Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Mr. W. Marvin S'nith were on a brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. F. Kemp submitted on brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents were paroled before completing sentences
in federal prisons.' Before expiration of their ser.tences
and while on parole, they committed second fede:.al offenses, for which they were convicted, sentenced, and
thereafter completely served sentences in the Atlanta
Penitentiary. Respondents contend that, from the moment of their imprisonment in the Penitentiary under the
second sentences, they also began service of the unexpired
part of their original sentences. If this contention is
correct respondents have also completely served the unexpired parts of the first sentences.
Petitioner contends, however, that when respondents
v'olated their paroles by committing the second federal
crimes, they were no longer in custody under the first
sentences; service of the first sentences was interrupted
and suspended and was not resumed before completion
of service of the second sentences; and that after completion of the second sentences, the Board of Parole
has authority to require completion of the first sentences,
service of which ceased due-to the interruption by parole
violations.
'Some were released with credit for good conduct but are treated
as on parole until th3ir maximum terms have expired.

c. 22, § 716 (b).

18 U. S. C.,

ZERBST v. KIDWELL.

361

Opinion of the Court.

35

After completion of service of the second sentences, respondents were held in custody by the warden of the
Penitentiary under warrants of a member of the Board
of Parole alleging violations of parole. The District
Court, believing the first sentences "began to run again
the moment ...[respondents were] received at the Peni-

tentiary," discharged respondents from custody on habeas
corpus proceedings.2 The Court of Appeals affirmed.'
Due to the importance of the 'question involved, we
granted certiorari.'
When respondent committed a federal crime while on
parole, for which he was arrested, convicted, sentenced
and imprisoned, not only was his parole violated, but
service of his original sentence was interrupted and suspended. Thereafter, his imprisonment was attributable
to his second sentence only, and his rights and status as
to his first sentence were "analogous to those of an escaped convict." 5Not only had he-by his own conductforfeited the privileges granted him by parole, but since
he was no longer in either actual or-constructive custody
under his first sentence, service under the second sentence
can not be credited to the first without doing violence to
the plain intent and purpose of the statutes providing for
a parole system.
The Parole Board and its members have been granted
sole authority to issue a warrant for the arrest and return
to custody of a prisoner who violates his parole., A
member of the Board ordered that respondent be taken
into custody after completion of the second sentence.
'19 F. Supp. 475. Respondents filed separate petitions for habeas
corpus raising substantially identical issues, which will be treated
together here, and the respondents will be dealt with as one.
' 92 F. 2d 756.
4 303 U. S. 632.
'Anderson v. Coral, 263 U. S. 193, 196- 197.
618

U. S. C., c. 22, § 723 (o).

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Until completion of the second sentence-and before the
warrant was served-respondent was imprisoned only by
virtue of the second sentence. There is, therefore, no
question as to concurrent service of sentences, unless--as
respondent contends-§ 723 (c) ' required that the unexpired part of respondent's first sentence begin when he
was imprisoned under the second sentence. That section
provides:
" ...The Board of Parole ...or any member thereof,
shall have the exclusive authority to issue warrants for
the retaking of any United States prisoner who has violated his parole. The unexpired term of imprisonment of
any such prisoner shall begin to run from the date he is
returned to the institution, and the time the prisoner was
on parole shall not diminish the time he was originally
sentenced to serve."
Obviously, this provision does not require that a parole
violator's original, unexpired sentence shall begin to run
from the date he is imprisoned for a new and separate
offense. It can only refer to reimprisonment on the original sentence under order of the Parole Board.
Since service of the original sentence was interrupted by
parole violation, the full term of that sentence has not
been completed. Just as respondent's own misconduct
(parole violation) has prevented completion of the original
sentence, so has it continued the authority of the Board
over respondent until that sentence is completed and
expires. Discretionary authority in the Board to revoke
a parole at any time before expiration of a parolee's sentence was provided-and is necessary-as a means of
insuring the public that parole violators would be punished." The proper working of the parole system re.18 U. S. C., c.22, § 723 (c).
'The parole system was intended to make . parole discretionary

"and revocable at any time . . . [the parole authority] may clect to
revoke it," Cong. Rec., Vol. 45, p. 6374. ". . . the prisoner is under

ZERBST v. KIDWELL.

363

Opinion of the Court.

350

quires that the Board have authority to discipline, guide
and control parole violators whose sentences have not been
completed. It is not reasonable to assume that Congress
intended that a parolee whose conduct measures up to
parole standards should remain under control of the Board
until expiration of the term of his sentence, but that misconduct of a parole violator could result in reducing the
time during which the Board has control over him to a
period less than his original sentence.
Parole is intended to be a means of restoring offenders
who are good social risks to society; to afford the unfortunate another opportunity by clemency-under guidance
and control of the Board." Unless a parole violator can
be required to serve some time in prison in addition to
that imposed for an offence committed while on parole,
he not only escapes punishment for the unexpired portion
of his original sentence, but the disciplinary power of the
Board will be practically nullified. If the parole laws
should be construed as respondent contends, parole might
be more reluctantly granted, contrary to the broad humane
purpose of Congress to grant relief from imprisonment to
deserving prisoners.9
Respondents have not completed service of their original sentences and were not entitled to release. The causes
the absolute control of that board, and he may be apprehended and
returned at any time on violation of his parole. Those are the sdJeguards for the benefit of society." Id., p. 6377.
The governing Act expressly provides that: ". . . if said [retaken]
prisoner shall have been returned to said prison, he shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the Board of Parole, and the Board may

then, or at any time in its discretion, revoke the order and terminate
such parole or modify the terms and conditions thereof ....
(Italics supplied.)
8

18 U. S. C., c. 22, § 719.

See Cong. Record, Vol. 45, p. Q374; United States v. Murray, 275

U. S. 347, 357.
9 Cf., United States
v. Farrell,87 F. 2d 957, 961.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

are reversed and remanded to the District Court for pro-

ceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDozo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH APPLIANCE
CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 453. Argued March 4, 7, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.
1. Product claims 25-27, of Patent No. 1,410,499, to Pacz, for a filament for electric incandescent lamps or other devices, composed
substantially of tungsten and made up, mainly. of a number of comparatively large grains of such size and contour as to prevent substantial sagging and offsetting during a normal or commercially
useful life for such-a lamp or other device, held void for want of
a sufficiently definite disclosure. R. S. § 4888; 35 U. S. C. § 33.P. 368.
2. Claimed inventions, improvements and discoveries, turning on
points -so refined as the granular structure of products, require
precise descriptions of the new characteristic for which protection
is sought. In a limited field the variant must be clearly defined.
P. 369.
3. A patentee may not broaden his product claims by describing the
product in terms of function. P. 370.
4. A limited use of terms of effect or result, which accurately define
the essential qualities of a product to one skilled in the art, may in
some instances be permissible and even 'desirable, but a characteristic essential to novelty may not be distinguished from the
old art solely by its tendency to remedy the problems in the art
met by the patent. P. 371.
5. The difficulty of making adequate description may have some
bearing on the sufficiency of the description attempted, but it can
not justify a claim describing nothing new except perhaps in functional terms. P. 372.

