LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
307

Syllabus.

in interstate commerce. Many arguments--which we
might believe to be sound--can be advanced against the

legislative policy of a gross receipts tax. These objections,
however, are not the criterion of its constitutionality.
With the wisdom of such fiscal policy of a State we are
not concerned."7 The interests of interstate commerce will

best be fostered, preserved and protected-in the absence
of direct regulation by the Congress--by leaving those
engaged in it in the various States subject to the ordinary
and non-discriminatory taxes of the States from which
they receive governmental protection. For these reasons
I believe that the entire judgment of the court below

should be affirmed.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
MACKAY RADIO & TELEGRAPH CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 706.

Argued April 5, 6, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals has jurisdiction to entertain a
petition for rehearing, filed at the same term and in time under its
rules, of a judgment denying an application of the National Labor.
Relations Board for enforcement of an order; and the three
months within which a petitioner must apply to this Court for
certiorari to review the decision in such case runs from the date
of the order entered upon the petition for rehearing. P. 343.
2. Following the failure of negotiations looking to an agreement in
respect of terms and conditions of employment, employees of a
company engaged in the transmission and receipt of radio, telegraph and cable messages, interstate and foreign, went on a strike.
The company brought. employees from its offices in other cities
,to take the places of the strikers. Subsequently, all but five of
Cf. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192.

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

those who had been on strike were taken back into the employ
of the company. A proceeding was had before the National
Labor Relations Board upon a complaint against the company
charging that its non-employment of the five was a discrimination
against them on account of union activities and that it was guilty
of unfair labor practices. After a hearing, and upon findings of
fact and conclusions of law, the Board ordered the company to
cease and desist from discharging or threatening to discharge, any
of its employees because of their membership in the union or on
account of union activities; to refrain from interfering with, restraining or coercing its employees in respect of self-organization
and collective bargaining; and required the company to reinstate
to their former positions, with back pay, the five men who had
not been re~mployed, and to post notices to the effect that
members of the union would not be discriminated against. Held:
(1) Under the findings, the strike was a consequence of, or in
connection with, a "labor dispute" as defined in § 2 (9) of the
National Labor Relations Act. It was not necessary for the Board
to find what the state of the negotiations was when the strike was
called; nor, in so many words, that a "labor dispute" existed.
P. 344.
- (2) Their work having ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with, a current labor dispute, § 2 (3), the strikers remained
"employees" of the company for the purposes of the Act, and
were protected against the unfair labor practices denounced by
it. P. 345.
(3) Discrimination in reinstating employees who had been on
strike by excluding certain of them for the sole reason that they
had been active in the union, was an unfair labor practice, prohibited by § 8 of the Act. P. 346.
However, it was not an unfair labor practice for the company
to replace its striking employees with others in an effort to carry
on the business; nor was the company bound later to discharge
such others in order to reinstate the strikers. P. 345.
(4) The Board's finding that, in reinstating employees who had
been on strike, the company discriminated against those who had
been most active in the union, was supported by evidence. P. 346.
(5) The provision of the Act continuing the relationship of
employer and employee in the case of a strike as a consequence
of, or in connection with, a current labor dispute, does not violate
the Fifth Amendment. P. 347.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

335

Counsel for Parties.

In the exercise of the commerce power, Congress may impose
upon contractual relationships reasonable regulations calculated to
protect commerce againft threatened industrial strife.
(6) The affirmative relief ordered by the Board was within its
powers and its order was not arbitrary or capricious. P. 348.
(a) Complete relief in respect of the five men discriminated
against justified their being given their former positions and reimbursement for loss resulting from the discrimination. P. 348.
. (b) In respect of back pay for those ordered to be reinstated,
deductions are to be allowed for all sums earned to the date of
reinstatement. P. 348.
(c) The clause of the order in respect of the posting of
notices to be read in connection with other parts forbidding
discharge on account of union activity and not as requiring
notice that reinstated employees would not be discharged for
any reason whatever. P. 348.
(7) A claim that the company was denied a hearing with respect
to the offense found by the Board, because of variance between the
findings and the charges on which the complaint was based, examined and rejected. P. 349.
3. At the conclusion of the testimony, and prior to oral argument
before the trial examiner, the Board brought the proceeding before
it, heard oral argument and received briefs, after which it made its
findings of fact and conclusions of law. The issues and contentions
of the parties were clearly defined. Held, the submission of a tentative report by the trial examiner and a hearing on exceptions to
that report were not essential. P. 350.
4. The Fifth Amendment guarantees no particular form of procedure;
it protects substantial rights. P, 351.
87 F. 2d 611; 92 id. 761, reversed..
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 630, to review a judgment denying an application of the National Labor Relations Board

for the enforcement of an order.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Robert B. Watts, and
Laurence A. Knapp were on the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Mr. Louis W. Myers, with whom Messrs. Howard L.
Kern, Homer I. Mitchell, H. W. O'Melveny, and Walter
K. Tuller were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals refused 1 to decree enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board.2 We granted certiorari because of an asserted
conflict of decision.'
The respondent, a California corporation, is engaged in
the transmission and receipt of telegraph, radio, cable,
and other messages between points in California and
points in other States and foreign countlies. It maintains an office in San Francisco for the transaction of its
business wherein it employs upwards of sixty supervisors,
operators and clerks, many of whom are member-of-Local
No. 3 of the American Radio Telegraphists Association,
a national labor organization; the membership of the
local comprising "point-to-point" or land operators employed by respondent at San Francisco. Affiliated with
the national organization also were locals whose members
are exclusively marine operators who work upon oceangoing vessels. The respondent, at its San Francisco office,
dealt with committees of Local No. 3; and its parent
company, whose headquarters were in New York, dealt
with representatives of the national organization. Demand was made by the latter for the execution of agreements respecting terms and conditions of employment
'87 F. 2d 611; 92 F. 2d 761.
N. L. R. B. 201.

21

'See Jeffery-DeWitt Insulator Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 91 F. 2d 134; National Labor Relations Board v. Bell Oil &
Gas Co., 91 F. 2d 509; National Labor Relat'ons Board v. Carlisle
Lumber Co., 94 F. 2d 138; Black Diamond . S. Corp. v. National
Labor Relations Poard, 94 F. 2d 875.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

333

of marine and point-to-point operators. On several occasions when representatives of the union conferred with
officers of the respondent and its parent company the latter requested postponement of discussion of the proposed
agreements and the union acceded to the requests. In
September 1935 the union pressed for immediate execution of agreements and took the position that no contract
would be concluded by the one class of operators unless
an agreement were simultaneously made with the other.
Local No. 3 sent a representative to New York to be in
touch with the negotiations and he kept its officers advised as to what there occurred. The local adopted a
resolution to the effect that if satisfactory terms were not
obtained by September 23 a strike of the San Francisco
point-to-point operators should be called. The national
officers determined on a general strike in view of the unsatisfactory state of the negotiations. This fact was communicated to Local No. 3 by its representative in .New
York and the local officers called out the employes of the
San Francisco office. At midnight Friday, October 4,
1935, all the men there employed went on strike. The
respondent, in order to maintain service, brought employes from its Los Angeles office and others from the
New York and Chicago offices. of the parent company to
fill the strikers' places.
Although none of the San Francisco strikers returned to
work Saturday, Sunday, or Monday, the strike proved unsuccessful in other parts of the country and, by Monday
evening, October 7th, a number of the men became convinced that it would fail and that they had better return
to work before their places were filled with new employes.
One of them telephoned the respondent's traffic supervisor
Monday evening to inquire 'whether the men might return. He was told that the respondent would take them
back and it was arranged that the official should meet the
employes at a downtown hotel and make a statement to
81688-38-.---22

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

them. Before leaving the company's office for this purpose, the supervisor consulted with his superior, who told
him that the men might return to work in their former
positions but that, as the company had promised eleven
men brought to San Francisco they might remain if they
so desired, the supervisor would have to handle the return of the striking employes in such fashion as not to displace any of the new men who desired to continue in San
Francisco. A little later the supervisor met two of 'the
striking employes and gave them a list of all the strikers,
together with their addresses, and the telephone numbers
of those who had telephones, and it was arranged that
these two employes should telephone the strikers to come
to a meeting at the Hotel Bellevue in the early hours of
Tuesday, October 8th. In furnishing this list the supervisor stated that the men could return to work in a body
but he checked off the names of eleven strikers who he said
would have to file applications for reinstatement, which
applications would be subject to the approval of an executive of the company in New York. Because of this statement the two employes, in notifying the strikers of the
proposed meeting, with the knowledge of the supervisor,
omitted to communicate with the eleven men whose names
had been checked off. Thirty-six men attended the meeting. Some of the eleven in question heard of it and
attended. The supervisor appeared at the meeting and
reiterated his statement that the men could go back to
work at once, but read from a list the names of the eleven
who would be required to file applications for reinstatement to be passed upon in New York. Those present at
the meeting voted on the question of immediately returning to work, and the proposition was carried. Most of the
men left the meeting and went to the respbndent's office
Tuesday morning, October 8th, where on that day they
resumed their usual duties. Then or shortly thereafter,
six of the eleven in question took their places and resumed

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

Opinion of the Court.

their work without challenge. It turned out that only
five of the new men brought to San Francisop desired to
stay.
Five strikers who were prominent in the activities of
the union and in connection with the strike, whose Pames
appeared upon the list of eleven, reported at the oflep at
various times between Tuesday and Thursday. Eacfllof
them was told that he would have to fill out an application for employment; that the roll of employes was complete, and that his application would be 'considered in
connection with any vacancy that might thereafter occur.
These men not having been reinstated in the course of
three weeks, the secretary of Local No. 3 presented a charge
to the National Labor Relations Board that the respondent had violated § 8 (1) and (3) of the National Labor
Relations Act.' Thereupon the Board-filed a complaint
charging that the respondent had discharged, and was reemploy, the five men who had not been reinfusing
stated to
to their positions, for the reason that they
had
joined and assisted the labor organization known as Local
No. 3 and had engaged in concerted activities with other
employes of the respondent, for the purpose of collective
bargaining and other mutual aid and protection; that by
such discharge respondent had interfered with, restrained,
and coerced the employes in the exercise of their rights
guaranteed by § 71 of the National Labor Relations Act
and so had been guilty of an unfair labor practice within
the meaning of § 8 (1) of the Act. The complaint further
alleged that the discharge of these men -was a discrimination in respect of their hire and tenure of employment
and a discouragement of membership in Local No. 3, and
thus an unfair labor practice within the meaning of § 8 (3)
of the Act.
'U. S. C. Supp. II, Tit. 29, § 158 (1) and (3).
"U. S. C. Supp. II, Tit. 29, § 157.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The respondent filed an answer denying the allegations
of the complaint, and moved to dismiss the proceeding on
theground that the Act is unconstitutional. The motion
was taken under advisement by the Board's examiner and
the case proceeded to hearing. After the completion of
its testimony, the Board filed an amended complaint to
comport with the evidence, in which it charged that the
respondent had refused to re-employ the five operators for
the reason that they had joined and assisted the labor
organization known 'as Local No. 3 and engaged with other
employes in concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining and other mutual aid and protection; that
the refusal to re-employ them restrained and coerced the
employes in the exercise of rights guaranteed by § 7 and
so constituted an unfair labor practice within § 8 (1) of
the Act. The amended complaint further asserted that
the refusal to re-employ the men discriminated in regard
to their hire and tenure of employment and discouraged
membership in Local No. 3 and thus amounted to an unfair labor practice under § 8 (3) of the Act. The respondent entered a general denial to the amended complaint
and presented its evidence. At the conclusion of the testimony, the Board transferred the cause for further hearing before the members of the Board at Washington, and
after oral argument and the filing of a brief, made its
findings of fact.
The subsidiary or evidentiary facts were found in great
detail and, upon the footing of them, the Board reached
conclusions of fact to the effect that Local No. 3 is a labor
organization within the meaning of the Act; that "by
refusing to reinstate to employment" the five men in question, "thereby discharging said employes," the respondent by "each of said discharges," discriminated in regard
to tenure of employment and thereby discouraged membership in the labor organization known as Local No. 3,
and, by the described acts "has interfered with oestrained

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

Opinion of the Court.

and coerced its employes in the exercise of the rights
guaranteed by Section 7 of the National Labor Relations
Act." As conclusions of law the Board found that the
respondent had engaged in unfair labor practices affecting
commerce within the meaning of § 8, subsections (1-) and
(3), and § 2, subsections (6) and (7) ' of the Act. It
entered an order that respondent cease and desist from
discharging, or threatening to discharge, any of its employes for the reason that they had joined or assisted
Local No. 3 or otherwise engaged in union activities;
from interfering with, restraining or coercing its employes
in the exercise of the rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act;
offer the five men immediate and full reinstatement to
their former positions, without prejudice to rights and
privileges previously enjoyed, and make each of them
whole for any loss of wages due to their discharge; post
notices that the respondent would not discharge or discriminate against members of, or those desiring to become
members of, the union, and keep the notices posted for
thirty days.
As permitted by the Act, the Board filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals a transcript of the record of its
proceeding, and a petition for enforcement of its order.
In its answer the respondent denied the jurisdiction of the
court on the ground that the Act violated Article II, and
the Fifth, Seventh, and Tenth Amendments, of the Constitution; that the order amounted to an abuse of discretion because arbitrary and capricious, and was not supported by the evidence; that the trial examiner erred in
his rulings on evidence; that the Board erred in overruling
exceptions to his rulings, and that the Board's findings of
fact and conclusions of law were erroneous.
Upon the hearing before the Circuit Court of Appeals,
one judge held that the action of the Board was within
U. S. C. Supp. II, Tit. 29, § 152 (6) (7).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the power sought to be conferred upon it by the statute
but that the grant of power violated the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment, and the award of back
pay to-the employes, without a jury trial, violated the
Seventh Amendment. Another judge held that as the
statute defined employes to include a person whose work
had ceased "as. a consequence of, or in connection with,
any current labor dispute," and since there was no allegation, evidence, or finding as to such a dispute, the strikers
had ceased to be employes within the meaning of the
Act and the respondent's treatment of them could not
violate the Act. One judge -dissented,-holding that the
Board's order was within its statutory authority and did
not violate the Constitution. A petition and supplemental petition for rehearing were granted and, after
argument, the court reaffirmed its former decision. The
judge who had previously declared the Board's action
within the terms of the statute, but unconstitutional, construed the Act as not intended to work the unconstitutional result of compelling an employer to enter into a
contract of employment against his will and, hence, as
requiring only that the strikers be reinstated to the position of applicants for employment rather than employes.
The other judges adhered to the views they had previously expressed.
The petitioner contends the court erred in holding that
men who struck because of a failure of negotiations concerning wages and terms of employment ceased tQ be
employes within the meaning of the statute; erred in not
holding it an unfair labor practice, forbidden by the statute, for an employer to discriminate because of ^union
activities in the reinstatement of men who have gone on
strike because of a failure of negotiations concerning
wages and terms of employment; erred in failing to hold
that the Act ,uthorizes the Board to order reinstatement
of persons thus discriminated against; and one of the

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

343

Opinion of the Court.

judges erred in holding that the Act, if construed to authorize the Board to require such reinstatement, violate.
the Fifth Amendment.
On the other hand, the respondent insists that it was
not accorded due process of law, because the unfair labor
practice charged in the original complaint was abandoned
and the action of the Board was based upon a conclusion
of fact not within the issues presented; that there is no
basis for the Board's order, 'oecause there is no finding
that the strikers ceased work as a consequence of, or in connection with, any labor dispute, as defined in the statute;
that the Act does not empower the Board to compel an
employer to re-employ or reinstate those who have abandoned negotiations and gone on strike prior to any unfair
labor practice, where the employer, after the strike is
effective, and before committing any unfair labor practice, has permanently employed others in place of the
strikers; that, if the Act be held to authorize the Board's
order, it violates the Fifth Amendment; that Article III
of the Constitution requires that the court render its independent judgment upon the quasi-jurisdictional facts
upon which the Board's order was based; that the Board's
order was, in the light of the facts, so arbitrary and
capricious as to warrant the court's refusal to enforce it;
and that the case is not properly before us because certiorari was not sought within the time fixed by law.
We hold that we have jurisdiction; that the Board's
order is within its competence and does not contravene
any provision of the Constitution.
First. Within the thirty days prescribed by the rules of
the Circuit Court of Appeals the petitioner moved fQr a
rehearing and for leave, if deemed appropriate, to take
further evidence and add the same to the record Jbefore the
Board. While this application was pending a supplemental petition for rehearing was presented. During the
term the court entertained both petitions and granted a re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

hearing and, after oral argument and submission of briefs,
wrote further opinions based upon the petitions for rehearing. We think the court had not lost jurisdiction of
the cause; that its final judgment was the order entered
upotn the petitions for rehearing; and that the three
months within which the petitioner must apply for certiorari ran from the date of the order dismissing the petition
for rehearing and confirming the original order.
Second. Under the findings the strike was a consequence
of, or in connection with, a current labor dispute as defined
in § 2 (()) of the Act. That there were pending negotia-tions for the execution of a contract touching wages and
terms and conditions of employment of point-to-point
operators cannot be denied. But it is said the record fails
to disclose what caused these negotiations to fail or to
show that the respondent was in any wise in fault in failing to -comply with the union's demands; and, therefore,.
for all that appears, the strike was not called by reason of
fault of the respondent. The argument confuses a current labor dispute with an unfair labor practice defined
in § 8 of the Act. True there is no evidence that respondent had been guilty of any unfair labor practice
prior to the strike, but within the intent of the Act there
was an existing labor dispute in connection with which
the strike was called. The finding is that the strike was
deemed "advisable in view of the unsatisfactory state of
the negotiations" in New York. It was unnecessary for
the Board to find what was in fact the state of the negotiations in New York when the strike was called, or in so
many words that a labor dispute as defined by the Act
existed. The wisdom or unwisdom of the men, their justi;
fication or lack of it, in attributing to respondent an uitreasonable or arbitrary attitude in connection with the
negotiations, cannot determine whether, when they struck,
they did so: as a consequence of or in connection with a
current labor dispute.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
3M

Opinion of the Court.

Third. The strikers remained employes under § 2 (3) of
the Act which provides: "The term 'employee' shall include .. any individual whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with, any current labor dispute
of because of any unfair labor practice, and who has not
obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent
employment;..." Within this definition the strikers re-

mained employes for the purpose of the Act and were.
proteeted against the unfair labor practices denounced
by it.
Fourth. It is contended that the Board lacked jurisdiction because respondent was at no time guilty of any unfair labor practice. Section 8 of the Act denominates as
such practice action by an employer to interfere with,
restrain,, or coerce employes in the exercise of their rights
to organize, to form, join or assist labor organizations, and
to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, or "by
discrimination in regard to . . . tenure of employment or

any term or condition of employment to encourage or discouragd membership in any labor organization:..."
There is no evidence and .no finding that the respondent
was guilty of any unfair labor practice in connection with
the negotiations in New York. On the contlary, it affirmatively appears that the respondent was negotiating with
the authorized representatives of the union. Nor was it
an unfair labor practice to replace the striking employes
with others in ,an effort to carry on the business. Al-*,
though § 13 provides, "Nothing in this Act shall be construed so as to interfere with or impede or diminish in
any way the right to strike," it does not follow that an
employer, guilty of no act denounced by the statute, has
lost the right to protect and continue his business by supplying places left vacant by strikers. And he is not
bound to discharge those hired to fill the places of strikers,
upon the election of the latter to resume their employ-

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

ment, in order to create places for them." The assurance
by respondent to those who accepted employment during
the strike that if they so desired their places might be
permanent was not an unfair labor practice nor .was it
such to reinstate only so many of the strikers as there
were vacant places to be filled. But the claim put forward is that the unfair labor practice indulged by the respondent was discrimination in reinstating striking employes by keeping out certain of them for the sole reason
that they had been active in the union. As we have said,
the strikers retained, under the Act, the status of employes. Any such discrimination in putting them back
to work is, therefore, prohibited by § 8.
Fifth. The" Board's findings as to discrimination are
supported by evidence. We shall not attempt a discussion of the conflicting claims as to the proper conclusions
to be drawn from the testimony. There was. evidence,
which the Board credited, that several of the five men in
question were told that their union activities made them
undesirable to their employer; and that some of them did
not return to work with the great body of the men at
6 o'clock on Tuesday morning because they understood
they would not be allowed to go to work until the superior
officials had passed upon their applications. When they
did apply at times between Tuesday morning and Thursday they were each told that the quota was full and that
their applications could not be granted in any event until
a vacancy occurred. This was on the ground that five of
the eleven new men remained at work in San Francisco.
On the other hand, six of the eleven strikers listed for
separate treatment who reported for work early Tuesday
morning, or within the next day or so, were permitted to
go back to work and were not compelled to await the
approval of their applications. It appears that all of the
'Compare National Labor Relations Board v. Bell Oil & Gas Co.,
91 F. 2d 509.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

Opinion of the Court.

men who had been on strike signed applications for reemployment shortly after their resumption of work. The
Board found, and we cannot say that its finding is unsupported, that, in taking back six of the eleven men and
excluding five who were active union men, the respondent's officials discriminated against the latter on account
of their union activities and that the excuse given that
they did not apply until after the quota was full was
an afterthought and not the true reason for the discrimination against them.
As we have said, the respondent was not bound to displace men hired to take the strikers' places in order to
provide positions for them. It might have refused reinstatement on the ground of skill or ability, but the Board
found that it did not do so. It might have resorted to
any one of a number of methods of determining which of
its striking employes would have to wait because five men
had taken permanent positions during the strike, but it
is found that the preparation and use of the list, and the
action taken by respondent, were with the purpose to discriminate against those most active in the union. There
is evidence to support these findings.
Sixth. The Board's order does not violate the Fifth
Amendment. The respondent insists that the relation of
employer and employe ceased at the inception of the strike.
The plain meaning of the Act is that if meli strike in connection with a current labor dispute their action is not to
be construed as a renunciation of the employment relation and they remain employes for the remedial purposes
specified in the Act. We have held that, in the. exercise
of the commerce power, Congress may impose upon contractual relationships reasonable regulations calculated
to protect commerce against threatened industrial strife.
NationalLabor Relations Boardv. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 48. The Board's order there sustained
required the reinstatement of discharged employes. The

348

OCTOBERTERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

requirement interfered with freedom of contract which
the employer would have enjoyed except for the mandate of
the statute. The provision of the Act continuing the relationship of employer and employe in the case of a strike as
a consequence of, or in connection with, a current labor
dispute is a regulation of the same sort and within the
principle of our Jecision.
Seventh. The afrmative relief ordered by the Board
was within its powers and its order was not arbitrary or
capricious.
As we have held in National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 307 U. S. 261, the relief
which the statute empowers the Board to grant is to be
adapted to the situation which calls for redress. On the
basis of the findings, five men who took part in the strike
were discriminated against in connection with a blanket
offer to reinstate striking employes. The Board enjoined
further discrimination against employes by reason of union
affiliation, but it could not grant complete relief in respect
of the five men short of ordering that the discrimination
be neutralized by their being given their former positions
and reimbursed for the loss due to their lack of employment consequent upon the respondent's discrimination.
The order is criticized as arbitrary in that it is said to
award back pay to date of reinstatement with deductions
only for what was earned to the date of the order. We
do not so read it, and the Board admits that credit must be
given for all sums earned to date of reinstatement, and so
construes the order. It is further said that the order
arbitrarily and unreasonably requires the notices to be
posted to state that respondent will not discharge its
reinstated employes for any reason whatever. This clause
of the order is. inartificially drawn, and counsel for the
Board admit that it should be read in connection with the
remainder of the order forbidding discharge on the ground
of union activity.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
333

Opinion of the Court.

Eighth. The respondent was not denied a hearing with
respect to the offense found by the Board. The respondent says that it was summoned to answer a complaint that
it discriminated by discharging the five men and -that,
after all the evidence was in, this complaint was withdrawn and a new one presented asserting that its refusal
to re-employ the five men was the head and front of its
offending. Then it is said that when the Board came to
make its finding it reverted to the position that what the
respondent did had not been a failure to employ but a
wrongful discharge. Thus the respondent claims that it
is found guilty of an unfair labor practice which was not
within the issues upon which the case was tried. The
position is highly technical.. All parties to the proceeding knew from the outset that the thing complained of
was discrimination against certain men by reason of their
alleged union activities. If there was a current labor dispute the men were'still employes by virtue of § 2 (3),
and the refusal to let them work was a discharge. The
respondent says that as the Board failed to find, in so
many words, that there was a current labor dispute, its
conclusion pf fact that the men were discharged has no
basis. But the Board found that the strike was called
because the strikers were informed that the. negotiations
for a working agreement in New York were not proceeding satisfactorily. We think its action cannot be overturned for the mere reason that it failed to characterize
the situation as a current labor dispute. The respondent.
further urges that, when the amended complaint was filed
and the original one withdrawn, the charge it had to meet
was a refusal to re-employ; that the phrase "re-employ".
means "employ anew"; that if the Board had found a
-failure to employ the five men because of discrimination
forbidden by the Act, the findings would have followed the
complaint, whereas the Board, in its conclusions of fact,
referred to respondent's action as "refusal to reinstate to

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

employment" and as a discharge; and the argument is that
the findings do not follow'the pleadings.
A review of the record shows that at no time during
the hearings was there any misunderstanding as to what
was the basis of the Board's complaint. The entire evidence, pro and con, was directed to the question whether,
when the strike failed and the men desired to come back
and were* told that the strike would be forgotten and
that they might come back in a body save for eleven men
who were singled out for different treatment, six of whom,
however, were treated like everyone else, the respondent
did in fact discriminate against the remaining five because of union activity. While the respondent was entitled to know the basis of the complaint against it, and
to explain its conduct, in an effort to meet that complaint, we find from the record that it understood the
issue and was afforded full opportunity to justify the
action of its officers as innocent rather than discriminatory.
At the conclusion of the testimony, and prior to oral
,argument before the examiner, the Board transferred the
proceeding to Washington to be further heard before the
Board. It denied respondent's motion to resubmit the
cause to the trial examiner with directions to prepare
and file an intermediate report. In the Circuit Court of
Appeals the respondent assigned error to this ruling. It
appears that oral argument was had and a brief was filed
with the Board after which it made its findings of fact
and conclusions of law. The respondent now asserts that
the failure of the Board to follow its usual practice of the
submission of a tentative report by the trial examiner and
a lhearing on exceptions to that report deprived the respondent of opportunity to call to the Board's attention
the alleged-,fatal variance between the allegations of the
complaint and the Board's findings. What we have said
sufficiently indicates that the issues and contentions of

TAFT v. COMMISSIONER.
333

Syllabus.

the parties were clearly defined and as no other detriment
or disadvantage is claimed to have ensued from the
Board's procedure the matter is not one calling for a reversal of the order. The Fifth Amendment guarantees
no particular form of procedure; it protects substantial
rights. Compare Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468,
478. The contention that the respondent was denied a
full and adequate hearing must be rejected.
Ninth. The other contentions of the respondent are
overruled because foreclosed by earlier decisions of this
court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

TAFT, EXECUTOR, v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 746. Argued April 25, 1938.-Decided May 16, 193 3.

1. A decedent in her lifetime promised educational institut ons to
establish an endowment fund and to pay salaries of or hestral

musicians and a director of art.

The promises were a ;cepted

and acted upon, and under the state law were binding upon her
estate. Held that in valuing the estate for taxation under the
Revenue Act of 1926, the executor was not entitled to deduct
the amounts payable under the promises, as being claims contracted "for an adequate and full consideration in money or
money's worth," § 303 (a) (1), or as "transfers," to or for the
use of the promisee corporations, id. § 303 (a) (3). Pp. 355, 357.

