HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
Syllabus.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. GERHARDT.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 779. Argued April 7, 8, 1938.-Decided May 23, 1938.
1. The immunity from federal taxation implied for the protection
of tihe States is to be narrowly limited,
First, because the method of exercise of the federal taxing power,
by, and upon, all the people through their representatives in Congress affords a safeguard against its abuse at the expense of state
sovereignty; and,
Secondly, because the immunity is at the expense of the national 'sovereign power to tax and if enlarged beyond the necessity of protecting the States, its birden is thrown upon the
National Government with benefit only to a privileged class of'
taxpayers. P. 416.
2. The immunity from federal taxation of income received by individuals as compensation for services rendered to a State, does not
extend to cases where the burden of the tax to a state function is
not shown to be actual and substantial, and not conjectural. P. 421.
This principle applies even though the function be thought
important enough to demand immunity -from a tax upon the
State itself. P. 420.
3. The Port of New York Authority is a bi-state corporation created
by compact between the States of New York and New Jersey approve.d by Congress. Pursuant to the compact and legislation of
the two States, it has acquired and operates terminal and transfer
facilities within a district embracing the port of New York and
lying partly in each of the States. It has constructed interstate
bridges and tunnels for vehicles," using funds advanced by the two
States or derived from sale of its bonds. It operates an interstate bus line over one of the bridges and a terminal for interchange of freight between trucks and railroads. It collectsrtolls
for use of the bridges and tunnels, and derives income from operation of the bus line and terminal building but has no stock or
*Together with No. 780, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, v. Wilson; and No. 781, Same v. Mulcahy, also on writs of
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

stockholders and is owned by no private persons or corporations.
Its projects are said to be operated in behalf of the two States
and in the interests of the public, and none of its profits enure
to the benefit of private persons. Its property and the bonds
and other securities issued by it are exempt by statute from state
taxation. A resolution of Congress consenting to the Authority's
comprehensive plan of port improvement declares that its activities
will promote and facilitate interstate and foreign commerce, provide.
better and cheaper transportation, and aid in providing better
postal, military, and other services of value to the Nation. Statutes
of the two States declare that in the construction, maintenance and
operation of the bridges and tunnels it shall be regarded as performing a governmental function and shall be required to pay no
taxes or assessments upon any of the property therein acquired
by it. Held:
(1) The salaries of a construction engineer and two assistant
general managers, employees of the Port Authority, are taxable
by the Federal Government. Pp. 408, 424.
These employees each took an oath of office. Neither the
compact nor any state statute appears to have created an office
or prescribed an oath or defined the function of such employees.
Their occupations are not shown to be different in methods or
duties from similar employments in private industry. A non-discriminatory tax laid on their net income, in common with that
of all other members of the community, could by no i-easonable
probability be considered to .*reclude the performance of the
function which New York and New Jersey have undertaken, or
to obstruct it more than like private enterprises are obstructed
by taxation. Even though, to some unascertainable extent, the
tax deprives the States of the advantage of paying less than the
standard rate for the services which they engage, it does not
curtail any of those iunctions which have been thought hitherto
to be essential to their continued existence as States. The effect
of the immunity if allowed, would be to relieve the taxpayers of
their duty of financial support to the National Government, in
order to secure to the State a theoretical advantage so speculative
in its character and measurement as to be unsubstantial. Pp. 410
et seq.
(2) The Court expresses no opinion as to whether a federal
tax may be imposed upon the Port Authority itself with respect
to its receipt of income or its other activities. P. 424.
4. Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 352, is limited to the decision
that the function of the State in connection with which the tax-

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Counsel for Parties.

payer received the salary taxed was essentially governmental in
character; the question whether the burden resulting to the State
from the tax on his salary was so indirect or conjectural as to
be but an incident of the coexistence of the two governments,
and therefore not within the constitutional immunity, was not
considered. Pp. 422-423.
5. The applicable provisions of § 116 of the Revenue Act of 1932
do not authorize exclusion from gross income of the salaries of
employees of a State or state-owned corporation. P. 423.
6. Employees of the Port Authority of New York are not employees
of the State or of a political subdivision of it within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 77, Art. 643, under the Revenue Act'
of 1932. P. 423.
92 F. 2d 999, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 630, to review judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining decisions of the
Board of Tax Appeals holding the salaries of the present
respondents immune from federal taxation.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor

General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Berryman Green and Warner W.

Gardnerwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Julius Henry Cohen, with whom Mr. Austin J.

Tobin was on the brief, for respondents.
Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General of New York,
argued the cause on behalf of that State and other States,
as amici curiae by special leave of Court.*
By leave of Court, Mr. Markell C. Baer filed a brief as

amicus curiae, on behalf of the American Association of
Port Authorities, in support of respondents.
* These States, and the names of their respective Attorneys General appearing on an elaborate brief are: New York, by Mr.
John J. Bennett, Jr.; Alabama, by Mr. Albert A. Carmichael; California, by Mr. U. S. Webb; Connecticut, by M . Charles J. McLaughlin; Delaware, by Mr. P. Warren Green; Indiana, by Mr.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

304 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question for decision is whether the imposition of a
federal income tax for the calendar years 1932 and 1933
on salaries received by respondents, as employees of the
Port of New York Authority, places an unconstitutional
burden on the States of New York and New Jersey.
The Port Authority is a bi-state corporation, created
by compact between New York and New Jersey, Laws
of N. Y., 1921, c. 154; Laws of N. J., 1921, c. 151, approved by the Congress of the United States by Joint
Resolution of August 23, 1921, c. 77, 42 Stat. 174. The
compact authorized the Authority to acquire and operate "any terminal or transportation facility" within a
specified district embracing the Port of New York and
lying partially within each state. It directed the Authority to recommend a comprehensive plan for improving the port and facilitating its use, by the construction
and operation of bridges, tunnels,* terminals and other
facilities. The Authority made such a recommendation
in its report of December, 1921, adopted by the two
states in 1922. Laws of N. Y., 1922, c. 43; Laws of N. J.,
1922, c. 9.
In conformity to the plan, and pursuant to further
legislation of the two states, the Authority has conOmer S. Jackson; Louisiana, by Messrs. Gaston L. Porterie, and
Joseph A. Loret, Special Assistant Attorney General; Massachusetts,
by Mr. Paul A. Dever; Michigan, by Mr. Raymond W. Starr;
Mississippi, by Mr. -Greek L. Rice; Montana, by Mr. Harrison F.
Freebourn; Nevada, by Mr. Gray Washburn; New Jersey, by Mr.
David Wilentz; New jHampshire, by Mr. Thomas P. Cheney;
North Carolina, by Mr. A. A. F. Seawell; Ohio, by Mr. Herbert S.
Duffy; Oregon, by Mr. I. H. Van Winkle; Pennsylvania, by Mr.
Charles J. Margiotti; Rhode Island, by Mr. John P. Hartigan;
Utah, by Mr. Joseph Chez; Vermont, by Mr. Lawrence C. Jones;
Virginia, by Mr. Abram P. Staples; Washington, by Mr. G. W.
Hamilton; Wisconsin, by Mr. Orland S. Loomis; and Wyoming, by
Mr. Ray E. Lee.

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Cou't.

structed the Outerbridge Crossing Bridge, the Goethals
Bridge, the BayonneBridge, and the George Washington
Bridge, interstate vehicular bridges all passing over waters
of the harbor or adjacent to it. It has also constructed
the Holland Tunnel and the Lincoln Tunnel, interstate
vehicular tunnels passing under the Hudson River.
These enterprises were financed in large part by funds
advanced by the two states and by the Port Authority's
issue and sale of its bonds. In addition, the Authority
operates an interstate bus line over the Goethals Bridge.
It has erected and operates the Port Authority Commerce
Building in New York City, which houses Inland
Terminal No. 1, devoted to use as a freight terminal in
connection with a plan to cordinate transportation faeilities and reduce congestion. The terminal has no physical
connection with any railroad facilities, dock or pier, but
is used as a transfer terminal for interchange of freight
brought by truck from and to the terminal and to and
from eight railroad terminals.
The Port Authority collects tolls for the use of the
bridges and tunnels, and derives income from the operation of the bus line and terminal building, but it has no
stock and no stockholders, and is owned by no private
persons or corporations. Its projects are all said to be
operated in behalf of the two states and in the interests
of the public, and none of its profits enure to the benefit
of private persons. Its property and the bonds and
other securities issued by it are exempt by statute from
state taxation. The Joint Resolution of Congress consenting to the comprehensive plan of port improvement,
Pub. Res.. No. 66, 67th Cong., H. J. Resolution No. 337,
July 1, 1922, declares that the activities of the Port Authority under the plan "will the better promote and
facilitate commerce between the States and between the
States and foreign nations and provide better and cheaper
transportation of property and aid in providing better

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

postal, military, and other services of value to the Nation." Statutes of New York and New Jersey relating
to the various projects of the Port Authority declare that
they are "inail respects for the benefit of the people of
the two States, for the increase of their commerce and
prosperity, and for the improvement of their health and
living conditions,' and the Port Aathority shall be regarded as performing a governmental function in un.ertaking the said construction, maintenance and operation
and in carrying out the provisions of law relating to the
said [bridges and tunnels] and shall be required to pay
no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it for the construction, operation and maintenance of such" bridges and tunnels. Laws of N. J., 1925,
c. 37, § 7; Laws of N. Y., 1925, c. 210, § 7; Laws of N J..
1926, c. 6, § 7; Laws of N. Y., 1926, c. 761, § 7; Laws
of N. J., 1927, c. 3, § 7; Laws of N. Y., 1927, c. 300, § 7;
Laws of N. J., 1931, c. 4, § 14; Laws of N. Y., 1931, c.
47, § 14.
The respondents, during the taxable years in question,
were respectively a construction engineer and two assistant general managers, employed by the Authority at annual salaries ranging between $8,000 and $15,000. All
took oaths of office, although neither the compact nor the
related statutes appear to have created aity office to which
any of the respondents were appointed, or defined their
duties or prescribed that they should take an oath.
The several respondents having failed to return their respective salaries as income for the taxable years in question, the commissioner determined deficiencies against
them. The Board of Tax Appeals found that the Port
Authority was engaged in the performance of a public
function for the States of New York and New Jersey, and
ruled that the compensation received by the Authority's"
employees was exempt from federal income tax. The
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 92 F. 2d 999,

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

affirmed without opinion on the authority of Brush v.
Commissioner, 85 F. 2d 32, rev'd, 300 U. S. 352; Commissioner v. Ten Eyck, 76 F. 2d 515, and New York ex
rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401. We granted certiorari because of the public importance of the question
presented.
The Constitution contains no express limitation on the
power of either a state or the national government to tax
the other, or its instrumentalities. The doctrine that
there is an implied limitation stems from McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, in which it was held that a state
tax laid specifically upon the privilege of issuing bank
notes, and in fact applicable alone to the notes of national
banks, was invalid since it impeded the national government in the exercise of its power to establish and
maintain a bank, implied as an incident to the borrowing,
taxing, war and other powers specifically granted to the
national government by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution.
It was held that Congress, having power to establish a
bank by laws which, when enacted under the Constitution, are supreme, also had power to protect the bank by
striking down state action impeding its operations; and
it was thought that the state tax in question was so inconsistent with Congress'E, constitutional action in establishing the bank as to compel the conclusion that Congress intended to forbid application of the tax to the
f.deral bank notes.1 Cf. Osborn v. Bank of United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, 865-868.
'It follows that in considering the immunity of federal instrumentalities from state taxation two factors may be of importance which
are lacking in the case of a claimed immunity of state instrumentalities
from federal taxation. Since the acts of Congress within its constitutional power are supreme, the validity of state taxation of federal
instrumentalities must depend (a) on the power of Copgress to create
the instrumentality and (b) its intent to protect it from state taxation. Congress may curtail an immunity which might otherwise be
implied, Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, or enlarge it beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S,

In sustaining the immunity from state taxation, the
opinion of the Court, by Chief Justice Marshall, recognized a clear distinction between the extent of the power
of a state to tax national banks and that of the national
government to tax state instrumentalities. He was
careful to poifit out not only that the taxing power of
the national government is supreme, by reason of the
constitutional grant, but that in laying a federal tax on
state instrumentalities the people of the states, acting
through their representatives, are laying a tax on their
own institutions and consequently are subject to political
restraints which can be counted on to prevent abuse.
State taxation of national instrumentalities is subject to
no such restraint, for the people outside the state have
no representatives who participate in the legislation; and
in a real sense, as to them, the taxation is without representation. The exercise of the national taxing power is
thus subject to a safeguard which does not operate when
a state undertakes to tax a national instrumentality.'
the point where, Congress being silent, the Court would set its limits.
Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, 30, 31; see Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579, 588, 590; Shaw v. Gibson-ZahniserOil Corp., 276
U. S. 575, ,581, and cases cited; James v. Dravo Cont'aeting Co., 302
U. S. 134, 161.
The analysi is comparable where the question is whether federal
corporate instrumentalities are immune from state judicial process.
Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295'U. S. 229, 234-235.
t
"The people of all the States have created the general government,
and have conferred upon it the general power of taxation. The people
of all the States, and the States themselve, are represented in Congress, and, by their representatives, exercise this power. When they tax
the' chartered institutions, of the States, thiey tax their constituents;
and these taxes must be uniform. But, when a State taxes the operations of the government of the United States, it acts upon institutions created, not by their own constituents, but by people over whom
they claim no control. It acts upon the measures of a government
created by others as well as themselves, for the benefit of others in
common with themselves. The difference is that which always exists,

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

-

Opinion of the Court.

It was perhaps enough to have supported the conclusion that the tax was invalid, that it was aimed specifically
at national banks and thus operated to discriminate
against the exercise by the Congress of a national power.
Such discrimination was later recognized to be in itself a
sufficient ground for holding invalid any form of state
taxation adversely affecting the use or enjoyment of federal instrumentalities. Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S.
713; cf. Pacific Co., Ltd. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480, 493.
But later cases have declared that federal instrumentalities are similarly immune from non-discriminatory state
taxation-from the taxation of obligations of the United
States as an interference with the borrowing power,
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; and from A tax on
"offices" levied upon the office of a captain of a revenue
cutter. Dobbins v. Erie County, 16 Pet. 435.1
and always must exist, between the action of the whole on a part,
and the action of a part on the whole-between the laws of a government declared to be supreme, and those of a government which, when
in opposition to those laws, is not supreme." Chief Justice Marshall
in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 435-436.
'In these cases, and particularly in Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet.
449, as in McCulloch v. Maryland, emphasis was laid on the fact that
by state action an impediment was laid upon the exercise of a power
with respect to which the national government was supreme. In
Weston v. Charleston, supra, Chief Justice Marshall said (pp. 465,
466):
"Can anything be more dangerous, or more injurious, than the admission of a principle which .-uthorizes every state and every corpo-

ration in the union which possesses the right of taxation, to burthen
the exercise of this power [the borrowing power] at their discretion?
"If the right to impose the tax exists, it is a right which in its
nature acknowledges no limits. It may be carried to any extent within the jurisdiction of the state or corporation which imposes it, which
the will of each state and corporation may prescribe. A power which
is given by the whole American people for their common good, which
is to be exercised at the most critical periods for the most important
purposes, on the free exercise of which the interests certainly, perhaps
the liberty of the whole may depend; may be burthened, impeded,

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

That the taxing power of the federal government is
-nevertheless subject to an implied restiiction when applied to state instrumentalities was first decided in Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, where the salary of a state
officer, a probate judge, was held to be immune from
federal income tax. The question there presented to the
Court was not one of interference with a granted power
-in a field in which the federal government is supreme,
but a limitation by implication upon the granted federal
power to tax. In recognizing that implication for the
first time, the Court was concerned with the continued
existence of the states as governmental entities, and their
vreservation from destruction by the national taxing
power. The immunity which it implied was sustained
only because it was one deemed necessary to protect the
states from destruction by the federal taxation of those
governmental functions which they were exercising when
the Constitution was adopted and which were essential
to their continued existence.
The Court pointed out. that the states were in existence
as such entities when the Constitution was adopted; that
the Constitution guaranteed to them a republican form
of government and undertook to protect them from invasion and domestic violence; that it presupposes the
continued existence of the states' and their continued
if not arrested, by any of the organized parts of the confederacy."
Compare Holmes, J., .in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218,
223.
'In1871, when Collector v. Day was decided, the Court had not
yet been called on to determine how far the Civil War Amendments
had broadened the federal power at the expense of the states. Thc
SlaughterhouseCases, 16 Wall. 36, had not yet been decided, although
they had already been once before the Court on motion for supersedes,, 10 Wall. 141. The fact that the taxing power had recently
been used with destructive effect upon a state instrumentality, Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, had suggested the possibility of similar

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

performance, free of inhibition by the national taxing
power, of "the high and responsible duties assigned to
them in the Constitution
.
.
And, more especially,
those means and instrumentalities which are the creation
of their sovereign and reserved rights, one of which is
the establishment of the judicial department, and the
appointment of officers to administer their laws. Without this power, and the exercise of it," the Court declared, "we risk nothing in saying that no one of the
States under the form of government guaranteed by the
Constitution could long preserve its existence. A despotic government might. We have said that one of the
reserved powers was that to establish a judicial department . . . All of the thirteen States were in the possession of this power, and had exercised it at the adoption
of the Constitution; and it is not pretended that any
grant of it to the general government is found in that
instrument." 11 Wall. 125, 126.
We need not stop to inquire how far, as indicated in
McCulloch v. Maryland, supra,, the immunity of federal
instrumentalities from state taxation rests on a different
basis from that of state instrumentalities; or-whether or
to what degree it is more extensive. As to those questions, other considerations may be controlling which arm
not pertinent here. It is enough for present purposes
that the state immunity from the national taxing power.
when recognized in Collector v. Day, supra, was nar-.
rowly limited to a state judicial officer engaged in the;
performance of a function which pertained to state governments at the time the Constitution was adopted,
without which no state "could long preserve its exist.
ence."
attacks upon the existence of states themselves. Compare Lane
County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76-77; Slaughterhouse Cases, 16 WaL.
36, 82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

There are cogent reasons why any constitutional restriction upon the taxing power granted to Congress, so
far as it can be properly raised by implication, should be
narrowly limited. One, as was pointed out by Chief
Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, 435436, and Weston v. Charleston,supra, 465-466, is that the
people of all the states have created the national government and are represented in Congress. Through tiat
representation they exercise the national taxing power.
The very fact that when they are exercising it they are
taxing themselves, serves to guard against its abuse
through the possibility of resort to the usual processes of
political action which provides a readier and more adaptable means than any which courts can afford, for securing
accommodation of the competing demands for national
revenue, on the one hand, and for reasonable scope for
the independence of state action, on the other.
Another reason rests upon the fact that any allowance
of a tax immunity for the protection of state sovereignty
is at the expense of the sovereign power of the nation to
tax. Enlargement of the one involves diminution of the
other. When enlargement proceeds beyond the necessity
of protecting the state, the burden of the immunity is
thrown upon the national government with benefit only
to a privileged class of taxpayers. See Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; cf. Thomson v. Pacific Railroad,
9 Wall. 579, 588, 590. With the steady expansion of the
activity of state governments into new fields they have
undertaken the performance of functions not known to
the states when the Constitution was adopted, and have
taken over the management of business enterprises once
conducted exclusively by private individuals subject to
the national taxing power. In a complex economic society tax burdens laid upon those who directly or indirectly'
have dealings with the states, tend, to some extent not capable of precise measurement, to be passed on

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

economically and thus to burden the state government
itself. But if every federal tax which is laid on some new
fnfm of state activity, or whose economic burden reaches
in some measure the state or those who serve it, were to
be set aside as an infringement of state sovereignty, it is
evident that a restriction upon national power, devised
only as a shield to protect the states from curtailment of
the essential operations of government which they have
exercised from the beginning, would become a ready
means for striking down the taxing power of the nation.
See South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 454455. Once impaired by the recognition of a state immunity found to be excessive, restoration of that power
is not likely to be secured through the action of state
legislatures; for they are without the inducements to act
which have often persuaded Congress to waive immunities thought to be excessive.5
In tacit recognition of the limitation which the very
nature of our federal system imposes on state immunity
from taxation in order to avoid an ever expanding encroachment upon the federal taxing power, this Court has
refused to enlarge the immunity substantially beyond
those limits marked out in Collector v. Day, supra. It
has been sustained where, as in- Collector v. Day, the
function involved was one thought to be essential to the
maintenance of a state government: as where the attempt
was to tax income received from the investments of a
municipal subdivision of a state, United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322; to tax income received by a
private investor from state bonds, and thus threaten impairment of the borrowing power of the state, Pollock v.
FarmersIfoan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; *cf. Weston v.
Charleston, supra, 465-466; or to tax the manufacture
and sale to a municipal corporation of equipment for its
'Compare notes 1 and 2, supra.
81638*-38-----27

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

police force, Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 570.
But the Court has refused to extend the immunity to a
state conducted liquor business, South Carolinav. United
States, supra; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, or to a
street railway business taken over and operated by state
officers as a means of effecting a local public policy.
Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214. It has sustained
the imposition of a federal excise tax laid on the privilege
of exercising corporate franchises granted by a state to
public service companies. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 1C7, 157. In each of these cases it was pointed out
that the state function affected was one which could be,
carried on by private enterprise, and that therefore it
was not one without which a state could not continue to
exist as a governmental entity. The immunity has been
still more narrowly restricted in those cases where some
part of the burden of a tax collected not from a state
treasury but from individual taxpayers, is said to be
passed on to the state. In these cases the function has
been either held or assumed to be of such a character that
its performance by the state is immune from direct federal interference; yet the individuals who personally
derived profit or compensation from their employment in
carrying out the function were deemed to be subject to
federal income tax.8
'The follov. ing classes of taxpayers have been held subject to federal income tax notwithstanding its possible economic burden on the
state: Those who derive income or profits from their performance of
state functions as independent engineering contractors, Metcalf &
Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, or from the resale nf state bonds,
Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216; those engaged as lessees of the state
in producing oil from state lands, the royalties from which, payable to
the state, are devoted to public purposes, Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v.
Bass, 283 U. S. 279; Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508; Bankline Oil Co. v. Commissioner, 303 U. S. 362, Helvering v. Mountain
Producers Corp., 303 U. S. .6, overruling Burnet v. Coronad

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

In a period marked by a constant expansion of government activities and the steady multiplication of the complexities of taxing systems, it is perhaps too much to
expect that the judicial pronouncements marking the
boundaries of state immunity should present a completely
logical pattern. But they disclose no purposeful departure from, and indeed definitely establish, two guiding
principles of liritation for holding the tax immunity of
state instrumentalities to its proper function. The one,
dependent upon the nature of the function being performed by the state or in its behalf, excludes from the
immunity activities thought not to be essential to the
preservation of state governments even though the tax
be collected from the state treasury. The state itself was
taxed for the privilege of carrying on the liquor business
in South Carolinav. United Staes, supra, and in Ohio v.
Helvering, supra; and a tax on the income of a state
officer engaged in the management of a state-owned corporation operating a street railroad was sustained in Helvering v. Powcrs, supra, because it was thought that the
functions discouraged by these taxes were not indispensable to the maintenance of a state government. The
other principle, exemplified by those cases where the tax
laid upon individuals affects the state only as the burden
Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393. Similarly federal taxation of property
transferred at death to a state or one of its municipalities was upheld
in Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249, cf. Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258

U. 8. 384; and a federal tax on the transportation of merchandise in
performance of a contract to- sell and deliver it to a county was sustained in Wheeler Lumber Bridge & Supply Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 572; cf. Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
570. A federal excise tax on corporations, measured by income, including interest received from state bonds, was upheld in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162, et seq.; see National Life Ins.
Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508, 527; compare the discussion in
Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379, 389, and in Pacific
Co., Ltd. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480, 490.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

is passed on to it by 'the taxpayer, forbids recognition of
the immunity when the burden on the state is so speculative and uncertain that if allowed it would restrict the
federal taxing power without affording any corresponding
tangible protection to the state government; even though
the function be thought important enough to demand
immunity from a tax upon the state itself, it is not necessarily protected from a tax which well may be substantially or entirely absorbed by private persons. Metcalf
& Eddy v. Mitchell, 8upra; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S.
216.
With these controlling principles in mind we turn to
their application in the circumstances of the present case.
The challenged taxes laid under § 22, Revenue Act of
1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 178, are upon the net income
of respondents, derived from their employment in common occupations not shown to be different in their
methods or duties from those of similar employees in
private industry. The taxpayers enjoy the benefits and
protection of the laws of the United States. They are
under a duty to support its government and are not beyond the reach of its taxing power. A non-discriminatory tax laid on their net income, in common with that
of all ovher members of the community, could by no reasonable probability be considered to preclude the performance of the function which New York and New Jersey have undertaken, or to obstruct it more than like
private enterprises are obstructed by our taxing system.
Even though, to some unascertainable extent, the tax
deprives the states of the advantage of paying less than
the standard rate for the services which they engage, it
does not curtail any of those functions which have been
thought hitherto to be essential to their continued existence as states. At most it may be said to increase
somewhat the cost of the state governments because, in

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

an interdependent economic society, the taxation of income tends to raise (to some extent which economists
are not able to measure, see Indian Motocycle Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 581, footnote 1) the price of
labor and materials. The effect of the immunity if allowed would be to relieve respondents of their duty of
financial support to the national government, in order to
secure to the state a theoretical advantage so speculative
in its character and measurement as to be unsubstantial.
A tax immunity devised for protection of the states as
governmental entities cannot be pressed so far.
The fact that the expenses of the state government
might be lessened if all those who deal with it were tax
exempt was not thought to be an adequate basis for tax
immunity in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, in Group
No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279, in Burnet v. Jergins
Trust, 288 U. S. 508; or in Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376.! When immunity is claimed
from a ta: laid on private persons, it must clearly ap-pear that the burden upon the state function is actual
and substuatial, not conjectural. Willcuts v. Bunn,
supra, 231. The extent to which salaries in business or
professions whose standards 'of compensation are otherwise fixed by competitive conditions may be affected by
the immunity of state employees from income tax is to a
high degree conjectural.
The basis upon which constitutional tax immunity of
a state has been supported is the protection which it
affords to the continued existence of the state. To attain
that end it is not ordinarily necessary to confer on the
state a competitive advantage over private persons in
carrying on the operations of its government. There is
'Upon full consideration, the same principle was recently applied
in Janes v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, although the limitation there was upon the immunity of the federal government.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

no such necessity here, and the resulting impairment of
the federal power to tax argues against the advantage.
The state and national governments must co-exist. Each
must be supported by taxation of those who are citizens
of both. The mere fact that the economic burden of
such taxes may be passed on to a state government and
thus increase to some extent, here wholly conjectural, the
expense of its operation, infringes no constitutional immunity. Such burdens are but normal incidents of the
organization within the same territory of two governments, each possessed of the taxing power.
During the present term we have held that the compensation of a state employee paid from the state treasury
for his service in liquidating an insolvent corporation,
where the state was reimbursed from the corporate
assets, was subject to income tax. MeLoughlin v. Commissioner, 303 U. S. 218. But the Court has never ruled
expressly on the precise question whether the Constitution grants imnunity from federal income tax to the
salaries of state employees performing, at the expense
of the state, services of the character ordinarily carried
on by private citizens. The Revenue Act of 1917, considered in Metcalf 'd, Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, exempted
the salaries of all state employees from income tax. But
it was held in that case that neither the constitutional
immunity nor the statutory exemption extended to independent contractors. In Brush v. Commissioner, supra,
the applicable treasury regulation upon which the Government relied exempted from income tax the compensation of "state officers and employees" for "services
rendered in connection with the exercise of an essential
governmental function of the State." The sole contention of the Government was that the maintenance of the
New York City water supply system was not an essential
governmental function of the state. The Government
did not attack the regulation. No contention was made

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

Opinion of the Court.

by it or considered or decided by the Court that the
burden of the tax on the state was so indirect or conjectural as to be but an incident of the coexistence of
the two governments, and therefore not within the
constitutional immunity. If determination of that point
was implicit in the decision it must be limited by what
is now decided.
The pertinent provisions of the regulation applicable in
the Brush case were continued in Regulations 77, Article
643, under the 1932 Revenue Act, until January 7, 1938,
when they were amended to provide that "Compensation
received for services rendered to a State is to be included
in gross income unless the person receives such compensation from the State as an officer or employee thereof
and such compensation is immune from taxation under
the Constitution of the United States." The applicable
provisions of § 116 of the 1932 Act do not authorize the
exclusion from gross income of the salaries of employees
of a state or a state-owned corporation. If the regulation be deemed to embrace the employees of a stateowned corporation such as the Port Authority, it was
unauthorized by the statute. But we think it plain that
employees of the Port Authority are not employees of the
state or a political subdivision of it within the meaning
of the regulation as originally promulgated-an additional reason why the regulation, even before the 1938
amendment, was ineffectual to exempt the salaries here
involved.
The reasoning upon which the decision in Indian
Motocycle Co. v. United States, supra, was rested is not
controlling here. Taxation of the sale to a state, which
was thought sufficient to support the immunity there, is
not now involved. Whether the actual effect upon the
performance of the state function differed from that of
the present tax we do not now inquire. Compare
Wheeler Lumber Bridge & Supply Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 572.-

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., concurring.

304 U. S.

As was pointed out in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
supra, 524, there may be state agencies of such a character
and so intimately associated with the performance of an
indispensable function of state government that any taxation of them would threaten such interference with the
functions of government itself as to be considered beyond
the reach of the federal taxing power. If the tax considered in Collector v. Day, supra, upon the salary of an
officer engaged in the performance of an indispensable
function of the state which cannot be delegated to private
individuals, may be regarded as such an instance, that
is not the case presented here.
Expressing no opinion whether a federal tax may be
imposed upon the Port Authority -itself with respect to
its receipt of income or its other activities, we decide only
that the present tax neither precludes nor threatens unreasonably to obstruct any function essential to the continued existence of the state government. So much of
the burden of the tax laid upon respondents' income as
may reach the state is but a necessary incident to the
co-existence within the same organized government of
the two taxing sovereigns, and hence is a burden the existence of which the Constitution presupposes. The immunity, if allowed, Would impose to an inadmissible extent a restriction upon the taxing power which the Constitution has granted to the federal government.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CAmuozo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR.

JusiIcE BLACK, concurring.

I agree that this cause should be reversed for the reasons expressed in that part of the opinion just read pointing out that: respondents, though employees of the New
York Port Authority, are citizens of the United States;

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

BLACK, J., concurring.

the tax levied upon their incomes from the Authority is
the same as that paid by other citizens receiving equal net
incomes; and payment of this non-discriminatory income
tax by respondents cannot impair or defeat in whole or in
part the governmental operations of the State of New
York. A citizen who receives his income from a State,
owes the same obligation to the United States as other
citizens who draw their salaries from private sources or
the United States and pay Federal income taxes.
While I believe these reasons, without more, are adequate to support the tax, I find it difficult to reconcile this
result with the principle announced in Collector v. Day,
11 Wall.' 113, and later decisions applying that principle.
This leads me to the conclusion that we should review
and rebxamine the rule based upon Collector v. Day.
That course would logically require the entire subject of
intergovernmental tax immunity to be reviewed in the
light of the effect of the Sixteenth Amendment authorizing Congress to levy a tax on incomes "from whatever
source derived"; and, in that event, the decisions interpreting the Amendment would also be re6xamined.'
From time to time, this Court has relied upon a doctrine evolved from Collectorv. Day, under which incomes
received from State activities thought by the Court to be
non-essential are held taxable, while incomes from activities thought to be essential are held non-taxable. The
opinion of the Court in this case refers to that doctrine.
Application of this test has created "a zone of debatable
ground within which the cases must be put upon one side
or the other of the line by what this court has called the
gradual process of historical and judicial 'inclusion and
exclusion.'" Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.352, 365.
Under this rule the tax status of every state employee re'See, Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1; Peck & Co. v.
Lowe, 247 U. S. 165, 172; Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Evans v.
Gore, 253 U. S. 245.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., concurring.

304 U. S.

mains uncertain until this Court passes upon the classification of his particular employment. The result is a confusion in the field of intergovernmental tax immunity
which I believe could be clarified by complete review of
the subject. Testing taxability by judicial determination
that state governmental functions are essential or nonessential, contributes much to the existing confusion. I
believe the present case affords occasion for appropriate
and necessary abandonment of such a test, particularly
since recent decisions 2 have already substantially advanced toward a reexamination of the doctrine of intergovernmental immunity.
The present controversy illustrates the necessity for
further refxamination. New York created the Port
Authority with power to engage in activities which that
State believed to be essential. Yet, under this test, New
York's determination is not final until reviewed in a tax
litigation between the government and a single citizen.
Conceptions of "essential governmental functions"
vary with individual philosophies. Some believe that
"essential governmental functions" include ownership and
operation of water plants, power and transportation systems, etc. Others deny that such ownership and operation could ever be "essential governmental functions" on
the ground that such functions "could be carried on by
private enterprise." A federal income tax levied against
the manager of the state-operated elevated railway coinpany of Boston was sustained even though this manager
was a public officer appointed by the Governor of Massachusetts "with the advice and consent of the council."3
On the other hand, the federal government was denied'See, James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.134; Helvering v.
Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362; Helvering v. Mountain Producers
Corp., 303 U. S. 376 (overruling Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501
and Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393).
'Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214, 222, 223.

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

BUTLER, J.,

dissenting.

although with strong dissent-the right to collect an income tax from the chief engineer in charge of New York
City's municipally owned water supply." An implied
constitutional distinction which taxes income of an officer
of a state-operated transportation system and exempts
income of the manager of a municipal water works system manifests the uncertainty created by the "essential"
and "non-esse~itial" test.
There is not, and there cannot be, any unchanging line
of demarcation between essential and non-essential governmental functions. Many governmental functions of
today have at some time in the past been noi-governmental. The genius of our government provides that,
within the sphere of constitutional action, the peopleacting not through the courts but through their elected
legislative representatives-have the power to determine
as conditions demand, what services and functions the
public welfare requires.
Surely, the Constitution contains no imperative mandate that public employees--or others-drawing equal
salaries (income) should be divided into taxpaying and
non-taxpaying groups. Ordinarily such a result is discrimination. Uniform taxation upon those equally able
to bear their fair shares of the burdens of government is
the objective of every just government. The language
of the Sixteenth Amendment empowering Congress to
"collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived"-given its most obvious meaning-is broad enough
to accomplish this purpose.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER,

dissenting.

So far as concerns liability for federal income tax, the
salaries paid by the Port Authority to its officers and en.ployees are not distinguishable from salaries paid by
'Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 352; cf., Me'calf & Eddy v.

Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Bunnrn, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

States to their officers and employees. The judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals should therefore be affirmed
on the principle applied in McCullochv. Maryland (1819)
4 Wheat. 316, that under the Constitution States are without power to tax instrumentalities of the United States
and in Collector v. Day (1871) 11 Wall. 113, that the
United States is without power to tax the salary of a
state officer. That principle has been followed in a long
line of decisions. In Indian Motocycle Co. v. United
States (1931) 283 U. S. 570, we held the United States
without power to tax the sale of a motorcycle to a municipal corporation for use in its police service. The Court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Van Devanter, said (p.
575):
"It is an established principle of our constitutional system of dual government that the instrumentalities, means
and operations whereby the United States exercises its
governmental powers are exempt from taxation by the
States, and that the instrumentalities, means and operations whereby the States exert the governmental powers
belonging to them are equally exempt from taxation, by
the United States. This principle is implied from the
independence of the national and state governments within their respective spheres and from the provisions of the
Constitution which look to the maintenance of the dual
system. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 125, 127; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 224-225. Where the principle applies it is not affected by the amount of the particular tax or the extent of the resulting interference, but
is absolute. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 430;
United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 17 Wall.
322, 327; Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51, 55-56;
Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505; Crandall v.
Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 44-46."
Following that case, we recently applied the principle in
N. Y. ex rel. Rogers v. Graves (January 4, 1937) 299

HELVERING v. GERHARDT.
405

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

U. S. 401, to prevent the State of New York from taxing
the salary of counsel of the Panama Railway Company,
a federal insttumentality, and in Brush v. Commissioner
(March 15, 1937) 300 U. S. 352, to prevent the United
-States from taxing the salary of the chief engineer of
the bureau of water supply for the city of New York. In
Helvering v. Therrell (February 28, 1938) 303 U. S.218,
holding that the federal government has power to tax
compensation paid to attorneys and others out of corporate assets for necessary services rendered about the
liquidation of insolvent corporations by state officers proceeding under her statutes, we said (p. 223):
"Among the inferences which derive necessarily from
the Constitution are these: No State may tax appropriate means which the United States may employ for exercising their delegated powers; the United States may
not tax instrumentalities which a State may employ in
the discharge of her essential governmental duties--that
is those duties which the framers intended each member
of the Union would assume in order adequately to function under the form of government guaranteed by the
Constitution.'"
The Court seemingly admitting that it would be futile
to attempt to distinguish the cases now before us from
the Brush case, overrules it by declaring that it must be
limited by what is now decided. The Solicitor General
did not in any manner raise the point on which ihe
Court puts this decision. He sought reversal on the
grou.nds that the Port Authority's activities are proprietary in nature; that it is not an agency created by the
States alone; that it operates in interstate commerce
subject to the paramount power of Congress. Indeed, he
expressly disclaimed intention to ask re-examination of
the doctrine of immunity on which the Briush case-rests.
In substance, as well as in the language used, the decision just announced substitutes for that doctrine the

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

proposition that, although the federal tax may increase
cnst of state governments, it 'may be imposed if it does
not curtail functions essential to their existence. Expressly or sub silentio, it overrules a century of precedents. Cf. James v. Dravo Contracting Co. (December

6, 1937) 302 U. S. 134, 152, 161; Helvering v. Mountain
Producers Corporation (March 7, 1938) 303 U. S. 376.
As they stood when the cases now before us were in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, our decisions required it
to hold that the salaries paid by the Port Authority to
respondents are not subject to federal taxation. I would
affirm its judgments.
.MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs concurs in

this opinion.

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 773.

Argued April 25, 26, 1938.-Decided Mgy 23: 1938.

1. The purpose of a stipulation fixing the value of the vessel in a
marine hull insurance policy undertaking to indemnify insured irrespective of the actual value is to dispense with proof of value in
establishing the extent of liability assumed on the policy. P. 434.
2. Such a valuation clause, beyond its controlling effect in determining the insurance liability, does not operate, either as an estoppel or by agreement, to exclude* proof of actual value, when
relevant. P. 435.
3. The valued policy, like an open policy, is a contract of indemnity; in either case the indemnitor is entitled to share in
the insured's recovery of damages for loss of the ship only by
*Together with No. 774, Union Marine & General Ins. Co. v.
United Fruit Co., and Do. 775, Boston Insurance. Co. v. Same, also
on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

