ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. DEP'T.
Counsel for Parties.

ARKANSAS LOUISIANA GAS CO.v. DEPARTMENT
OF PUBLIC UTILITIES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 645. Argued March 31, 1938I-Decided April 25, 1938.
1. A corporation acquired natural gas in Louisiana, piped it into
Arkansas, and there disposed of it, partly bsy selling it as a public
utility to consumers in cities-an activity carried on through a
special department of the corporate business-and partly by sales
to selected industrial and other customers, under special contracts
made in Louisiana, delivery of gas being made to them directly
from the main pipeline, or through'connecting spurs. Held, that,
a general order of an Arkansas state agency requiring all public
utilities to file schedules of their rates is not unconstitutional when
applied to the sales under the special contracts even though they
be sales in interstate commerce. P. 62.
In the circumstances it may be highly important for the State,
which regulates local rates, to have inforniation of all the operations. Merely requiring comprehensive reports of such. operations would not materially burden or unduly interfere with
interstate commerce.
2. The Court is not called upon to decide whether the sales under the
special contracts are subject to rate regulation by Arkansas. P. 63.
194 Ark. 354; 108 S. W. 2d 586, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment which reversed that of a court
of first instance holding invalid an order of the State Department of Public Utilities. The case got into" the

latter court by petition for a review of the order.

Mr. H. C. Walker, Jr., with whom Mr." J. Merrick
Moore was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Thomas Fitzhugh and lohn E. Benton for appellees. Mr. P. A. Lasley was on a brief with Mr. Fitthugh. By leave of Court, Mr. Clyde S. Bailey and Mr.
Benton filed a brief on behalf of the National Association
of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners, as amicus curiae,
in support of appellees.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUsTIcE McREYNOLDS

304 V. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant, a Delaware corporation. lawfully purchases
and produces natural gas in Texas and Louisiana and
thereafter transports and delivers it through pipe lines
to selected industries and public utility distributing corporations-o-called "pipe line customers"-at points in
Arkansas. These deliveries are made under contracts entered into at Shreveport, Louisiana, and'are effected by
tapping'a main pipe line or through connecting spurs.
They amount annually to some eight billion cubic feet.
Appellant, by admission, also maintains a distribution
department, through which it acts as a public-utility, for
the local sale and distribution of gas in many Arkansas
towfis; but this organization is distinct from the one
which supplies pipe line customers.
The Arkansas Department of Public Utilities, proceeding under a local statute, in April 1935 issued a general
order (No. 13) requiring public utilities to file, upon specified forms, schedules cf rates, charges, etc. Appellant presented such schedules for local utility service in the State,
but declined to file copies of contracts, agreements, etc.,
for sales and deliveries to pipe line customers.
-Thereupon- the Department issued an order to show
cause for this failure.. In response appellant "set forth
that the sale and delivery of gas from its Texas and Louisiana fields to its pipe line and industrial customers in
Arkansas constitute interstate commerce, and that in
making such sales and deliveries it was and is not acting
as a public utility, and that accordingly the sale and delivery of said gas and the rates, schedules and charges
upon which.-the same is delivered and sold were and are
not subject to the jurisdiction of the Department and are

ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. DEP'T.
61

Opinion of the Court.

beyond its power to regulate, and that Order No. 13 is
not legally applicable to said business."
After a hearing upon the citation and response and
much evidence, April 30,-1936; the Department ordered
compliance with the general order. The- matter then
went for review to the Circuit Court, Pulaski County, and
it held the challenged order invalid. Upon appeal, the
Supreme Court ruled that the sales and deliveries in
question were not free from state regulation because parts
of interstate commerce, and directed compliance with the
Department's general order.
The question for present determination is whether this
general order, valid under the laws of the State, which
only compels appellant to file certain designated information, amounts to an infringement of any right or privilege
guaranteed to it by the Federal Constitution. And to this
a negative answer must be given.
If, as claimed, certain of appellant's activities in
Arkansas are parts of interstate commerce, that alone
(and no other defense is relied upon) would not suffice to
justify refusal to. furnish the information presently demanded by the State.
Appellant operates locally at many places in Arkansas,
also delivers within the State great quantities of gas said
to move without interruption from another State. In
such circumstances it may be highly important for- the
state authorities to have information concerning all its
operations. We are unable to see that merely to require
comprehensive reports covering all of them would materially burden or unduly interfere with the free flow of
commerce between the States.
In case the Department undertakes by :;ome future
action to impose what may be deemed unreasonable restraint or burden upon appellant's interstete business,
through rate regulation or otherwise, that may be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

tested. The rule here often announced is that no constitutional question will. be passed upon unless necessary
for disposition of the pending cause.
The judgment of the Supreme Court must be
-Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CAnDozo took no part in the consideration

or decision of this cause.
ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. TOMPKINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 367.

Argued January 31, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

1. The liability of a railroad company, for injury caused by negligent operation of its train to a pedestrian on a much-used, beaten
path on its right-of-way along and near the rails, depends, in the
.absence of a federal or state statute, upon the unwritten law of
the State where the accident occurred. Pp. 71 et seq.
2. A federal court exercising jurisdiction over such a case on the
ground of diversity of citizenship, is not free to treat this question
as one of so-called "general law," but must apply the state law as
declared by the highest state court. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1,
overruled. Id.
3. There is no federal general common law. Congress has no power
to declare substantive rules of common law applicable in a State
whether they be local in their nature- or "general," whether they
be commercial law or *apart of the law of torts. And no clause
in the Constitution purports to confer such a power upon the,
federal courts. Except in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by Acts of Congress, the law to be applied in any case
is th3 law of the State. And whether the law of the State shall
be declared by its legislature in a statute or by its fiighest court
in a decision is not a matter of federai concern. P. 78.
4. In disapproving the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, the Court does
not hold unconstitutional ยง 34 of the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789
or any other Act of Congress. It merely declares that by applying the doctrine of that case iights which are reserved by the Constitution to the several States have been invaded. P. 79.
90 F. 2d 603, reversed.

