398

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Certiorari is granted, the judgment is reversed, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took

no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

LACLEDE GAS LIGHT CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE

COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 947.-Decided May 23, 1938.
Inca case involving the adequacy of rates fixed for a public utility"
a judgment of a state court remanding the miatter to the ratefixing commission for a regxamination which may result in a
new basis of fair value and a new schedule of rates, is not final
for purposes of review here.
Appeal-from 341 Mo. 920; 110 S. W. 2d 749, dismissed.

Messrs. Jacob Chasnoff, George C. Willson, and Hugo
Monnig were on a brief for appellant.
Messrs. H. G. Waltner, Jr., James H. Linton, and
Daniel C. Rogers were on a brief for appellees.
PER CUmAM.

Appellee, the Public Service Commission of Missouri,
moves to dismiss the appeal upon the ground that there
is no final judgment.
The Supreme Court of Missouri had before it an ap-peal from a judgment of the Circuit Court which had
affirmed an order of the Public Service Commission fixing
the value for rate making purposes of the property of
the Laclede Gas Light Company and ordering a reduction in rates. The Company contended that the Coin-

LACLEDE GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

399

Opinion of the Court.

mission's order was confiscatory, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The Supreme Court reviewed at length the findings of the
Commission and concluded that there should be a; reexamination by the Commission of certain questions of
fact as to elements of Value. After stating these questions, the opinion of the Supreme Court concluded as
follows:
"Subject to the foregoing, the judgment is affirmed
and the cause remanded, with directions to the circuit
court to remand to the commission that it may rehear
and determine the facts on the four points above mentioned in accordance with the views in this opinion." .110
S. W. -(2d) 749, 780.
The Public Service Commission contends that under
the statutes of Missouri (R. S. Mo. 1929, ยง 5234) the
Supreme Court of Missouri reviews the order of the Commission judicially, Lusk v. Atkinson, 268 Mo. 109, 118;
186 S.W. 703; State ex rel. Detroit-ChicagoMotor Bus
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 324 Mo. 270, 275; 23 S. W.
2d 115; State ex rel. St. Louis v. Public Service Comm'n,
329 Mo. 918, 927; 47 S.W. 2d 102; State ex rel. Kansas
City P. & L. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 335 Mo. 1248,
1265; 76 S.W. 2d 343; that the Commission acts legislatively (id.); that, on the remand in this case, each
of the matters mentioned by the Supreme Court will be
before the Commission and that it may proceed" anew
in the exercise of its discretion in their determination.
The Commission adds:
"The Commission may, therefore, make a new finding
of 'fair value' substantially different from the one found,
as of the date of the former hearing. Moreover, such a
new finding of 'fair value' together with new findings concerning the allowance for annual depreciation and
amortization of cost of change-over expense would necessitate the fixing of a new rate schedule.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

"From the very nature of the various items remanded
for rehearing, it is conceivable that the Commission may
reach conclusions which would constitute the basis of
another appeal.
"For the reasons stated appellee contends that there
is not yet a final judgment from which an appeal can
be taken."
We think that the contention of the Commission is
well taken.
Appellant urges that, under the mandate of the Su'
preme Court, it would be the duty of the Circuit Court
to proceed .at once to execute its judgment affirming the
iate reduction order, by distributing to the customers of
appellant the amounts which have been held by a designated depositary, under order of 'the court, pending the
final determination of the validity of the rate order. No
ruling of the state court for such a distribution is before
us. "The judgment of the Supreme Court does not direct
the payment over of the amounts on deposit, and the
direction of the court for remand to the Commission for
further examination of the questions stated apparently
leaves in abeyance the final determination of the validity
of the rate order and may result, as the Commission
states, in action which may constitute the basis of another appeal. The Supreme Court expressly states that
the affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court is
subject to the requirement of rebxamination by the Commission as directed.
As we are unable to conclude upon the record before
us that the state court has finally disposed of the controversy the motion to dismiss the appeal must be
granted.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

