HUDSON v. MOONIER.
Opinion of the Court.

HUDSON

ET AL.

V. MOONIER.

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 938.-Decided May 23, 1938.
The liability of the lessor of a truck for personal injuries to a
third party, in its operation, due to lessor's breach of a duty to
maintain it in safe condition, depends upon the lex loci delicti.
Erie Railroad v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64.
Certiorari granted; 94 F. 2d 193, reversed.

PETITION for certiorari to review a judgment affirming

a recovery in an action for personal injuries, which had
been removed from a state court.
Messrs. James C. Jones, Lon 0. Hocker, and James C.
Jones, Jr. were on a brief for petitioners.
Mr. Mark D. Eagleton entered an appearance for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent brought this suit to recover damages for
personal injuries alleged to bp due to the defendants'
negligence. He was struck by a truck which was operated without proper equipment, in that it had no horn or
other signaling device. He sued the driver and also the
person who had leased the truck to the driver's employ3r
upon the ground that the lessor was charged with the
duty of maintaining the truck in a reasonably safe condition.
Judgment against both defendants was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The court treated the question of the liability of the lessor as one of general law.
The court should have applied the law of Missouri where
the injury occurred. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, ante,
p. 64.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Certiorari is granted, the judgment is reversed, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took

no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

LACLEDE GAS LIGHT CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE

COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 947.-Decided May 23, 1938.
Inca case involving the adequacy of rates fixed for a public utility"
a judgment of a state court remanding the miatter to the ratefixing commission for a regxamination which may result in a
new basis of fair value and a new schedule of rates, is not final
for purposes of review here.
Appeal-from 341 Mo. 920; 110 S. W. 2d 749, dismissed.

Messrs. Jacob Chasnoff, George C. Willson, and Hugo
Monnig were on a brief for appellant.
Messrs. H. G. Waltner, Jr., James H. Linton, and
Daniel C. Rogers were on a brief for appellees.
PER CUmAM.

Appellee, the Public Service Commission of Missouri,
moves to dismiss the appeal upon the ground that there
is no final judgment.
The Supreme Court of Missouri had before it an ap-peal from a judgment of the Circuit Court which had
affirmed an order of the Public Service Commission fixing
the value for rate making purposes of the property of
the Laclede Gas Light Company and ordering a reduction in rates. The Company contended that the Coin-

