ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
Statement of the Case.

302

payment for one year against a deficiency for another,
Boston Pressed Metal Co. v. United States, was a suit
brought in the Court of Claims for less than $10,000.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE CARDOzO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
J. D. ADAMS MANUFACTURING CO. v. STOREN,
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 641.

Argued March 30, 31, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. Indiana Gross Income Tax Act of 1933 imposes a tax upon
gross receipts from commerce. P. 309.
2. It can not constitutionally be applied to the gross receipts derived by an Indiana corporation from sales in other States of
goods manufactured by it in Indiana. P. 311.
3. The Indiana Act of Mar. 9, 1903, which declared "that all bonds,
notes and other evidences of indebtedness hereafter issued by the
State of Indiana or by municipal corporations within the State
upon which the said State or the said municipal corporations
pay interest shall be exempt from taxation," is considered in
connection with other provisions with which it is associated in
the codification of March 11, 1919, and with regard to the fact
that the State had no income tax law. So considering it, the
construction adopted by the Supreme Court of Indiana confining the exemption to taxation ad valorem is not plainly wrong;
consequently, the claim that to include the interest from such
obligations in a tax on gross receipts would impair the contract
rights of those who bought in rcliance on the exemption, must
fail. P. 314.
212 Ind. 343; 7 N. E. 2d 941, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
APPEAL

from the reversal of a declaratory judgment

declaring a taxing Act unconstitutional in certain parts,
as applied to the appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Messrs. Frederick E. Matson and Harry T. Ice for
appellant.
Messrs. A. J. Stevenson, First Assistant Attorney General, and Joseph P. McNamara, Deputy Attorney General, with whom Messrs. Omer Stokes Jackson, Attorney
General, and Joseph W. Hutchinson, Deputy Attorney
General, of Indiana, were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case we are called upon to determine whether
the Indiana Gross Income Tax Act of 1933' as construed
and applied burdens interstate commerce and impairs
the obligation of contract in contravention of Article I,
§§ 8 and 10 of the Constitution of the United States.
Section 1 declares that the phiase "gross income" as
used in the Act means, inter alia, gross receipts derived
from trades, businesses, or commerce, and receipts from
investment of capital, including interest. Section 2 imposes a tax ascertained by the application of specified
rates to the gross income of every resident of the
State and the gross income of every non-resident derived
from sources within the State. Section 6 exempts "So
much of such gross income as is derived from business
conducted in commerce between this state and other
states of the United States, or between this state and
foreign countries, to the extent to which the State of
Indiana is prohibited from taxing under the Constitution
of the United States of America."
The appellant, an Indiana corporation, manufactures
road machinery and equipment and maintains its home
office, principal place of business, and Uctory in the
State. It sells eighty per cent. of its products to customers
Indiana Acts 1933, c. 50; !'nd. Stat. Ann. (Burns) § 64-2601 ff.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

Opinion of the Court.

in other States and foreign countries upon orders taken
subject to approval at the home office. Shipments are
made from the factory and payments are remitted to the
home office. Pursuant to a practice of investing surplus
funds not immediately required in its business, the appellant owns and receives interest upon bonds and notes
of Indiana municipal corporations which, at the time they
were issued, were declared by statute to be exempt from
taxation.
Upon the adoption of the Act, the appellant filed a
petition in a state circuit court in which, after reciting
these facts, it alleged that the appellees were demanding
that it report and pay taxes upon income received in interstate and foreign commerce and income received as
interest upon securities exempted from taxation by the
state law and that these demands, together with penalties specified in the statute for failure to make return and
pay the tax, would be enforced unless prevented by the
judgment of the court. The prayer was for a declaratory
judgment that the Act, as construed and applied by the
appellees, is unconstitutional. After issue joined the facts
were stipulated arnd the court made findings and entered a
judgment in favor of the appellant. The Supreme Court
of Indiana reversed the judgment, nolding that the tax
demanded does not unconstitutionally burden the interstate commerce in which appellant is engaged and
does not impair the obligation of any contract of the
State exempting municipal securities from taxation
1. Will the threatened imposition of the tax on the
gross income from the appellant's sales in interstate commerce contravene Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, which
reposes in Congress power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce?
The title of the Act declares that it is a revenue measure imposing a tax upon "the receipt of gross income."
'212 Ind. 343; 7 N. E. (;d, 41.

.310

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The statute defines gross income as meaning the gross
receipts derived from trades, businesses, or commerce..
The Supreme Court of Indiana in its opinion states: "The
statute here under consideration levies a tax upon all who
are domiciled within the state, based upon the privilege
of domicile, and transacting business, and receiving gross
income, within the state, and measured by the amount of
gross income." 8.
The tax is not an excise for the privilege of domicile
alone, since it is levied upon the gross income of nonresidents from sources within the State. Nor is it for the
transaction of business, since in many instances it hits
the receipt of income by one who conducts no business.
It is not a charter fee or a franchise fee measured by the
value of goods manufactured or the amount of sales, such
as the State would be competent to demand from domestic
or foreign corporations for the privilege conferred.' It
is not an excise upon the privilege of producing or manufacturing within the State, measured by volume of production or the amount of sales.' It is not a tax in lieu
of ad valorem taxes upon property, which would be inoffensive to the commerce clause,' since the appellant pays
local and state taxes upon its property within the State
and it appears that these, as respects appellant and others
similarly situated, have not been reduced. The Act, moreover, is silent as to the tax being in lieu of property taxes.
The opinion of the Supreme Court suggests that the
'Compare Miles v. Department of Treasury, 209 Ind. 172, 188;
199 N. E. 372, 379.
' Compare Matson Navigation Co. v. State Board, 297 U. S. 441,
444.
'Compare American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Oliver
Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Hope N.atural Gas Co. v. Hall, 274
U. S. 284; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165.
'Compare Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams; 155 U. S. 688:
United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335: Pullman
Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330,

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREIY
307

Opinion of the Court.

statute was adopted as part of a scheme for the reduction
of local property taxes and the substitution of a gross income tax, but, as appellant points out, provision for reduction of property taxes was made by legislation passed in
1932.7
The regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury, pursuant to authority granted by the Act, treat thc
exaction as a gross receipts tax; 8 and the Attorney General says in his brief that it is a privilege tax upon the
receipt of gross income. We think this a correct description.
We conclude that the tax is what it purports to be,a tax upon gross receipts from commerce. Appellant's
sales to customers in other States and abroad are interstate
and foreign commerce. The Act, as construed, imposes a
tax of one per cent. on every dollar received from these
sales.
The vice of the statute as applied to receipts from interstate sales is that the tax includes in its measure, without
apportionment, receipts derived from activities in interstate commerce; and that the exaction is of such a character that if lawful it may in substance be laid to the fullest
extent by States in which the goods are sold as well as
those in which they are manufactured. Interstate commerce would thus be subjected to the risk of a double tax
burden to which intrastate commerce is not exposed, and
which the commerce clause forbids.' We have repeatedly
held that such a tax is a regulation of, and a burden upon,
interstate commerce prohibited by Article I, § 8 of the
Indiana Acts of 1932, c. 10, p. 17.
'Article 2 of the Regulations states "The gross income tax of 1933
is primarily and in effect a gross receipts tax . . ." Article 16 :states
that the "tax shall apply to and be levied and collected upon all
gross income received . . ."
'See Western Livestock v. Bureau of Revene, 303 U. S. 250.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S

Constitution." The opinion of the State Supreme Court
stresses the generality and nondiscriminatory character of
the exaction, but it is settled that this will not save the
tax if it directly burdens interstate commerce. 1
The state court and the appellees rely strongly upon
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, as supporting the tax on appellant's total gross receipts derived
from commerce with citizens of the State and those of
other States or foreign countries. But that case dealt
with a municipal license fee for pursuing the occupation
of a manufacturer in St. Louis. The exaction was not
an excise laid upon the taxpayer's sales or upon the income derived from sales. The tax -on the privilege for
the ensuing year was measured by a percentage of the
)ast year's sales.12 The taxpayer had during the precedmg year removed some of the goods manufactured to a
warehouse in another State and, upon sale, delivered
them from the warehouse. It contended that the city
was without power to include these sales in the measure
of the tax for the coming year. The court held, however,
that -the tax was upon the privilege of manufacturing
"Cook v. Pennsylvania Q7 U. S. 566; Fargo v. Michigan, 121
U. S..230; Philadelphia &-Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217;
Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S.352, 400; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S.292;
UnitedStates Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 328; New Jersey
Telephone Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S.338, 349; Fisher'sBlend Station v. State Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650, 655; Puget Sound
Stevedoring Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S.90; Western Livestock
v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U.

. 250.

Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Spalding &
Brog. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66, 69; Cooney v. Mountain States Tel.
Co., 294 U. S. 384, 393.
"' Compare Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton v. State Tax Comm'n, 266
U. S.271, 280; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S.'379,

387-8.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

313

Opinion of the Court.

within the State and it was permissible to measure the
tax by the sales price of ,the goods produced rather than
by their value at the date of manufacture. If the tax
there under consideration had been a sales tax the city
could not have measured it by sales consummated in another State. That the tax in the present case is not a
tax on themanufacture but a tax on gross sales, is evident
from the regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act
and confirnmed by an amendment of the statute adopted in
1937 under which, if the appellant had shipped its products to another State and thence sold them (as did the
American Manufacturing Company), the receipts from
the sales would be exempt from the gross income reached
by the Act.13
So far as the sale price of the goods sold in interstate
commerce includes compensation for a purely intrastate
activity, the manufacture of the goods sold, it may be
reached for local taxation by a tax on the privilege of
manufacturing, measured by the value of the goods manufactured," or by other permissible forms of levy upon
"Regulations 193 (4) "Persons resident and/or domiciled in Indiana
who are engaged in business, the legal situs and location of which is
in states other than Indiana, and the activities of such business
are carried on in states other than Indiana, will not be required to
pay tax upon the gross receipts therefrom."
Acts of Indiana, 1937, c. 117, p. 609: "That with respect to individuals resident in Indiana and corporations incorporated under the
laws of Indiana 9,uthorized to do and doing business in any other
state and/or foreign country, the term 'gross income' shall not include gross receipts received from sources outside the State of Indiana
in cases where such gross receipts are received from a trade or
business situated and regularly carried on at a legal situs outside the
State of Indiana, or from activities incident thereto .. ."
"Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Hope Natural
Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284; American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis,
supra.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the intrastate transaction." It is because the tax, forbidden as to interstate commerce, reaches indiscriminately
and without apportionment, the gross -compensation for
both interstate commerce apd intrastate activities that
it must fail in its entirety so far as applied to receipts from
sales interstate.
We hold that, as respects the appellant's sales of its
manufactured product in interstate and foreign commerce,
the statute cannot constitutionally be enforced.
2. Will the imposition of the tax in respect of interest
on the bonds of Indiana municipalities violate Article I,
§ 10 of the Constitution of the United States?
By an Act of March 9, 1903, entitled "An Act to exempt from taxation all bonds, notes and other evidences
of interest-bearing debt issued by the State or by municipal corporations,'" it was provided "That all 'bonds, notes
and other evidences of indebtedness hereafter issued by
the State of Indiana or by municipal corporations within
the State upon which the said State or the said municipal
corporations pay interest shall be exempt from taxation." 16 By an Act of March 11, 1919, tax laws of the
State were codified and the Act of 1903 was incorporated
without change as clause twentieth of § 5 of the codification." The section has- since been amended but the
twentieth clause remained unchanged at the date of the
passage of the Gross Income Tax Act of 1933.
The appellant insists that the exemption granted in the
Acts of 1903 and 1919, constitutes a contract with purchasers of municipal securities the obligation of which is
unconstitutionally impaired by the attempt to tax the
interest*they yield. The State replies that the Acts were
Utah Power & Light Co. v. Post, 286 U. S. 165; Federal Compress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291

U. S. 584.
"Acts of Indiana, 1903, c. CLXXIX, p. 322.
'Acts of Indiana, 1919, c. 59, § 5 (twentieth). p. 203.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

. 315

Opinion of the Court.

not intended to create a contract and did not in fact do so,
but that if they did, the covenant did not embrace interest
payable on municipal obligations but only ad 'valoremtaxation upon them.
When the exemption laws were adopted the State had
no income tax law. Whatever may have been the background against which the Act of 1903 is to be construed,
its setting, as a portion of the tax codification of 1919, is
significant. The latter deals with two forms of taxation,-poll taxes and property taxes. It embodies a comprehensive scheme of annual assessment of real and personal property of individuals, partnerships, and corporations, including public utilities: makes provision for a
return by taxpayers of complete inventories of property
and, in the case of corporations, of the excess value of
capital stock and surplus and of the value of franchises
or privileges enjoyed; and provides for assessment .by
public officials for the purpose of the application of a
rate ad valorem by various public bodies. The statute
has nothing to say with respect to license, occupation,
privilege or other excise taxes. In § 25 it provides that
"Where bonds or stocks are now or may hereafter be exempted from taxation, the accrued interest on such bonds
or dividends on such stock shall be !listed and assessed,
unless otherwise exempted, without regard to the time
when the same is to be paid." Thus the legislature distinguished between the bonds themselves and the interest
accrued upon them as separate subjects of assessment and
ad valorem taxation. The Supreme Court of Irliana has
consistently held that exemptions from taxation are not
favored but are to be strictly"bonstrued.18
In the light of the foregoing facts we are of opinion
that the case is controlled by Hale v. Iowa State Board,
"South Bend v. University, 69 Ind. 344, 348; Read v. Yeager, 104
Ind. 195, 199; 3 N. E. 856.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

302 U. S. 95. We are unable, therefore, to hold that the
decision of the Supreme Court is plainly wrong, even upon
the assumption that in adopting the statutory exemption
the legislature intended to, and in fact did, contract with
purchasers of municipal bonds.
As respects the tax demanded on appellant's gross income from its business in interstate commerce, the judgment is reversed and, as respects the tax on interest received from obligations issued by municipalities of the
State, the judgment is affirmed. The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed in part; affirmed in part.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNODLfS is of opinion that the challenged judgment should be reversed in toto.
CARWOzO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting in part.

The Indiana statute of 1933 here invalidated imposes
"a tax, measured by the amount or volume of gross income,... upon all residents of the State of Indiana, and
upon the gross income derived from sources within the
State of Indiana, of all persons and ... companies, . . .
who are not residents of ... . Indiana, but are engaged in
business in Indiana." The tax is general in effect throughout the eWire State, applying to all who do business and
who receive annual incomes in the State above $1,000.00
(with minor exceptions). It falls uniformly Upon all such
gross incomes whether derived from interstate or intrastate business or from investments, interest or services.'
The generality of this tax is made clear in its definition of gross
income as including, with minor exceptions, "the gross receipts of the
taxpayer received as compensation for personal services, and the

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK,

317

J., dissenting.

There is no contention that the statute was inspired by
any spirit pf antagonism or hostility to interstate commerce or that it discriminates against interstate commerce
in amount or method of application.
Concurrently with the passage of this Revenue Act,
the Indiana legislature limited the tax that could be imposed upon other forms of property by the State or any
"taxing units within the state." 2 The Supreme Court
of Indiana in the opinion below ' said:
"Legislative history indicates that one of the purposes
of the Gross Income Tax Law was to redistribute governmental burdens and relieve property of a tax burden
which was thought to be too great."
Indiana passed this gross income tax law at a time when
depressed economic conditions were. causing the fiscal
policies of many States to turn toward similar legislation.'
gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from trades, businesses or commerce, and the gross receipts proceeding or accruing from the sale
of property, tangible or intangible, real or personal, or service, or
any or all of the foregoing, and all receipts by reason of the investment of capital, including interest, discount, rentals, royalties, fees,
commissions or other emoluments, however designated,..."

Sec-

tion (f), c. 50, Indiana Acts 1933.
'Acts of Indiana, 1933, p. 1085 (Act approved March 9, 1933).
The Gross Income Tax Law was approved February 27, 1933, Acts
1933, Indiana, c. 50, 78th Session, p. 388.
'7 N. E. (2d) 941, 945.
"The obtaining of funds to replenish impoverished treasuries was
the principal goal of the state legislatures in 1933. Relief to property also was a much sought after end. Property relief was accorded
through reduced appropriations, lowered tax limits, and collection
leniency. The drive for new revenue resulted in the adoption of
gross income or gross sales taxes in fifteen states ....
"The development of the gross income or gross sales taxes is probably the outstanding tax news of the year." The Tax Magazine,
Vol. 12, February, 1934, p. 63, "State Tax Legislation, 1933," Raymond E. Manning. Id., see p. 365, "Chart of State Sales, Gross
Income, and License Taxes."

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

Serious financial difficulties of the States stimulated
efforts to find new sources of taxation, and the widespread
belief that property was bearing an unfair burden of
taxes also substantially contributed to the levying of
these new taxes.'
"Indiana's fiscal strain was not to be found in the state government until the $1.50 property tax limitation adopted by the legislature in 1932 cut almost in half the state rate on property, which
had been furnishing not far from one-fourth of total state revenues
(including motor vehicle taxes). Coupled with a drastic shrinkage
in assessed valuations and a demand' for increased state aid to localities, this made it imperative for the state government to seek new
revenue sources even though the other tax yields had been holding
up fairly well through 1931-32. ....

"It is evident that the local tax situation was the chief factor
bringing about the sweeping change in the state's own system. For
one not intimately acquainted with conditions in Indiana it is not
easy to locate from the available data the precise sources of trouble,
but whatever they may have been, the tax limitation law crystallized
them, and the result is a threatened breakdown of governmental
finance in many localities, unless the state succeeds in carrying out
its greatly increased program of aid to localities through highway
and school moneys....
"The campaign in support of the [gross receipts] tax . ..was led

by the Indiana Farm Bureau, which secured the signatures of a large
number of farmers on a petition urging -the passage of a sales tax.
9n February 12 a meeting of farmers and other property owners was
held, and, several thousand marched to the capitol. For several years
the bureau had been urging the reduction of property taxes, and
partly as a result of its efforts the $1.50 law was passed in the special
session of 1932, limiting the state levy to 15 cents and all local
levies to $1.35 per $100 of assessed value. ...
."The Indianapolis Real Estate Board, in addition to cooperating
with the Indiana Farm Bureau, worked with the Indiana Real Estate
Association and the Federation of Community Civic Clubs. A mzeting of all these organizations, held on February 10, 1933, passed resolutions favoring the sales tax."
"The Sales Tax in the American States," Haig. and Shoup, (1934,
Columbia: University Press), 238, 241, 242.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Appellant is an Indiana corporation engaged in the
business of manufacturing and selling road machinery.
All of the machinery is manufactured in Indiaria. Its
office, only plant and all its properties are located in Indiana. Its products are sold to ultimate purchasers in
Indiana and other States by independent distributors or
through sales agents of appellant. All sales must be approved by, and all payments made to appellant's office in
Indiana. While appellant is thus engaged in interstate
commerce, obviously, a major portion of its activities
takes place in Indiana.
The prevailing judgment here is that Indiana cannot
constitutionally impose this tax measured by the gross
income received by appellant in Indiana from that substantial part of its products (manufactured in Indiana)
sold to purchasers in other States. It is held that the
tax, thus applied, is prohibited by § 8, Article 1 of the
Federal Constitution which provides that
"The Congress shall have power . . . to regulate com"
merce among the several states ....
The Indiana tax is not invalidated on the ground that
it violates any law passed by Congress under this constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce.
This power to regulate commerce among the States
"like all others vested in Congress, is complete in itself,
may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges
no limitations, other than are prescribed in the
Constitution." 8
'Cf. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196, 197.

Since Congress has

not acted upon this subject, the present case does not involve a manifestation by Congress of its paramount and exclusive authority to
regulate an aspect of interstate commerce with which the states may
deal (because of its local nature) until Congress acts. Gf. New York
Central & H. R. R. Co. v. County of Hudson, 227 U. S. 248.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

The question, therefore, is whether-in the absence of
regulatory legislation by Congress condemning state taxes
on gross receipts from interstate commerce-the Commerce Clause, of itself, prohibits all such state taxes, as
"regulations" of iiterstate commerce, even though general, uniform and non-discriminatory.
All state taxes on gross receipts from interstate commerce do not discriminate against, or impose extraordinary
burdens upon, that commerce. Those that do not, do no
more than-impose a normal burden of government upon
that commerce. On the other hand, some state gross income taxes may be designed or applied so as seriously to
impede the freedom of interstate commerce. If interstate
commerce should be so impeded, Congress might-under
its commerce power-find it "necessary and proper" to
condemn all state taxes on gross receipts, in order to "carry
into execution" its granted power to regulate and protect
interstate commerce.! We are not here confronted with
such a congressional enactment. Should the Indiana law,
and all state taxes on gross receipts from interstate commerce, as such--in the absence of such enactment-be
condemned as a regulation of interstate commerce in the
constitutional sense?
"Taxation" and "regulation" are not synonymous; all
state, county or city taxes that affect interstate commerce
do not "regulate" it in the constitutional sense; unquestionably, taxes can be levied for revenue only. As pointed
out by Mr. Justice Holmes in Galveston, H. & S; A. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225, involving a state tax which was
not general but was levied only on gross receipts laid on
railroads:
"It being once admitted, as of course it must be, that not
every law that affects commerce among the States is a
'Cf. Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v. United States (The Shreveport
Case), 234 U. S. 342, 350 et seq.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

regulation of it in a constitutional sense, nice distinctions
are to be expected."
The majority there found that the tax on interstate transportation violated the Commerce Clause. The dissent,
applying the similar principle that every gross receipts tax
is not necessarily a regulation, insisted that the particular
gross receipts tax involved did not "attempt to regulate
commerce among the states" and should not "be taken as a
tax on interstate commerce in the sense of the Constitution; for its operation on interstate commerce is only incidental, not direct." Both opinions recognized a distinction between taxes for revenue, which incidentally affect
interstate commerce, and other taxes which directly regu late commerce. More recently, this Court has said in
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250,
259:
"Recognizing that not every local law that affects commerce is a regulation of it in a constitutional sense, this
Court has held that local taxes may be laid on property
used in the commerce; that its value for taxation may include the augmentation attributable to the commerce in
which it is employed; and, finally, that the equivalent of
that value may be computed by a measure related to gross
receipts when a tax of the latter is substituted for a tax of
the former." '
the bare fact that one is carrying on interstate commerce
does not relieve him from many forms of state taxation which add
to the cost of his business. He is subject to a property tax on the
8"...

instruments employed in the commerce,...

and if the property

devoted to interstate transportation is used both within and without
the state a tax fairly apportioned to its use within the state will
be sustained ....
Net earnings from interstate commerce are subject to income tax, ...
and if the commerce is carried on by a cor-

poration a franchise tax may be imposed, measured by the net income
from 'business done within the state, including such portion of the
income derived from interstate commerce as may be justly attributable
81638°--3.8---21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

Many cases relied on to support the prevailing judgment here hold that state gross receipts taxes imposed on
interstate "transportation" violate the Commerce Clause.
While this construction of the Commerce Clause had been
previously considered, it was fully clarified and delimited
in Philadelphia& Sou. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S.
326, 341, 342, 344, 345, and that decision has served as the
authoritative basis for subsequent decisions:
"The tax in the present case is laid upon the gross
receipts for transportation as such. Those receipts are
followed and caused to be accounted for by the company,
dollar for dollar. It is those specific receipts, or the
amount thereof, (which is the same thing,) for which the
company is called upon to pay the tax. They are taxed,
not only because they are money, or its value, but because
they were received for transportation. No doubt a shipowner, like any other citizen, may be personally taxed for
the amount of his property or estate, without regard to the
sourcefrom which it was derived, whether from commerce,
or banking, or any other employment. But that is an
entirely different thing from laying a special tax upon his
receipts in a particular employment....
"It [the tax under consideration] is not a general tax
on the income of all the inhabitants of the state; but a
special tax on transportation companies. Conceding, however, that an income tax may be imposed on certain
classes of the community, distinguished by the character
of their occupations; this is not an income tax on the
class to which it refers, but a tax on their receipts for
transportation . . . It is clearly not such, but a tax on
transportation only." (Italics supplied.)
to business done within the state by fair method of apportionment.
. . . All of these taxes in one way or another add to the expense
of carrying on interstate commerce, and in that sense burden it;
but they are not for that reason prohibited." Western Live Stock v.
Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Previous decisions had held that the Commerce Clause
did not prohibit state taxes on gross receipts from interstate commerce.' The effect of these prior decisions was
modified by the PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. case. The
latter case decided (contrary to the previous decisions)
that a state tax on gross receipts received for actual interstate transportation is prohibited by the Commerce
Clause. In that case the tax invalidated was a selective
' ". . . it is not everything that affects commerce that amounts to a
regulation of it, within the meaning of the Constitution ...
we think it may safely be laid down that the gross receipts
of railroad or canal companies, after they have reached the treasury
of the carriers, though they may have been derived in part from
transportation of freight between States, have become subject to
legitimate taxation. It is not denied that net earnings of such corporations are taxable by State authority without any inquiry after
their sources, and it is difficult to state any well-founded distinction
between the lawfulness of a tax upon them and that of a tax upon
gross receipts, or between the effects they work upon commerce,
except perhaps in degree." State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts,
15 Wall. 284, 293, 296.
"The tax [15 Wall. 284] on gross receipts was held not to be repugnant to the Constitution, because imposed on the railroad companies
in the nature of a general income tax, and incapable of being transferred as a burden upon the property carried from one State to

another....
"... It is as important to leave the rightful powers of the State
in respect to taxation unimpaired as to maintain the powers of the
Federal government in their integrity.
"In the second of the cases recently decided, the whole court
agreed that a tax on business carried on within the State and without discrimination between its citizens and the citizens of other States,
might be constitutionally imposed and collected....
"It is to be observed that Congress has never undertaken to exercise this power in any manner inconsistent with the municipal ordinance under consideration, and there are several cases in which the
court has asserted the right of the State to legislate, in the absence
of legislation by Congress, upon subjects over which the Constitution
has clothed that body with legislative authority." Osborne v. Mobile,
16 Wall. 479, 481, 482.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

tax applied to the particular business of transportation.
Consequently, the Court did not decide whether a State
could constitutionally impose a general gross income tax
(such as Indiana's) to ah interstate business (such as
appellant's) not involving transportation. Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S.292, December, 1917, and
United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, June,
1918, marked the all-inclusive condemnation of state taxes
on gross receipts from interstate commerce, as a class-without regard to discrimination or generality.
However, as pointed out in the opinion, the "bare question" in the Crew Levick case was "whether a state tax
imposed upon the business of selling goods in foreign
commerce, insofar as it is measured by the gross receipts
from merchandise shipped to foreign countries, is in effect
a regulation of foreign commerce or an impost upon exports, within the meaning of the pertinent clauses of the
Federal Constitution." The tax there involved was not
a general income tax bearing uniformly upon all business
within the State. When the opinion in the United States
Glue Co. case-where a gross income tax was not in
issue-indicated approval of an extension of the previous
constitutional rule so as to condemn-as a class-all state
'taxes on gross receipts from interstate commerce, the
Court clearly set out its reasons for the extension. The
Court said that the distinction:
" . . . between a tax measured by gross receipts and
one measured by net income, recognized by our decisions,
is manifest and substantial, and it affords a convenient
and workable basis of distinction between a direct and
immediate burden upon the business affected and a charge
that is only indirect and incidental. A tax upon gross
receipts affects each transaction in proportion to its magnitude and irrespective of whether it is profitable or otherwise. Conceivably it may be sufficient to make the difference between profit and loss, or to so diminish the profit

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK, J., dissenting.

as to impede or discourage the conduct of the commerce.
A tax upon the net profit has not the same deterrent
effect, since it does not arise at all unless a gain is shown
over and above expenses and losses, and the tax cannot
be heavy unless the profits are large. Such a tax, when
imposed upon net incomes from whatever source arising,
is but a method of distributing the cost of government,
like a tax upon property, or upon franchises treated as
property; and if there be no discrimination against interstate commerce, either in the admeasurement of the tax
or in the means adopted for enforcing it, it constitutes one
of the ordinary and general burdens of government, from
which persons and corporations otherwise subject to the
jurisdiction of the States are not exempted by the Federal
Constitution because they happen to be engaged in commerce among the States." Pp. 328-329.
A tax upon property used in interstate commerce, even
with an augmented value due tp such use, is not a regulation of commerce, is valid and is within the powers of
the State.'
Yet, the constitutional validity of a tax on
property does not turn upon whether the property is
profitable to its owner. Gross receipts from interstate
commerce-as from all sources-vary and will probably
rise and fall with property values. Therefore, the total
amount exacted from interstate commerce under a gross
receipts tax can fluctuate just as the total paid under a
property tax. Since property and corporate franchises
used in interstate commerce can be constitutionally taxed
by States, whether profitable or unprofitable, it seems dif-'
ficult to justify a constitutional test for state income
taxes based upon existence or absence of profit.
The application of such a constitutional test will-as
a practical matter-inevitably result in exempting all
10 Cf. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 453, 454;
United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 345, 347..

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

enterprises engaged in interstate commerce from all state
grass income taxes on interstate commerce receipts,
whether profitable or not. At the same time, local intrastate enterprises, doing business in the same communities, must pay state gross receipts taxes whether profitable or unprofitable. Such a construction of the Commerce Clause-designed to prevent a State from imposing unfair tax burdens upon those engaged in interstate
commerce-actually serves to impose an unfair and discriminatory burden upon local intrastate business. Failure of an interstate business to make a profit does not
relieve the State of its burden in affording protection for
that business. While the federal government is charged
with the constitutional duty of protecting and fostering
interstate commerce by proper regulation " it has not
attempted to provide local governmental protection for
those engaged in such commerce. However desirable it
may be, as a tax policy, to tax in accordance with ability
to pay, the failure to make a profit should not of itself
create a constitutional exemption from a tax which the
State might otherwise impose.1 2 And, as a practical matter, state taxing authorities may be moved by the consideration that profits are not always capable of ascertainment
with complete accuracy and certainty."3
' Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456,
478.
"State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 606; cf., Ohio Tax Cases,
232 U. S. 576, 590.
"S
Cf., with reference to a state tax law assailed as violative of the
Fourteenth Amendment, dissent of Mr. Justice Cardozo: "But profits
themselves are not susceptible of ascertainment with certainty and
precision except as the result of inquiries too minute to be practicable. The returns of the taxpayer call for an exercise of judgment as well as for a transcript of the figures on his books. They
are subject to possible inaccuracies, almost without number. Salaries
of superintendence, figuring as expenses, may have been swollen inordinately; appraisals of plant, of merchandise, of patents, of what

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLA CK, J., dissenting.

It has been suggested, however, that Indiana might by
law apportion to itself that part of a tax on gross receipts
from interstate commerce to which it is entitled. Such
an apportionment by Indiana would, in effect, fix the
portion of such a tax for the other forty-seven States
which appellant's interstate business might touch.
Indiana has no authority to determine what, how, when
or to what extent other States may tax within their respective boundaries. If such power of apportionment or
allocation exists at all, it must be true that the only
repository of a power touching complex and national
aspects of interstate commerce is not Indiana, not the
Judiciary-but the National Congress.
Interstate commerce constitutes a large part of the
business of the nation. Until Congress, in the exercise
of its plenary power over interstate commerce, fixes a
different policy, it would appear desirable that the States
should remain free to adopt tax systems imposing uniform and non-discriminatory taxes upon interstate and
intrastate business alike.
It is also urged that a gross receipts tax under the Commerce Clause is invalid because it might result in multiple
burdens on interstate commerce.1 4 The possibility is
suggested that the States may use gross income taxes to
not, may be erroneous or even fraudulent. In the words of a student
of the problem, 'statements of profits are affected both by accounting
methods and by the optimistic or pessimistic light in which the future
is viewed at the time when the accounts are made up.' . . . These
difficulties and dangers bear witness to the misfortune of forcing
methods of.taxation within a Procrustean formula. If the state discerns in business operations uniformities and averages that seem to
point the way to a system easier to administer than one based upon a
report of profits, and yet likely in the long run to work out approximate equality, it ought not to be denied the power to frame its
laws accordingly." Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550,
576-577.
See Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Rew nue, 303 U. S. 250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLcx, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

create direct, extraordinary, and unjust .burdens upon

interstate commerce and that this possibility requires
that all state taxes on gross interstate commerce receipts
be condemned as within the prohibition of the Commerce
Clause. Congress was undoubtedly given the exclusive
power to regulate commerce in order that undue, unjust
and unfair burdens might not be imposed upon such
commerce. 1' It was not intended, however, that interstate commerce should enjoy a preferred status over intrastate business or to remove those engaged in interstate
commerce from the ordinary and usual burdens of the
government which affords such commerce protection."
A court may act to protect a litigant from unfair and
unjust burdens upon the litigant's interstate business.
Yet, it would seem that only Congress has the power to
formulate rules, regulations and laws to protect inter-

state commerce from merely possible future unfair
burdens. Here the record does not indicate any charge
or proof of an existing extraordinary, unfair or multiple
,tax burden on appellant. The tax burden from which
appellant is here exempted is one which the local taxpayers of Indiana must bear. As a result, an unjust and
unfair burden is actually imposed upon intrastate business, because of an apprehension of a possible future
injury to interstate commerce. The control of future
conduct, the prevention of future injuries and the formulation of regulatory rules in the fields of commerce and
taxation, all present legislative problems.
This Court has sustained, and the majority opinion refers approvingly to a municipal license tax in Missouri,
imposed in addition to an ad valorem property tax, in
which the amount of the license was measured by the
amount received for the interstate sale of goods manu"Philadelphia & Sou. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326,
346.
. "See Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wai11. 123, 137.

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK, J., dissenting.

factured within the municipality." It is true that the
amount of the license for a succeeding year was there
measured by a percentage of the amount of sales for the
preceding year, while the Indiana tax is paid quarterly
during the year of sale. However, if we look to substance
and effect, disregard the nominal designation of each tax,
and consider the realities of the two taxes, the tax burdens are identical under the approved Missouri tax and
the disapproved Indiana tax.18 Numerous other decisions
have recognized the principle of including receipts from
interstate commerce in the figure (not wholly derived
from such comnerce) used in measuring the amount of
a state excise tax.19
It has been often said that no formula can be devised
for determining in all cases whether or not a state tax is
prohibited by the Commerce Clause, and that "the question is inherently a practical one, depending for its decision on the special facts of each case, . . .,o A formula
which arbitrarily stamps every state gross receipts tax as
a violation of the Commerce Clause, on the ground that it
can be used for cumulative tax purposes, leaves unanswered the possibility that other taxes, previously held
valid, may be used with like effects on interstate commerce; disregards the fact that in many cases, as here,
" American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459.
"Apparently, if the Indiana tax had been "on the privilege of
manufacturing, measured by the total gross receipts from sales of

the maiiufactured goods, both intrastate and interstate" instead of
designated as "a tax, measured by the amount or volume of gross

income" received from manufacturing and sales interstate and intrastate, the tax would be held valid. See, Western Live Stock v. Bureau
of Revenue, 303 U. S.250.
'Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290, 294; Maine v.
Grand Trunk Railway Co., 142 U..S. 217; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry.
Co. v. Powers. 191 U. S. 379,1 United States Express Co. v. Minnesota,
223. -. S.335, 343.
' Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, suprb , at 295

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

such a tax can be fairly and uniformly applied to both
interstate and intrastate commerce; and in effect actually
denies a State the privilege of using such a tax unless
willing to impose unjust and unequal burdens upon its
own citizens engaged in intrastate commerce.
The receipt of income is a taxable event and need not
necessarily enjoy the immunity of the income's source."
Appellant's receipt of gross income could be taxed in one
State only, because appellant received income only in
Indiana. A sales tax might possibly be imposed upon independent distributors of appellant's products who do
business in other States. Such tax would be constitutional only if it did not discriminate against appellant's
products.22 Distributors in States other than Indiana do
'In
sustaining an income tax law of the State of New York
against a challenge that it violated the Fourteenth Amendment, it
was said: "That the receipt of income by a resident of the territory
of a taxing sovereignty is a taxable event is universally recognized.
Domicil itself affords a basis for such taxation. Enjoyment of the
privileges of residence in the state and the attendant right to invoke
the protection of its laws are inseparable from responsibility for
sharing the costs of government. 'Taxes are what we pay for civilized
society' . . . Neither the privilege nor the burden is affected by
the character of the source from which the income is derived. For
that reason income is not necessarily clothed with the tax immunity
enjoyed by its source. . . . It may tax net income from operations
in interstate commerce although a tax on the commerce is forbidden,
United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v.
Carter, . . . [252 U. S. 37, 50]." New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves,
300 U. S. 308; 312, 313. The dissent called attention to the fact
that not only was the New York taxpayer subject to an income tax
in that State by the decision, but that "New Jersey, in addition to
tax on the land measured by its value, may lay a tax upon the income
received by the owner for its use." Id., p. 318.
"'A state tax upon merchandise brought in from another state,
or upon its sales, whether in original packages or not, after it has
reached its destination and is in a state of rest, is lawful only when
the tax is not discriminating in its incidence against the merchandise
because of its origin in another State.' Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,

ADAMS MFG. CO. v. STOREN.
307

BLACK, J., dissenting.

business under the protection of their respective States.
Under these circumstances, non-discriminatory sales taxes
in those States upon the distributors create no unfair
multiplication of taxes and would not be unconstitutional."3 The manufacturer who receives protection under the laws of Indiana and the distributors who receive
protection under the laws of the States in which products
are sold, should be subject to uniform, non-discriminatory
taxes imposed by the sovereign power of tho States in
which both do business under State protection.
Judicial interpretation of the Commerce Clause gradually evolved the principle that non-action by Congress
is tantamount to a congressional declaration that the
flow of commerce from State to State must be free from
unfair and discriminatory burdens.24 Throughout the
decisions upon the question has run recognition of the
supreme power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and the courts have stricken down state taxes when
found to raise barriers impeding the free flow of commerce between the States, but not obstructing commerce
between citizens within a single State. Courts-in the
absence of congressional regulation of interstate commerce-have acted because there " . . would otherwise
be no security against conflicting regulations of different
States, each discriminating in favor of its own products
and citizens, and against the products and citizens of other
States. . ..it is a matter of public history that the object
[262 U. S. 506] at p. 516.

.

.

. Neither the power to tax nor the

police power may be used by the state of destination with the aim
and effect of establishing an economic barrier against competition
with the products of another state or the labor of its residents. ...
They are thus hostile in conception as well as burdensome in result.
The form of the packages in such circumstances is immaterial, whether
they are original or broken." Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, 294 U. S.
511, 526, 527. (Italics supplied.)
Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506.
See Philadelphia & Sou. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra.
U

332"

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

of vesting in Congress the right to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the States was to insure uniformity of regulation against conflicting and discriminating State legislation." 21 With reference to borderline laws,
it has been significantly pointed out that there " . . . is
also, in addition to the restraint which those provisions
[the Commerce Clause] impose by their own force on the
States the unquestioned power of Congress, under the
authority to regulate commerce among the States, to interpose, by the exercise of this power, in such a manner as to
prevent the States from any oppressive interference with
the free interchange of commodities by the citizens of one
State with those of another."
If it be true, as urged, that some state gross receipts
taxes may possibly in the future be multiplied so as to
burden interstate commerce unfairly, it is equally true
that other state gross receipts taxes (as the Indiana tax)
may not, in the absence of such multiplication, result in
such burdens. Since the present litigation has developed
that no such unfair burdens have been imposed upon appellant's interstate business, appellant can only be
exempted from payment of this tax by application of a
regulatory rule or law which condemns all such state
taxes-whether fair or unfair. If such a general rule or
law is to be promulgated it would seem that under our
constitutiopal division of governmental powers such a
regulatory policy should be considered and determined by
Congress under its exclusive grant. It will be time enough
for judicial protection when a litigant actually proves, in
a particular case, that state gross receipts taxes levied
against the litigant have resulted in unfair aid unjust
discrimination against the iitigant because of engagement
26

"County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102U. S. 691, 697.
" Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 140.

LABOR BOARD v. MACKAY CO.
307

Syllabus.

in interstate commerce. Many arguments--which we
might believe to be sound--can be advanced against the

legislative policy of a gross receipts tax. These objections,
however, are not the criterion of its constitutionality.
With the wisdom of such fiscal policy of a State we are
not concerned."7 The interests of interstate commerce will

best be fostered, preserved and protected-in the absence
of direct regulation by the Congress--by leaving those
engaged in it in the various States subject to the ordinary
and non-discriminatory taxes of the States from which
they receive governmental protection. For these reasons
I believe that the entire judgment of the court below

should be affirmed.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
MACKAY RADIO & TELEGRAPH CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 706.

Argued April 5, 6, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals has jurisdiction to entertain a
petition for rehearing, filed at the same term and in time under its
rules, of a judgment denying an application of the National Labor.
Relations Board for enforcement of an order; and the three
months within which a petitioner must apply to this Court for
certiorari to review the decision in such case runs from the date
of the order entered upon the petition for rehearing. P. 343.
2. Following the failure of negotiations looking to an agreement in
respect of terms and conditions of employment, employees of a
company engaged in the transmission and receipt of radio, telegraph and cable messages, interstate and foreign, went on a strike.
The company brought. employees from its offices in other cities
,to take the places of the strikers. Subsequently, all but five of
Cf. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192.

