GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.

175

Syllabus.

GENERAL TALKING PICTURES CORP. v. WEST-

ERN ELECTRIC CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 357. Argued December 13, 14, 1937.-Decided May 2, 1938.
1. Review by certiorari is confined to questions specifically brought
forward by the petition for the writ. P. 177.
The supporting brief is not a part of the petition for this purpose; specifications of error in that brief do not expand or add to
the questions stated in the petition; they serve merely to identify
and challenge rulings upon which is grounded ultimate decision of
the matter involved. P. 178.
2. A wit of certiorari will not be granted in a patent case to bring
up questions of acquiescence and estoppel dependent on questions
of fact, as to which there were concurrent findings below; nor to
review questions of anticipation and invention as to which there
is no conflict between decisions of the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
P. 178.
3. The owner of patents in vacuum tube amplifiers used the inventions commercially, through its exclusively licensed subsidiaries, in
the business of making talking-picture equipment embodying the
inventions and supplying the equipment to theaters. It also
granted non-exclusive licenses to others expressly limited to the
making and selling of the patented amplifiers for private uses,
namely, for radio broadcast reception, radio amateur reception,
and radio experimental reception. One of the non-exclusive licensees made the patented amplifiers and sold them to a talking
pictures corporation, knowing that the purchaser would include
them in talking-picture equipment to be leased to theaters. Both
parties knew the restrictions of the vendor's license and intentionally disregarded notices stating those restrictions, which were
affixed to the articles. Held, that the restrictions of the vendor's
license were valid under the patent law; that the purchaser was
not "a purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade"; that the
sales were not sales under the patent, but were without authority
from the patent-owner; and that both vendor and purchaser were
guilty of infringement. P. 179.
The effect of the license notice is not considered.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

4. The concurrent findings of the two courts below, as to two of the
patents involved in this litigation, that there was no public use of
the inventions prior to the dates of divisional applications on
which the patents issued, are supported by evidence and accepted
by this Court. P. 182.
5. Inventions, disclosed but not claimed in applications for patent,
were subsequently claimed and patented through continuation applications voluntarily filed by the applicant. The patentee's use,
which was the only "public use," was for less than two years prior
to the original applications but for more than two years prior to
the continuation applications. Held that the continuation applicptions were in time, no adverse rights having intervened more
than two years before they were filed, and the effective dates of
the claims' therein were the dates of the original applications.
R. S. § 4886. Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Gutmann Co., ante, p.
159. P. 182
91 F. 2d 922, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 674, to review the affirmance of

decrees sustaining patents, enjoining infringement, -and
ordering accountings, in three suits that were heard
together. On May-31, a rehearing was ordered upon the
first two of the questions stated on p. 177 of this opinion.
Messrs. Samuel E. Darby, Jr. and Ephraim Berliner

for petitioner.
Mr. Merrell E. Clark, with whom Mr. Henry R. Ashton

was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Three suits were brought by respondents against petitioner in the district court for the southern district of
New York to restrain infringements, based on different

patents for inventions in vacuum tube amplifiers which
have been used in wire and radio telephony, talking motion pictures, and other fields. In all there were in suit

seven patents.

The cases were tried together and are

treated as one. The lower courts held one of the patents

invalid, and that ruling is not challenged here. They con-

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.

177

Opinion of the Court.

175

curred in holding six of the patents valid and infringed
by petitioner. 16 F. Supp.. 293; 91 F. (2d) 922. This
Court granted a writ of certiorari.
Under the caption "Questions Presented" the petition
for writ of certiorari submits the following:
"1. Can the owner of a patent, by means thereof, restrict the use made of a device manufactured under the
patent, after the device has passed into the hands of a
purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade, and full consideration paid therefor?
"2. Can a patent owner, merely by a 'license notice'
attached to a device made under the patent, and sold in
the ordinary channels of trade, place an enforceable restricti6n on the purchaser thereof as to the use to which
the purchaser may put the device?
"3. Can an inventor who has filed an application for
patent, showing and describing but not claiming certain
inventions, obtain a valid patent for said inventions by
voluntarily filing a 'divisional' or 'continuation' application for said unclaimed inventions more than two years
subsequent to public use of the -said unclaimed inventions
by him or his assignee or licensee?"
The brief supporting the petition contains specifications of error relating to decision of two other questions.
One is whether, by acceptance and retention of royalties
paid by the licensed manufacturer, respondents acquiesced in the infringement and are estopped from maintaining the suit. The other is whether the patents upheld are invalid because of anticipation by, or want of
invention over, the prior patented art. That' brief "i
confined to the three questions definitely stated in the
petition. But petitioner's brief on the merits extends
to the additional questions reflected by the specification
of errors.
1. Our consideration of the case will be limited to the
questions specifically brought forward by the petition.
81638-8----12

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Rule 38, paragraph 2, contains the following. "The petition shall contain only a summary and short statement
"of the matter involved and the reasons relied on for the
allowance of the writ. A supporting brief may be included in the petition, but, whether so included or presented separately, it must be direct, concise and in conformity with Rules 26 and 27. A failure to comply with
these requirements will be a sufficient reason for denying the petition. . . ." Evidently petitioner, by the
"Questions Presented" intended to state the issues it
deemed to arise on its "statement of the matter involved,"
for neither the petition nor supporting brief purport to
apply for review of any other question. Whether included in the petition, or separately presented, the supporting brief is not a part of the petition, at least for
the puipose of stating the questions on which review is
sought. The specifications of error in that brief do not
expand or add to the questions stated in the petition;
they serve merely to identify and challenge rulings upon
which is grounded ultimate decision of the matter
involved.
There is nothing in the lower courts' lecision on either
of the added questions to warrant review here. Whether
respondents acquiesced in the infringement and are estopped depends upon the facts. Granting of the writ
would not be warranted merely to review the evidence or
inferences drawn from7 it. Southern Power Co. v. N. C.
Public Service Co., 263 U. S. 508. United States v. Johnston, 268 .U. S. 220, 227. Moreover, the decision on that
point rests on concurrent findings. They are not to be
disturbed 'unless plainly without support. United States
v. Chemical Foundation,272 U. S. 1, 14. United States v.
McGowan, 290 U. S. 592. Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes,
302 U.S. 464. There is:evidence to support them. Nor
would the writ be granted to review the questions of anticipation and invention that petitioner argues, for as to

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

179

Opinion of the Court.

them there is no conflict between decisions of circuit
courts of appeals. Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western
Well Works, 261 U. S. 387, 393. Keller v. Adams-Campbell Co., 264 U. S. 314, 319-320. Cf. Stilz v. United
States, 269 U. S. 144, 147-148. The writ did not issue to
bring up either of these questions. Crowell v. Benson,
285 U. S. 22, 65.
One having obtained a writ of certiorari to review
specified questions is not entitled here to obtain decision
on any other issue. Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Gutmann
Co., ante, p. 159. Petitioner is not here entitled to decision on any question other than those formally presented
by its petition for the writ.
2. The respondent American Telephone & Telegraph
Co. owns the patents. Amplifiers having these inventions
are used in different fields. One, known as the commercial field, includes talking picture equipment for theaters.
Another, called the private field, embraces radio broadcast reception, radio amateur reception, and radio experi-mental reception. The other respondents are subsidiaries
of the Telephone Company and exclusive licensees in the
commercial field. of recording and reproducing sound; during the time of the infringement alleged, they were engaged in making and supplying to theaters talking picture
equipment including amplifiers embodying the inventions
covered by the patents in suit. The petitioner also furnished to theaters talking picture equipment including
amplifiers which embody the invention covered by the
patents in suit. Respondents' charge is that by so doing
petitioner infringes them.
The American Transformer Company was one of a
number of manufacturers holding non-exclusive licenses
limited to the manufacture and sale of the amplifiers for
private use, as distinguished from commercial use. These
licenses were granted by the Radio Corporation, acting
for itself and the respondent Telephone Company, and

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

were assented to by the latter. The Transformer Company's license was expressly confined to the right -to
manufacture and sell the patented amplifiers for radio
amateur reception, radio experimenal reception, and
home broadcast reception. It had no right to sell the
amplifiers for use in theaters as a part of talking picture
equipment.
Nevertheless, it knowingly did sell the amplifiers in
controversy to petitioner for that use. Petitioner adnits
that the Transformer Company knew that the amplifiers
it sold to petitioner were to be used in the motion picture industry. The petitioner, when purchasing from the
Transformer Company for that use, had actual knowledge
that the latter had no license to make such a sale. In
compliance with a requirement of the license, the Transformer Company affixed to amplifiers sold by it under the
license a notice stating in substance that the apparatus
was licensed .only for radio amateur, experimental and
broadcast reception under the patents in question. To
the amplifiers sold to petitioner outside the scope of the
license, it also affixed notices in the form described, but
they were intended by both parties to be disregarded.
Petitioner puts its first question in affirmative form:
"The owner of a patent cannot, by means of the patent,
restrict the use made of a device manufactured under the.
patent after the device has passed into the hands of a
purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade and full consideration paid therefor." But that proposition ignores
controlling facts. The patent owner did not sell to petitioner the amplifiers in question or authorize the Transformer Company to sell them or any amplifiers for use
in theaters or any other commercial use. The sales made
by the Transformer Company to petitioner were outside
the scope of its license and not under the patent. Both
parties knew that fact at the time of the transactions.

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

181

Opinion of the Court.

There is no ground for the assumption that petitioner
was "a purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade."
The Transformer Company was not an assignee; it did
not own the patents or any interest in them; it was a mere
licensee under a non-exclusive license, amounting to no
more than "a mere waiver of the right to sue." De
Forest Co. v. United States, 273 U. S. 236, 242. Pertinent
words of the license are these: "To manufacture ...
and to sell only for radio amateur reception, radio experimental reception and radio broadcast reception. .. ."
Patent owners may grant licenses extending to all uses
or limited to use in a defined field. Rubber Company v.
Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 799-800. Gamewell Fire-Alarm
Telegraph Co. v. Brooklyn, 14 Fed. 255. Dorsey Rake
Co. v. Bradley Co., Fed. Cas. No. 4,015, 7 Fed. Cas. 946,
947. Robinson on Patents, §§ 808, 824.. Unquestionably,
the owner of a patent may grant licenses to manufacture,
use or sell upon conditions not inconsistent with the scope
of the monopoly. Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186
U. S. 70, 93. United States v. General Electric Co., 272
U. S. 476, 489. There is here no attempt on the part of
the patent owner to extend the scope of the monopoly
beyond that contemplated by the patent statute. Cf.
Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27,
33. Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458. There
is no warrant for treating the sales of amplifiers to petitioner as if made under the patents or the authority of
their owner. R. S. §§ 4884 and 4898 (35 U. S. C. §§ 40
and 47). Moore v. Marsh, 7 Wall. 515, 521. Waterman
v. Mackenzie, 138 U. S. 252, 256. Gayler v. Wilder, 10
How. 477, 494. United States v. General Electric Co.,
supra. Robinson on Patents, §§ 762, 763, 792,806 et seq.
The Transformer Company could not convey to petitioner what both knew it was not authorized to sell.
Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544, 550. By knowingly
making the sales to petitioner outside the scope of its

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

license, the Transformer Company infringed the patents
embodied in the amplifiers. Rubber Co. v. Goodyear,
supra. Bement v. National Harrow Co., supra. United
States v. General Electric Co., supra. Vulcan Mfg. Co. v.
Maytag Co., 73 F. (2d) 136, 139. L. E. Waterman Co. v.
Kline, 234 Fed. 891, 893. Porter Needle Co. v. Nat.
Needle Co., 1.7 Fed. 536. Petitioner, having with knowledge of the facts bought at sales constituting infringement, did itself infringe the patents embodied in the
amplifiers when it leased them for use as talking picture
equipment in theaters. Mitchell v. Hawley, ubi supra.
American Cotton-Tie Supply Co. v. Bullard, Fed. Cas.
No. 294, 1 Fed. Cas. 625, 629, 630. See Robinson on
Patents, § 824. See Holiday v. Mattheson, 24 Fed. 185,
186. General Electric Co. v. Continental Lamp Works,
280 Fed. 846, 851. As p~titioner at the time it bought
the amplifiers knew that the sales constituted infringement of the patents embodied in them, petitioner's second question, as to effect of the license notice, need not
be considered.
3. Petitioner's affirmative statement of its third question is: "An inventor who has filed an application for
patent showing and describing, but not claiming, certain
inventions cannot obtain a valid patent for said inventions
by voluntarily filing a 'divisional' or 'continuation' application for said unclaimed inventions more than two years
subsequent to public use of the said unclaimed inventions
by him or his assignee or licensee." It makes that contention as to four patents: Arnold Patent No. 1,403,475,
dated January 17, 1922; Arnold Patent No. 1,465,332,
dated April 21, 1923; Arnold Patent No. 1,329,283, dated
January 27, 1920; and Arnold Patent No. 1,448,550, dated
March 13, 1923.
The district court and circuit court of appeals found
that there was no public use of either of the inventions of
the first two patents prior to the filing dates of the di-

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

BLACK,

183

J., dissenting.

visional applications upon which they issued. These
findings were made upon adequate evidence and petitioner's contentions as to them will not be considered
here.
The subjects matter of the claims of the other two patents were disclosed in the original applications and were
claimed in the continuation applications upon which they
issued. The patentee's use was the only "public use" of
the inventions covered by them. And that did not precede by as much as two years the filingof the~original applications. The effective dates of the claims of the continuation applications are those of the original applications. In the absence of intervening adverse rights for
more than two years prior to the continuation applications, they were in time.*, R. S. § 4886 (35 U. S. C. 31).
Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Gutmann Co., ante, p. 159.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE CARD6Zo and MR.
JUSTICE REED took. no part in the consideration or deci-

sion of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The decisions in this case and Crown Cork & Seal Co.
v. Gutmann Co., ante, p. 159, will inevitably result in a
sweeping expansion of the statutory boundaries constitutionally fixed by Congress to limit the scope and duration of patent monopolies.
The area of the patent monopoly is expanded by the
holding that the exclusive right granted an inventor to
"make, use and vend" his patented commercial device,
permits the inventor's corporate assignee (and other "patent pool" participants) to control how, and where the
This sentence of the opinion is reported as amended by Order of
May 16, 1938, post, p. 546.
*

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

device can be used by a purchaser who bought it in the
open market.'
Petitioner bought amplifying tubes from the American
Transforyner Company, a licenseL authorized to "manufacture . . . and sell only for radio amateur reception,
radio experimental reception and radio broadcast reception." The devices are of a standard and uniform type
generally useful in many "fields."
We are not here concerned with the right of respondents under the contract with the licensee, American
Transformer Company. Respondents do not-in fact,
could not-rely on the contract made with the Transformer Company, in this suit against petitioner which in
no way was a party to that contract. If the Transformer
Company violated its contract respondents' remedy was
by suit against the Transformer Company for the breach.
No question of malicious interference with contractual
interests is presented. Respondents insist only that under
their patents, they have the right to control the use of
these widely used tubes in the hands of purchasers from
one authorized by respondents to manufacture and sell
them.
The mere fact that the purchaser of a standard and
uniform piece of electrical equipment has knowledge that
his vendor has contracted with an owner of a patent on
the equipment not to sell the equipment for certain agreed
purposes does not enlarge the scope or effect of the patent
1 The patented device here is an amplifying tube, and the opinion
of the District Judge stated: "The amplifying devices required tubes
which the defendant procured in the open market by purchase from
authorized distributors; each tube carton bore a license notice reading as follows:
'License Notice.
'In connection with devices it sells, Radio Corporation of America
has rights under patents having claims (a) on the devices themselves and (b) on combination of the devices with other devices or
elements, as for example in various circuits and hookups.'"

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

185

BLACK, J., dissenting.

monopoly. The patent statute only gives the patentee
the exclusive right to make, use and vend his patented

article.
Where a licensee-authorized to manufacture and
sell-contracts with the patentee to attach a notice to
each patented article (a machine) of "the conditions of
its use and the supplies which must be used in the operation of it, under pain of infringement of the paten;,"
this Court has said: "The statutes relating to patents do
not provide for any such notice and , . . [the patentEe]
can derive no aid from them . .. [in a suit against. a purchaser from the licensee]..
"The extent to which the use of the patented machine
may validly be restricted to specific supplies or otherwise
by special contract between the owner of a patent and
the purchaser or licensee is a question outside the patent
law and with it we are not here concerned." 2
A patentee has no right under the patent-laws to fix
the resale price of his patented article I or to require that
specified unpatented materials be used in conjunction
with it.' The exclusive right to vend does not-any more
than the exclusive right to use-empower a patentee to
extend his monopoly into the country's channels of trade
after manufacture and sale which-.passes title. It is not
contended that petitioner did, not obtain title to the
tubes.
The patent statute which permits a patentee to "make,
use and vend" confers no power to fix and restrict the
uses to which a merchantable commodity can be put after
'Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502, 509; see
Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659.
'Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v. Victor Talking
Mach. Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston Store v. American Graphophone
Co., 246 U. S. 8; cf. Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339.
' Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra; Carbice Corp.
v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber
Co., 302 U. S. 458.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

it 'has been bought in the open market from one who
was granted authority to manufacture and sell it. Neither
the right to make, nor the right to use, nor the right to
sell a chattel, includes the right-derived from patent
monopoly apart from contract-to control the use of the
same chattel by another who has purchased it. A license
to sell a widely used merchantable chattel must be as to
prospective purchasers--if anything-a transfer of the
patentee's entire right to sell; it cannot-as to non-contracting parties-restrict the use of ordinary articles of
purchase bought in the open market. "The words used
in the statute are few, simple and familiar, . . . and
their meaning would seem not to be doubtful if we can
avoid reading into them that which they really do not
contain." ' Petitioner is held liable for using an ordinary
vacuum amplifying tube bought from one who had title
and the right to sell. Notice tc petitioner that the vendor
was violating its (the vendor's) contract with respondents gave the latter no right under the patent and imposed no responsibility under the patent. Petitioner
became the owner of the tubes.
At this time a great portion of the common articles of
commerce and trade is patented. A large part of the
machinery- and equipment used in producing goods
throughout the country is patented. Many small parts
essential to the operation of machinery are patented.
Patented articles are everywhere. Those who acquire
control of numerous patents, covering wide fields of industry and busineis, can-by virtue of their patentswield tremendous influence onthe commercial life of the
nation. If the exclusive patent privilege to "make, use
and vend" includes the further privilege after sale, to
control-apart from contract-the use of all patented
-merchantable commodities, a still more sweeping power
can be exercised by patent owners. This record indi'Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra, at 510.

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

187

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

cates the possible extent of a power to direct and censor
the ultimate use of the multitudinous patented articles
with which the nation's daily life is conceried.
This record shows that the General Electric Company
system, the Radio Corporation system, and the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company system are participants in a "patent pool." This "patent pool" controls
respondents' patents. The record discloses that this "patent pool" operates under cross licensing agreements, in
the United States and in foreign countries. It appears
that the General Electric Company and the Radio Corporation have "agreed that the Radio Corporation shall
not resell patented articles except as a part of the radio
system," and that the Radio Corporation "agrees to use
care not to enter with any patent device, process or system into the field of the General Electric Company or to
encourage or aid others to do so." Throughout the entire
agreement appears the manifest purpose of the "patent
pool" participants to protect for each other certain allocated "fields" in the production, sale and distribution of
modern electrical necessities used in everything involving
modern communications. Although the patent laws contemplate and authorize but one patent monopoly for one
invention, many separate patents authorizing single patent monopolies are merged in this "patent pool." Thus,
all these separate patent monopolies are combined and in
many respects are made to function as one. The record
shows that from this larger combination--completely outside the conception in the patent statutes of single and
separate monopolies-allotments of sub-monopolies are
made in the respective "fields," from which emanate in
turn other sub-monopolies. This Court has previously
directed attention to the tendency of such combinations
to stimulate patent law abuses, in the following language:
"It was not until the time came in which the full possibilities seem first to have been appreciated of uniting, in one,
many branches of business through corporate organiza-

188

OCTOBER TERM, J1937.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

tion and of gathering great profits in small payments,
which are not realized or resented, from many, rather than
smaller or even equal profits in larger payments, which are
felt and may be refused, from a few, that it came to be
thought that the 'right to use .. . the invention' of a
patent gave to the patentee or his assigns the right to restrict the use of it to materials or supplies not described in
the patent and not by its terms made a part of the thing
patented." 6
Articles manufactured under the patents thus controlled are widely used in the modern electrical field. The
exclusive privilege to exercise the unrestrained power to
determine the ultimate uses of all these important merchantable articles sold in the open~market, is a power I do
not believe Congress has conferred. A power so far
reaching-apart from contract-has not been expressly
granted in any statute, and should not be read into the
law by implication.
Second. The numerous patents acquired by respondents all relate to claimed inventions made bet~een 1912.
and 1916; yet, some of these patents do not expire until
1940. Patent No. 1448550 illustrates most of the patents
involved. It is designated as the "continuation" of two
'Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co. supra, 513-514.
In the agreement between the General Electric Company and the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, this appears:
"ARTICLE VIII.
"Acquisition of Patent Rights.
"Neither party shall acquire from others rights to do under United
States patents or inventions, or rights to use secret processes, applicable to the fields of the other party, of such limited character that
the other party does not, by the operation of this agreement, receive
licenses thereunder of the scope and within the respective fields herein
set forth, unless the party proposing to acquire such rights shall
first have given the other party an opportunity to be represented in
the negotiations and thereby to acquire rights for its field."

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
175

189

BLcx, J., dissenting.

earlier applications filed September 3, 1915 and November 2, 195. February 3, 1919-more than four years
after respondents' commercial use-the "continuation"
application was filed and March 13, 1923, the patent was
granted. By this process of "divisionals" or "continuations" a seventeen year patent monopoly is permitted to
begin in 1923, theoretically based on original applications
which were filed in 1915.
Congress has provided that two years' public use of an
invention prior to application bars the right to patent'
and no patent rights are awarded for disclosures in an
application which are not claimed.' Here, however, approval is given patents for inventions-as the District
Court found and the record shows-publicly used for
more than two years before applications actually claiming the invention were filed. This approval is based on
the fact that disclosures (unclaimed) were made in prior
and separate applications which had not been preceded
by two years' public use. "Divisional" or "continuation"
applications-unauthorized by any statute-are permitted to give priority from the date of original applications, in effect barring all other inventions from that date
and nullifying the statute of two years' public use. Thus
for years respondents obtained no patent on their inventions for, lack of claim. No one else could safely -obtain
a patent because of the certainty that respondents would
later claim under a "divisional" or "continuation."
The statute provides no exception of public use by the
inventor and, if he uses his completed invention in the
ordinary conduct of his business-for more than, two
'35 U. S. C., c. 2, § 31.

'Cf., The Corn-PlanterPatent, 23 Wall. 181, 224; Miller v. Brass
Co., 104 U. S. 350, 352; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 423,
424; Buffington's Iron Building Co. v. Eustis, 65 Fed. 804, 807; Ely
Norris Sale Co. v. Mosler Safe Co., 62 F. (2d) 524, 526.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

304 U.S.

years prior to his application-the discovery is abandoned
to the public and he cannot thereafter obtain a patent'
Such an exception-grafted onto the statute-would be
directly contrary to its aim and purpose, and would enable inventors to obtain all the benefits of monopoly by
simply making unclaimed disclosures, blanketing the
field, and waiting until someone else attempted to claim
a patent on the same invention. Then, by means of
"divisional" or "continuation" applications, patent could
be obtained. No such expansion of the patent statutes
is justified.10 I believe the judgment of. the Court of
Appeals should be reversed.
"'A single sale to another of such a machine as that shown to
have been in use by the complainant more than two years prior to

the date of his application would certainly have defeated his right
to a patent; and yet, during that period in which its use by another
would have defeated its right, he himself used it, for the same purpose for which it would have been used by a purchaser. Why should
the similar use by himself not be counted as strongly against his
rights as the use by another to whom he had sold it, unless his
use was substantially with the motive and for the purpose, by
further experiment, of completing the successful operation of his
invention?" Smith & Griggs Mfg. Co. v. Sprague, 123 U. S. 249,
257; International Tooth Crown Co. v. Gaylord, 140 U. S. 55; see
A. Schrader's Sons, Inc. v. Wein Sales Corp., 9 F. (2d) 306, 208.
'0Cf., "The patent law was designed for the public benefit, as well
as for the benefit of inventors....
" ... A term of fourteen [now seventeen] years was deemed sufficient for the enjoyment of an exclusive right of an invention by
the inventor; but if he may delay an application for his patent, at
pleasure, although his invention be carried into public use, he may
extend the period beyond what the law intended to give him."
Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Pet. 292, 320, 322.

