364

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

are reversed and remanded to the District Court for pro-

ceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDozo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH APPLIANCE
CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 453. Argued March 4, 7, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.
1. Product claims 25-27, of Patent No. 1,410,499, to Pacz, for a filament for electric incandescent lamps or other devices, composed
substantially of tungsten and made up, mainly. of a number of comparatively large grains of such size and contour as to prevent substantial sagging and offsetting during a normal or commercially
useful life for such-a lamp or other device, held void for want of
a sufficiently definite disclosure. R. S. § 4888; 35 U. S. C. § 33.P. 368.
2. Claimed inventions, improvements and discoveries, turning on
points -so refined as the granular structure of products, require
precise descriptions of the new characteristic for which protection
is sought. In a limited field the variant must be clearly defined.
P. 369.
3. A patentee may not broaden his product claims by describing the
product in terms of function. P. 370.
4. A limited use of terms of effect or result, which accurately define
the essential qualities of a product to one skilled in the art, may in
some instances be permissible and even 'desirable, but a characteristic essential to novelty may not be distinguished from the
old art solely by its tendency to remedy the problems in the art
met by the patent. P. 371.
5. The difficulty of making adequate description may have some
bearing on the sufficiency of the description attempted, but it can
not justify a claim describing nothing new except perhaps in functional terms. P. 372.

GEN. ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH CO.
364

365

Opinion of the Court.

6. A patentee who does not distinguish his product from what is
old except by reference, express or constructive, to the process
by which he produced it, can not secure a monopoly on the
product by whatever means produced. P. 373.
7. The product claims in question, which seek to monopolize the
product however created, may not be saved by a limitation to
products made in accordance with the processes set out in the
specification. P. 374. <
91 F. 2d 904, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 676, to review the reversal of a
decree for injunction and accounting in a patent infringement suit.

Mr. Merrell E. Clark, with whom Messrs. Hubert
Howson and Alexander C. Neave were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby,Jr., with whom Mr. Paul Kolisch
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Oburt.

Petitioner, General Electric Company, brought this patent infringement suit based on Pacz Patent No. 1,410,499,
relating to a tungsten filament for incandescent lamps.
The patent, issued March 21, 1922, on an application
filed February 20, 1917, contains process and product
claims; only the latter are here involved. The District
Court for Eastern New York held claims 25, 26 and 27
valid and infringed, and gave petitioner a decree for an
injunction and accounting. 17 F. Supp. 901. The Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that petitioner's
product was anticipated by filaments produced under the
teachings of the Coolidge Patent No. 1,082,933, and reversed with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint.
91 F. 2d 904. This decision conflicted with that handed
down by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
Anraku v. General Electric Co., 80 F. 2d 958, which held

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the same claims valid and ixfringed. To resolv the conflict, this Court granted certiorari.
In incandescent lamps, the tungsten filament, through
which the electric current passes, grows more luminous
than the carbon filamnent of the early days of the art.
There were faults or "offsetting" and "sagging," however,
affecting the efficiency of the first tungsten filaments.
"Offsetting" occurs when, during heating in the use of
the lamp, the filament forms crystals which extend their
boundaries across the entire diameter of the filament, substantially perpendicular to its axis. The crystals .in the
filament thus come to have an appearance, somewhat
analogous to the joints in a bamboo rod. Lateral slipping of the crystals reduces the cross-sectional area at
the point of contact of the crystals with the result that
the temperature at that point is increased, thus hastening
the burnout, and the filament is weakened. "Sagging"
is a change of position by the fiament during incandescence. It elongates and thus is forced out of the plane
it occupied between fixed supports. Sagging has many
objections. The sagging filament may touch the glass
and end the life of the lamp. In gas-filled lamps, when
sagging causes the coils to spread apart, the gas flows in
between the coils and unduly cools the filament. Combatting sagging by additional supports is also said to
cool the filament, and reduce electrical efficiency.
Pacz undertook to remedy these faults. He carried out
many experiments, and his 218th effort, made while he
was in the employ of petitioner company, yielded the
discovery disclosed by the patent in suit. The specification asserts that by means of his invention "the sagging
is substantially eliminated and 'offsetting' of the filament
is substantially prevented, during a normal or commercially useful life of the lamp." He brings "into intimate

GEN. ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH CO.
364

367

Opinion of the Court.

association with tungsten a material [an alkaline silicate]
which will have the desired influence upon the -grain
growth of the metal." The specification continues as
follows:
"When the metal reaches the temperature at which extensive grain growth would ordinarily take place, the
presence of this material intimately associated with the
tungsten particles has a marked effect on the shape and
size of the tungsten grains. The ingot of tungsten thus
produced, whether it be due to the fact that the grains
have not reached the equilibrium grain size or to other
causes, is particularly susceptible to grain growth during
subsequent heat treatments.
"Tho probable reason why filaments made according
to my invention do not sag, is that the structure is comparatively coarse grained. -The coarse grained filament
produced by means of my invention does not 'offset' so as
to cut short the life of the lamp appreciably."
The District Court found that Pacz's patent exhibited
novelty and'invention; that Pacz produced large crystals
early in the hfe of the -lamp; that although coarse-grained
and thus non-sagging, filaments meant "offsetting" to the
art, where it was "common knowledge" that grains large
enough -to extend across the filament induced slippage,
Pacz procured a particular kind of boarse-grained filament
which did not "offset" because of the nature of the boundaries of the grains, their contour being "a very important'
element."
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the Pacz product was anticipated by Patent No. 1,082,933, issued December 30, 1913, to William D. Coolidge for -a process
of producing ductile tungsten for incandescent electric
lamp filaments-and for the product itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The question before this Court is the validity of the
claims in suit. Claim 25, which is typical,' reads as
follows:
"25. A filament for electric incandescent lamps or other
devices, composed substantially of tungsten and made up
mainly of a number of comparatively large grains of such
size and contour as to prevent substantial sagging and
offsetting during a normal or commercially useful life for
such a lamp or other device."
We need not inquire whether Pacz exhibited invention,
or whether his product was anticipated. The claim is invalid on its face. It fails to make a disclosure sufficiently
definite to satisfy the requirements of R. S. § 4888, 35
U. S. C. § 33. that section requires that an applicant for
a patent file a written description of his discovery or invention "in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to
enable any person skilled in the art or science to which it
appertains . . . to. make, construct, compound and
use the same; . . . and he shall particularly point
out and distinctly claim the part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention or discovery."
We may'assume that Pacz has sufficiently informed those
skilled in the art how to make and use his filament. The
statute has another command. Recognizing that most
inventions represent improvements on some existing
article, process or machine, and that a description of the
'".26. A drawn filament for electric incandescent-lamps or other
devices, composdd substantially of tungsten and made up mainly of a
number of comparatively large grains of such size and contour as to
prevent substantial sagging and off-setting during a normal or commercially useful life for such a lamp or other device.
"27. A filament for electric incandescent lamps or other devices,
composed of tungsten containing less than three-fourths of one percent of non-metallic material and made up mainly of comparatively
.large grains of such size and contour as to prevent substantial sagging
or offsetting during a normal or commercially useful life for such a
lamp or other device."

GEN. ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH CO.

369

Opinion of the Court.

364

invention must in large part set out what is old in order
to facilitate the understanding of what is new, Congress
requires of the applicant "a distinct and specific statement of what he claims to be new, and to be his invention." ' Patents, whether basic or for improvements,
must comply accurately and precisely with the statutory
requirements as to claims of invention or discovery. The
limits of a patent must be known for the protection of the
patentee, the encouragement of the inventive genius of
others and the assurance that the subject of the patent
will be dedicated ultimately to the public.3 The statute
seeks to guard against unreasonable advantages to the
patentee and disadvantages to others arising from uncertainty as to their rights.' The inventor must "inform
the public during the life of the patent of the limits of
the monopoly asserted, so that it may be known which
features may be safely used or manufactured without a
license and which may not."' 5 The cJaims "measure the.
invention." ' Patentees may reasonably anticipate that
claimed inventions, improvements and discoveries, turning on points so refined as the -granular structure of
products, require precise descriptions of the new characteristic for which protection is sought. In a limited field
the variant must be clearly defined. This was one in a
series of patents. United States v. General Electric Co.,
272 U. S. 476, 480.
Pacz did not adequately set out "what he claims to be
new."' The tungsten filament "made up mainly of a
number of comparatively large grains," differentiates the
'Merrill v. Yeomans, 94 U. S. 568, 570.
'Cf. The Incandescent Lamp Patent, 159 U. S. 465, 474 ff.
'See Brooks v. Fiske, 15 How. 212, 215.
'Permutit Co. v. Graver Corp., 284 U. S. 52, 60; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 247.
'Continental Paper Bag Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S.
405, 419.
81639'38----24

370"*

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

claimed invention from tungsten drawn into a single
crystal (Schaller No. 1,256,930), and from Coolidge's finegrained thoriated filament, but serves aptly to describe
the product of earlier manufacture, with its large regular
grains subject to offsetting. According to the District
Court, the earliest, so-called "squirted," tungsten filainents, also "consisted of comparatively large crystals,
many of which were large enough to extend clear across
the filament, but they shifted." 17 F. Supp. at 902. The
failure of the patentee to make claim to a distinct improvement is made clear by comparison of the language
of the claims under consideration with descriptions of
offset difficulties recognized by other inventors.'
The claim further states that the grams must be "of
such size and contour as to prevent substantial sagging
and offsetting" during'a commercially useful life for the
lamp. The clause is inadequate as a description of the
structural characteristics of the grains. Apart from the
statement with respect to their function, nothing said
about their size distinguishes the earliest filaments, and
nothing whatever is said which is descriptive of their contour (termed by the District Court a "very important
element"), not even that they are irregular.
"When this crystallization becomes excessive the crystals may, in
the case of a filament, become so large as to extend across the entire
section of the filament and thereupon the sections may move laterally
upon each other and produce the condition known as 'offsetting.'- I
shall hereinafter describe more in detail the special method which I
employ for minimizing the loss in ductility and for preventing this
offsetting effect." Coolidge Patent, No. 1,082,933.
"Such crystals seem to increase in size in much the same manner as
crystals formed in liquid solutions, and, if the crystals become large
enough to extend almost or entirely across the filament, adjacent
crystals tend to slip al6ng their cleavage planes thereby giving the
filament the offset or faulted appearance above referred to." Myers
and Hall patent, No. 1,363,162.

GEN. ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH CO.
364

371

Opinion of the Court.

The claim uses indeterminate adjectives which describe
the function of the grains to the exclusion of any structural definition, and thus falls within the condemnation of
the doctrifie that a patenteemay not broaden his product
claims by d3scribing the product in terms of function
Claim 25 vividly illustrates the vice of a description in
terms of function. "As a description of the invention it
is insufficient and if allowed would extend the monopoly
beyond the invention." ' The Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit relied on the fact that the description in the

claims is not "wholly" functional."0

80 F. 2d 958, 963.

But the vice of a functional claim exists not only when a
claim is "wholly" functional, if that is ever true, but also
when he inventor is painstaking when he recites what has
already been seen, and then uses conveniently functional
language at the exact point of novelty."
A limited use of terms of effect or result, which accurately define the essential qualities of a product to one
skilled in the art, may in some instances be permissible
and even desirable, but a characteristic essential to nov8

Holland Furniture Co. v. Perkins Glue Co., 277 U. S. 245, 256-

258, and cases cited.
'277 U. S. at 258.
'Presumably that court would have assented to the condemnation
of other product claims of the patent in suit, containing even less
description than the ones under discussion:
"28. A coiled filament composed substantially of tungsten and
capable of use in an electric incandescent lamp without either substantial sagging or offsetting during a normal or commercially useful
life.
"29. A coiled filament composed mainly of drawn tungsten and
capable of use in an electric incandescent lamp without substantial
sagging and without substantial offsetting during a normal or com-mercially useful life."
See Gynex Corp. v. Dilex Institute, 85 F. 2d 103, 105; Davis
Co. v. New Departure Co., 217 F. 775, at 782.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

elty may not be distinguished from the old art solely by
its tendency to remedy the problems in the art met by the
patent. And we may doubt whether the language used
in Claim 25, taken by itself, conveyed definite meaning to
those skilled in the art of incandescent lighting. "
The Circuit Court of Appeals below suggested that "in
view of the difficulty, if not impossibility, of describing
adequately a number of microscopic and heterogeneous
shapes of crystals, it may be that Pacz made the best
disclosure possible, . . ." But Congress requires, for the
protection of the public, that the inventor set out a definite limitation of his patent; that condition must be
satisfied before the monopoly is granted." The difficulty
of making adequate description may have some bearing
on the sufficiency of the description attempted, but it
cannot justify a claim describing nothing new except per' There is no showing whether, under established principles in the
science, the language indicated grains extending across the width of
filament, and if so whether the boundaries were irregular, or regular
but not perpendicular to the axis of the filament; or whether the
language indicated grains larger than the fine grains of Coolidge's
thoriated filament but not large enough to extend across the entire
section, and if so what type of boundaries existed.
Indeed, those merely skilled might have suspected the absence of
crystals large enough to extend across the entire section of the filament, in view of the efforts of other patentees to avoid such crystals,
(Coolidge, No. 1,082,933, p. 2, 1. 13; Myers and Hall, N.. 1,363,162,
p. 1, 1. 56), and in view of the "common knowledge in the art that
where grain boundaries, large enough to extend across the filament,
were produced, there would be bound to be slippage" (17 F. Supp.
901, at 903); yet those are the crystals found in respondent's lamps.
" Different considerations may apply under the Act of May 23,
1930, c. 312, § 2, 46 Stat. 376, 35 U. S. C. § 33, providing that no
"plant patent shall be declared invalid on the ground of non-compliance with this section if the description is made as complete as is
reasonably possible."

GEN. ELECTRIC CO. v. WABASH CO.
364

373

Opinion of the Court.

haps in functional terms. It may be doubted whether
one who discovers or invents a product he knows to be
new will ever find it impossible to describe some aspect of
its novelty.
The product claims here involved cannot be validated
by reference to the specification. Assuming that in a
proper case a claim may be upheld by reference to the
descriptive part of the specification in order to give definite content to elements stated in the claim in broad or
functional terms,1 4 the specification of the Pacz patent
does not attempt in any way to describe the filament, except by mention of its coatse-grained quality. Even
assuming that definiteness may be imparted to the product claim by that part of the specification which purportedly details only a method of making the product,"5
the description of the Pacz process is likewise silent as to
the nature of the filament product. Although in some
instances a claim may validly describe a new product with
some reference to the method of production," a patentee
who does not distinguish his product from what is ld
except by reference, express or constructive, to the process
by which he produced it, cannot secure a monopoly on the
product by whatever means produced. "Every patent
for a product or composition of matter must identify
it so that it can be recognized aside from the description of the process for making it, or else nothing can be
'Compare Mitchell v. Tilghmnn, 19 Wall. 287, 391; Westinghouse
v. Boyden Power Brake Co., 170 U. S. 537, 557-558.
Compare Holland Furniture Co. v. Perkins Glue Co., 277 U. S. at
255, with United States Repair & Guarantee Co. v. Assyrian Asphalt
Co., 183 U. S. 591, at 600-601.
tm
Cf. Dunn Wire-Cut Lug Brick Co. v. Toronto Fire Clay Co.,
259 F. 258, 261; Trussell Mfg. Co. v. Wilson-Jonjes Co., 50 F. 2d 1027,
1029.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

held to infringe the patent which i8 not -made by that
process.""
Finally, the product claims may not be saved by a
limitation to products produced in accordance with the
process set out in the specification. This. construction,
though possibly of no avail against respondent, might add
to the protection afforded petitioner by the proces claims,
if they are valid, in view of its application to filaments
produced abroad. But putting aside questions as to the
general propriety of such a construction, 8 unless the
claim uses language explicitly referring to the method of
preparation, or describing the product in phrases suggestive of that process,'" to save the product claim in this
fashion would constitute an improper importation into
the claim of a factor nowhere described there. -0 The
claims in suit seek to monopolize the product however
created, and may not be rewoi ded, in an effort to establish
1

Cochrane v. Badische Anilin & Soda Fabrik, 111 U. S. 293, 310.

See also Hide-Ite Leather Co. v. Fiber Products Co., 226 F. 34, 36;
cf. Maurerv. Dickerson, 113 F. 870, 874.
See also National Carbon Co.,v. Western Shade Cloth Co., 93 F. 2d
94, 97:
"It has been said that a claim for a product produced by any process
which will produce a like result covers the product only when made
by equivalent processes. Pickhardtv. Packard (C. C.), 22 F. 530."
' Steinfur Pa,tents Corp. v. William Beyer, Inc., 62 F. 2d 238, 241;
Buono v. Yankee Maid Dress Corp., 77 F. 2d 274, 279; Dunn WireCut Lug Brick Co. v. Toronto Fire Clay Co., 259 F. 258, 261-262.
"Smith v. Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co., 93 U. S. 486; Cochrane
y. Badische Anilin & Soda Fabrik, 111 U. S. 293, 310; Plummer v.
Sargent, 120 U. S. 442, 448; Downes v. Teter-Heany Development
Co., 150 F. 122; Hide-Ite Leather Co. v. Fiber Products Co., 226
F. 34.
"'Compare McCarty v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 160 U. S. 110, 116;
Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S.
477, 487.

FED. POWER COMM'N v. EDISON CO,'

375

Syllabus.

364

their validity, to cover only the -products of the process
described in the specification, or its equivalent.
For reasons set out, claims 25, 26, 27 are invalid. The
judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION v. METROPOLITAN EDISON CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 915.

Argued May 2, 1938.-Decided May 23, 1938.

1. An order of the Federal Power Commission is not reviewable in
the' Circuit Court of Appeals under § 313 of the Federal Power
Act, as amended, unless there has. been an application to the
Commission for a rehearing. Review does not extend to an order
granting a rehearing. P. 381.
2. Section 313 (a) (b) of the Federal Power Act does not empower
the Circuit Court of Appeals to review orders of the Power Commission which are preliminary or procedural, but relates to orders of a definitive character dealing with the merits of a 'proceeding before the Commission and resulting from a hearing upon
evidence and supported by findings appropriate to the case. P. 383.
3. Where the only orders made by the Federal Power Commission
were, first, an order fixing a hearing and requiring the respondent
corporations to appear and produce certain information and documents, and, second, an order purporting to" grant a rehearing of
the first, the Circuit Court of Appeals had n6 appellate jurisdiction to restrain proceedings under the original order until the
questions raised by the petition for rehearing were deternined or
to define the scope of the rehearing and of evidence to be there
considered. Pp. 385, 387.
4. Judicial Code § 262, which provides that the federal courts shall
have power "to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective

