MAHONEY v. TRINER CORP.
Counsel for Parties.

MAHONEY, LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER,
ET AL. V. JOSEPH TRINER CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 761.

Argued April 25, 1938.-Decided May 23, 1938.

1. Since the adoption of the Twenty-first Amendment, the Equal
Protection Clause is inapplicable to imported intoxicating liquor.
P. 403.
2. A Minnesota statute provides that no licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall import any brand of intoxicating liquors containing more than 25% of alcohol by volume, ready for sale
without further processing, unless such brand is registered in the
Patent Office of the United States. Held valid under the Twentyfirst Amendment as applied to a foreign corporation, licensed in
Minnesota and engaged there in wholesaling liquor imported, ready
for sale, from another State, under brands not registered,-notwithstanding the discrimination arising in favor of liquor processed
within the State and in favor of imported brands that are registered. P. 404.
3. Independently of the Twenty-first Amendment, a State has
power to terminate licenses to sell intoxicating liquors. P. 404.
20 F. Supp. 1019, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges

enjoining the enforcement of a liquor regulation.

See

also 11 F. Supp. 145.
Messrs. William S. Ervin, Attorney General, and Roy
C. Frank, Assistant Attorney General, of Minnesota, for
appellants.
Mr. Carl W. Cummins for appellee.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Omer S. Jackson, Attorney

General, and A. J. Stevenson, First Assistant Attorney
General, of Indiana, filed atrief as amici curiae on behalf

of that State.
81638'-8- -26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 2 of the Twenty-first Amendment to the Federal Constitution provides:
"The transportation or importation into any State;
Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery
or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the
laws thereof, is hereby prohibited."
The adoption of the Amendment was proclaimed December 5, 1933. In February, 1934, Joseph Triner Corporation, an Illinois corporation engaged there in the
manufacture of intoxicating liquors, complied with the
Minnesota foreign corporations law; secured from the
Liquor Control Commissioner a license to sell such
liquors within Minnesota at wholesale; and thereafter
carried on in that State the business of selling to retailers
liquors manufactured by it in Illinois. The Legislature
of Minnesota enacted Chapter 390, approved April 29,
1935, which provides:
"No licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall import
any brand or brands of intoxicating liquors containing
more than 25 per cent. of alcohol by volume ready for
sale without further processing unless such brand or
brands shall be duly registered in the patent office of the
United States."
The business of Joseph Triner Corporation in Minnesota. included selling many brands of liquors containing
more than 25 per cent. of alcohol which had not been
registered in the Patent Office; and at the time of the
enactment of the statute it had there a stock of such
liquors. To enjoin the Liquor Control Commissioner of
Minnesota from interfering with the business, it brought
this suit in the federal court for that State; alleged that
the statute of 1935 violated the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitu-

MAHONEY v. TRINER CORP.
401

Opinion of tho Court.

tion; alleged danger of irreparable injury, and sought
both a preliminary and a permanent injunction.. The
several state officials charged with the duty of enforcing
the statute were joined as defendants.
The case was heard by three judges under ยง 266 of the
Judicial Code. The court, holding that it had both federal and equity jurisdiction, granted a preliminary injunction, 11 F. Supp. 145; and later a permanent injunction, 20 F. Supp.. 1019. The state officials appealed to
this Court. The sole contention of Joseph Triner Corporation is that the statute violated the equal protection
clause. The state officials insist that the provision of the
statute is a reasonable regulation of the liquor traffic;
and also, that since the adoption of the Twenty-first
Amendment, the equal protection clause is not applicable
to imported intoxicating liquor. As we are of opinion
that the latter contention is sound, we shall not discuss
whether the statutory provision is a reasonable regulation of the liquor traffic.
First. The statute clearly discriminates in favor of
liquor processed within the State as against liquor completely processed elsewhere. For only that locally processed may be sold regardless of whether the brand has
been registered. That, 'under the Amendment, discrimination against imported liquor is permissible although it
is not an incident of reasonable regulation of the liquor
traffic, was settled by State Board of Equalization v.
Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59, 62, 63. There, it was
contended that, by reason of the discrimination involved,
a statute imposing a $500 license fee for importing beer
violated both the commerce clause and the equal protection clause. In sustaining its validity we said:
"The words used [in the Amendment] are apt to confer upon the State the power to forbid all importations
which do not comply with the conditions which it [the
State] prescribes. . ..

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

"The plaintiffs argue that limitation of the broad
language of the Twenty-first Amendment is sanctioned
by its history; and by the decisions of this Court on the
Wilson Act, the Webb-Ken:'on Act and the Reed amendment. As we think the language of the Amendment is
clear, we do not discuss these matters.
"The claim that the statutory provisions and the regulations are void under the equal protection clause may
be briefly disposed of. A classification recognized by the
Twenty-first Amendment cannot be deemed forbidden by
the Fourteenth."
Second. Joseph Triner Corporation insists that the
statute is unconstitutional because it permits unreasonable discrimination between imported brands. That is,
the registered brands of other foreign manufacturers may
be imported while its unregistered brands may not be,
although "identical in kind, ingredient nd quality." We
are asked to limit the power conferrecd by the Amendment so that only those importations may be forbidden
which, in the opinion of the Court, violate a reasonable
regulation of the liquor traffic. To do so would, as stated
in the Young's Market case, p. 62, "involve not a construction of the Amendment, but a rewriting of it."
Third. The fact that Joseph Triner Corporation had,
when the statute was passed, a valid license and a stock
of liquors in Minnesota imported under it, is immaterial.
Independently of the Twenty-first Amendment, the State
had power to terminate the license. Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623; Premier-PabstSales Co. v. Grosscup, 298
U. S. 226, 228.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

