OKLAHOMA v..COOK.
375

Syllabus.

stant case no such application by the Commission has
been made. Section 307 (c) also provides that any person who willfully fails or refuses to attend and testify,
or produce books and papers, in obedience to the subpoena of the Commission, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to fine and imprisonment. The
qualification that the refusal must be "willful" fully protects one whose refusal is made in good faith and upon
grounds which entitle him to the judgment of the court
before obedience is compelled.
The Commission's order of January 26, 1937, lay outside any appellate jurisdiction conferred by the statute
upon the Circuit Court of Appeals. In that view, § 262
of the Judicial Code gives no support to the decree under
review and its injunction and instructions to the Commission must be regarded as unauthorized.,
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded with directions to dismiss the
respondents' petition.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took

no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

OKLAHOMA

EX REL.

JOHNSON, BANK COMMIS-

SIONER, v. COOK.
No. -, Original.-Decided May 23, 1938.
This Court can not take original jurisdiction of a suit by a State
to enforce the statutory liability of a stockholder of a state bank,
in process of liquidation through a state officer, where the State,

although vested by its laws with legal title to the bank's assets
and to the cause of action sued on, is acting merely for the benefit
of the bank's creditors and depositors. Pp. 392-396.
Leave to file denied.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

UPON application of the State for leave to bring an
original action, and response of the proposed defendant to
a rule to show cause.
Messrs. Francis C. Brown and Houston E. Hill were
on a brief for plaintiff.
Messrs. R. B. ,Caldwell, Blatchford Downing, Lynn
Webb, and John W. Oliver were on a brief for defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The State of Oklahoma, upon the relation of its Bank
Commissioner, asks leave to bring suit in this Court to
enforce the statutory liability of a shareholder of a state
bank which is in course of liquidation.
The statutes of Oklahoma provide that the shareholders of every bank organized under the state law
"shall be additionally liable for the amount of stockowned." Okla. Stat. 1931, § 9130. The Bank Commissioner, when satisfied of the insolvency of a bank, may
take possession of its assets and "proceed to wind up its
affairs and enforce the personal liability of the stockholders." Id., § 9172. That liability becomes due when
the Bank Commissioner takes possession of the bank and
hs order finding the bank to be insolvent is conclusive
evidence of that fact. Id., § 9174. The Bank Commissioner is authorized to "prosecute all suits necessary for
the liquidation of the assets of the insolvent corporations
taken over by him" and such suits are to brought "in the
name of the State of Oklahoma, on the relation of the
Bank Commissioner." If, after liquidation and payment
in full of depositors and creditors, any assets remain in
the hands of the Bank Commissioner, they revert to the
stockholders. Id., § 9173.

OKLAHOMA v. COOK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

The statutes further provide that "The State of Oklahoma, on the relation of the Bank Commissioner, shall
be deemed to be the owner of all of the assets of failed
banks in his hands for the use and benefit of the depositors
and creditors of said bank." Id., § 9179. No costs are
required to be paid by the State in any suit in which the
State of Oklahoma, on the relation of the Bank Commissioner, is a party, and preference is directed to be given
in the courts of the State to all matters pending in such
suits. Id.
The proposed complaint alleges that in May, 1931, the
Bank Commissioner took possession of the Osage Bank
of Fairfax, Osage County, finding it to be insolvent, and
proceeded to wind up its affairs and enforce the personal
liability of its stockholders; that the defendant, R. M.
Cook, was the owner of sixty-nine shares of the capital
stock of the bank of the par value of $100, and became
liable to the State of Oklahoma, upon the relation of its
Bank Commissioner, in the sum of $6900, with interest;
that the defendant has paid the sum of $2300 in part
satisfaction and that the balance is due; that the Bank
Commissioner has. liquidated all the assets of the bank.
except the claim here presented and certain other claims
against other stockholders; 'that dividends have been
paid to depositors and creditors amounting to ninety-one
per cent. of their claims and that the enforcement of the
-statutory liability of the defendant is necessary to discharge the liabilities of the bank.
In answer to the rule to show cause why leave to bring
this suit should not be granted, the proposed defendant
contends that the cause of action is not within Article III,
§ 2, Clause 2, of the Constitution providing for the
original jurisdiction of this Court.
The purpose in creating the stockholder's liability, the
authority conferred upon the Bank Commissioner to enforce it, and the relation of the State to its enforcement,

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

are clearly set forth in the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma. In State ex rel. Mothersead v. Kelly, 141
Okla. 36; 284 P. 65, the court said:
"What is this stockholder's liability and for whose
benefit is it created?
"It was designed solely for the benefit of creditors
and constitutes a fund available only when the bank is.
insolvent and thus rendered unable to meet its liabilities
in full. The corporation itself has no authority over the
fund and cannot either compel its payment or by any
act on its part release the stockholder therefrom. It
amounts, for all practical purposes, to a reserve or trust
fund, to be resorted to only in proceedings in liquidation,
when necessary to meet the payment of obligations of
the corporation. It is limited to an amount equal to the
par value of the stock held and owned by each stockholder
and. exists in favor of the creditors collectively, not separately, and in proportion to the amount of their re.
"
(Id.,
spective claims against the corporation.
pp. 37, 38; 284 P. 66.)
The court added that "the Bank Commissioner alone
is empowered by law to prosecute an action *to enforce
the stockholders' liability." Id., p. 41; 284 P. 69. See
also American Exchange Bank v. Rowsey, 144 Okla. 172,
173; 289 P. 726; Griffin v. Brewer, 167 Okla. 654, 655; 31
P. 2d 619.
In State ex rel. Murray v. Pure Oil Co., 169 Okla. 507;
37 P. 2d 608, referring to the provision of the statute
authorizing the Bank Commissioner to institute all suits
necessary for the liquidation of the assets of the insolvent
corporations taken over by him and providing that such
suits shall be brought in the name of the State, on the
relation of the Bank Commissioner, the court said:
"Since the state is the proper party plaintiff by, virtue
of the above statute, it may maintain the action regardless of whether it is the real party in interest or merely

OKLAHOMA v. COOK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

a nominal plaintiff for the use and benefit of depositors
and creditors. An action may- be maintained by one
expressly authorized by statute even though that person
is not in fact the real party in interest. Section 144,
0. S. 1931....
"The protection of depositors of insolvent state banks
is a distinct economic policy of the state. . . . In so
far as the object of this action is to further the established
economic policy of the state, the state may be said to
have a real interest created by its governmental policy,
as distinguished from a mere nominal interest, even
though the pecuniary benefits of the litigation, if ultimately successful, go to the depositors and creditors of
the insolvent bank.
"The statute (section 9173, supra) which authorizes
the state to be a party plaintiff names the Bank Commissioner as the proper officer to institute legal actions
and carry out this economic policy ...
"The nature of the powers vested by law in the Bank
Commissioner hiave been many times considered by this
court and their exclusive character recognized ...
"It was the legislative intent that litigation of this
character should be instituted and conducted under the
direct supervision of the Bank Commissioner through the
staff of legal assistants provided by law for that purpose,
and not by the Governor, nor through independent action." Id., pp. 509-512; 37 P. 2d 610.
Again, in Richison v. State ex rel. Barnett, 176 Okla.
537, 539; 56 P. 2d 840, 843, the court observed:
"Under the provisions of article 6, chapter 40, O. S.
1931 (sec. 9168 et seq.) the state has assumed exclusive
jurisdiction and control of the affairs of insolvent banking institutions. By operation of law the Bank Commissioner is the officer through which the state liquidates
the assets and winds up the affairs of such institutions.
While engaged in the performance of such statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

duties and functions the Bank Commissioner is performing duties for the benefit of certain members of the public
who weredepositors in such institution."
The state court has also held that the statute of limitations does not run against the State in an action to
enforce the statutory liability of the stockholders. State
ex rel. Shull-v. McLaughlin, 159 Okla. 4; 12 P. 2d 1106.
And the same rule applies to actions on promissory notes
and other claims taken over by the Bank Commissioner
as assets of an insolvent bank. White v. State, 94 Okla.
7; 220 P. 624; Lever v. State ex rel. Shull, 157 Okla. 162;
111 P. 2d 498; Richisonv. State ex rel. Barnett, supra.
May the State through its Bank Commissioner invoke
our original jurisdiction to prosecute claims of this character for the benefit of. creditors?
To bring a case within that jurisdiction, it is not
enough that a State is plaintiff. Florida v. Mellon, 273
U. S. 12, 17. Nor is it enough that a State has acquired
the legal title to a cause of action against the defendant,
where the recovery is sought for the benefit of another
who is the real party in interest. New Hampshire v.
Louisiana,New York v. Louisiana,108 U. S. 76. In those
cases, provision was made by statutes of New Hampshire
and New York for the assignment to the State of the
obligations of another State. Thereupon it became the
duty of the Attorney General of the State, if in ,his
opinion the claim was a valid one, to bring suit in the
name of the State in this Court in order to enforce collection. The money collected was to be held in trust,
as stated, and to be paid over to the assignorjpf the claim.
Id., pp. 77, 79. The States, respectively, acquired title
to bonds of the State of Louisiana and filed in this Court
bills in equity in the name of the State to enforce recovery. The bills were dismissed. The fact that the effort
was made to use the name of the complainant States in
order to evade the application of the Eleventh Amend-

OKLAHOMA v. COOK.
387

Opifilon of the Court.

ment was undoubtedly a controlling consideration, but
that consideration derived its force from the fact that the
State was not seeking a recovery in its own interest, as
distinguished from the rights and interests of the individuals who were the real beneficiaries.
The underlying point of the decision was that in determining the scope of our original jurisdiction under Clause
2 of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution, we must look
beyond the mere legal title of the complaining State to
the cause of action asserted and to the nature of the
State's interest. So, when it appeared in a later case that
a State, invoking the original jurisdiction of this Court to
enforce the bonds of another State, was the absolute
owner of the bonds and was prosecuting the claim upon
its own behalf, this Court took jurisdiction. South Dakota v. North Carolina,192 U. S.286. There the Court
found that, while the State of South Dakota acquired by
gift the bonds of North Carolina, there could not be "any
question respecting the title of South Dakota." They
were not held, the Court said, by the State as representative of indvidual owners as in the case of New, Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.76, and the motive which
induced the transaction was not deemed to "affect its validity or the question of jurisdiction." The case was thus
one "directly affecting the property rights and interests
of a State.", Id., pp. 314, 318.
In determining whether the State is entitled to avail
itself of the original jurisdiction of this Court in a matter
that is justiciable (see Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S.
447, 485), the interests of the State are not deemed to be
confined to those of a strictly proprietary character but
embrace its "quasi-sovereign" interests which are "independent of and behind the titles of its citizens, in all the
earth and air within its domain." Georgia v. Tennissee
Copper Co., 206 U. S.230, 237. Thus, we have held that
a State may sue to restrain the diversion of water from

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

an interstate stream, Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46,
95, 96, or 'an interference with the flow of natural gas in
interstate commerce, Pennslyvania v. West Virginia, 262
U. S. 553, 592; or to prevent injuries through the pollution of streams or the poisoning of the air by the generation of noxious gases destructive of crops and forests,
whether the injury be due to the action of another State
or of individuals, Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 200
U. S. 496; Georgiav. Tennessee Copper Co., supra; North
Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365, 373, 374; Wisconsin.
v. Illinois, 278 U. S. 367r 281 U. S. 179.
But this principle does not go so far as to permit resort
to our original jurisdiction, in the name of the State but
in reality for the benefit of particular individuals, albeit
the State asserts an economic interest in the claims and
declares their enforcement to be a matter of state policy.
In Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, the State asked
leave to file a bill of complaint against the United States
and others, seeking a decree adjudging the State to be
the owner, as trustee for a railway company, of certain
sections of land to the extent of a grant along the line
of the railroad through the Creek Nation in the Indian
Territory. The Court said that it appeared upon the
face of the bill that the State was only nominally a
party, that the real party in interest was the railroad
company, and that our original jurisdiction "could not
be maintained." Id., pp. 340, 341. The Court also held
that the United States was the real party in interest as
defendant and could not be sued without its consent, but
the other question was presented and passed upon.
In Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S.
277, the State sought to maintain an action in this Court
against the carrier to restrain it from charging unreasonable rates within Oklahoma. Setting forth the congressional grant under which the railway in question was

OKLAHOMA v.- COOK.
387

395

Opinion of the Court.

operated and insisting that the Company was not entitled to charge the inhabitants of Oklahoma a greater
freight rate for the transportation of certain commodities
than that authorized for similar service in Kansas, the
State alleged its interest in the development of its communities and in the success of its industries, and the
menace to the future of the State through what was
deemed to be a violation of the conditions of the grant.
But the Court pointed out that the State was not seeking
to protect a direct interest of its own in the transportation of the commodities in question, but was endeavoring
to compel the railway company to respect the rights of
the shippers of these commodities. Id., pp. 286,' 287.
The bill was dismissed. The Court summarized its conclusion in these words:
"We are of the opinion that the words, in the Constitution, conferring original jurisdiction on this court, in a
suit 'in which a State shall be a party' are not to be interpreted as conferring such jurisdiction in every cause
in which the State elects to make itself strictly a party
plaintiff of record and seeks not to protect its own property, but only to vindicate the wrongs of some of its
people or to enforce its own laws or public policy against
wrongdoers, generally." Id., p. 289.
See, also, Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1.
In the instant case, the State has taken the legal title
to the assets of the insolvent bank which is being liquidated and to the claims against stockholders by reason
of their statutory liability. But recovery is sought solely
for the benefit of the depositors and creditors of the bank.
State ex rel. Mothersead v. Kelly, supra; State ex rel.
Murray v. Pure Oil Co., supra: Richison v. State ex rel.
Barnett, supra. Constituting the State a virtual trustee
for the benefit of the creditors of the bank did not alter
the essential quality of the rights asserted or avail to con-

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U.S.

fer jurisdiction upon this Court to entertain a suit for
their enforcement. New Hampshire v. Louisiana, New
York v. Louisiana,supra; Kansas v. United States, supra;
Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., supra. The
taking of the legal title by the State is a mere expedient
for the purpose of collection.
It will be noted that the State not only undertakes to
enforce the statutory liability of stockholders but, as the
State takes title to all the assets of the insolvent bank,
suits upon promissory notes and various claims of the
bank in the course of the liquidation are to be brought
in the name of the State acting through its Bank Com-*
missioner. The declared policy and asserted economic
interest of the State attach a$ well to the prosecution of
all such suits. If the contention of the State were accepted, it would follow that suits upon claims of the bank
against citizens of other States could be brought in this
Court. Many States have statutory provisions for the
liquidation through state officers of insolvent banks, trust
companies, insurance companies, etc., and if, by the simple expedient of providing that the title to the assets of
such institutions should vest in the State and that suits
in the course of liquidation should be prosecuted in the
name of the State, resort to our original jurisdiction were
permitted, the enormous burden which would thereby be
imposed upon this Court can readily be imagined,-a
burden foreign to the purpose of the constitutional provision. These considerations emphasize the importance
of strict adherence to the governing principle that the
State must show a direct interest of its own and not
merely seek recovery for the benefit of individuals who
are the real parties in interest.
The motion for leave to file complaint is denied.
Motion denied.
MR. JusTIcE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

