UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES,

ET AL.

LINDSAY-STRATHMORE IRRIGATION DISTRICT
v. BEKINS ET AL., TRUSTEES, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHER1N DISTRICT OF'CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 757 and 772.

Argued April 7, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

1. Proceedings for voluntary composition of ,debts without adjudication of bankruptcy are within the scope of the bankruptcy
power. P. 47.
2. California Law, 1934, Extra Sess., gave the State's consent to the
application to state "taxing districts," of the Bankruptcy Act and
amendments, including Chapter X, added to that Act Aug. 16,
1937. P. 47.
3. The omission from c..X of the Bankruptcy Act of a provision
specifically requiring that the petition of a state taxing district
"under that chapter be approved by a governmental agency of
the State, held unimportant in determining the validity of the
legislation where the State has actually consented. P. 49.
4. In conditioning the confirmation of a plan of composition upon
proof that the petitioning taxing aistrict is "authorized by law"
to take'all action necessary to carry out the plan, c. X of the'
Bankruptcy Act. refers to the law of the State. P. 49.
5. Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act,\ adopted Av. 16, 1937, empowers the courts of bankruptcy to entertain, and pass upon
petitions by state taxing agencies or' instrumentalities, including
irrigation districts, for the composition of their -indebtedness 'payable out of assessments or taxes levied 'against and constituting
liens upon property in their districts or out of income derived
therefrom or from sale of water, etc. The plan of composition
must be approved by creditors owning not less than 51% of the
securities affected by the plan and can not be confirmed unless
accepted by creditors holding 66%% of the aggregate indebtedness
of the district. There must, be consent by the State; and the
judge must be satisfied that the district is authorized by local law
to carry out the plan. The statute aims to relieve serious distress existing in many such improvement districts where, because of economic conditions, property owners can not pay assessments, and taxation is useless, so that the districts can not meet'

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument of Mr. Sumners.

304 U. S.

their obligations and creditors are helpless. A remedy through
composition of the debts of the district could not be afforided by
state law unaided, because of the contract clause of the' Federal
Constitution. Held that the statute is a valid exercise of the
bankruptcy power. Asht.on v. Cameron County District, 298
U. S. 513, distinguished. P. 49.
6. The ability to contract and to give consents bearing upon the
exertion of governmental. power is of the essence of sovereignty.
P. 51.
7. The reservation to the States by the Tenth Amendment, did not
destroy,. but protected,, their right. to make' contracts and give
consents where that action would not contravene the provisions
of the Federal Constitution. P. 152.8. Codperation between Nation and State'through the exercise of the
powers of each, to the advantage of the people who are citizens
of both, is consistent with an indestructible Union of indestructible
States. P. 53.
9. Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, held not violative of the Fifth
Amendment, as applied to creditors of a state irrigation district,
which sought a composition of its debts ander that chapter. P. 54.
21 F. Supp. 129, reversed.
APPEALS from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a petition for confirmation of a plan of composition pre-

sented by. the above-named Irrigation District under
The District and the United
States, which had been notified and had intervened. •took
separate appeals. The following arguments are extracted
from a stenographic report of the hearing.
c. X of the Bankruptcy Act.

Mr. Hatton W. Sumners for the Committee on Judiciary of the House of Representatives of the United States,

as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court.
As we understand the issues here presented, there is
no question involving the rights of individuals, and there

is no question with regard to the mechanics of the law.
The sole question is whether or not legislation embodied
in §§ 81, 82 and 83 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended,
which sections we know as the Municipal Bankruptcy
Act, impinges upon the sovereignty of the State.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument of Mr. Sumners.

In this particular litigation the question arises with
reference to an irrigation distrJ4.
Briefly visualizing the transactions with reference to
that district and the character of the district, we observe
that a group of farmers owning contiguous lands, desiring
to cultivate those lands under irrigation, availed themselves of the facilities provided by the State of California
for putting a blanket mortgage on those lands for the
purpose of bringing water to those lands to 'aid them in
the business of farming.
That district exercised, under delegation from the State,
power of eminent domain and power of taxation. It did
not relieve the State of California of any governmental
it.
responsibility theretoforeexercised by
It seems to us that in so far as drainage and irrigation
districts are concerned, they have more the characteristics
of a railroad corporation than they do of an ordinary'
municipality. A railroad corporation, by delegation,
exercises the right of eminent domain-pfobably as high.
a right and power as Government has--yet it does not
thereby become a part of the State.
But I do not desire to take the time of the Court in
discussing the differences, whatever they may be, between
an irrigation district and an ordinary municipality, because the provisions of -this Act cover them all.
When we come to examine what. happened as the result of this legislation with reference to the sovereignty
and dignity of the municipality, o'r of the State, however
it may be considered, we discover that every debt which
could be composed under this Act is a debt which, under
the then existing law, would constitute a basis of litigation in an ordinary suit against the municipality.
The municipality, therefore, before this law was eiacted, could be brought into court for these same debts
by the process of the court, against the will of the municipality, the issues tried as though the municipality were

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument of Mr. Sumners.

304 U. S.

an ordinary defaulter, judgment had in the ordinary way;
and if the judgment of the court were not complied with,
the municipality could be brought into court again and
subjected to the coercion of the court, even to the extent
of the incarceration of its officers ...
. In a similar situation this same municipality, which
theretofore could be brought into court by the might of
the court and without regard to its consent, under this
Act comes into that court as a sovereign would come, a
.complete sovereign. It comes in under its own will. Nobody is compelling it to come. Nobody can compel it to
come under this Act. In the exercise of its sovereign right
to arrange its indebtedness--it had been sitting around
a table with its creditors, and they. had agreed. In the
instant case 87 per cent-agreed that 59 cents on the dollar
was the best thing for everybody concerned.
So this municipality, by authority of this Act, goes into
that same courthouse, before the same judge, leading a
procession of its consenting creditors, and says to the
judge, "We have entered into this agreement, 87 per cent.
There are 13 per cent. who do not consent. Will you be
good enough to examine to determine whether or not this
agreement is fair to the 13 per cent. and that it does not
do some other'things provided against in the law." It
tells the court also, "I am here because, first, I was
created by a sovereign State in the exercise of its sovereign powers. That sovereign gave me authority to come
here. There is nowhere else myself and my creditors can
go,, and won't you please write our agreement into the
book of judgments."
Even if it were an ordinary'lawsuit, aslwe understand
it, there is no higher act of sovereignty than for the sovereign voluntarily to submit itself to the judgment of a

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument of Mr. Sumners.

court. The Federal Government does it all the time, the
States do it; and we have never understood that, when a
sovereign voluntarily submits itself to trial and judgment,
by that submission it impairs its sovereignty or thereby
makes it possible to be sued without its will.
May I respectfully submit to the Court that, instead
of impinging upon the sovereignty of the State, this Act
clearly is in line with the nature and philosophy of sovereignty of the State, and that to declare this Act unconstitutional would impinge upon the sovereignty of the
State. Such a determination would deny to the State of
California, in this matter, the right to have a sovereign
will with reference to what it will permit its creatures
to do.
All the way down the line there has been consent.
First, the consent of the creator, California; consent of
the Congress, the policy-fixing agency of the Federal Government; consent of the municipality itself, and consent
of the creditors. Now, if we are to deny these agencies,
which speak the voice of sovereignty and the judgment
and will of the private citizen, the right thus to speak,
what becomes of their sovereignty?
If the creditors consent, and the municipality consents,
and the State consents, and the policy-fixing agency of
the Federal Government consents, with all respect, whose
else business is it, if they are sovereign?
We respectfully submit that to deny to a sovereign the
right to have a sovereign will and to make that will effecttive, denies to it the very essence' of sovereignty.
I am privileged to take a longer time of the Colirt, but
I could not add to the substance of what I ha',e said.
We appreciate very much the Court permitting me to
appear.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the United States.

304 U. S.

Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, and Messrs. Vincent N. Miles,
Warner W. Gardner, and Henry A. Julicher were on the
brief, for the United States in No. 757.
The District is utterly unable to meet its obligations
in due course, and it is authorized by law to carry out a
plan of composition.
it asks the bankruptcy court to serve the notice required by statute to bring in the dissenting creditors, to
grant hearings, to hold inquiry as to the reasonableness
and fairness of the plan, to stay all suits that might be
brought to interfere with the District or its property
meanwhile, and that the court, if it finally approves the
plan, enter an order as provided for in the Act, discharging the District from all further obligations under .these
outstanding bonds which would be composed by a payment of 59 cents on the dollar.
The measure received careful consideration before the
committees of the House and Senate, amendments were
made with a view to insuring constitutionality, and the
Congress concluded after full discussion that the bill as
enacted was free from the objectionable features which
had been held fatal to the original Act. [c. IX. See
Ashton v. Cameron County Dist., .298 U. S.513.]
The only jurisdiction that is conferred, is th. jurisdiction to compose
indebtedness of or authorized by any taxing
agencies or instrumentalities hereinafter named, which
are payable out of assessments or taxes 'or beth, or out
of property acquired by foreclosure by the District, or
out of income by such taxing districts."
These districts are then enumerated in separate subdivisions.
The purpose of the subdivisions and of the separability clause was clearly stated on the House floor by
Judge Sumners.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Sumners frankly stated that the sixth classification, the political ,subdivisions, implied proceedings that
would be unconstitutional under the Ashton case. He
felt, however, it was not only the right, but the duty of
Congress to present the question once more to this Court,
since the decision, if allowed to stand, threatened grave
impairment to the powers of the States, in that it forbade them to authorize their political subdivisions to enter
into bankruptcy proceedings.
The case before this Court does not involve the sixth
subdivision, but involves subdivision 1, so that if it be
held that the law is constitutional in its application to
this particular district, even though it could be held unconstitutional as applied to districts covered by subdivision 6, we are entitled to prevail.
The power to legislate on the subject of bankruptcies
frequently has been passed upon by this Court. And the
constitutional development of this clause at the hands
of this Court in over a century has followed out the general 'conception of the breadth and sweep of that power
as it seems to have been entertained at the time the
power was given.
The whole method and purpose of bankruptcy has
changed with that, century of interpretation. Bankruptcy as it existed at the time, and as it existed in the
first Bankruptcy Act passed by the Federal Government
in 1800, was a remedy of the creditor, a further remedy,
against the debtor.
It is now a new opportunity in life, and a clear field
for further efforts to the bankrupt, unhampered by the
pressure and discouragement of preexisting debts. Certainly if that is the purpose of this Act, no reason appears
why it should be extended to private debtors and not to
public debtors. Many subdivisions of the bodies which
composed theUnited States at the time of the Constitu8168o8*----3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the United States.

304 U.S.

tional Convention were themselves at that time in default, and in need, but there was no suggestion that public debtors should be excluded from the benefits of the
bankruptcy power, although, we must grant, at that time
the bankruptcy power was conceived to be a narrower
power than it has since become.
There is equal urgency for applying this Act to public
debtors--an urgency equal to any that has ever existed
for extending it to private debtors.
The statistics are in the brief, and I will not dwell upon
them at length, but over 2,000 improvement districts
were in default in 1934. Cities as large as Detroit and
Miami and Asheville wer'e in default. 41 of the 48 States
had defaults within their borders. The defaulted bonds
were between one billion and two billion eight hundred
million, and in 1938, when the Congress was reconsidering .this matter, over 3,000 units of government were
found to be in default.
The creditors in those cases stood without a practicable
remedy. There is usually no property of a district subject to execution. Taxpayers are not personally liable.
Mandamus to lay taxes is futile, because it results only
in assessments that are defaulted. Tax sales drive down
the value of property, and add further tax delinquencies.
The experience of, those creditors-who were themselves
largely instrumental in the pressure which brought about
the enactment of these Acts-the experience of those
creditors was that they Were without practicable remedies. This was because, though the only possible remedy
was a remedy by agreement, it was almost always subject to defeat. Even though a great majority of the creditors agreed with the district on a practical course to
restore some value to the defaulted bonds and to rehabilitate the district so that it could go on and exercise its
public functions, any creditor who had a high estimate
of the nuisance value of his particular security was in a

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument for the United States.

position to block the settlement, which required unanimous action.
Therefore the only remedy available to districts, or
available to creditors, is the practicable plan of composition, in which nuisance values shall be ruled out, and
in which equality of treatment of these creditors will
prevail.
And it is clear that that power, as attempted to be
exercised by this statute, is within the general bankruptcy power of the Congress. It is equally clear it is
not within the power of the State. The States granted
their power over bankruptcies to the Federal Government. They were expressly forbidden to pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts. It seems impossible
to say that a statute of Congress which exercises a power
twice denied to the States--denied once by delegation to
the Federal Government, and denied once by express
prohibition-can be an invasion of States' rights.
There is one thing the States can do. The State can
connive at repudiation, It can refuse to extend remedies. It can fall back on its power to 'nullify a contract
and refuse to approve. That, neither in point of good
finance, nor of good morals, is a desirable situation. In
order that the situation may be frankly faced, and that
sounder remedies may be practicably applied, there must
be an escape from the limitation imposed upon the State,
and that escape must be found in the power of the Federal Government
This power not only was delegated to the United
States, but it was denied to the States, and it is clear
the Tenth Amendment under such circumstances has no
function whatever to perform in this case. Once a delegated power is found there is then no room for the
operation of the Tenth Amendment.
There is then no question of state sovereignty involved,
since we have a granted power.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the United States.

304 U. S.

Then there is the argument advanced here that from
the necessities of our form of government, because of the
dual nature of our system, there is a necessity, to preserve the independence of the State and to protect its
sovereignty, and that therefore this power, even though it
be a delegated power, cannot be exercised if it impinges
upon what would be called sovereign powers or independent powers of the State I submit that the Tenth Amendment itself denies that argument.
If the Federal Government must point out the delegation of its powers, the Tenth'Amendment equally holds
the advocates of the rights of sovereignty of the States
to the wording of the instrument. It clearly prohibits
using the theory of necessity, the theory of the nature of
government, or other philosophical reasons, for 'cutting
down granted powers.
Now, there is an effort-in the brief of our adversary to
compare this power with the taxing power, and to hold
that because there are certain immunities to the State
and to state agencies under the taxing power, a similar
immunity must be written into the bankruptcy power.
That argument starts by asserting the theory that the
bankruptcy power is found in the same subsection of the
Constitution as the, grant of the taxing power. So are
the powers to regulate interstate commerce, and to punish counterfeiters. The taxing and bankruptcy powers
are not parallel powers; and no argument based on the
one can be applied to the other. The power'of the Federal Government to tax is subject to qualification, and
the bankruptcy power is not. The power to tax is to
provide for the common defense and the general welfare,
and hence it may very well be that where you have a
plan of which the tax is a part, such as this Court held
the Agricultural Adjustment Act to be, or the Child
Labor Act, then you are. led to an inquiry as to whether
the taxing plan itself is local or is general, is national or

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument for the United States.

is within powers reserved to localities. The very nature
of the taxing power,. as it exists in the Federal Government, may demand that inquiry; but there is no such
qualification in the bankruptcy clause. That requires
only uniformity.
, When we consider immunity as it exists in 'the States
from federal taxes, and as it exists in the Government
from state taxation, we are dealing with a totally different
thing. The power of taxation derives from the relationship of sovereign and subject. That relationship derived
originally from the duty of a sovereign to protect, and
from the duty of the subject to assist the sovereign in
maintaining, that protection. We find no State has assumed such a duty toward the Federal Government; we
find no State has assumed a relationship toward the Federal Government which in the nature of the taxing power
makes it applicable, one to the other.
The very nature of the taxing power implies that it is
exerted by the sovereign against the citizen, and not
against another governmental body, regardless of whether
the relationship is that of an equal sovereign; or that of
a subsidiary governmental group.
Tax burdens, of course, are involuntary burdens and,
as this Court has said, may be destructive. The power
to tax may be the power to destroy, and it may be laid
upon a State as a State only when it has assumed that
obligation, or if the liability to taxation is to be implied
from the nature of the activities of the taxpayer.
Bankruptcy is an entirely'different kind of power. It
is merely the opening, in this case, of a forum to which
this State may resort, as we may open a forum to which
foreign creditors or foreign debtors may resort.
No compulsion upon any State or State agency is here
involved. This is a voluntary Act, and it raises no questions under the Eleventh Amendment.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the District. -

304 U. S.

This Court has held that, without any consent of a
sovereign state, its taxing agencies may be sued. Mandamus may lie against a taxing distript. And it has been
held in one case that, where a state law provides a similar remedy, a receiver may be appointed to go into such
a district and take over its affairs and operations.
Even the taxing immunity can be waived. This Court
has held that a State may waive the tax immunity of its
agencies, and that the Federal Government may waive
the tax immunity of the agencies which it creates. In this
case this Bankruptcy Act can never apply to any district
unless there is a finding that the law of the State authorizes it to seek that remedy and authorizes it to carry that
remedy to completion.
It is true we have a dual system of State and Federal
Governments, but that does not mean that they can not
co~iperate for the common need. That question was settled by this Court in the Social Security cases. [301 U. S.
548, 619.]
Now, we find the State and the Nation confronted with
this difficulty arising out of the limitation of the power
of the State to deal with its own taxing agencies and their
debts. We find these defaulted bonds in the channels of
trade. We find taxing districts impaired in their capacity
to carry on and perform the very functions for which
they were created, and we say that there is no difficulty
in the two units, the State and the Nation, without either
one of them in the least receding from its sovereignty,
setting up together a common remedy.
Acting Solicitor General Bell filed a memorandum for
the United States in No. 757.
Messrs. Guy Knupp and James R. McBride for.appellant in No. 772.
Mr. Knupp for the ,Irrigation District explained the
character of the District, the history and extent of its

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument, for Appellees.

indebtedness and the hopelessness of its financial situation. The court below had misconceived the Ashton case
and the nature and purpose of the new legislation. The
present Act aims to avoid interference with govermental
functions, public agencies, and their fiscal affairs. It
deals with voluntary composition. Chapter IX gave
power to the court to change the proposed plan of composition. Not so Chapter X. Chapter IX gave power
to interfere with fiscal powers and policies of the public
debtor. Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440, is
applicable.
Messrs. W. Coburn Cook and Charles L. Childers, with
whom Mr. Maurice E. Harrison was on the briefs, for
appellees.
Mr. Cook on behalf of appellees explained the peculiar
importance of irrigation in California. The control of
water is a public trust, embedded in the state constitution
and executed through its laws. The work of the Irrigation District is work that the State might itself directly
perform, without giving the land owners within the District any voice in the selection of managers and trustees.
But California, in order that it might carry out what it
conceived to be a state function, has permitted the organization of something like 100 irrigation districts in the
State and has conferred upon those districts sovereign
powers, the power of taxation, the power to borrow
money.
The legislature itself could perform those functions
directly by some department of the State. Instead of
that, it chose to give the people greater control, because
they were vitally interested. It could have raised revenues by direct taxation upon the entire State, because
the purpose would have been public. But realizing that
greater justice would be done, it allocated the indebtedness to the districts more directly affected, and thereby

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellees.

304 U. S.

permitted the people in those districts to have a voice
in those affairs.
One of the greatest powers is that of borrowing money.
There is a misunderstanding here as to what fiscal power
is affected by this Act. It is true that in the Act everything has been done which could possibly have been
thought of in order to relieve the court from the necessity of making a direct order on the district, but the effect
upon the fiscal powers goes back to the time of the borrowing of the money.
Each holder of a bond and coupon is entitled to payment out of the bond values of the district in the order
in which his bond or coupon has been presented. That
makes each bond and coupon a separate class, and the
one presented today is entitled to payment before the
one presented tomorrow.
This Act would have the same effect as respects the
fiscal powers of the district and State as would an
exercise of powers to tax income from the bonds--it would
tend much more to destroy, because under this Act you
take the principal, whereas under the income act, you
can take only a portion of the interest.
If this power under this Act is sustained, our great
cities,-all the taxing districts, sewer districts, road districts, reclamation districts of California-could be forced
into bankruptcy.
I believe it is true that a sovereign State as well as a
sovereign nation does not have the right to abdicate any
sovereign function which is essential to its sovereignty.
Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330.
The Eleventh Amendment gives us no help. The
State may waive its right not to be sued. The fact that
these districts can be brought into court under certain
conditions in no manner detracts from any essential of
sovereignty, because the plaintiff in such case brought
against the State is merely permitted to obtain an adju-

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument for Appellees.

dication of whatever rights he may have. He is not by
waiver of the immunity against suit given. the
right to
assert other or different rights.
The Interstate Commerce Clause does not seem to us
to be analogous.
I know of no principle permitting state or federal
governments to-waive their power to tax-a power
essential to sovereignty.
The bankruptcy power is not a power essential to the
National Government. It was given to the National
Government for convenience, for uniformity. It is a sort
of regulatory or police power granted to the National
Government, and therefore- if it comes in conflict- with
the power of the State, which is essential to the maintenance- of the sovereignty of the State, it must give way
completely.
This is a bankruptcy act, whether it be called readjustment, or whether it be called composition. The effect of it is to compel certain persons to accept something
which they have not contracted to accept. The difference
in nomenclature between calling this district a taxing
agency or a political subdivision, it seems quite obvious
could have _n6 effect upon the inherent powers which
Congress may have.
Mr. Cook compared chapter X with chapter IX. One
essential difference is that c. X does not require the consent of the State.
The California Enabling Act authorized the filing of a
petition under c. IX.
Mr. Childers, on behalf of appellees, maintained that
chapters IX and X were alike objectionable. The same
classes of agencies are dealt with-arms of.the sovereign
power of the State. The Ashton case decides that the
power of Congress does not extend over the sovereign
function of a State.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellees.

304 U. S.

If the power of bankruptcy extends over these state
mandatories in a little way, that is, in a voluntary proceeding, it must follow that it may be exercised against
these mandatories without their consent or without the
consent of the State. The next logical sLep is to make
that same power apply to the State itself. Congress must
have all the power or none; and that is the principle
that was announced in the Ashton case. We find nothing
in this statute that would seem materially to differentiate
it from the Ashton case.
To the great powers assigned to the United States
by the Constitution, the States are powerless to add.
Those powers are quite sufficient in themselves. The
powers not delegated have been reserved to the States,
and to the people, and as this Court said in United States
v. Butler, the Tenth Amendment was to make doubly sure.
It is the people who ultimately have the sovereign
power; and the State is not in position to surrender those
necessary elements of sovereignty by which it must
exist.
A State, through its legislature, may consent to be sued,
may surrender its sovereignty in a suit, because that is
one of the powers not prohibited, and the legislature has
the right to speak fIr the people to-that extent. But it is
prohibited from passing any law impairing the obligations
of contract. Bankruptcy is necessarily an impairment of
contract obligations. The taxing power is one of the highest attributes of sovereignty. If the United States can
apply the bankruptcy power to a State, then it can control in the fiscal affairs of the State.
Though the Constitution does not expressly prohibit,
State or Federal Governments may not tax each other's
instrumentalities, because that would be to affect their
sovereign functions. It is not a question of the size of the
tax.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Argument for Appellees.

This must be true of bankruptcy. As soon as it
touches the State in the remotest degree, it would seem
that the power could not exist.
There surely cannot be a little bankruptcy. Surely
Congress must have the whole power or none.
The power in bankruptcy would seem to be much more sinister than the power to tax, because the power to tax
operates ordinarily in an even, like manner.
The State, of course, is prohibited by the contract
clause from impairing the obligations of a contract. Now,
it would seem that regardless of what sort of statute a
State might pass, it can not add to or take away from
the power of Congress in that regard. If a consent is
needed to make an Act of Congress effective, then it must
be that the power does not exist. If Congress must lobk
to another sovereign for its power, it can not have the
power.
Irrigation districts in California exercise governmental
functions. The legislature has plenary power over them.
They are State agencies.
The legislature can destroy them by simply repealing
the Act under which they exist, and the State can go out
and do the work itself, by its own agents directly. The
better considered cases hold that the beneficial interest
in the property acquired by one of these districts is in the
State itself. It does not make much difference in this
connection whether it is in the State or the land owner.
The district, as a legal entity, is not the beneficial owner.
If the beneficial interest is in the land owner, he must be
brought into court.
How could there well be a bankruptcy of one of these
public agencies that can not respond to a judgment? It
has no property that is subject to execution.
In answer. to questions from the Chief Justice, Mr.
Childers conceded that,under chapter X, no plan of com-

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Amici Curiae.

304 U. S.

position can go through unless approved by the district;
and that the California Act of 1934 gave consent to the
submission of such a plan under chapter IX, if not under
chapter X; but he maintained that, even so, the federal
bankruptcy power can not be applied.
All the power of government, whether possessed by the
Nation or a State, can not be asserted to effect the composition of an indebtedness of such a district.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE.

So that the"State would be pro-

hibited to effect a composition of 60 per cent., no matter
how fair it is, and the Federal Government would be prohibited, although this district has an economic plight
which needs relief for the benefit of the people of the district, and incidentally the people of the State. There is
no power in the Government against a creditor to provide
for that relief?
MR. CHILDERS.

That is right.. And the remedy would

be much worse, I believe, than the disease.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE. Remedies often are.,
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

What power is there in a

State Government or Federal Government or any other
government to repudiate debts?
MR. CHILDERS. I think that is Answered. I don't think
there is any power, and I don't think the power ought to
be there. As a matter of economics, I believe it would do
-, much more harm to these districts than it could possibly
do good. And if the power existed, the power might be
exercised all the way.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney .General of California,
Greek L. Rice, Attorney General of Mississippi,--Ray
McKittrick, Attorney General of Missouri, Gray Mashburn, Attorney General of Nevada, Frank H. Patton,
Attorney General of New Mexico, I. H. Van Winkle,
Attorney General of Oregon, and Ray E. Lee, Attorney

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

27

General of Wyoming, on behalf of those States; Messrs.
G. W. Hamilton, Attorney General of Washington, and
Fred J. Cunningham, on behalf of the State of Washington; and Messrs. Jack Holt, Attorney General of Arkansas, and Chas. D. Frierson, on behalf of the State of
Arkansas and certain drainage districts thereof, all in
support of appellant in' No. 772; by Messrs. Cary D.
Landis;Attorney General'of Florida, and Giles J. Patterson, on behalf of the State of Florida, in support of appellant in No. 757; and by Mesrs. Francis V. Keesling and
.CharlesL. Childers, on behalf of the West Coast Life Ins.
Co., in support of appellees..
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are direct appeals from the judgment of the District Court for the Southern District of California under
the Act of August 24, 1937, c. 754, 50 Stat. 751. They
present the question of the constitutional validity of the
Act of August 16, 1937, 50 Stat. 653, amending the Bankruptcy Act by adding Chapter X providing for the composition of indebtedness of the taxing agencies or instrumentalities therein described. A certificate was issued to
the Attorney General and the United States intervened.
The District Court held the statute invalid as applied to
the appellant and dismissed its petition for composition.
The court considered itself bound by the decision in Ashton v. Cameron County District,298 U. S. 513.
Appellant, the Lindsay-Strathmore Irrigation District,
was organized in the year 1915 under the California Irrigation District Act of March 31, 1897 (Cal. Stat. 1897, p.
254). It comprises about 15,260 acres in Tulare County.
It' is an irrigation district and taxing agency created for
the purpose of constructing and operating irrigation projects and works devoted to ,the improvement of lands foi

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

agricultural purposes. On September 21, 1937, it presented its petition for the confirmation of a plan of composition. The petition alleged insolvency; that its indebtedness consisted of outstanding bonds aggregating $1,427,000 in principal, with unpaid interest of $439,085.15;
that no interest or principal falling due since July 1, 1933,
had been paid; that the low price of agricultural products
had prevented the owners of land within the irrigation
district from meeting their assessments; that upon the
assessment levied by the District in the year 1932 there
was a delinquency of 47 per cent. and that since that year
there had been levied only an assessment of sufficient
amount to maintain and operate its works; that the District's plan for the composition of its debts provided for
the payment in cash of a sum equal to 59.978 cents for
each dollar of the principal amount of its outstanding
bonds in satisfaction of all amounts due; that creditors
owning about 87 per cent. in the principal amount of the
bonds had accepted the plan and consented to the filing
of the petition; and that payment of the amount required
was to be made from the proceeds of a loan which the Reconstruction Finance Corporation had agreed to make
upon new refunding serial bonds equal, to the amount
borrowed and bearing interest at four per cent.
The District Court approved the petition as filed in good
faith and directed the creditors to show cause why an injunction should not -issue staying the commencement of
suits upon the securities affected by the plan. The appellees as bondholders appeared and moved to dismiss the
petition upon the grouiid that Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act violated the Fifth and Tenth Amendments of
the Federal Constitution. It appeared from thp return to
the order to show cause that these creditors had obtained
an alternative writ of mandate from the state court directing the county board of supervisors to levy an assessment upon the lands within the District sufficient to pay

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Opinion of the Court.

the amounts due the complaining creditors, and that the
proceedings in that court had been suspended pending
the proceeding in the bankruptcy court.
First. Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act is limited to
voluntary proceedings for the composition of debts. Aside
from the question as to the power of the Congress to provide this method of relief for the described taxing agencies,
it is well settled that a proceeding for composition is in
its nature within the federal bankruptcy power. Compositions were authorized by the Bankruptcy Act of 1867, as
amended by the Act of 1874, c. 390, § 17, 18 Stat. 182. It
is unnecessary to the validity of such a proceeding that it
should result in an adjudication of bankruptcy. In re
Reiman, 20 Fed. Cas. 490, 496, 497; ContinentalNational
Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648, 672, 673.
In the Continental Bank case, in the course of a full consideration of the scope of the federal bankruptcy power
and of the evolution of its exercise, we said:
"The constitutionality of the old provision for a composition is not open to doubt. In re Reiman, 20 Fed. Cas.
490, 496-497, cited with approval in Hanover National
Bank v. Moyses, supra. [186 U. S. at p. 187.] That provision was there sustained upon the broad ground that the
'subject of bankruptcies' was nothing less than 'the subject of the relations between an insolventz or nonpaying or
fraudulent debtor, and his creditors, extending to his and
their relief.' That it was not necessary for the proceedings to be carried through in bankruptcy was held not to
warrant the objection that the provision did not constitute
a lww on the subject of bankruptcies."
Second. It is unnecessary to consider the question
whether Chapter X would be valid as applied to the
irrigation district in the absence of the consent of the
State which created it, for the State has given its consent.
We think that this sufficiently appears from, the statute
of California enacted in 1934. Laws of 1934, Ex. Sess.,

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

*ch. 4. This statute (§ 1) adopts the definition of "taxing
districts" as described in an amendment of the Bank-'
ruptcy Act, to wit Chapter IX approved May 24, 1934,
and further provides that the Bankruptcy Act and "acts
amendatory and supplementary thereto, as the same
may be amended from time to time, are herein referred
to as the 'Federal Bankruptcy Statute'." Chapter X of
the Bankruptcy Act is an amendment and appears to be
embraced within the state's definition. We have not
been referred to any decision to the contrary. Section 3
of the state act then provides that any taxing district
in the State is authorized to file the petition mentioned'
in the "Federal Bankruptcy Statute." Subsequent sec"tions empower the taxing district upon the conditions
stated to consummate a plan of readjustment in the
event of its confirmation by the federal court. The
statute concludes with a statement of the reasons for
its passage, as follows:
"There exist throughout the State of California economic conditions which make it impossible for property'
owners to pay their taxes and special assessments levied
upon real or taxable property. The burden of such taxes
and special assessments is so onerous in amount that great
delinquencies have occurred in the collection thereof and
seriously affect the ability of taxing districts to obtain
the revenue necessary to conduct governmental functions
and to pay. obligations represented by bonds. It is essential that financial relief, as set forth in this act, be immediately afforded to such taxing districts in order to avoid
serious impairment of their taxing systems, with consequent crippling of the local governmental functions of the
State. This act will aid in accomplishing this necessary
result and should therefore go into effect immediately."
While the facts thus stated related to conditions in California, similar conditions existed in other parts of the

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Opinion of the Court.

country and it was this serious situation which led the
Congress to enact, Chapter IX and later Chapter X.1
Our attention has been called to the difference between
§ 80 (k) of Chapter IX and § 83 (i) of Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act in the omission from the latter of the
provision requiring the approval of the petition by a governmental agency of the State whenever such approval
is necessary by virtue of the local law. We attach no importance to this omission. It is immaterial, if the consent of the State is not required to make the federal plan
effective, and it is equally immaterial if the consent of
the State has been given, as we think it has in this case.
It should also be observed that Chapter X, § 83 (e)
provides as a condition of confirmation of a plan of composition that it must appear that the petitioner "is
authorized by law to take all action necessary to be taken
by it to carry out the plan," and, if the judge is not satisfied on that point as well as on the others mentioned,
he must enter an order dismissing the proceeding. The
phrase "authorized by law" manifestly refers to the law
of the State.
Third. We are thus brought to the inquiry whether the
exercise of the federal bankruptcy power in dealing with a
composition of the debts of the irrigation district, upon
its voluntary application and with the State's consent,
must be deemed to be an unconstitutional interference
with the essential independence of the State as preserved
by the Constitution.
In Ashton v. Cameron County District, supra,
the court
considered that the provisions of Chapter IX authorizing
See Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
the Judiciary on S. 1868 and H. R. 5950, 1934, 73rd Cong., 2nd
Sess.; Hearings before the House Committee on the Judiciary on
H. R: 1670, etc., 1933, 73rd Cong., 1st Seas.; Ashton. v. Cameron
County District,298 U. S. 513, 533, 534.,
81688°-38___4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the bankruptcy court to entertain proceedings for the
"readjustment of the debts" of "political subdivisions" of
a State "might materially restrict its control over its fiscal affairs," and was therefore invalid; that if obligations
of States or their political subdivisions might be subjected to the interference contemplated by Chapter IX,
they would no longer be "free to manage their own
affairs."
In enacting Chapter X the Congress was especially solicitous to afford no ground for this objection. In the
report of the Cbmmittee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives, 2 which was adopted by the Senate Committee on the Judiciary,' in dealing with the bill proposing
to enact Chapter X, the subject was carefully considered.,
The Committee said:
"Compositions are approvable only when the districts
or agencies file voluntary proceedings in courts of bankruptcy, accompanied by plans approved by 51 per cent of
all the creditors of the district or agency, and by evidence
of good faith. Each proceeding is subject to ample notice
to creditors, thorough hearings, complete investigations,
and appealg from interlocutory and final decrees. The
plan of composition cannot be confirmed unless accepted
in writing by creditors holding at least 66% percent of the
aggregate amount of the indebtedness of the petitioning
district or taxing agency, and unless the judge is satisfied
that the taxing district is authorized by law to carry out
the plan, and until a specific finding by the court that the
plan of composition is fair, equitable, and for the best
interests of the creditors. .. ,
"The Committee on the Judiciary is not unmindful of
the sweeping character of the holding of the Supreme
Court above referred to [in the Aahton case], and believes
2

H. Rep. No. 517, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.

Sen. Rep. No. 911, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Opinion of the Court.

that H. R. 5969 is not invalid or contrary to the reasoning
of the majority opinion.
"The bill here recommended for passage expressly avoids
any restriction on the powers of the States or their arms
of government in the exercise of their sovereign rights and
duties. No interference with the fiscal or governmental
affairs of a political subdivision is permitted. The taxing
agency itself is the only instrumentality which can seek
the benefits of the proposed legislation. No involuntary
proceedings are allowable, and no control or jurisdiction
over that property and those revenues of the petitioning
agency necessary for essential governmental purposes is
conferred by the bill ...
"There isno hope for relief through statutes enacted by
the States, because the Constitution forbids the passing of
State laws impairing the obligations of existing contracts.
Therefore, relief must come from Congres , if at all. The
committee are not prepared to admit that the situation
presents a legislative no-man's land. . . . It is the opinion of the committee that the present bill removes the
objections to the unconstitutional statute, and gives a
forum to enable those distressed taxing agencies which desire to adjust their obligations and which are capable of
reorganization, to meet their creditors under necessary
judicial control and guidance and free from coercion, and
to affect such adjustment on a plan determined to be
mutually advantageous.
We are of the opinion that the Committee's points
are well taken and that Chapter X is a valid enactment.
The statute is carefully drawn so as not to impinge upon
the sovereignty of the State. The State retains control
of its fiscal affairs. The bankruptcy power is exercised
in relation to a matter normally within its province and
only in a case where the action of the taxing agency in
carrying out a plan of composition approved by the bankrupccy court is authorized by state law. It is of the es-

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

$04 U. S.

sence of sovereignty to be able to make contracts and
give consents bearing upon the exertion of governmental
power. This is constantly illustrated in treaties and conventions in the international field by which governments
yield their freedom of action in particular matters in
order to gain the benefits which accrue from international
accord. Oppenheim, International Law, 4th ed., vol. 1, § §
493, 494; Hyde, International Law, vol. 2, § 489; Perry v.
United States, 294 U. S. 330, 353; Steward Machine Co. v.
Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 597. The reservation to the States
by the Tenth Amendment protectec, and did not destroy,
their right to make. contracts and give, consents where
that action would not contravene the provisions of the
Federal Constitution. The States with the consent of
Congress may enter into compactswith each other and the
provisions of such compacts may limit the agreeing States
in the exercise of their respective powers. Const., Art. I,
§ 10, subd. 3. Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185, 209;. Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, .725; Hinderlider v.
La PlataRiver Co., post, p. 92. The State is free to make
contracts with individuals and give consents upon which
the other contracting party may rely with respect to a
particular use of governmental authority. See Fletcher v.
Peck, 6 Cranch 87, 137; New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch
164; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 643,
644; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
549; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black 436, 446.
While the instrumentalities of the national government
are immune from taxation by a State, the State may tax
them if the national government consents (Baltimore
National Bank v. State Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 209, 211,
212) and by a paiity of reasoning the consent of the
State could remove the obstacle to the taxation by the
federal government of state agencies to which the consent applied.

UNITED STATES v. BEKINS.
27

Opinion of the Court.

Nor did the formation of an indestructible Union of indestructible States make impossible coSperation between
the Nation and the States through the exercise of the
power of each to the advantage of the people who are citizens of both. We had recent occasion to consider that
question in the case of Steward Machine Co. V. Davis,
supra, in relation to the operation of the Social Security
Act of August 14, 1935. 49 Stat. 620. The question was
raised with special emphasis in relation to § 904 of the
statute and the parts of § 903, complementary thereto, by
which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to receive and hold in the Unemployment Trust Fund all
moneys deposited therein by a state agency for a state
unemployment fund and to invest in obligations of the
United States such portion of the Fund as is not in his
judgment required to meet current withdrawals. The
contention was that Alabama in consenting to that deposit had "renounced the plenitude of power inherent in
her statehood." 301 U. S. at pp. 595, 596. We found the
contention -to be unsound. As the States were at libertyupon obtaining the consent of Congress to make agreements with one another, we saw no room for doubt that
they may do the like with Congress if the essence of their
statehood is maintained without impairment. And we
added that "Nowhere in our scheme of government-in
the limitations express or implied of our federal constitution--do we find that 3he [the State] is prohibited from
assenting to conditions that will assure a fair -and just requital for benefits received."
In the instant case we have coo"peration to provide a
remedy for a serious condition in which the States alone
were unable to afford relief. Improvement districts, such
as the petitioner, were in distress. Economic disaster had
made it impossible for them to meet their obligations.
As the owners of property within the boundaries of the
district could not pay adequate assessments, the power of

OCTO3ER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

taxE.tion was useless. The creditors of the district were
helpless. The natural and reasonable remedy through
composition of the debts of the district was not available
under state law by reason of the restriction imposed by
the Federal Constitution upon the impairment of contracts by state legislation. The bankruptcy power is competent to give relief to debtors in such a plight and, if
there is any obstacle to its exercise in the case of the districts organized under state law it lies in the right of the
State to oppose federal interference. The State steps in
to remove that obstacle. The State acts in aid, and not
in derogation, of its sovereign powers. It invites the intervention of the bankruptcy power to sve its agency
which the State itself is powerless to rescue. Through
its co6peration with the national government the needed
relief is given. We see no ground for the conclusion
that the Federal Constitution, in the interest of state
sovereignty, has reduced both sovereigns to helplessness in
such a case.
Fourth. As the bankruptcy power may be exerted to
give effect to a plan for the composition of the debts of
an insolvent debtor, we find no merit in appellant's objections under the Fifth Amendment. In re Reiman,
supra; Continental National Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P.
R y.Co., supra.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
are of the opinion that the principle approved in Ashton
v. Cameron County District, 298 U. S. 513, is controlling
here and requires affirmation of the questioned decree.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

