202

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U.S.

Muslow in 1933 and 1934 will not deprive appellant of any
rights under the Federal Constitution.
"It is a matter of common occurrence-indeed, it is almost the undeviating rule of the courts, both state and
Federal-not to decide constitutional questions [of the
validity of a State Act] until the necessity for such decision arises in the record before the court." Baker v.
Grice, 169 U. S. 284, 292. We see no such necessity here.
The judgment appealed from is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
RUHLIN ET AL. v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE

CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 596. Argued March 10, 1938.--Decided May 2, 1938.
1. Where an insurance policy by its terms is incontestable after a
time limited except for nonpayment of pemium and "except as to
provisions and conditions relating to disability and double indemnity benefits," the question whether the latter exception embraces,
and excludes from the limitation, the right of the insurer to rescind
the agreement to pay disability and double indemnity benefits
because of fraud in the application, is not a question of "gelferal
law" which a federal court may determine independently, but a
question of state law which the federal court must determine in
accordance with the decisions of the appropriate state court. Erie
Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64. P. 204.
2. The doctrine of Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins is applicable to a

question of construction of a contract arising in a suit in equity.
P. 205.

3. CObnflict among the Circuit Courts of Appeals on questions of state
law is not of itself a reason for granting a writ of certiorari.
P. 206.

RUHLIN v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
202

Opinion of the Court.

4. The petition in this case did not show, as a basis for certiorari, that
the important question of local law involved was decided below "in
a way probably in conflict with applicable local decisions," or that
the decision was "probably untenable" and therefore probably in
conflict with the state law as yet undeclared by the highest court
of the State. Rule 38 (5) (b).
5. Where a suit dependent on the construction of an insurance policy
was presented and decided below on the mistaken assumption that
the construction was a question of "general" or "federal" law, this
Court, on certiorari, declined to decide upon the rule of state law
applicable, but vacated the judgment and remanded the cause to
the District Court, for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion and with directions to permit such amendments of the
pleadings as might be necessary for that-purpose. P. 206.
93 F. 2d 416, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 681, to review the affirmance of
an interlocutory decree enjoining the institution of actions on certain insurance policies, including an action in
a state court, pending the determination of a suit to can-

cel the policies in part, for fraud.
Mr. Charles H. Sachs, with whom Mr. Charles J. Margiotti was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William H. Eckert, with whom Mr. Louis H. Cooke
was on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
On February 14, 1935, the New York Life Insurance
Company, respondent here, filed its bill of complaint in
the District Court for Western Pennsylvania to rescind,
because of certain misrepresentatiops, the disability and
double indemnity provisions in five policies issued on the
life of defendant John G. Ruhlin, and made in favor of the
other defendants as beneficiaries.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff is a mutual life insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State
of New York and lawfully engaged in business in Pitts-

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

burgh, Pa.; that the defendants are temporarily living in
Pennsylvania, though plaintiff does not know where their
legal residence is; that on December 1, 1928, plaintiff
wrote two policies of life insurance on the life of John G.
Ruhlin, in the face amounts of $10,000 and $5,000; that
on July 7, 1930, it wrote three additional, similar policies
in the face amount of $4,000 each; that certain questions
in the applications were answered falsely and fraudulently by the insured; that on November 1, 1934, John G.
Ruhlin presented a claim for total and permanent disability benefits under each of the five policies. The Conpany tendered into court the sum of $1,045.42, the aggre:gate amount of premiums paid for disability and double
indemnity benefits, and prayed that the disability and
double indemnity provisions be rescinded, and for other
relief not material here.
The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint
on the ground that the policies had become incontestable,
since the suit was brought more than two years after
the date of each policy involved. The "incontestability
clause" of each of the policies reads as follows:
"Incontestability.-This Policy shall be incontestable
after two years from its date of issue except for nonpayment of premium and except as to provisions and
conditions relating to Disability and Double Indemnity
Benefits."
The District Court overruled the motion to dismiss. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the order, holding that,
in view of their express terms, the incontestability clauses
had no application to liability for disability and double
indemnity benefits. It recognized that its decision was
contrary to that reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, New York Life Ins. Co. v. Kaufman,
78 F. (2d) 398, and by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit, New York Life Ins. Co. v. Truesdale,
79.F. (2d) 481, which had held that the exception in the

RUHLIN v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
202

Opinion of the Court.

incontestability clause related only to provisions and conditions actually set forth in the policy itself, compare
Stroehmann v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 300 U. S. 435, and
that fraud was not mentioned in any of those provisions.
Ruhlin petitioned for certiorari, asserting the conflict of
circuits. The Company filed a memorandum admitting
the conflict, and raising no objection to the granting of
the writ. Because of the conflict of circuits, the Court
granted certiorari.
It was stated in Carpenterv. Providence Washington
Ins. Co., 16 Pet. 495, 511, that questions concerning the
proper construction of contracts of insurance are "questions of general commercial law," and that state decisions
on the subject, though entitled to great respect, "cannot
conclude the judgment of this court." A limitation was
put on this doctrine in Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson,
293 U. S. 335, 340. Putting aside all questions of power,
the Court interpreted a specific provision of an insurance
contract in accordance with the decision of the highest
court of the State of Virginia, where delivery was made.
"AI that is here for our decision is the meaning, the tacit
implications, of a particular set of words, which, as experience has shown, may yield a different answer to this
reader and to that one. With choice so 'balanced with
doubt,' we accept as our guide the law declared by the
state where the contract had its being." The decision in
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64, goes further, and
settles the question of power. The subject is now to be
governed, even in the absence of state statute, by the decisions of the appropriate state court. The doctrine applies
though the question of construction arises not in an action
at law, but in a suit in equity. Compare Mason v. United
States, 260 U. S. 545, 557, 558.
Had Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins been announced at some
prior date the course of this case might have been different. This Court might not hve issued a writ of cer-

206,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

-

304 U. S.

tiorari. Rule 38 (5) of the Supreme Court Rules inditates that this Court, will consider, as a reason for
granting a writ of certiorari, the fact that "a circuit court
of appeals has rendered a decision in conflict with the
decision 6f another circuit court of appeals on the same
matter." Since jurisdiction to bring up cases by certiorari
from the circuit courts of appeals was given to this Court
in. order "to secure uniformity of decision," Magnum
Import Co. v. Coty, 262 U. S. 159, 163, a showing of a
conflict of circuits on a matter concerning which the
federal courts had never denied their right to independent
judgment prompted this Court to grant the writ. E. g.,
Aschenbrenner v. U. S. Fidelity & G. Co., 292 U. S. 80,
82; Stroehmann v. Mutual Life Ins. Co.; 300 U. S. 435,
440. As to questions controlled by state law, however,
conflict among circuits is not of itself a reason for granting a writ of c~rtiorari. The conflict may be merely
corollary to a permissible difference of opinion in the
state courts. The Rules indicate that the Court will be
persuaded to grant certiorari where a circuit court of
appeals "has decided an important question of local law
in a way probably in conflict with applicable local decisions." No such showing was attempted by the petition. Nor was it contended that the decision below was
"probably untenable" and therefore probably in conflict
with the state law as yet unannounced by the highest
court of the State.
No decision at the present time could reconcile any
"conflict oi circuits," or do more than enunciate a tentative rule to guide particular federal courts. Therefore,
even assuming that it is adequately presented on the
record, we decline to decide the issue of state law. However, we shall not dismiss the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted. In view of the fact that the question in the case was regarded below, both by the courts
and by counsel, as one of "general" or "federal" law, the

RUHLIN v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
202

207

Opinion of the Court.

interest of justice requires that the judgment be vacated
and the cause remanded for the enforcement of the applicable principles of state law. See Villa v. Van Schaick,
299 U. S. 152, 155-156; Duke Power Co. v. Greenwood
County, 299 U. S. 259, 267-268; Watts, Watts & Co. v.
Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S.9, 21.
It is true that the Circuit Court of Appeals, in rendering judgment on reargument, said (see 93 F. (2d) 416,
417):
"Furthermore, both the Court of Appeals of New York
and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania have held that
the incontestability clause here involved clearly excepts
the double indemnity and disability provisions from its
operation. Steinberg v. New York Life Ins. Co., 263
N. Y. 45, 188 N. E. 152; Manhattan Life Insurance Co. v.
Schwartz, 274 N. Y. 374, 9 N. E. 2d 16; Guise v. New
York Life Ins. Co., [127 Pa. Super. 127,] 191 Atl. 626.
We have read the recent opinion of the Supreme Court
of California in the cabe of Coodley v. New York Life Insurance Co., 7 Cal. 2d 269, [70 P. 2d 602] and the opinion
of Judge Coughlin in the case of New York Life Insurance Co. v. Thomas, 27 D. & C. 215, but are not persuaded that the learned District Judge erred. Since the
company is domiciled in New York and the insured lives
in Pennsylvania and 'all that is here for our consideration
is the meaning, the tacit implications, of a particular set
of words,' 'for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion' we shall follow the decision of those courts and hold
that the insurance company is not barred by the incontestability clause from rescinding the double indemnity
and disability provisions. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S.340; Trainor v. Aetna Casualty Company,
290 U. S. 47, 54."
It is not necessary here to consider whether, in the determination of the substantive Pennsylvania rule, the
Circuit Court of Appeals was correct in declining to fol-

208

OCTOBER TERM 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

low the nisi prius Thomas case, directly in point, and in
applying the Guise case, which was decided by an intermediate appellate court (127 Pa. Super. 127; 191 A.
626), and not the supreme court of the state as the court
below stated- and which involved a defense of coverage,
available even under an ordinary incontestability clause
as the opinion in the Guise case clearly states (127 Pa.
Super. at 133; 191 A. 626).'
A different case might have been presented, and the
facts and authorities developed in another fashion, if the
parties had had in mind from the first the rule the Penn.sylvania court would have applied. The pleadings might
have shown in what place the policy was delivered,2 and
perhaps other facts attending the making of the insurance contract. It may be noted that petitioner's brief
asserts, without record reference, that the applications for
the first two policies were made in Pennsylvania,' and the
applications for the remaining three policies were made in
Ohio. But as the record stands, we know only that at the
time of bringing suit the respondent Company was incorporated in New York, and ,lawfully engaged in business in
Pittsburgh, and that the defendants were then temporarily
living in Pennsylvania.
Application of the "State law" to the present case, or
any other controversy controlled by Erie R. Co. v. Tomp'The Superior Court said (127 Pa. Super. at 133; 191 A. 626):
"An examination of the clauses discloses that the disability provisions of the policies are expressly excluded from their operation.
Even if that exemption 4had not been inserted, the clauses would
not have 'prevented the, interposition of the defense here set up.
Mayer v. Prudential Life Insurance Company of America, 121 Pa.
Superior Ct. 475, 184 A. 267."
'Under the general doctrine the interpretation of an insurance
contract depends on the law of the place where the policy is de
livered. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S. at 339. We do

not now determine which principle must be enforced if the Pennsvlvania courts follow a different conflict of laws rule.

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMMN.
209

Syllabus.

kin8, does not present the disputants with duties difficult
or strange. The parties and the federal courts must now
search for and apply the entire body of substantive, law
governing an identical action in the state courts. Hitherto, even in what were termed matterE of "general" law,
counsel had to investigate the enactments of the state legislature. Now they must merely broaden their inquiry
to include the decisions of the state courts, just as they
would in a case tried in the state court, and just as they
have always done in actions brought in the federal courts
involving what were known as matters of "local" law.
The judgment is vacated and the cause remanded to
the District Court, for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion, with directions to permit such amendments of the pleadings as may be necessary for that purpose.
Judgment vacated.
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION, INC. v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 705.

Argued April 4, 5, 1938.-Decided May 2, 1938.

1. The Act of May 14, 1934, restricting the jurisdiction of the federal
courts to enjoin enforcement of orders of state commissions affecting public utility rates, is inapplicable to an order of a commission
commanding a corporation to produce evidence on a certain date,
made without notice or hearing. P. 214.
2. In a suit to enjoin as unconstitutional a projected inquiry by a
state agency into the reasonableness of the rates of a gas company,
the expense to the company of complying with the order by showing the original and historical costs of its properties, cost of reproduction as a going concern, and other elements of value recog81638*°-38--14

