OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

224

Syllabus.

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 313.

Argued March 28, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. A special issue submitted to a jury as to whether a gas rate
fixed by a Texas commission was "unreasonable and unjust" to
the defendant gas company,-held tantamount to the issue of
confiscation, in view of instructions given the jury on the meaning
of "fair return" and "unreasonable and unjust." Cf. United Gas
Public Service Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 141. P. 231.
2. Under the Texas law, the Court of Civil Appeals is without
authority to substitute findings made by itself for the determinations of a jury in a rate case. P. 231.
3. A Texas corporation produced and purchased gas in Texas and
Oklahoma which it piped and disposed of to distributing companies, closely affiliated with itself through stock ownership. The
distributors sold it to consumers in Texas cities. Most of it was
procured and transported entirely in Texas; but some, moving
from Texas, was piped for a distance in Oklahoma and back into
Texas, while a lesser proportion was procured in Oklahoma and
piped into Texas. This last portion, after reaching Texas, was
run through extraction plants, leaving the residue of it changed
in composition and thermic value; much of it was stored there;
and, in passing through the pipeline system, it was commingled
with the Texas gas and divided and redivided until tracing or identification by volume at any "city gate" delivery was made impossible;
at various points before delivery its pressure was reduced and
the gas expanded. The company also sold gas in Oklahoma. A
Texas commission having before it proceedings involving the reasonableness of the rates charged by the distributors to Texas
consumers, found it necessary to determine what would be a reasonable charge for the gas delivered to the distributors by the
pipeline company at the "city gates," and in so doing made an
order fixing the charge based on all of the property and operations of the pipeline company considered as an integrated whole.
Held:
(1) That the order was not invalid under the commerce clause.
(a) It did not attempt to regulate the interstate transportation. P. 236.

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.

225

Statement of the Case.

224

(b) It could not be regarded in the circumstances as regulating sales and deliveries in interstate commerce. Id.,
(c) The distributors and the pipeline company were but arms
of the same organization doing an intrastate business in Texas,
and the commission was entitled to ascertain and determine what
was a reasonable charge for the gas supplied through this
organization to consumers within the State. P. 237.
(d) The fact that one of the pipe lines cut across a corner of
another State did not make it any the less a part of a system
serving Texas gas to communities in Texas; and the commission,
in taking account of this line as part of the property on which
the intrastate pipeline rate should be based, was not regulating,
or imposing any burden upon, interstate commerce or conflicting
with any federal regulation. P. 238.
(e) The manner in which the gas purchased in and piped
from Oklahoma was treated and handled in Texas made it an
integral part of the gas supplied to the Texas communities in
the pipeline company's intrastate business, and the commission
was entitled to consider it in fixing the rate. P. 238.
(2) This was not a case where the segregation of intrastate and
interstate properties and businesses was essential in order to confine
the exercise of state power to its own province. Cf. Smith v. Illinois
Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133, 148, 149. P. 241.
(3) The commission having considered all the pipeline ccmpany's
properties and operations as* an integrated system in fixing the
Texas rate, the company was entitled to introduce evidence to
overcome the commission's findings, on the same basis, in an effort
to prove the rate confiscatory; and the company having succeeded
in this and won a judgment holding the rate confiscatory, it was
error for the appellate court to reverse the judgment and uphold
the rate because the company had failed to make a pr(per segregation of interstate and intrastate properties and business. P. 240.
86 S. W. 2d 484, 506, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals
of Texas which sustained a rate on gas, fixed by tl e Railroad Commission, therein reversing a judgment to the
contrary, adjudging the rate confiscatory, in an action
brought by the Commission to enforce it.
81638-38-1---5

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Messrs. Charles L. Black and Marshall Newcomb, with
whom Messrs. Roy C. Coffee, Ogden K. Shannon, and
Ben H. Powell were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Alfred M. Scott, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, and Edward H. Lange, with whom Mr. William
McCraw, Attorney General of Texas, was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Railroad Commission of Texas brought this action,
under Article 6059 of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas,
to enforce the Commission's order of September 13, 1933,
prescribing the rate for domestic gas supplied by appellant, Lone Star Gas Company, to distributing companies
in Texas. The rate was fixed at not to exceed 32 cents
per thousand cubic feet instead of the existing charge of
40 cents. The District Court of Travis County, upon
the verdict of a jury finding the prescribed rate to be
unreasonable, denied relief and enjoined the Commission
and the state officials from enforcing the Commission's
order. The Court of Civil Appeals reversed the judgment and held the order to be valid. 86 S. W. (2d) 484.
Rehearing was denied. 86 S. W. (2d) 506. The Supreme
Court of the State refused writ of error and the case
comes here on appeal.
Appellant, a Texas Corporation, operates about 4,000
miles of pipe lines located in Texas and Oklahoma through
which it transports natural gas to the "city gates" of about
300 cities and towns in those States and sells and delivers the gas in wholesale quantities to distributing companies. The latter companies, with two exceptions, are
affiliated with appellant, being subsidiaries of the same
parent corporation. One of appellant's pipe lines extends from a gas field in Wheeler County, Texas, a part

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

Opinion of the Court.

of the Texas Panhandle field, crosses the southwestern
corner of Oklahoma, is tapped for gas delivered at Hollis,
Oklahoma, and returning into Texas runs generally in a
southeasterly direction to various Texas points. At Oklaunion, Texas, the line is tapped by a branch line which
extends northward into Oklahoma and supplies certain
cities in that State. At Petrolia, Texas, the line is joined
by lines coming from Oklahoma.
The Commission dealt solely with the rate for the gas
.delivered in Texas. This consisted (1) of gas produced
or purchased in Texas and transported and delivered entirely within that State, being upwards of 70 per cent.
of the total; (2) that produced or purchased in Oklahoma and transported through appellant's lines into Texas
which, on appellant's calculation, amounted at the average of the five-year period 1929-1933 to about 11 per cent.
of the total; and (3) that produced or purchased in the
Panhandle field in Wheeler County, Texas, amounting on
the same computation to about 17 per cent. of the total.
The Commission gave a full hearing in which appellant
participated. The CommissioA treated appellant's properties as an integrated system, and in that way "considered the Oklahoma properties and operations and the
effect thereof on the revenues and expenditures within
Texas," fixing the rate "for application within'the jurisdiction of Texas." Appellant made no objection to that
course. The Commission determined the rate base as of
December 31, 1931, at $46,246,617.53, being $4,674,285.91
for production properties and $41,572,331.62,for transmission properties. The Commission considered appellant's
revenues and expenses for a six-year period, 1927 to 1932,
and made the rate on the basis of six per cent. as a minimum fair rate of return.
Appellant brought suit in the federal court, attacking
the rate on constitutional grounds, but that court stayed
its proceedings when the present action was brought by

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the Commission. In this action appellant first submitted
pleas to the jurisdiction of the state court, and pleas in
abatement, which were overruled. In its answer appellant attacked the rate order upon the grounds (1) that
transportation and sales to local distributing companies
through high pressure lines "of gas produced in Wheeler
County, Texas, and transported into and through Oklahoma and back into Texas without interruption" constituted interstate commerce, and that the order violated
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution; and
that the same was true of the gas produced or purchased
by appellant in Oklahoma and transported in high pressure lines to Texas for sale and delivery there; and (2)
that the prescribed rate was confiscatory and repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The trial on the merits, before a jury, was begun on
June 11, 1934, and was entirely de novo. The State introduced in evidence the Commission's order (to which
appellant unsuccessfully objected as being void in its
entirety because applicable to its interstate business), the
atay order granted by the federal court, and a stipulation
that the prescribed rate had not been put into effect.
The record of evidence before the Commission was offered
but was not received. On this formal proof the State
:rested. Appellant moved for a directed verdict which was
denied and appellant then went forward with its evidence.
The report and findings of the Commission upon which
the order was based were introduced. In rebuttal of the
Commission's findings, appellant submitted an appraisal
of its properties as an integrated operating system as of
January 1, 1933. That appraisal was voluminous, showing $73,983,405.57 as the cost of reproduction new. Evidence was offered as to the amount to be deducted for
accrued depreciation and on that basis the fair value was
claimed to be $69,738,021.16. The appraisal was later
brought down to May 1, 1934, showing an increase in ma-

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

Opinion of the Court,

terial and construction costs between January 1, 1933,
and May 1, 1934, of $1,579,381.72. The book costs of the
properties were also introduced, ranging from $47,776,749.63, on December 31, 1931, to $49,858,751.23 as of
April 30, 1934. Appellant claimed that the books understated the actual costs. There was evidence with respect
to, the annual accruals to provide for depreciation, depletion and amortization. The operating expenses and reve mes were shown for the years 1931, 1932 and 1933, and
for the twelve months ending April 30, 1934. In this
evidence there was no segregation of appellant's properties or operations as between Texas and Oklahoma or
between intrastate and interstate business, appellant insisting that it was entitled to attack the Commission's
order upon the same inclusive basis which the Commission
had used.
The State insisted that if appPllant wished to maintain
as a defense that the order was invalid because it sought
to regulate operations which were exempt from state control, appellant should make a segregation, first as between
its admittedly intrastate operations and those claimed to
be interstate, and second, as between Texas and Oklahoma
properties and operations. After the voluminous evidence above mentioned had been taken, appellant, still
contending that such an issue was not properly raised as
the action under the Texas statute was in the nature of an
appeal from the Commission's order which was indivisible,
presented evience based upon "a segregation of its 'integrated operating system' as between interstate and intrastate commerce." Appellant states that this segregation
was based "upon the actual use of its properties in the
two classes of commerce." The fair value of its intrastate propery' was thus claimed to be $38,350,882.32 and
the net amount available at the Commission's rate for
return on intrastate deliveries of gas as less than four per

cent.

In this segregation appellant's line used in trans-

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
.Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

porting gas from Wheeler County, Texas, in the Panhandle field, through Oklahoma and thence into Texas, was
allocated to interstate operations.
In rebuttal, the State offered evidence based upon a
different method of segregating appellant's properties and
operations. This method proceeded upon the basis of
geographical location, that is, there were allocated to
Oklahoma and Texas respectively the properties physically located in each State and the revenues and expenses
were divided on the same geographical basis. In that
way the properties allocated to Texas were valued at
$40,256,862.39, and the net revenue which would be
available at the Commission's rate was estimated to be,
for the last two years of the accounting period, nearly
seven per cent. Appellant complains of this appraisal
upon the ground that it excluded the production properties located in Texas which appellant claimed had an
actual cost of $5,191,539.42 as of March 31, 1934, and that
the State substituted therefor an arbitrary and inadequate annual allowance on the basis of the field price for
the volume of gas produced.
When the evidence was closed, each party moved that
a verdict be directed in its favor and both motions were
denied. The court gave to the jury a series of instructions embracing definitions of the terms of "fair return,"
"fair value," "used and useful"-as applying to the property actually used by appellant in the production, transportation, sale and delivery of natural gas to its customers
and also to the property acquired in good faith and held
by appellant for use in the reasonably near future in order
to enable it to furnish adequate and uninterrupted service-"operating expenses," "annual depreciation," "reproduction cost new," and "going value." The jury were instructed that the burden of proof was upon the defendant
(appellant) "to show by clear and satisfactory evidence"
that the rate fixed by the Commission's order was "un-

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEX.'
224

Qpinion of the Court.

reasonable and unjust as to it," and the court explained
that by that phrase was meant that the rate prescribed in
the Commission's order "was so low as to have not provided for a fair return upon the fair value of defendant's
property used' and useful in supplying the service furnished by said defendant." With these instructions the
court submitted to the jury a single special issue as
follows:
"Do you find from the evidence in this case that, as
applied to points in Texas, the order of the Railroad
Commission of Texas, bearing date of September 13, 1933,
providing for a rate of not exceeding 32 cents per thousand cubic feet of gas sold to the distributing companies
at the gates of points served, is unreasonable and unjust
as to the defendant, Lone Star Gas Company? Answer
this question 'yes' or 'no'"
The jury answered the question "yes." Judgment was
entered accordingly enjoining the enforcement of the
Commission's rate.
In view of the definition of "fair return" and "unreasonable and unjust" in the court's instructions, we are of the
opinion that the issue for the jury to determine was in
substance whether the rate was confiscatory. We so regarded a like submission in the case of United Gas Public
Service Co. v. Texas, 303 U. ยง. 123. There the jury's
verdict sustained the rate but that fact does not alter the
nature of the issue submitted.
.Under the state practice the issues of fact were determined in the trial court and on the appeal the Court
of Civil Appeals had no authority to make, findings of
fact. "Where the evidence is'without conflict, it may
render judgment. But where there is any conflict in the
evidence on a material issue, it has no authority to substitute its findings of fact for those of the trial court." Post
v. State, 106 Tex. 500, 501; 171 S. W. 707; United Gas
Public Service Co. v. Texas, supra.

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The Court of Civil Appeals held that the burden was
heavily upon the Company (appellant here) to show by
clear and satisfactory evidence that the 32-cent rate would
not afford a reasonable rate of return on the property
used in the Texas public service, that the Company
did not meet "this burden and quantum of proof," and
that the trial court erred in overruling the State's motions
for an instructed verdict. The court viewed the appeal
as presenting two main divisions, (1) certain constitutional objections to the rate order, and (2) the legal sufficiency of the evidence to show that the order was confiscatory or unreasonable and unjust. Under the first division, the court considered that there were three constitutional objections, (a) interference with interstate commerce, (b) interference with the right to contract, and
(c) confiscation of property. The court sustained the
jurisdiction of the Commission to deal with the op~erations of appellant and its corporate affiliates in Texas as
"a single and integrated business enterprise." On the first
two issues above-mentioned the court ruled in favor of the
State, and on the confiscation issue the court considered.
that the question whether the prescribed rate would
yield a fair return was one of fact and passed to the consideration of the legal sufficiency of the evidence.
IHolding that the rate fixed by the Commission was
presumed to be valid, and referring to the authorities as
to the scope of judicial review, the court set forth the
five primary factors essential to the correct determination
of the issue, viz., the present fair value of the property
of the Company used in the public service, the reasonable
annual allowance for depreciation, the reasonably necessary operating expenses, the reasonable' operating revenues, and the reasonable rate of return.
But iii dealing with the evidence upon these questions,
the court applied a different criterion from that adopted
by the Commission. The court held that itwas necessary

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

Opinion of the Court.

to segregate the property used in Texas, as well as that
used conjointly in Texas and Oklahoma. The court spoke
definitely upon this point, saying"Since appellee [appellant here] was engaged in the integrated business of producing, purchasing, transporting
and selling natural gas to the distributing companies at the
city gates of some 300 cities and towns in Texas and Oklahoma, it became necessary to allocate or segregate the
property used in Texas as well as that used conjointly in
both states, in order to determine the fair value of the
property used in the Texas public service, the annual depreciation thereof and the Texas operating expenses and
revenue."
The court then set forth the different methods of segregation which the parties had adopted. The court said
that the State's method allocated "to Texas operations, or
to intrastate commerce the value of all property located
within the physical boundary of Texas." The "short
section" of pipe line "from Texas Panhandle field across
the corner of Oklahoma and back into Texas was also
allocated to Texas operations." "Gas sales adjustment"
was made by which "Texas or intrastate operations" were
charged with the net amount of Oklahoma produced gas
for the six-year period 1929 to 1934. The court observed
that "no charge against Oklahoma or interstate operations
was made for the use of the transmission lines and for
equipment within Texas; the effect of which was to give
free transportation in Texas of all Oklahoma produced
gas." Texas and Oklahoma expenses and revenues "were
allocated in general accord with the segregation of the
physical properties." The court stated that under that
method the fair value "of the property undepreciated used
in Texas public service was $40,256,862.39" according to
the calculations of the State's experts; and that after deducting operating expenses and annual depreciation "there
remained for the last two years of the accounting, period,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

being the two lowest revenue years," Texas net revenue
"which would yield a return of 6.74% and 6.76% respectively."
The court then referred to the method of segregation
used by the Company by which all the gas produced or
purchased in the Texas Panhandle field and transported
into Texas, and all Oklahoma produced gas, were allocated to interstate commerce; that the allocation was
made by a determination of the specific gravity of the
Oklahoma and Texas Panhandle gas on the one hand and
the West Texas gas with which it was commingled in pipe
lines on the other; that the Company had allocated operating expenses and revenue between the two States upon
substantially the same basis; and that in this manaer the
fair value of the property used in the Texas public service
on the basis of reproduction cost new, less depreciation,
was said to be $38,350,882.32. The court held that gas
from the Texas Panhandle field did not move in interstate
commerce and hence that the testimony of the Company's
experts was based upon an erroneous assumptiona and
"proved nothing materinl to this case"; that the Company had offered no other proof upon a correct segregation or allocation of the property, and that the trial court
had erred in refusing the State's motion for an instructed
verdict and for a judgment declaring the rate order "to
be valid in every respect."
The court's specific ruling upon this point is shown by
the following statement of its conclusion:
"The burden was upon appellee to show by clear and
satisfactory evidence a proper segregation of interstate
and intrastate properties and business, and to show the
value of the property employed in intrastate business or
commerce and the compensation it would receive under
the rate complained of upon such valuation. Having
failed to make a proper segregation of interstate and intrastate properties, appellee did not adduce the quantum

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

235

Opinion of the Court.

and character of proof necessary to establish the invalidity
of the rate as being confiscatory, or unreasonable and
unjust."
The court adverted to the effect of the difference in
theory in the two methods of segregation "with respect
to the fair value of the property used in Texas public service, the annual depreciation thereof, and particularly as
to the operating expenses and revenues." The court
characterized the annual depreciation allowances as speculative and plainly excessive. The court saic that with
respect to operating expenses, except as to a few controverted items, and with respect to revenues, there was no
substantial difference in the testimony "as to totals of
both Texas and Oklahoma for the years of the accounting
period" but that the same controversy arose "as to a
proper segregation of such expenses and revenues to each
State"; and since, as already pointed out, the Company
had "failed to make proper segregation of the expenses
and revenues, it failed to prove its case."
The court then criticised certain items of operating
expenses as contrary to the actual experiences of the
Company or so large as to be excessive upon their face,
referring in particular to the items of "federal taxes,"
management fees charged by the holding corporation, new
business expenses, canceled and surrendered leases regulatory commission and general expenses, and going value.
The court also took the view that no reason existed why a
six per cent. rate of return should be declared confiscatory.
That the judgment of reversal was rested upon the
proposition that there was a failure of proof on the issue
of confiscation by reason of the fact that the Company
had failed to make a proper segregation of its interstate
and intrastate properties and operations is fully confirmed
by the further opinion of the court in denying the Company's motion for a rehearing, when the court said:
"We held that as a matter of law appellee failed to
establish by clear and satisfactory evidence the ultimate

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

fact issue, to wit: Whether the rate fixed by the Commission was so low as not to afford a reasonable return on the
fair value of the property used in the Texas public service.
Appellee was afforded a seven months hearing before the
Commission and a three months trial on appeal to the
court. It made no segregation as between its Texas and
Oklahoma properties and operations; and did not prove
the fair value of the property used in the Texas public
service. The question of the value of such property determines the reasonableness of the rate and probably, in
the ultimate analysis, adequacy of service and principles
of financing."
The Court added that the valuation of such public
service property was in the main a matter of estimate or
opinion; that a scientific standard of absolute value was
unattainable; and that because of this uncertainty, except
where the evidence clearly shows gross over or under valuation, or "mistake, inequality or fraud" in the appraisal,
the finding of value by an administrative commission is
generally given finality and that this especially was the
rule in the absence of an actual test under the new rate.
First. We agree with the state court that the Commission's order did not violate: the constitutional rights of
appellant under the commerce clause.
The Commission did not attempt to regulate the interstate transportation of gas. Compare Hanley v. Kansas
City Southera Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Speight, 254 U. S. 17; Missouri Pacific
R. Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404. Nor, in view of the circumstances in the instant case, can it be said that the
Commission was undertaking to regulate sales and deliveries of gas in interstate commerce. Compare Missouri
v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298; Peoples
Natural Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 270
U. S. 550; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283
U. S. 465; State Tax Commission v. Interstate Natural

LONE STAR GAS CO. -0. TEXAS.
224

.237

Opinion of the Court.

Gas Co., 284 U. S. 41; State Corporation Commis8iqn. v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S. 561*. The distrib-

uting companies in Texas, with the exception of those at
Waxahachie and Gainesville (the amount of deliveries
there being negligible in comparison with appellant's
total gas business), are appellant's affiliates. The Lone
Star Gas Corporation, organized in Delaware, holds more
than 99 per cent. of the capital stock of appellan t and
owns or controls a like proportion of the capital stock
of the distributing &ompanies.. Thus, the latter companies and appellant are but arms of the same organization doing an intrastate business in Texas and the Commission was entitled to-ascertain and determine what was
a reasonable charge for the gas supplied through this
organization to consumers within the State. Western
Distributing Co. v. Public Service Commission, 285 U. S.
119, 124; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Commission, 292 U. S. 290, 295; American Telephone &
Telegraph Co. v. Unifed States, 299 U. S. 232, 239. It
appears that there were pending before the Commission
proceedings involving the reasonableness of the rates
charged by the distributing companies to consumers ii
many communities. in Texas, and in relation to those proceedings the Commission found it necessary to determine
what would be a reasonable charge for the gas delivered by
appellant to the distributing companies at the "city gates."
It was obviously to the convenience of both the Commission and appellant that this essential factor should be
ascertained in 6 single proceeding and the Commission's
investigation, which led to the order now in question,
was undertaken to that end. We think that appellant's
sales and deliveries of gas in Texas to the distributing
companies~must be regarded as an essential part of the
intrastate business in the conduct of which the appellant
and' the distributing companies were virtual departments
of the same enterprise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Appellant's pipe line from the Texas Panhandle field in
Wheeler County led from production properties in Texas
to distributing points in the same State. The fact that
the line cut across a corner of .Oklahoma did not make
it any the less a part of the system serving Texas gas to
communities in Texas. In ascertaining what would be
a reasonable rate of charge for this Texas gas supplied
to Texas consumers, it was not only fair but manifestly
necessary to take into account the value of the production properties in -Texas from which the gas was taken
and also the value of the transmission line by which the
gas was brought to the city gates of the Texas communities. It is futile to contend that in making its calculations on that basis, the Commission was regulating interstate transportation or imposing any burden upon interstate commerce. The Hanley, Speight and Stroud cases,
supra, upon which appellant relies, are not in point. In
seeking to assure a just determination of a reasonable
charge for the sales and deliveries in the intrastate business in Texas, the State was protecting its local interests
and its action was not in conflict with any federal regulation. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402.
We think that the value of the pipe line from the
Texas Panhandle field was properly included by the Commission in the rate base.
With respect to the gas produced or purchased by appellant in Oklahoma and transported by its pipe lines
to Texas, the state court observed that the Oklahoma
gas was run through extraction plants in Texas, leaving
the residue gas changed in its composition and with its
heating value lowered; that large amounts of the Oklahoma gas were run through and stored in wells in Texas;
that, passing into appellant's pipe line system, that gas
was commingled with Texas gas and divided and redivided until it was impossible to trace or identify it by

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

Opinion of the Court.

volume at any city gate of deivery; that at various points
before- delivery its pressure was reduced and the gas
allowed to expand; and that the amount of Oklahoma gas
as a whole was negligible in comparison with the amount
of the Texas gas with which it was mixed. Appellant
refers to the testimony of its witness that the composition of the gas, after certain heavy hydro-carbons were
removed at the gasoline plants, remained practically the
same, that its forward movement was not stopped, and
that not all of the gas coming from Oklahoma was stored
in Texas. Appellant also contends that the state court
erred in saying that only about four per *cent.of its total
gas came from Oklahoma, insisting that the correct figure
was about eleven per cent. The discrepancy is apparently explained by the fact that the state court's figure
was taken from the results of the year 1933 while that of
the appellant is for the five years of its accounting period.
It would seem, however, that the amount of the gas transported from Oklahoma into Texas was at a diminishing
rate. Aside from that, we think that the proved manner in which the gas from Oklahoma was treated and
handled in Texas made it an integral part of the gas
supplied to the Texas communities in appellant's intrastate business and that the Commission was entitled so to
consider it in fixing its rate.
It is in this light That the inclusion by the Commission
in its calculations of appellant's producing properties in
Oklahoma and its transmission lines to Texas must be considered. The purpose of these calculations was to give
proper credit to appellant for its investment and operating
expenses in determining a rate for the gas sold and delivered in Texas. The Commission did not attempt to fix
a rate for gas supplied to Oklahoma communities and
did not impinge upon the jurisdiction of Oklahoma.
There is no ground for concluding that the Commission's

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

method of calculation either created any burden upon
interstate commerce or operated to appellant's injury in
relation to its intrastate business in Texas. Not only is
the contrary a fair inference from the fact that appellant
raised no objection to this method before the Commission, but the State points to the evidence which appears
to show that the Oklahoma operations were more expensive than those in Texas and that the Commission's calculations actually produced a result more favorable to
appellant than one which would have followed any segregation. Appellant does not successfully meet this contention.
Second. Concluding that appellant had no tenable objection to the method adopted by the Commission in
treating appellant's property as an integrated operating
system, and making its findings as to value, expenses, and
revenues acoordingly, for the purpose of determining the
fair rate for the gas sold and delivered in Texas, we come
to the issue of confiscation.
The Commission's order was presumptively valid, as
the state court held, but it was open to attack in this
action under the state statute. Appellant was entitled to
present evidence to rebut the- Commission's findings of
value, operating expenses, revenues and return,, upon
which the order rested. Appellant presented much testimony and elaborate statistical data for that purpose, treating its property and business as the Commission had
treated them. Appellant claimed that this evidence
showed a far higher value for its properties than the Commission had allowed and that the rate imposed was confiscatory. The trial court submitted that evidence to
the jury, under a proper instruction as to the burden of
proof resting upon appellant, and the jury found in appellant's favor.
The Court of Civil Appeals reversed the judgment upon
a distinct ground. That was that appellant had not sus-

LONE STAR GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
224

Opinion of the Court.

tained its burden of proof because it had failed to make
"a proper segregation of interstate and intrastate properties and business." Thus, the necessity for that segregation was made the criterion. That is clearly shown both
from the court's main opinion and its opinion upon rehearing from which we have quoted. "Having failed to
make a proper segregation of interstate and intrastate
properties," said the court, "appellee [appellant here] did
not adduce the quantum and character of proof necessary
to establish the invalidity of the rate as being confiscatory,
or unreasonable and unjust."
We think that this ruling as to the necessity of segregation, and that the sufficiency of appellant's evidence
should be determined by that criterion, was erroneous.
This was not a case where the segregation of properties
and business was essential in order to confine the exercise of state power to its own proper province. Compare
Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133, 148,
149. Here, as we have seen, the Commission in its
method of dealing with the property and business of appellant as an integrated operating system did not transcend the limits of the state's jurisdiction or apply an
improper criterion in its determinations. But if in the
circumstances shown the Commission was entitled to
make its findings with respect to appellant's property and
business upon the basis it adopted in order to fix a fair
rate for the sales and deliveries in Texas, appellant was
entitled to assail those findings upon the same basis. If
the findings of the Commission as to vilue and oter
basic elements were to be taken as presumptively correct and appellant could not succeed save by overcoming those determinations by clear and convincing proof,
appellant could not be denied the right to introduce evidence as to its property and business as an integrated
system and to have the sufficiency of its evidence ascertained by the criterion which the Commission had prop81688om.38.

16

242'*

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

erly used in the same manner in reaching its conclusion
as to the Texas rate. Neither the fact that appellant
because of the insistence of the State that the property
and business should be segregated, finally introduced evidence for that purpose, nor the inadequacy of its method
of segregation, could detract from the force of the proof
it had already submitted in direct rebuttal of the Commission's findings. The effort at segregation came after
voluminous testimony had been taken which fully presented appellant's case with respect to the value of its
property and the result of its operations as an integrated
system and the bearing of this evidence upon the contested rate. This proof could not be ignored because of
a futile attempt, in response to the State's pressure, to
find an alternative ground to support the attack upon
the Commission's order. The first and primary ground
remained and the determination of the court of first instance as the trier of the facts that the Commission's rate
was confiscatory could not properly be set aside by the
application of an untenable standard of proof and in
disregard of the evidence which had been appropriately
addressed to the Commission's findings and had been
properly submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not
inconsisten with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

