TRADE COMM'N v. GOODYEAR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. GOODYEAR
TIRE & RUBBER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 756.

Argued April 25, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

14 The amendment, June 16, 1936, of § 2 of the Clayton Act, .with
respect to permissibility of price discriminations based on quantities sold, was not intended to affect orders of the Federal
Trade Commission issued before the effective date of the amendment. P. 258.
2. Abandonment of a price arrangement found illegal and ordered
discontinued by the Federal Trade Commission, does not deprive
-respondent of the right to have the legality of the practice and
the validity of the order determined on review by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The controversy does not become moot.
P. 260.
92 F. 2d 677, 679, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 631, to review a judgment setting
aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission.

Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Robert L. Stern, W. T. Kelley, and Pgad B. Morehouse
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. William B. Cockley and Grover Higtins were
on a brief for respondent.

PER CURIAM.
In September, 1933, the Federal. Trade Commission
charged respondent, The Goodyear Tire & Rub cer Company, with the violation of § 2 of the Clayton Act (15

U. S. C. 13) in selling tires, tubes, etc. to Sears, Roebuck
& Company at discriminatory prices.
5i8638*-38

-17

Respondent, invok-

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

ing the first proviso in § 2,1 contended that its contracts
with Sears, Roebuck & Company for sales involving lower
net prices than those charged to independent dealers
were made because of the great difference in the quantities
sold. After hearing, the Commission ruled that it did not
consider a difference in price to be on account of quantity
unless it was based on a difference in cost and was reasonably related to and approximately no more than that
difference. In March, 1936, the Commission issued an
order requiring respondent to desist from discriminations
in prices as described.
Pending the hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals
of respondent's petition for review, the Congress amended
§ 2 of the Clayton Act. Act of June 19, 1936, c. 592, 49
Stat. 1526. The first proviso was amended to read as
follows:
"Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent
differentials which make only due allowance for differences in the cost of manufacture, sale, or delivery, resulting from the differing methods or quantities in which
such commodities are to such purchasers sold or delivered: . . ."
Thereupon, respondent informed the Circuit Court of
Appeals that in view of this provision respondent had
ceased to manufacture tires for Sears, Roebuck & Company under the terms of its existing contract; that, to dispose of the stock on hand, the parties had made a new
price arrangement designed to conform to the new law;
and that within the year all transactions between re'That proviso, in the original Act, was as follows:
"Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent discrimination in price between purchasers of commodities on account of
differences in the grade, quality, or quantity of the commodities sold,
or that makes only due allowance for difference in the cost of selling
or transportation, or discrimination in price in the same or different
communities made in good faith to meet competition; . . ."

TRADE COMM'N v. GOODYEAR CO.
257

Opinion of-the Court.

spondent and Seam, Roebuck & Company ceased and
obligations were terminated by mutual releases. 92 F. 2d
677, 679.
Considering that there was no controversy between the
parties as to the illegal character of respondent's practices under the amended Act, the Circuit Court of Appeals
concluded that the case had become moot. In that view
the court set aside the order of the Commission and remanded the case "but without direction to the Commission to dismiss the complaint and without prejudice to its
filing a supplemental complaint in the original proceeding
if under § 2 of the amendatory act this may now be done"
as to which the court expressed no opinion. Id., p.
681.
Both the Commission and the respondent contended
below, and contend here, that tne case has not become
moot. While they disagree in their reasoning, they come
to the same conclusion upon this point, and both ask that
the case be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
with directions to determine it upon the merits. We
think that their conclusion is correct and that the remand
should be made.
Section 11 of the Clayton Act (15 U. S. C. 21) provides
that whenever the Commission has reason to believe that
any person is violating or has violated the provisions of
the Act, and upon hearing so finds, the Commission shall
issue an order requiring such person to cease and desist
from such violations. In case of failure to obey its order,
the Commission may apply to the Circuit Court of Appeals for enforcement. And anyone required to cease and
desist from a violation charged .may seek review in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, praying that the order be set
aside. The provisions of the Act of June 19, 1936, show
clearly that the orders of the Commission entered before
its passage are to remain in effect. Section 2 of that Act
provides that nothing therein contained shall "affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of th6Court.

304 U. S.

rights of action arising, or litigation pending, or orders of
the Federal Trade Commission issued and in effect or
pending on review, based on section 2 of said Act of
October 15, 1914, prior to the effective date of this amendatory Act."
Discontinuance of the practice which the Commission
found to constitute a violation ofi the Act did not render
the controversy moot. United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 309, 310; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433,
452; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 514-516; National
Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S. 261; GuaranteeVeterinary Co. v. Federal Trade
Commission, 285 F. 853, 859, 860; Chamber of Commerce
v. Federal Trade Commission, 13 F. 2d 673, 686, 687.
The Commission, reciting its findings and the conclusion
that respondent had violated the Act, required respondent to cease and desist from the particular discriminations
which the order described. That is a continuing order.
Its efficacy, if valid, was not affected by the subsequent
passage or the provisions of the amendatory Act. As a
continuing order, the Commission may take proceedings
for its enforcement if it is disobeyed. But under the
statute respondent was entitled to seek review of the
order and to have it set aside if found to be invalid. The
question which both parties sought to have the Circuit
Court of Appeals decide was whether respondent's conduct was a violation of the original statute. Upon the
conclusion that it was such a violation, the Commission
based its order. Neither the transactions subsequent to
that order nor the passage of the amendatory Act deprived
the respondent of its right to challenge the order and to
have its validity determined, or the Commission of its
right to have its order maintained if validly made.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. JACKSON.
257

Opinion of the Court.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to that court for a determination of the merits.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONCE, MR. JUSTICE CARDozo and MR.
JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. JACKSON
ET AL.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 869.

Decided May 16, 1938.

Quest :ns of the construction of an insurance policy are to be dec;ded by the federal courts in accordance with the applicable
principles of state law. Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, ante,
p. 64.
Certiorari granted; 94 F. 2d 288, vacated.

PETITION for certiorari to review a judgment enforcing
an insurance policy, oii a cross bill, in a suit io set it aside.

Messrs. Rudolph J. Kramer, Bruce A. Campbell, and
Louis H. Cooke were on a brief for petitioner.
Mr. Arthur J. Freund entered an appearance for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

This suit was brought by petitioner, New York Life
Insurance Company, to cancel the reinstatement of an
insurance policy upon the ground that it was obtained by
fraud. The defendants, the insured and the beneficiary,
denied the responsibility of the insured for any misrepre-

