OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

its findings of fact and conclusions of law as required by
Equity Rule 70/2.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE BLACK think that
the findings in the opinion and decree below, while informal, are sufficient for purposes of decision, and that
the cace should therefore be decided now without further
proceedings below; the more so because of the public
interest involved.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 638. Argued March 30, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

In a suit to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission
affecting rates on coke, held:
1. Unnecessary to pass upon the validity of an order canceling
certain schedules and. fixing future maximum rates, which order
had later been supplemented by another of the orders attacked.
P. 59.
2. A construction of an order, adopted by the Commission, and
rendering it valid, is to be accepted rather than another construction which extends it beyond the Commission's jurisdiction. P. 60.
3. Objections to an order, that it is not supported by substantial
evidence, disregards ordinary standards for determining reasonable.ness of rates, is not supported by necessary findings, and represents
a mere attempt to equalize geographical and transportation disadvantages, fortune and opportunities, are answered in this case by
findings of the court below, adequately supported. P. 60.
Affirmed.

B. & 0. R. CO. t. U. S.
58

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree dismissing a bill to set aside
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Leo P. Day, with whom Messrs. Guernsey Orcutt
and Anthony P. Donadio were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the
brief, for the United States et al.
Mr. J. V. Norman, with whom Mr. Hugh White was on
the brief, for the Alabama Iron & Steel Shippers Conference.
Messrs. William H. Swiggart, Charles Clark, and Elmer
A. Smith submitted on brief for the Cincinnati, N. 0. &
T. P. Ry Co. et al.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
. Appellants, nineteen railroads operating within what is
known as Central Territory-Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and
Michigan-by their bill filed in the District Court, Northern District of Illinois, July 22, 1936, challk.iged the validity of two Interstate Commerce Commission orders affecting the rate structure on coke moving into that territory
from southern points. Questions in respect of these rates
have often been before the Commission. The court made
findings of fact upon the evidence and dismissed the bill
without opinion.
The first challenged order, dated March 11, 1935, followed an earlier suspension of certain proposed schedules
and an investigation. It cancelled these schedules and determined what thereafter would be maximum reas6nable
rates upon a mileage basis. Subsequently, the proceed-

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
304 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ings having been reopened, this order was modified and
reaffirmed. In the circumstances, we think the court below properly declined to pass upon its validity.
The second challenged order, April 30, 1936, followed
one entered April 15, 1936, which upon petition and replies reopened the proceedings for reconsideration on the
record as it then stood. The later order affirmed former
findings that the schedules suspended by the one of March
11, 1935, had not been justified, and prescribed future
maximum rates upon a mileage basis. These were lower
(some ten per cent.) than those authorized prior to 1935.
Here, counsel specially insist this second order exceeded
the jurisdiction of the Commission since it undertook to
determine rates concerning which there ,had been. no
proper notice or opportunity for hearing. But. this contention rests upon an assumed construction of the order
not obviously correct. The Commission has not so construed it, nor has that body been asked so to do, or for
any further action in respect of it. Another construction brings the order clearly within the jurisdiction assumed by the Commission. In the circumstances appellants cannot prevail on this point.
Appellants further urge that the order is contrary to
the weight of the evidence, not supported by substantial
evidence, disregards ordinary standards for determining
reasonableness of rates, is not supported by necessary
findings, and represents a mere attempt to equalize geographical and transportation disadvantages, fortune and
opportunities. The findings by the court below we think
are adequately supported by the record. They negative
these claims and leave no sufficient basis for our interference with the action there taken.
The challenged judgment must be

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR.JUSTICE CARDozo took no
part in the consideration or decision of this cause.

