ROSENTHAL v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ROSENTHAL v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE

CO.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 924. Decided May 16, 1938.
Questions concerning reinstatement, lapse, contestability and extension of insurance policies are to be decided by the federal courts
in accordance with the applicable state law. Erie Railroad v.
Tompkins, ante, p. 64.
Certiorari granted; 94 F. 2d 675, vacated.
PETITION for certiorari to review affirmance of a decree canceling insurance reinstatements for fraud and
dismissing counterclaims.

Mr. DoUglas W. Robert was on a brief for petitioner.
Messrs. James C. Jones, Lon 0. Hocker, and James C.
Jones, Jr. were on a brief for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent, New York Life Insurance Company,
brought this suit to cancel two reinstatements of an insurance policy upon the ground that they were fraudulently procured. The Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming
with modification a decree of the District Court, held that
the agreement by which a lapsed policy is reinstated is a
new agreement, as regards the effect of the incontestable
clause in the policy, and that clause runs from the date of
the reinstatement where the defense is fraud in its procurement; and, further, that the extended insurance under
the policy in question was to be calculated from the anniversary date of the issue of the policy and not from the
anniversary date of the payment of the first premium.
94 F. 2d 675.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

The District Court found that the policy was issued
upon the joint lives of residents of Missouri and was applied for and delivered to the insured in that State. The
Circuit Court of Appeals decided the questions, as above
stated, as matters of general law according to the view
of the court as to the weight of authority. Petitioner
sought a rehearing upon the ground, among others, that
the interpretation of the policy was governed by the law"
of Missouri. Rehearing was denied.
While respondent contends that the decision below is
not in conflict with the local law, it is not necessary for us
to determine that question. It is enough to say that the
questions to be decided are those of state law and should
have been determined according to the debisions of the
state court. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64; Ruhlin
v. New York Life Insurance Co., ante, p. 202.
Certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated, and the cause is remanded to that
court for further proceedings in conforrmity with this
opinion.
Judgment vacated.
MR: JusTicE. CARDozo took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
LANG, EXECUTOR, ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 919. Argued April 28, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.
1. Under ยง 301 (g) Revenue Act, 1926, and T. R. 70, Arts. 25 and 28,
promulgated thereunder, only one-half of the insurance (in excess
of the $40,000 exemption) collected on policies issued on the life
.of a decedent after his marriage and payable to his wife, is to be

