264

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

The District Court found that the policy was issued
upon the joint lives of residents of Missouri and was applied for and delivered to the insured in that State. The
Circuit Court of Appeals decided the questions, as above
stated, as matters of general law according to the view
of the court as to the weight of authority. Petitioner
sought a rehearing upon the ground, among others, that
the interpretation of the policy was governed by the law"
of Missouri. Rehearing was denied.
While respondent contends that the decision below is
not in conflict with the local law, it is not necessary for us
to determine that question. It is enough to say that the
questions to be decided are those of state law and should
have been determined according to the debisions of the
state court. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64; Ruhlin
v. New York Life Insurance Co., ante, p. 202.
Certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated, and the cause is remanded to that
court for further proceedings in conforrmity with this
opinion.
Judgment vacated.
MR: JusTicE. CARDozo took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
LANG, EXECUTOR, ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 919. Argued April 28, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.
1. Under ยง 301 (g) Revenue Act, 1926, and T. R. 70, Arts. 25 and 28,
promulgated thereunder, only one-half of the insurance (in excess
of the $40,000 exemption) collected on policies issued on the life
.of a decedent after his marriage and payable to his wife, is to be

LANG v. COMMISSIONER.
Counsel for Parties.

264

reckoned as part of his gross estate, where the marriage was
governed by the cinmunity law of the State of Washington and
all of the premiums were paid from the community property.
P. 267.
2. The ruling is the same, where the facts are as above stated except
that the beneficiaries of the policies were the children of the
marriage. Id.
3. But where the policy was issued before the marriage, and the
premiums were paid in part from the husband's funds and in
part from community funds, the wife being the beneficiary named
in the policy, the amount to be reckoned as part of the husband's
gross estate, is the amount collected diminished by one-half of that
proportion of it which the premiums satisfied with community
funds bear to all premiums paid. Id.
4. The definition in T. R. 70, Arts. 25 and 28, of the expression
"policies taken out by the decedent upon his own life," found in
the Revenue Act of 1926, having been contained in earlier regulations under earlier revenue Acts using the same expression, must
be treated (nothing else appearing) as approved by Congress.
P. 268.

Response to questions certified in relation to an estate
tax assessment upheld by the Board of Tax Appeals, 34
B. T. A. 337, and on review by the court below.
Mr. H. B. Jones, with whom Mr. Robert E. Bronson

was on the brief, for Richard E. Lang, Executor, et al.
Miss Helen R.

Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.

Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were on the brief, for
the Commissioner.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Ralph W. Smith, L. A. Luce, Claude I. Parker,
J. Everett Blum, Martin Gang, and Robert E. Kopp, on

behalf of Vee Wolf Roberts, Administratrix, and by
Messrs. J. Blanc Monroe, Monte M.

TLemann, and J.

Raburn Monroe, both in support of Lang et al.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

304 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has certified propositions
of law concerning which instructions are desired for decision of a pending cause. U. S. C., Title 28, ยง 346.
In 1905 Julius C. Lang married in the State of Washington, where community property laws have long obtained, and both parties continued to be domiciled there
until he died in 1929. At his death seventeen policies
of insurance upon his life-totaling above $200,000.00were in force. Each policy required advanced payment of
one premium. Fourteen specified the wife as sole beneficiary; children were the beneficiaries in three. Three of
those payable to the wife were obtained by the assured
prior to marriage and early premium payments upon
them came from his separate property; later ones from
community funds. Application for fourteen policies followed the marriage and all premiums thereon were pad
from community funds.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled that under ยง 302 (g), Revenue Act 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, the
entire proceeds from all policies should be reckoned as part
of the assured's gross estate subject to the permitted exemption of $40,000, and made an assessment accordingly.
The Board of Tax Appeals affirmed.
The exemption is not controverted and by admission
each policy permitted the assured to change the beneficiary. The point for consideration is whether all or any
portion of the proceeds of a policy, premiums on which
were paid out of community funds, must be treated as
part of the decedent's gross estate.
The court below concluded that the laws of Washington
establish a community between spouses which is a separate entity, "just as a corporation or an association," and
that life insurance purchased with its funds is community

LANG v. COMMISSIONER.
264

Opinion of the Court.

property whose character the husband cannot defeat
through change of beneficiary.
Accepting as correct, for present purposes, this construction of the local law, also treating the facts disclosed by
the certificate as the essential ones, we come to consider
the questions submitted for instructions which are restated in order more definitely to indicate our understanding of their significance.
The construction of the local law approved below is
certainly a tenable one and finds support in Graham v.
Commissioner,95 F. 2d 174; OccidentalLife Co. v. Power&,
192 Wash. 475; Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101, 113.
Occasion for the certificate did not arise from doubts
relating to the meaning of the community property laws
of Washington, but from uncertainty concerning the application of the 1926 Revenue Act to an estate under administration in that State. The court was perplexed by
Bank of America v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
90 F. 2d 981, 983, which affirmed that the operation of
that Act is not dependent upon local law and "therefore
whatever the local law may be we believe it to be immaterial." This statement is not accurate and conflicts
with what we have said. Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101,
111, 112; Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, 9, 10.
1. Must the total or only one-half of the proceeds
collected under the insurance policies issued after marriage on the deceased husband's life be reckoned as part
of his gross estate, the wife being sole beneficiary and all
premiums having been paid from community iunds? To
this we answer, only one-half.
2. Must the total proceeds of the policy upon a decedent's life, taken out aiter marriage, children being the sole
beneficiaries, and all premiums having been paid from
community funds, be reckoned as part of his gross estate;
or, in the circumstances, is only one-half to be included?
To this we reply, only one-half should be included.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

3. Must all proceeds of the policies issued before marriage upon the deceased husband's life be reckoned as part
of his gross estate, the wife being sole beneficiary, the first
premium having been paid from his separate funds, and
all subsequent ones from community funds; or, in the
circumstances, is the total received under the policy reduced by one-half of that proportion of such total which
premiums satisfied with community funds bear to all
premiums paid, the amount to be regarded as belonging
to the gross estate? To this we reply, only the total proceeds less one-half of the indicated proportion becomes
part of the gross estate.
Section 301 Revenue Act 1926, supra, imposes a tax
upon the transfer of the net estate of every decedent, etc.
And ยง 302 provides"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(g) To the extent of the amount receivable by the
executor as insurance under policies taken out by the decedent upon his own life; and to the extent of the excess
over $40,000 of the amount receivable by all other beneficiaries as insurance under policies taken out by the decedent upon his own life."
The Revenue Acts of 1918, 1921 and 1924 contain
sinilar provisions relative to "policies taken out by the
decedent upon his own life."
Treasury Regulations 37 promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1918 provide"ART. 32 ....
The term 'insurance' refers to life
insurance of every description . . . Insurance is deemed
to be taken out by the decedent in all cases where he pays
the premiums, either directly or indirectly, whether or not
he makes the application. On the other hand, tire insur-

.LANG v..COMMISSIONER.
264

Opinion of the Court,

ance should not be included in the gross estate, even
though the application is made by the decedent, where the
premiums are actually paid by some other person or corporation, and not out of funds belonging to, or advanced
by, the decedent ...
And there are similar provisions in Treasury Regulations
63, Art. 27, promulgated under 1921 Revenue Act.
Treasury Regulations 68 promulgated under the Revenue Act 1924"Art. 25.....

"The term 'insurance' refers to life insurance of every
description ...

Insurance is deemed to be taken out by

the decedent in all cases where he pays all the premiums,
either directly or indirectly, whether or not be makes the
application. On the other hand, the insurance is not
deemed to be taken out by the decedent, even though the
application is made by him, where all the premiums are
actually paid by the beneficiary. Where a portion of the
premiums were paid by the beneficiary and the remaining
portion by the decedent the insurance will be deemed to
have been taken out by the latter in the proportion that
the premiums paid by him bear to the total of premiums
paid."
"Art. 28. The amount to be .returned where the policy
is pay(able to or for the benefit of the estate is the amount
receivable. Where the proceeds of a policy are payable to
a beneficiary other than to or for the benefit of the estate,
and all the premiums were paid by the decedent, the
amount to be listed on Schedule C of the return is the
full amount receivable, but where the proceeds are so payable and only a portion of the premiums were paid by
the decedent, the amount to be listed on such schedule
is that proportion of the insurance receivable which the
premiums paid by the decedent bears to the total premiums paid.

.

"

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Arts. 25 and 28, Treasury Regulations 70, promulgated
under Revenue Act 1926, contain provisions identical with
those just quoted.
Treasury Regulations 70 were in force when Lang died
and are applicable to his estat6. It is unnecessary for us
to consider the meaning, validity or effect of the changes
introduced by Regulations 80.
Articles 25 and 28 of Regulations 70 define the words
"policies taken out by the decedent upon his own life."
Earlier regulations gave the same definition. Nothing
else appearing, it must be treated as approved by Congress. Helvering v. Bliss, 293 U. S. 144, 151. 'otinsel
for the Commissioner suggest that it is at variance with
the statute, unreasonable and without effect; but we think
this objection is clearly untenable.
Under the community property statutes of Washington,
as interpreted below, one-half of the amounts of community funds applied to payment of premiums was property of the wife. To that extent she paid these premiums.
Where she is the beneficiary, under the words of the Regulations she became entitled to the proceeds of the policy
in proportion to the amount so paid.
Where children were named beneficiaries and premiums
were paid from community funds the situation is not
within the precise words of the Regulations; but the
rather obvious reason underlying the definition of what
constitutes a policy "taken out by the assured" should be
respected. In the absence of a clear declaration it cannot be assumed that Congress intended insurance bought
and paid for with the funds of another than the insured
and not payable to the latter's estate, should be reckoned
as part of such estate for purposes of taxation. See Iglehart v. Commissioner, 77 F. 2d 704, 711.
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

