INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT, INC.,
..STATES.*

ET AL.

V. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 709.

Argued April 5, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1933.

1: Under Equity Rule 70/2 it is the duty of the District Court to
make special, formal findings of fact, and state separately its -conclusions of law thereon, determining all the issues in the case. The
opinion of that court in this case was not a sabstitute.
2. Compliance with this rule is particularly important in an antitrust
case which comes to this Court by direct appeal from the trial court.
P. 56.
Decree in 20 F. Supp. 868, set aside and cause remanded for statement
of findings of fact and conclusions of law.
Messrs. George S. Wright and Thomas D. Thacher for
appellants.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold and Mr. Charles H. Weston were on

the brief, for the United States.
PER CURIAM.
The Governmelt brought this suit for an injunction
against the carrying out of an alleged conspiracy, in restraint of interstate commerce, between distributors and

exhibitors of motion picture films. The restraint was alleged to consist in provisions in license agreements which
prevented any "feature picture" of the distributors, which
had been shown "first-run" in a theater of the defendant exhibitor at an admission price of 40 cents or more,

from thereafter being exhibited in the same locality at an
admission price of less than 25 cents or on the same program with another feature picture.
*Together with No. 710, ParamountPictures Distributing Co. et al.
v. United States, also on appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The evidence was presented by an agreed statement of
certain facts; and by oral testimony on behalf of each
party. The District Court entered a final decree adjudging that in making the restrictive agreements the distributors had engaged in a conspiracy with the exhibitor,
Interstate Circuit, Inc. and its officers, in violation of the
Anti-Trust Act and granting a permanent injunction
against the enforcement of the restrictions. 20 F. Supp.
868. The case comes here on direct appeal. Acts of
Feb. 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823; February 13, 1925,
c. 229. 28 U. S. C. 345.
Equity Rule 701 2 provides:
"In deciding suits in equity, including those required to
be heard before three judges, the court of first instance
shall find the facts specially and state separately its conclusions of law thereon;
"Such findings and conclusions shall be entered of record and, if an appeal is taken from the decree, shall be
included by the clerk in the record which is certified to
the appellate court under ruiles 75 and 76."
The District Court did not comply with this rule. The
court made no formal findings. The court did not find
the facts specially and state separately its conclusions of
law as the rule required. The statements in the decree
that in making the restrictive agreements the parties had
engaged in an illegal conspiracy were but ultimate conclusions and did not dispense with the necessity of properly
formulating the underlying findings of fact.
The opinion of the court was not a substitute for the
required findings. A discussion of portions of the evidence
and the court's reasoning in its opinion do not constitute
the special and formal findings by which it is the duty of
the court appropriately and specifically to determine all
the issues which the case presents. This is an essential
aid to the appellate court in reviewing an equity case
(Railroad Commission v. Maxcy, 281 U. S. 82, and cases

INTERSTATE CIRCUIT v. U. S.
55

Opinion of the Court.

cited) and complinnce with the rule is particularly important in an anti-trust case which comes to this Court by
direct appeal from the trial court.
The Government contends that the distributors were
parties to a common plan constituting a conspiracy in restraint of commerce; that each distributor would benefit
by unanimous action, whereas otherwise the restrictions
would probably injure the distributors who imposed them,
and that prudence dictated that "no distributor agree to
impose the restrictions in the absence of agreement or
understanding that his fellows would do likewise"; that
the restraints were unreasonable and that they had the
purpose and effect of raising and maintaining the level of
admission prices; that even if the distributors acted independently and not as participants in a joint undertaking,
still the restraints were unreasonable in their effect upon
the exhibitor's competitors.
Appellants, asserting copyright privileges, contend that
the restrictions were reasonable; that they were intended
simply to protect the licensee from what would otherwise
be an unreasonable interference by the distributors with
the enjoyment of the granted right of exhibition; that
there was no combination or conspiracy among the distributors; that it was to the independent advantage of
each distributor to impose the restrictions in its own
agreement and that the contention that less than substantially unanimous action would have injured the distributors in making such agreements was contrary to
the evidence; and that the restrictions did not have an
injurious effect.
We intimate no opinion upon any of the questions
raised by these rival contentions, but they point the importance of special an& adequate findings in accordance
with the prescribed equity practice.
The decree of the District Court is set aside and the
cause is remanded with directions to, the court to state

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

its findings of fact and conclusions of law as required by
Equity Rule 70/2.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE BLACK think that
the findings in the opinion and decree below, while informal, are sufficient for purposes of decision, and that
the cace should therefore be decided now without further
proceedings below; the more so because of the public
interest involved.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 638. Argued March 30, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

In a suit to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission
affecting rates on coke, held:
1. Unnecessary to pass upon the validity of an order canceling
certain schedules and. fixing future maximum rates, which order
had later been supplemented by another of the orders attacked.
P. 59.
2. A construction of an order, adopted by the Commission, and
rendering it valid, is to be accepted rather than another construction which extends it beyond the Commission's jurisdiction. P. 60.
3. Objections to an order, that it is not supported by substantial
evidence, disregards ordinary standards for determining reasonable.ness of rates, is not supported by necessary findings, and represents
a mere attempt to equalize geographical and transportation disadvantages, fortune and opportunities, are answered in this case by
findings of the court below, adequately supported. P. 60.
Affirmed.

