THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 581
193 U. S.

Syllabus.

instituted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, the bill filed containing substantially
similar allegations to those made in the Newburyport case.
Similar relief was also sought, except that there was no claim
that the commissioners had not made an allowance for the
unexpired term of the hydrant contract. After the decision
in the Newburyport case the Circuit Court sustained a demurrer
and dismissed the bill on the merits.
For the reasons stated in the opinion delivered in the Newburyport case, the decree of the Circuit Court is reversed at
appellant's costs, and the case remanded, with instructions to
dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.

THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF BUFFALO v. BUFFALO
GERMAN INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 146. Argued January 27, 28, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.
The mere statement by a borrower from a national bank, made to the
president when the loan is obtained, that his stock in the bank is security
for the loan, there being no delivery of the certificates, does not amount
to a pledge of the stock, nor does it give the bank any lien thereon as
against one subsequently loaning on the stock in good faith and receiving
the certificates as collateral.
The provisions of section 36 of the National Banking Act of 1863, empowering the withholding of transfer of the stock of a shareholder indebted to the bank, were not only omitted from the National Banking
Act of 1864 but were expressly repealed thereby.
A provision in the charter and by-laws, and a condition in a certificate of
stock, of a national bank, forbidding the transfer of stock where the
stockholder is indebted to the bank, is void as repugnant to the National
Banking Act and in conflict with the public policy embodied in that act,
and creates no lien which the bank can enforce by refusing to transfer the
stock to a holder for value in good faith.
A condition in a certificate of stock of a national bank which is void under

OCTOBER TERM[, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

the National Banking Act will not operate as a notice to one loaning on
the stock as collateral, that it is subject to a lien of the bank which will
affect the right of the pledgee of having the stock transferred to him.

THE Third National Bank of Buffalo, spoken of hereafter as
the bank, was organized on the ninth of February, 1865, and
its articles of association contained the following:
"That the board of directors shall have power to make
all by-laws that may be proper and convenient for them to
make under said act for the general regulation of the business
of the association and the management and administration of
its affairs, which by-laws may prohibit, if the directors shall so
determine, the transfer of stock owned by any stockholder who
may be liable to the association either as principal debtor or
otherwise without the consent of the board."
In virtue of the authority assumed to be conferred by the
foregoing provision, the board of directors adopted in February, 1865, a by-law as follows:
"Transfers of Stock.--SEc. 15. The stock of this bank shall
be assignable only on the books of this bank, subject to the
restrictions and provisions of the act, and a transfer book shall
be kept in which all assignments and transfers of stock shall be
made. No transfers of the stock of this association shall be made
without the consent of the board of directors by any stockholder who shall be liable to the association either as principali
debtor or otherwise, which liability shall be a lien upon the
said stock and all the profits thereof, and dividends and certificates of stock shall contain upon them notice of this provision."
Pursuant to this by-law the stock certificates of the bank
Niere thus framed:
"This is to certify that
- is the owner of
- shares
of one hundred dollars each of the capital stock of the Third
National Bank of Buffalo, subject to the lien or liens referred
to in section 15 of the by-laws of said bank, in the following
words: 'No transfer of the stock of this association shall be
made without the consent of the board of directors, by my

THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 583

193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

stockholder, who shall be liable to the association either as
principal debtor or otherwise, which liability shall be a lien
upon the said stock and all profits thereof and dividends.'
And the said stock is transferable only on the books of the
bank by him or his attorney on the surrender and cancellation
of this certificate and compliance with the said by-laws."
Emmanuel Levi became the registered holder and owner of
450 shares of the capital stock, evidenced by certificates, in the
form just stated. Levi borrowed money from the bank upon
his promissory notes, secured by various collaterals. On the
first day of October, 1890, he applied for a further loan, which
the bank agreed to make, provided the new loan was endorsed
by Louis Levi, a son of Emmanuel. At that time, in a conversation between the president of the bank and Levi, it was
understood that all the stock held by Levi in the bank should
be considered as additional security for his entire loan. When
this conversation took place, however, the certificates evidencing Levi's stock were in his possession, and no formal
pledge or subsequent delivery of the certificates of stock to the
bank took place.
A few months after (on December 3, 1890) Emmanuel Levi
borrowed $25,000 from the Buffalo German Insurance Company, hereafter spoken of as the insurance company, and secured this loan by pledging, delivering, and assigning to the
insurance company his certificates of stock in the bank. The
written contract of pledge gave the insurance company power,
in default of payment of the loan at its maturity, to sell the
stock at public or private sale after notice and apply the proceeds to the debt. On August 13, 1891, and on May 5, 1892,
Levi borrowed additional sums from the insurance company
and secured these loans by a pledge and assignment of his
remaining stock in the bank. These contracts of pledge also
contained a power of sale similar to that conferred by the first
contract. In June, 1893, Emmanuel Levi died, and Louis and
Rosa Levi were appointed and qualified as his executors. On
the ninth of June, 1896, there was due to the insurance com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

pany on the notes of Levi, secured by the pledge of his stock
as above stated, the sum of $55,000 of principal, with certain
unpaid interest. On that date the insurance company served
upon the executors of the estate of Levi a demand for the payment of the debt, accompanied with a notice that if payment
were not made the stock would be sold and the proceeds applied to the debt. Payment not having been made, after
adequate notice, the attorneys for the bank, the attorneys of
the executors of Levi, and one of the executors being present,
the stock was sold at public auction, and was bought by the
insurance company for the sum of $44,000, that being the
highest bid offered. The insurance company thereupon presented to the bank the certificates of stock, the assignment
thereof and the evidence of the purchase at auction, and demanded a transfer to its name. This the bank refused on the
ground of Levi's indebtedness to it. Subsequently the insurance company filed its bill, praying that the bank be decreed
to transfer the stock and pay the dividends which had accrued
thereon since the date of the demand to transfer. The bank
by its answer set up the debt due by Levi to it, asserting that
under the provision of its articles of association and by-laws,
as well as under the terms of the certificates of stock and the
agreement with Levi, it had the right to apply the dividends on
the stock, accrued since the purchase by the insurance conipany, to its debt, and, indeed, having a prior lien upon the
stock for its debt, had the right to withhold the transfer of the
stock until the debt due it by Levi or his estate was paid.
There was a decree in the trial court in favor of the bank. The
case was appealed by the insurance company to the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court, fourth department, in which
court the judgment of the trial court was affirmed. 29 App.
Div. 137. The insurance company prosecuted its appeal to
the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, and in that
court the judgments below were reversed and the case was
remanded for further proceedings. 162 N. Y. 163. The cause
was again tried and resulted in a decree in favor of the insur-

THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 585
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ance company in both the trial court and the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court, and these judgments were affirmed by
the Court of Appeals on the authority of its previous opinion.
It is to review such decree of affirmance that this writ or error
is prosecuted.
Mr. Adelbert Moot, with whom Mr. George L. Lewis was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The bank, by its articles of association, its by-laws, and the
certificate of stock, gave notice to all the world of its claim on
the stock. It further obtained an equitable lien on the stock
by the arrangement entered into with Levi, which he, or his
estate, could not dispute. The insurance company had notice
of the bank's claim, in the stock itself, and the insurance company as Levi's assignee, stands in his shoes, and is estopped
from claiming any greater rights than he, or his estate, would
have had in the stock in question. Knight v. Old National
Bank, 3 Cliff. 429, and cases cited as to effect of similar provisions in charter of the Bank of Washington. See Brent v. Bank,
10 Pet. 615. See also Bath Savings Inst. v. Nat. Bank, 89
Maine, 500, and cases cited on p. 504.
The key-note of this case is found in the articles of association, the by-laws of the bank, and above all, the certificate of
stock, which calls attention to these very things and prevents
any person from buying a share of stock without taking it
subject to any demands or any equities against the holder
thereof.
The clause in the stock in question is to be deemed as effective as a recital in a deed, and "as conclusive evidence
against the parties and all others claiming under them
in privity of estate." 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, § 23, and authorities cited in late editions; Cont. Nat. Bank v. Elliot
Nat. Bank, 7 Fed. Rep. 371; Moores v. Bank, 111 U. S. 156,
164.
An equitable lien differs essentially from a common law lien,
which is simply a right to retain possession of the chattel until

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

some debt or demand due to the person thus retaining is satisfied; and possession is such an inseparable element, that if it
be voluntarily surrendered by the creditor, the lien is at once
extinguished. 3 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, §§ 1233,
1234; 1 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. §§ 165-172.
The National Banking Act does not forbid the transaction
in question but expressly permits a bank to take title to or
security upon its own stock, and that means either a legal or
equitable lien thereon, if "such security or purchase shall be
necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted
in good faith." Rev. Stat. U. S. § 5201; Knight v. Old National Bank, supra.
Even if the by-law and condition in the certificate were
violative of the National Banking Act the notice given thereby
cannot be ignored by one loaning on the stock. All the provisions of the National Banking Act about loaning money
upon the stock of the bank, are regulations of national banks
by the Govermnent. If the bank disregards those regulations,
the borrower of its money should not be permitted to take
advantage of them. Le Neve v. Le Nee, 3 Atk. 646; Dunham
v. Dey, 15 Johns. 555, 570; Crocker v. Whitney, 71 N. Y. 161;
Thompson v. St. Nicholas Bank, 146 U. S. 251.
The authorities cited by defendant in error and in the opinions in the state courts do not hold that the insurance company can compel the bank to transfer its stock upon its books
until its claim against the Levi estate has been paid.
It is suggested that public policy requires that this court
decide that the insurance company is entitled to have the stock
transferred on the books of the bank, because otherwise banks
will ruthlessly violate provisions of the National Banking Act.
This suggestion is quite as applicable to the cases of real
estate mortgages, and cases of certifying checks where deposits
have not been made, as it is to cases of this character. But
there is no principle of public policy that requires this court
to decide this case in favor of the insurance company as against
the Bank.

THIRD NAT. BANK r. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 5,87
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Arthur T'. Hickman for defendant in error:
The provision in the by-law and the stock certificate is unauthorized. Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, 378; Bullard v.
National Eagle Bank, 18 Wall. 589, 598; Second Nat. Bank v.
National &c. Bank, 10 Bush (Ky.), 367, 375; Conklin v. Second
Nat. Bank, 45 N. Y. 655; Driscoll v. West Bradley, C. & M. Co.,
59 N. Y. 96; Evansville Nat. Bank v. Metropolitan National
Bank, 2 Biss. 527; McKheimer v. National Exch. Bank, 79
Virginia, 80; Continental Nat. Bank v. Ellicot National Bank,
7 Fed. Rep. 376; Orleans N. B. Assn. v. T'ilts, 10 Fed. Rep.
330; Cook on Stockholders, 3d ed. § 533; Jones on Liens,
2d ed. § 384; 2 Thompson's Law of Corp. § 2319; 16 Am. &
Eng. Ency. 201; Boone on Law of the Banks, § 236; Paine's
Banking Laws, 533, citing cases supra and Johnson v. Lang,
103 U. S. 803; Sargent v. Franklin Ins. Co., 8 Pick. 90, 96;
Bunder v. Jackson, 24 Fed. Rep. 628; Johnson v. Laflin, 5 Dill.
65,73; D. L. & TY. R. R. Co. v. Oxford Iron Co., 38 N. J. Eq. 340.
The bank had no actual pledge of the stock as collateral.
It never had possession of the stock which was issued and given
to Mr. Levi, and never returned to the bank or placed under
its control, or in any way shown to it until the stock was
taken to the bank by the officers of the insurance company
for the purpose of having it transferred.
To make a valid pledge, there must be delivery, actual or
constructive of the pledge by the pledgor or his agent, in the
possession of the pledgee or his agent, in order to pass any
right of property in the thing pledged. To keep the pledge
good, the property pledged must remain in the possession or
under the control of the pledgee. Cortelyn v. Lansing, 2 Cai.
Cas. 200; Garlick v. James, 12 Johns. 146; Wilson v. Little, 2
Const. 443; 18 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 595; Black v. Bogart,
65 N. Y. 601; McComber v. Parker,14 Pick. 497.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is obvious that the bank had no lien on the stock of Levi

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

as the result of an express contract of pledge. The mere statement by Levi in a conversation with the president of the bank
when the last loan was made to him, that his stock was a
security to the bank, did not amount to a pledge of such stock,
as there was no delivery of the certificates. As tersely said
by the court .below:
"If we assume the existence of a contract between the defendant bank and Levi, (and all we know of it is the testimony
of the president of the defendant as to a conversation with
Levi, in which he said the bank could consider the stock in his
safe as collateral for his loans,) it was executory in its nature
as long as the stock remained in his possession and until it was
in fact pledged to the bank by a delivery. Possession is of the
essence of a pledge in order to raise a privilege against third
persons. Casey v. Caxaroc, 96 U. S. 467; Wilson v. Little, 2
N. Y. 443."
We may, therefore, at once lay out of view the provisions of
section 5201, Revised Statutes, prohibiting a national bank
from making any loan or discount on the security of its shares
of stock, and forbidding the purchase or holding by a national
bank of such shares of stock, unless necessary to prevent loss
on a debt previously contracted in good faith. And putting
these provisions aside, we may also pass the consideration of
the decisions of this court construing the provisions in question,
and holding that they may not be availed of by a debtor of the
bank to defeat the enforcement of obligations by him contracted
in favor of the bank. Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S.621; Bank v.
Whitney, 103 U. S.99; Thonpson v. Bank, 146 U. S.240. This
brings us to the real question in the case which is, the validity
and effect of the provisions of the charter and by-law of the
bank forbidding a transfer of stock where the stockholder was
indebted to the bank and the insertion of a condition to the
same effect in the certificates of stock which were held by Levi,
and which he delivered to the insurance company, as collateral,
when he borrowed money from that company. If those provisions were valid it is obvious that the insurance company

THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 589
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

took the stock subject to the paramount right which the bank
possessed. If, on the other hand, the condition in question
was void because repugnant to the text of the national bank
law and in conflict with the public policy which that act embodies, it is equally clear that there was no lien in favor of the
bank, and the title of the insurance company, derived from its
pledge and purchase, was paramount to any assumed right of
the bank to refuse to transfer the stock in order to enforce a
lien which, it was asserted, the bank possessed as a result of
the condition in question. That the provisions referred to
were void because coming within the last mentioned category
will become apparent from a brief consideration of the national
bank law found in the Revised Statutes as elucidated by its
evolution from the acts of 1863 and 1864, and as expounded
by the previous decisions of this court.
National banks were first created by the act of 1863. 12
Stat. 665. By section 36 of that act it was provided:
"That the capital stock of any association formed under this
act shall be divided into shares of one hundred dollars each,
and shall be assignable on the books of the association in such
manner as its by-laws shall prescribe; but no shareholder in
any association under this act shall have power to sell or
transfer any share held in his own right so long as he shall be
liable, either as principal, debtor, surety or otherwise, to the
association for any debt-which shall have become due and remained unpaid, nor in any case shall such shareholder be
entitled to receive any dividend, interest or profit on such
shares so long as such liabilities shall continue, but all such
dividends, interests and profits shall be retained by the association and applied to the discharge of such liabilities; and no
stock shall be transferred without the consent of a majority of
the directors while the holder thereof is thus indebted to the
association."
Section 37 of the same act provided that"No banking association shall take, as security for any loan
or discount, a lien upon any part of its capital stock, . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. '-.

and no such banking association shall be the purchaser or
holder of any portion of its capital stock or of the capital stock
of any other incorporated company, unless such purchase shall
be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted
in good faith on security which, at the time, was deemed adequate to insure the payment of such debt, independent of any
lien upon such stock; or in case of forfeiture of stock for the
non-payment of installments due thereon, and stock so purchased or acquired shall in no case be held by such association
so purchasing for a longer period of time than six months, if
the same can, within that time, be sold for what the stock
costs."
The act of 1863 was expressly repealed (sec. 62) by the act
of 1864. 13 Stat. 99. The repealing act, however, contained
the following:
"Provided, that such repeal shall not affect any appointments made, acts done or proceedings had, or the organization,
acts or proceedings of any association organized or in the
process of organization under the act aforesaid."
The act of 1864, which contained a repealing clause subject
to the foregoing proviso, reenacted in completer form the
entire law as to national banks. The subjects which had been
embraced by section 36 of the act of 1863 were contained in
section 12 of the act of 1864, in part, as follows:
"The capital stock of any association formed under this act
shall be divided into shares of one hundred dollars each, and be
deemed personal property, and transferable on the books of
the association in such nianner as may be prescribed in the
by-laws or articles of association;
"
The remaining provisions of the section related solely to the
double liability of the shareholders. It hence follows that all
the provisions found in section 36 of the act of 1863, empowering the board of directors of a national bank to withhold a
transfer in case of a debt due by a stockholder to a bank, were
not only omitted from the new act, but were expressly repealed. The provision found in the thirty-seventh section of

THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 591
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1863, prohibiting an association from making any
loan or discount on the security of the shares of its own capital
stock, was re~xpressed in a substantially identical, though
somewhat more amplified, form of statement in section 35 of
the new act. The provisions of the act of 1864, in the particulars in question, are now embodied in sections 5139 and 5201 of
the Revised Statutes.
When this history of the legislation is considered it becomes
apparent that the clause inserted in the articles of association,
in the by-laws and the certificates of stock of the bank here
being considered was directly repugnant to the act of 1864,
and amounted simply to an attempt on the part of the bank
to exercise the power which was granted under the act of 1863,
but which was denied by the act of 1864. And this result was
long since pointed out by the decisions of this court. In Bank
v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, the case was this: The First National
Bank of South Bend was organized under the act of 1863. A
by-law of the bank provided that "the stock of the bank should
be assignable only on its books, subject to the provisions and
restrictions of the act of Congress." Culver became a stockholder in the bank, certificates having been issued to him as
such, stating on their face the limitations on the power to transfer expressed in the by-law just referred to. By an agreement
between Culver and the bank it was understood that his stock
in the bank should secure the bank against any loss resulting
from a deposit of its funds made by the bank with the house of
Culver, Penn & Co., of New York, of which Culver was a
member. When, however, this agreement was made the certificates of stock were not delivered to the bank, but remained
in the possession of Culver. After the passage of the national
bank act of 1864, Culver, in violation of his agreement with the
bank, sold his stock and delivered the certificates thereof, with
power to transfer the same to Lanier and Handy, who requested a transfer of the same. This the bank refused to do
on the ground of Culver's agreement, and on the further ground
of the provision in the by-law and certificates, which, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

asserted, but expressed by reference the provisions of the
thirty-sixth section of the act of 1863. Two questions were
necessary to be decided: a, the right of the bank resulting from
the understanding with Culver; and, b, its right arising from
the terms of the by-law and certificate. These questions were
ruled adversely to the bank. It was held that the agreement
between the bank and Culver was void because it was within
the prohibitions of both the thirty-seventh section of the act
of 1863 and the thirty-fifth section of the act of 1864, prohibiting a national bank from loaning on the security of its
own capital stock, etc. Irrespective, however, of this question,
it was expressly decided that, as the act of 1864 had repealed
the provision of the act of 1863, subjecting transfers of stock
in national banks to debts due by the stockholder to the bank,
or permitting the board of directors to provide to that effect,
the result of the act of 1864 was impliedly to prohibit a bank
from imposing such a condition on the transfer of stock. And
the doctrine was applied to a by-law adopted prior to the
passage of the act of 1864, because it was held that the continued operation of such a by-law was prevented by the act of
1864, as the right to continue it was not saved by the proviso
to the repealing clause of that act. It was pointed out that
the provision of the act of 1864, making the stock of national
banks transferable like other personal property, was a fundamental departure from the act of 1863, and was based on a, rule
of public policy initiated by the act of 1864, intended to afford
facilities for the transfer of stock in national banks, and
thereby to encourage investment in such stock. The same
subject was considered in Bullard v. Bank, 18 Wall. 589.
There a by-law and form of certificate, adopted after the enactment of the statute of 1864, reserving the right to refuse to
transfer stock in a national bank where the stockholder was
indebted to the bank, was again determined to be ultra rirc.Z,
because in conflict with the act of 1864, and such a provision
was decided to be inoperative even as against the assignee in
bankruptcy of the stockholder. These cases foreclose every

