MINN. & S'I'. LOUIS R. R. CO. r. MINNESOTA.

53

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. STATE OF MINNESOTA exrTel. THE RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPRKMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 138.

Argued January 21, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.

Where the constitutionality of a state statute is directly attacked in the
answer, the Federal question has been so raised in the court below that
it will be considered on the merits and the motion to dismiss denied.
To establish stations at proper places is the proper duty of a railroad company, and it is within the power of the States to make it prima facie a
duty of the companies to establish them at all villages and boroughs on
their respective lines.
Chapter 270, April 13, 1901, General Laws of Minnesota, requiring the
erection and maintenance of depots by railroad companies on the order of
the Railroad and Warehouse Commission under the conditions therein
stated in that act, does not deny a railroad company the right to reasonably manage or control property or arbitrarily take its property without
its consent, or without compensation or due process of law, and is not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
When the highest court of a State affirms a judgment although by a divided
court it constitutes an affirmance of the finding of the trial court which
then, like the verdict of a jury, is conclusive as to the facts upon this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Albert E. Clarke for plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of the State, by a decision which has not
been overruled, modified or criticised, has once decided upon
the merits against the attempt to compel the plaintiff in error
to establish and maintain a station at Emmons. In the former
proceeding the relator attempted to justify its order for the
establishment of the station, under two statutes, viz: (1) Under
the section 388, Gen. Stat. of 1894, and (2) under chapter 94,
Gen. Laws of 1897; the former defines the powers and duties of
the general railroad and warehouse commission. It undoubtedly confers ample power and authority upon that body, to
require the establishment and maintenance of stations, in

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

] 93 U. S.

proper cases, and the court so held; but also held that this was
not a proper case.
Chapter 94, Gen. Laws of 1897, was held not to apply as it
relates to villages and boroughs and Emmons is neither. 76
Minnesota, 474.
In order to find support for the order under sec. 388, Gen.
Stat. 1894, the relator must show a reasonable public necessity
for the station; and in determining whether such necessity
exists, regard must be had to the interests "not, only of the
particular locality, but also of the public at large, and of the
railroad company." Every argument which can be made in
support of the order is answered by the opinion upon the
former trial. 76 Minnesota, 475.
The fact that Norman Station is in Iowa was held not to be
entitled to any weight.
The decision above cited is the law of the case.
The relator has attempted to obtain a new trial of issues once
adjudicated, by having the same plaintiff bring a second suit.
against the same defendant, in the same court, upon the same
cause of action, and, ignoring the proceedings and adjudication formerly had, proceed to try the case over again. The
decision of the state Supreme Court, above cited, is still the
law of the State, but the reasons advanced in support of a different conclusion, are the minor and insignificant increases in
the population and business of Emmons.
The decision of the state court now under review is an affirmance of the judgment of the District Court, by a divided Supreme Court. Such an affirmance does not overrule the actual
decision. To give it that effect would be to hold that the
District Court might thus overrule the Supreme Court. An
affirmance by a divided court does not operate to settle the
principles of law involved or have the effect of an opinion or
decision. Etting v. Bank of the United States, 11 Wheat. 78;
Benton v. Woolsey, 12 Pet. 27; Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540;
In re Griel, 171 Pa. St. 412; Lessicur v. Price, 12 How. 59;
Hanifan v. Armitage, 117 Fed. Rep. 845.

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. r. MINNESOTA.
193 U. S.

55

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

It is only where the evidence is substantially different upon
the second trial, that the case is not controlled by the first
decision. Comparison of the records shows no important difference in the situation.
The right of the plaintiff in error to change its line in accordance with the proposed plan, submitted in evidence, is conferred by section 2750 of the General Statutes of 1894. That
the proposed change would be for the public interest is manifest; that it should not be prevented, by the establishment of
this station, is equally manifest.
Any change in the line, whereby the company is enabled to
maintain the line at less expense, or operate it with greater
safety and convenience and more economy, is, necessarily, a
benefit to the public. Fletcher v. Railway Company, 67 Minnesota, 345.
Neither section 388, General Statutes of 1894, or chapter 270,
General Statutes of 1901, is valid, when it is sought to apply
its provisions to the facts in this case. The act is a police
regulation and justifiable only when exercised to establish reasonable and wholesome ordinances not repugnant to the Constitution. Cooley's Const. Lim. (5th ed.) 707, 713; and §577;
Black's Const. Prohib. §§ 62, 64.
The power of the legislature, as well as of the courts, is limited to the requirements of the community. When property
is taken unnecessarily and without reason, the taking is not
due process of law. That the taking is under form of law, does
not render the act less a violation of the Constitution. Railway Company v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Railway Company v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Cooley's Const. Limitations (5th ed.),
435 (*356); County of San Mateo v. Ry. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 722;
Foule v. Mann, 53 Iowa, 42.
Chapter 270, General Laws of 1901, is void upon its face. It
is a mandatory statute, providing for no hearing; no judicial
determination as to whether or not the station is necessary.
It does not make the establishment and maintenance of the
proposed station, dependent upon the reasonableness of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

requirement, or the necessity for the station. It is not due
process of law. Its enforcement takes the appellant's property, without due process of law, and deprives it of the equal
protection of the laws, and is therefore violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. Railroad Company v. Minnesota, 134 U.
S. 418; Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 327.
The construction placed upon the act of 1901, by the state
Supreme Court, has practically invalidated it. By the language of the act itself, no room is left for judicial determination as to the necessity for the station, when demanded by the
inhabitants of an incorporated village.
Mr. Howard H. Dunn, with whom Mr. W. B. Douglas, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, and Mr. Lafayette
French were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The writ of error should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, as no Federal question is necessarily involved in the judgment of the court below, or if there is a Federal question involved in the judgment the decision of the court below is so
clearly right that the writ of error should be dismissed or the
judgment affirmed.
No Federal question is necessarily involved in the judgment
of the court below.
The construction of this statute by the Supreme Court. of
Minnesota could not deprive the railroad company proceeded
against of its property without due process of law; nor did its
construction raise a Federal question. Phenix Ins. Co. v.
Gardner, 11 Wall. 204. The construction given to a statute of
a State, by the highest judicial tribunal of such State, is regarded as a part of the statute and is binding upon the courts
of the United States; as to the proper construction of a statute,
and as to what should be regarded as among its terms no Federal question can arise. Morley v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 146
U. S. 162.
The plaintiff in error has no interest to assert that General
Laws of 1901, chapter 270, is unconstitutional because it might

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
193 U. S.

57

Argument for Defendant in Error.

be construed so as to cause it to violate the Constitution. Its
right is limited solely to the inquiry whether in the case which
it presents, the effect of applying the statute is to deprive it of
its constitutional rights. Castello v. McConnico, 168 U. S.
674.
As the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota was upon
a question not of a Federal character, and one broad enough to
sustain the judgment, the writ of error should be dismissed.
Miller's Exec. v. Schwan, 150 U. S. 132; Morrow v. Brinkley, 129
U. S. 178; Hall v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; New Orleans Water
Works v. Louisiana,185 U. S. 336; Railway Co. v. Fitzgerald,
136 U. S. 556; CaliforniaPowder Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389.
The holding of the state court, that the plaintiff in error did
not overcome the prima facie case arising by virtue of the
statute, does not present a Federal question; this court will
not reexamine the evidence to ascertain whether the evidence
justified this finding of the court below. Egan v. Hart, 165
U. S. 188; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Beatty v. Benton, 135
U. S. 244.
If there is a Federal question involved in the judgment the
decision of the court below is so clearly right that the writ of
error should be dismissed or the judgment affirmed. N. Y. &
N. E. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; N. Y. & N. E. R. R.
Co. v. T oodruff, 153 U. S. 689; Chicago, etc., Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 74.
Subject to the authority of Congress within the sphere of its
rightful powers, and subject to any restriction imposed by the
Constitution, the legislature of each State possesses full power
to enact police regulations of railways. Cases supra and Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427; Charlotte, etc., R. R. Co. v.
Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S. 287, 296. As to authority of railway confmissions to act
in regard to depots and waiting rooms, see State &c. v. M. &
St. L. R. R. Co., 76 Minnesota, 469; State v. Chicago &c. R. R.
Co., 12 S. Dak. 305.
In many jurisdictions statutory regulations as to the estab-

OCrOBER TERAI, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

lishment and erection of depots at proper places along the
route of the road have been sustained as a proper exercise of
police power. Commonwealth v. Eastern R. R. Co., 103 Massachusetts, 254; R. R. Commissioners v. Portland,etc., R. R. Co.,
63 Maine, 269; State v. New Iai'en R. R. Co., 37 Connecticut,
153; State v. Wabash, etc., R. R. Co., 83 Missouri, 144; San
Antonio, etc., R. R. Co. v. State, 79 Texas, 264; State v. Kaiisa.n
City, etc., R. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 722.
The requirement of the plaintiff in error to build and maintain a depot or station house at the village of Emmons was a
reasonable exercise of the power of regulation in favor of the
interest and for the accommodation of the public.
A railroad company cannot, in consideration of a tax voted
to aid in its construction, bind itself to build a station or del)ot
at a particular point without reference to a change of population or the demand of business or the accommodation of the
public, in the matter of transportation and travel, and plead
that and its close proximity as a justification for not building
and maintaining a depot where public necessity reasonal)ly
requires one to be maintained in order to accommodate the
public in the matter of transportation and travel.
The number and location of the depots so as to constitute
reasonable depot facilities vary with the changes and alnotunt
of population and business. A contract to leave a certain distance along the line of road destitute of depots is in contravention of public policy. St. Joseph & Demer R. R. Co. v. Ryan,
11 Kansas, 602; Marshy. Railway Co., 64 Illinois, 414; St. L.,
etc., R. R. Co. v. illathers, 71 Illinois, 592.
A railroad cannot refuse to obey the commands of the legislature when the public interest reasonably requires the building
of a station house, because the company will entail an expense
of 83,000. Th6 statute provides the size, height and dimensions of a station house which is required to be built. Cen.
Stat. 1894, § 2702; Gen. Stat. 1897, chap. 94, § 1; M. L. & T.
R. Co. v. R. R. Coin., 109 Louisiana, 247.
The commission simply required the plaintiff in error to con-

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
193 U. S.

59

Opinion of the Court.

struct its station of the size and dimensions which the statute
requires shall be built under the circumstances.
The location of stations for receiving and delivering passengers and freight involves a comprehensive view of the interests
of the public as well as of the railroad company, and its interest can be better determined by an administrative board
intrusted by the legislature with that duty than by the ordinary judicial tribunal. Steenerson v. G. N. Ry. Co., 69 Minnesota, 353, 376; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Dustin, 142 U. S. 492,
499.
MfR. JUSTICE IVICKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding in mandamus to compel plaintiff in
error to build and maintain a station house on the line of its
road at the village of Emmons, in compliance with an order
of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of
Minnesota.
The order of the commission was made upon petition and
upon hearing after due notice to plaintiff in error. The writ
was granted by the District Court of Freeborn County, where
the proceedings were commenced.
The railroad company in its answer attacks the statute under which the commission acted as follows:
"This respondent says further, that chapter 270, General
Laws, 1901, approved April 13, 1901, which was enacted by
the legislature of said State at its thirty-second session, which
arbitrarily requires railroad carriers to provide freight and
passenger rooms and depots at all villages and boroughs upon
their respective roads, without regard to the necessity therefor
and without regard to the location or situation of such village
or boroughs, or to existing conditions, is unjust, unreasonable,
contrary to public policy and void.
"lIt denies to the respondent the right to reasonably manage
or control its own business; it takes its property without its
consent.
"It takes the property of this respondent arbitrarily and un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

necessarily, for public use, without just compensation, and is,
therefore, violative of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
"It deprives the respondent of its property without due
process of law, and denies it the equal protection of the laws,
and thus violates the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment of
the District Court, the members of the court equallY dividing
on the facts. 91 N. W. Rep. 465.
This is the second attempt of the village of Emmons to secure a depot. The first was unsuccessful, 76 Minnesota, 419,
" wherein the facts are stated," the Supreme Court observed,
and it further observed, passing on the case at bar:
" Mr. Associate Justice Lovely having been of counsel for
the village in the former proceeding, was disqulified from
sitting at the hearing of this appeal, and the cause was necessarily argued and submitted to the four remaining members
of the court. We assumne that the Laws, 1901, chapter 270,
which in express terms requires railway companies to build
and maintain depots or station houses in all villages through
which their roads may pass, is in itself valid legislation, and •
not open to the objection that it is not within the legislative
power to enact such a law. With this assumption no dispute
has arisen over a construction of the act, to the effect that all
incorporated villages within this State located on railway lines
are prmafawie entitled to depots. The commissioners have
the power to order the erection an(l maintenance of del)ot
buildings unless it is made to appear that such an order would
be so unreasonable in its terms as to actually result in depriving the company proceeded against of its property without
due process of law. The change made by the statute of 1901
simply affects or shifts the burden of proof, for prior to its enactment the burden was on the municipality to establish the
reasonableness and necessity of a depot therein, while now a
railway company appearing before the commissioners, or trying its case on appeal to the District Court, bears the burden
of showing that such a requirement is not called for, and that

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
103 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

the building and maintenance of a depot in the village is unnecessary and unreasonable.
"But while agreeing as to this interpretation of the law, we
fail to reach the same conclusion in respect to the facts. We
do not question the correctness of the conclusion reached when
considering the former appeal. But two members of the court,
Mr. Chief Justice Start and Associate Justice Brown, are of
the opinion that, from the evidence, it appears that there has
since bcen a substantial growth in the village, a growth which
makes an altogether different showing, and that the company
did not overcome the primafaciecase arising by virtue of the
statute, and therefore that the judgment appealed from should
be affirmed. Associate Justices Collins and Lewis are unable
to agree to this. Their conclusion is that the testimony fails
to show that there has been a real or substantial change in
the village, its needs or necessities, that the situation is practically as it was when the former proceeding was considered
that the prima facie case made by the village has been wholly
overcome by the defendant company.
"With this difference of opinion the judgment appealed
from must be and hereby is affirmed."
The defendant in error contends by those observations the
court only decided, following its former decision, '76Minnesota,469, that under chapter 6, section 388, General Statutes
of 1894, the commission had the power to order the erection
and maintenance of depots where public necessity or convenience reasonably required it to be done, and that the only
change made by the act of 1901, was to shift the burden of
proof from the municipality to the railroad company, and
therefore the court, in deciding that the railroad company had
not overcome the prima favie case arising from the statute,
did not decide a Federal question.
It is difficult to deal with the motion on account of the uncertainty of the contentions of plaintiff in error. In its answer
in the District Court it directly attacks the statute. In this
court its contentions are not so sweeping and we are left in
doubt by its opening and reply briefs whether the statute as
construed by the Supreme Court is objected to or only its ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

plication under the facts of the case. However, as the statute
was directly attacked in the answer the motion to dismiss is
denied, and we will consider whether thegrounds of objection
to the statute are substantial and sufficient.
1. The act of 1897 provided as follows:
"That all railroad corporations, or companies operating any
railroads in this state, shall . . provide at all villages and
boroughs on their respective roads, depots with suitable waiting rooms for the protection and accommodation of all passengers patronizing such roads, and a freight room for the storage
and protection of freight. . . Such railroad corporations or
companies shall at all such depots or stations stop their trains
regularly as at other stations to receive and discharge passengers,
and for at least one-half hour before the arrival and one-half
hour after the arrival of any passenger train, cause their respective depots or waiting rooms to be open for the reception
of passengers; said depots to be kept well lighted and warmed
for the space of time aforesaid."
In its first opinion, 76 :Minnesota, 469, the court held that the
word " villages," in the act meant incorporated villages, and
that Emmons was not incorporated. The court, however,
proceeded further, and said:
"1Butthere is no doubt of the power of the commissioners,
under the general railroad and warehouse commission act, to
require a railroad company to provide a suitable depot and
passenger waiting room at any place, incorporated or unincorporated, where public necessity or convenience reasonably requires it to be done. But this power is neither absolute nor
arbitrary. The facts must be such, having regard to the interests, not only of the particular locality, but also of the public at large and of the railroad company itself, as to justify
the commissioners, in the exercise of a reasonable discretion
and judgment, in ordering the railway company to provide a
depot and passenger station at the place in question. Counsel
for the relators admit this. The only evidence being the report of the commissioners themselves, we must refer to it to
ascertain whether the facts therein stated reasonably justified
their order requiring the railroad company to provide and

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
193 U. S.

63

Opinion of the Court.

maintain a depot and station at Emmons. The statute provides that, 'Upon the trial of said cause [before the court, as
in this case, to enforce the order of the commissioners] the
findings of fact of said commission as set forth in its report
shall be prima facie evidence of the matters therein stated.'
G. S. 1894, § 399."
The court then reviewed the facts and decided that the
order of the commission establishing a station at Emmons
was unreasonable. The act was amended in 1901, and the
court in the case at bar has decided, as we have seen, the
amendment has only shifted the burden of proof. In other
words, to quote from the opinion of the court, "incorporated
villages within this state (Minnesota) located on railway lines
are irirnafacieentitled to depots," and at a hearing before the
commissioners and in the District Court the railroad has the
burden of showing that the establishment of a depot is unreasonable and unnecessary.
The statute, as thus construed, does not transcend the power
of the State. In other words, and meeting exactly the contention of plaintiff in error, the statute does not deny plaintiff
in error the right to reasonably manage or control its property
or arbitrarily take its property without its consent or without
compensation or due process of law.
Viseo in &c. R. R.
Go. v. Jackson, 179 'T. S.287. To establish stations at proper
places is the first duty of a railroad company. The State can
certainly provide for the enforcement of that duty. An incorporated village might be said to be such a place without an
express declaration of the statute. To make itprimafacieso
by statute and to impose the burden of meeting the presumption thence arising certainly does not amount to an invasion
of the rights of property or an unreasonable control of property. This seems to be conceded in the reply brief of
plaintiff in error. Counsel say :
"The power of the State to require the construction and
maintenance of stations at proper points is not questioned.
We concede it. The power to require an unnecessary and
wholly useless expenditure of money, in the construction and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

maintenance of stations where they are not needed, is denied.
That is the whole case."
And stating the decision of the court in 91 N. W. Rep.
465, counsel quotes as follows:
"The commissioners have the power to order the erection
and maintenance of depot buildings, unless it is made to appear
that such an order is so unreasonable in its terms as to actually
result in depriving the company proceeded against of its property without due process of law."
And counsel adds: "This is, of necessity, a Federal question."
Whether it is or not, and whether it is so dependent on the
facts of the case as not to be open to our review, is the next
ground to be considered.
2. The charge is that the property of plaintiff in error is
taken without due process of law, but whether so taken is
made to depend upon a question of fact, the requirement of
can unnecessary and wholly useless expenditure of money."
It is well established that on error to a state court this court
cannot reexamine the evidence, and when the facts are found
we are concluded by such finding. Egan v. Hart, 165 U.
S. 188. But in the case at bar we are met by the circumstance
that the Supreme Court equally divided on the question
whether the facts distinguish this case from 76 Minnesota,
469. The plaintiff in error, therefore, contends that there
has been no judgment of the Supreme Court on the facts and
they are open to review here. The contention is not tenable.
There is no statement of facts by the Supreme Court, and its
decision, though by a divided court, constituted an affirmance
of the finding of the District Court. The finding was as follows:
"That the respondent railroad company has no depot or
station house whatever for the accommodation of the public
upon its line of railroad at the village of Emmons, and that its
line of road is the only railroad reaching such village.
"That there is a suitable location for a depot or station
house upon respondent's right of way at the point referred to
and described in the order of the board of railroad and ware-

