WRIGHT v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 657
193 U. S. A

Statement of the Case.

,.

WRIGHT v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 178. Argued March 15, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

An insurance association organized on the assessment plan, with the consent
of a majority of the policy holders and the approval of the state superintendent of insurance changed its business from the assessment to the regular premium basis under a state law permitting the change, and
providing that nothing in it should impair the obligation of any contract; the original articles provided for their amendment except as to
one article which was not altered or affected by the change. In an
action brought by two dissatisfied holders of policies issued on the assessment basis to have the company wound up and its assets distributed on
the ground that their original contract was impaired by reason of the
change permitted by the state statute.
Held, that it is not every change in the charter of a corporation that will
work such a departure from the purposes of its creation as to forfeit
obligations incurred to it, or prevent its carrying on the modified
business.
Held, that there was no vested right in a policy holder to have the original
plan continued, that constituted a contract, nor did the state statute impair or operate to impair the obligation of any contract, within the meaning of the impairment clause of the constitution.

THIS case originated in a bill filed in the Circuit Court seeking
to declare a dissolution of the insurance company, the sequestration of its assets, and have a receiver appointed with a view
to winding up the affairs of the association. On the sixth of
August, 1880, an insurance association was organized under the
laws of Minnesota, known as the Bankers Association; afterwards, in 1884, its name was changed to the Bankers Life Association of Minnesota. The general purposes of the association
were to secure benevolent and fraternal codperation between
its members, and pecuniary assistance, to the families of its
deceased members and other designated beneficiaries. Its
yOj.,OxOiii-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1003.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

general plan of operation was declared to be to assess and collect from its members and to pay over to the beneficiaries certain stipulated sums to be secured to them by sufficient pledges
of money, which should be kept invested in United States
registered bonds. Male persons, not less than eighteen years
nor over fifty-five years of age, approved by the medical director,
were eligible to membership upon a deposit of as many dollars
as such person was years of age, as a part of the "guaranty
trust fund," which fund was to be a pledge to secure payment
to be made by the association upon the death of members, and
was to belong to the association; also a membership fee equal
to half the guaranty deposit, and the proportion of the annual
expense assessment for the year was required. It was provided:
"Each member of this corporation shall pay thereto, on the
last secular day of September, in each year, an assessment
equal to fifteen per cent on his contribution to the 'guaranty
trust fund,' to meet the operating expenses, and to be known
as his 'annual dues'; and upon the death of any member each
surviving member shall also pay to said corporation, on demand, an assessment equal to two per cent on his contribution
to said 'guaranty trust fund,' and out of this sum, obtained
from said last-named assessment, which shall be known as the
'mortuary assessment,' there shall be paid to such beneficiary
as is designated in the membership certificate the suni of money
in the said certificate named.
"All assessments upon members of this corporation shall be
apportioned among all members thereof pro rala,that is to say,
in proportion to the amount that each member has paid into
said guaranty trust fund. All assessments due or to be paid
to this corporation shall be paid to such officers or persons and
at such places as the said board of trustees shall name and
specify. In order to secure prompt payment of all losses
occasioned by death of its members and to avoid unreasonable
expense incident to the making and collection of assessments
and to promote the convenience of all parties, said assessments

WRIGHT v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 659
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

need not be made on account of such death loss separately, but
may be made at stated intervals as said board of trustees may
direct, to provide for all or any death losses of said corporation
that have taken place prior to the making of any such assessment or assessments. Any assessment for the purpose of paying any death losses shall uniformly be two per cent of each
surviving member's contribution to said 'guaranty trust fund'
for each such death loss, and in case any such assessment shall
produce a gross amount in excess of the amount needed to pay
such death losses, then such excess may be used to discharge
death losses subsequently occurring."
Article X provides as follows:
"All amounts pledged to this company to secure payments of
assessment, occasioned by death of the members shall be used
only for that purpose and meanwhile the same shall be and
remain invested in United States registered bonds, and shall
constitute and be known as 'the guaranty trust fund.' Such
bonds shall be made payable to this company and shall be
transferable or convertible only upon resolution of its board
of trustees, and such board shall have the exclusive charge and
control thereof.
"All interest realized from such bonds shall meanwhile be
used to defray the company's operating expenses.
"This article shall never be amended, or in any way at all
changed, without the consent of every member of this company,
to be given in writing signed by him, and filed with the company's secretary, and reciting in full the proposed amendment
or change."
It was provided that amounts payable to beneficiaries should
be collected by the company from its members, and in case of
death or defalilt on the part of any member in payment of his
assessments, the association might use his deposit in the guarantee fund to pay death losses in such manner as it might deem
best, such use not to work a payment of any assessment as
against the defaulting member.
Upon the death of a member the beneficiary was to receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

a sum equal to two per cent of the then subsisting guaranty
trust fund, not exceeding, however, two thousand dollars upon
each full membership, and not exceeding in any case six thousand dollars. Power to amend the articles was vested in
the trustees (except as therein otherwise provided), and they
were to direct, manage and control the business of the company.
Wright became a member of the company on December 10,
1892, and Truby on March 13, 1893. On December 24, 1898,
the board of trustees adopted amended articles of association
and by-laws. The amended articles declared that the by-laws
shall contain provisions which shall operate to preserve, continue, guard and protect all of the existing rights and privileges
of and promises and pledges to persons who were members at
the time the amended articles became operative.
Under the new articles a form of policy was issued, known as
the "guaranteed option policy." These policies were issued
to new holders, and members under the assessment plan were
permitted to transfer their membership so as to receive such
policies, which required the payment by the insured of a stipulated annual premium in advance. The premiums were
figured upon certain tables of mortality, and approximate those
which would have been charged by an old line company on the
legal reserve basis. This form of policy contained a condition
providing that if the fund derived from such policies shall be
reduced below the amount of the reserve, the company may
require the insured to pay his just proportion of the deficiency
within sixty days after written request therefor; or, at the option of the company, such proportion, with compound interest.
thereon at the rate of four per cent per annum, may be charged
as a lien against the policy and any sum which may become
payable thereunder. And in another form of policy it was
stipulated that if unexpected losses and expenses shall be found
to have reduced the funds derived from such policies below the
amount of the reserve, the company shall have the right to
apportion the deficiency ratably against it and each similar

WRIGHT v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 661
9

193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

policy in proportion to its reserve, and the amount so proportioned against each policy to be an indebtedness thereon,
bearing interest at four per cent per annum thereon until paid
by dividends or otherwise.
Afterwards, at a regular meeting and as provided in the laws
of Minnesota, General Laws of Minnesota of 1901, chapter 143,
the company, on August 5, 1901, accepted the provisions of the
statute making the company a regular reserve company, with
a policy on which a stated premium is paid and a fixed sum is
payable at death to the beneficiaries of the insured. The name
of the company was changed to the Minnesota Mutual Life
Insurance Company.
Section 21 of the act provides, among other things, "Any
insurance company, not excepting companies transacting life
or casualty business on the mortuary assessment or stipulated
premium plan, or either thereof, may qualify and be governed
by this chapter, anything in its special charter to the contrary
notwithstanding. Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall impair or operate to impair the obligation of any contract;
and provided further, that after such qualification the company
qualifying shall be governed solely by the act; and provided
further, that nothing in this act contained shall apply to any
town insurance, mortuary assessment, or stipulated premium
company, unless and until it shall accept and qualify under
the provisions hereof; and provided further, that notice of the
acceptance of said act be filed with the insurance commissioner."
Section 1 of the by-laws of the reorganized company provides:
"SEC. 1. To the extent necessary to protect and continue the
rights and privileges of any member holding a mortuary assessment certificate, and to preserve and secure the fulfillment of
all contract obligations to him, and to continue and perpetuate
in the company the power and authority to levy assessments
and to do and perform all and everything necessary or expedient to enable it to carry out the mortuary assessment con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

tracts in accordance with the terms thereof and with the law
and present by-laws in such case made and provided, the
present and existing by-laws shall continue in full force and
effect."
A large amount of business has been done on the new plan,
and the record discloses that the company has kept its contracts, is solvent, and doing business in many States.
Mr. John F. Byers for appellants.
Mr. William D: Mitchell, with whom Mr. Jared How, ilr.
Carl Thayer and Mr. Timothy R.Palmer were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JusTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill on the part of two dissatisfied holders of certificates, issued while the company was doing business on the
assessment plan, to wind up the affairs and distribute the assets
of what appears, so far as the record discloses, to be a solvent,
and prosperous mutual insurance company with which others
in-interest are apparently satisfied. The Federal right alleged
to be invaded, and the one adjudicated upon, which gives a
right of direct appeal prosecuted from the decree dismissing
the bill to this court, is the constitutional guaranty against the
impairment of the obligation of a contract contained in section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
The complaining certificate hollers allege that the laws of Minnesota, under which the changes in the plan of the insurance
business done by the defendant company were made, from the
assessment to the legal reserve, flat premium plan of "0ol line"
insurance, work a violation of that provision. As this is the
groundwork of the bill in the Federal court, it becomes necessary to make a case duly invoking protection of rights secured
by the Federal Constitution. The statute in question expressly

WRIGHT v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.
193 U. S.

663

Opinion of the Court.

provides that it shall not operate to impair the obligation of any
contract. In view of the argument that the act must necessarily have that effect, we inquire whether there was a contract
with the certificate holders that the plan of insurance should
never be changed. It is to be observed that the right of
amendment of the articles of association, except in one particular, was reserved in the original articles of association. In
article 10 it was provided that the amounts pledged to secure
payment of assessments occasioned by the death of members
should be used only for that purpose, and the same should
remain invested in United States registered bonds. This article, it was expressly provided, should never be amended or in
any way changed, without the written consent of every member of the company. It appears that in the changes through
which this company has passed this article has not been
amended, and the fund has remained intact for the uses and
purposes stated. It is not every change in the charter or articles of association of a corporation that will work such a departure from the purposes of its creation as to forfeit obligations
incurred to it or prevent the carrying on of the modified business. A radical departure affecting substantial rights may
release those who had come into the corporation on the basis
of its original charter.
There is much discussion in the authorities as to when a
charter amendment is of that fundamental character that a
majority of the members or stockholders cannot bind the
minority by agreeing to a change in the nature of the business
to be carried on or the purposes and objects for which the corporation was created. Each case depends upon its own circumstances, and how far the right of amendment has been impliedly or expressly reserved in the creation of corporate rights.
It would be unreasonable and oppressive to require a member
or stockholder to remain in a corporation whose fundamental
purposes have been changed against his will. On the other
hand, where the right of amendment is reserved in the statute
or articles of association, it is because the right to make changes

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

which the business may require is recognized, and the exercise
of the privilege may be vested in the controlling body of the
corporation. In such cases, where there is an exercise of the
power in good faith, which does not change the essential character of the business, but authorizes its extension upon a modified plan, both reason and authority support the corporation
in the exercise of the right. Nugent v. The Supervisors, 19
Wall. 241, 251; Picard v. Hughey, 58 Ohio St. 577; Miller v.
Insurance Company, 92 Tennessee, 167, 185; Supreme Lodge
Knights of Pythias v. Knight, 117 Indiana, 489.
In the present case we have by express stipulation the right
to amend the articles, with the reservation noted as to article 10.
Nor does it appear that the changes were arbitrarily made without good and substantial reason. The testimony in this record
discloses that the experience of this assessment insurance company was not anomalous or unusual. It was a case of history
repeating itself. Insurance payable from assessments upon
members may begin with fine prospects, but the lapse of time,
resulting in the maturing of certificates, and the abandonment
of the plan for other insurance by the better class of risks, has
not infrequently resulted in so increasing assessments and
diminishing indemnity as to result in failure. The testimony
that such was the history of this enterprise is ample. The
changes of 1898 to a plan of issuing, in exchange for certificates
and upon new business, a policy having some of the features of
old line insurance, seems to have been fully justified by the
state of the company's business. And the subsequent change
to a policy with straight premiums and fixed indemnity was
approved by the majority of the members upon proceedings
had under the Minnesota statute, and has resulted in a successful business and a considerable change of the members to the
new and more stable plan. It does not appear that any
certificate has been unpaid, nor is any failure shown to levy
assessments required under the original articles.
It is doubtless true that the assessments have increased owing
to the lesser number subject to assessment and the death of

WRIGHT r. MINNESOTA MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.
193 U. S.

665

Opinion of the Court.

members. What would have been realized from assessments
had there been no change of plan is matter of conjecture. The
business is still that of mutual insurance, notwithstanding
changed methods of operation. The new plan has been legally
adopted and approved by the insurance commissioner of the
State. The argument for appellants is that, having begun as
an assessment company, the plan can never be changed without
the consent of all interested. But we have seen that the right
of amendment was given in the original articles of association.
There was no contract that the plan of insurance should never
be changed. On the contrary, it was recognized that amendments might be necessary. There was no vested right to a continuation of a plan of insurance which experience might demonstrate would result disastrously to the company and its
members. We are cited to the statutes of many States authorizing similar changes and transfer of membership, but to
no case holding legislative authorization of a change of this
character to work the impairment by the State of the obligation of a contract.
The courts are slow to interfere with the management of
societies, such as this mutual insurance company. While the
rights of members will be protected against arbitrary action,
such organizations will ordinarily be left to their own methods
of action and management. The changes under consideration
were made in good faith and have been accepted by many of
the old members as well as those who have taken policies since
the changes in plan have been made. In our view of the case
the law of Minnesota did not impair the obligation of any contract, nor were the changes in the method and plan of this
company beyond its corporate powers. There is much testimony in the record as to the good faith of this proceeding and
the motives of the complainants in bringing it, which we do
not deem it necessary to consider, as the conclusions announced dispose of the case in favor of an affirmance of the
judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

