OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

property away, yet he may not contract with a carrier to take
the risk of the latter's negligently injuring it, or part with it
on the valuable consideration of a wager. But in general the
rule holds good. It does here. The State has absolute )ower
over the subject. It does not abridge that power by a(lol)Iing
the form of reference to a local vote. It may favor prohibition
to just such degree as it chooses, and to that end may let in a
local vote upon the subject as much or as little as it may
please. There is no such overmastering consideration of expediency attaching everywhere and always to the form of
voting, still less is there any such principle to be drawn from
the Fourteenth Amendment, as requires the two sides of a vote
on prohibition to be treated with equal favor by the State, the
subject matter of the vote being wholly within the State's
control. The only chance for the plaintiff in error to prevail
was under the state constitution. He has no case under the
Constitution of the United States.
Judgment aflirwmd.

ADAMS v. CHURCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MALHEUR COUNTY,

STATE OF

OREGON.
No. 169. Argued March 3, 1904.-Decided March 21, 1904.

On writ of error the finding of facts made in the Supreme Court of the Stato
is binding upon, and will be the basis of, the decision of this court,.
There is no prohibition in the Timber Culture Act of June 14, 1878, 20 Stat.
113, as there is in the Homestead Act, against an entryman who has in
good faith acquired a holding under the act, alienating an interest in the
lands prior to the issuing of the final certificate.

THis is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
Malheur County, State of Oregon, entered by direction of the
Supreme Court of Oregon,

ADAMS v. CHURCH.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The action originated in a suit by Steel against Adams to
settle the affairs of a copartnership theretofore carried on by
the parties, and so far as a Federal question is concerned, involves the right of the plaintiff below to have conveyed to him
an interest in a certain tract of land, acquired by Adams under
the Timber Culture Act, before the formation of the partnership. 20 Stat. 113. The defendant denies that this tract of
land was included in the partnership property. Upon appeal
to the Supreme Court of Oregon, upon whose direction the
decree was entered, it was found that at the time of the formation of the partnership Adams was the owner of a timber
culture claim covering the land in controversy, and the contention of the plaintiff, that it was agreed and understood at
the time of forming the partnership that such claim should be
conveyed to and become a part of the assets of the firm as soon
as Adams should acquire title from the government, was sustained.
The Federal question made is that such agreement is void
as against the statutes and policy of the United States.
Mr. R. J. Slater, with whom Mr. Will R. King was on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
The necessary rules and regulations under the law which
govern this case are contained in the general circular of January 1, 1889, Copp's Land Law, 1890, vol. 2, p. 85, in which
ยง 5 provides for the affidavit required by the act itself, and ยง 24
provides where, when and before whom the final proofs and
affidavits may be made. Section 26 provides what character
of proof shall be made and the form thereof, viz., forms 4-093
and 4-385 and 4-386.
The Timber Culture Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of the General Land Office for
the purpose of carrying that law into effect must be read and
construed together and the affidavit required by the regulation is as binding as that required by the act. Such rules
have the force of law, United States v. Eaton, 144 U. $. 688,

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

and a contract such as the one involved in this case cannot l)e
carried out without perjury.

Heischcr v. Flcischicr, 91 N. W.

Rep. 51.
The conclusion of the state court that such a contract is not,
inhibited by the act and therefore is not contrary to the public
policy of the United States and could be enforced after final
entry by the applicant is certainly wrong because it is not,
necessary that an act should expressly forbid the making of
the contract. Harris v. Runels, 12 I-Iow. 99; U. S. Bank v.
Owens, 2 Pet. 527; The Pioneer, Deady, 72.
Public policy is determined from the Constitution, laws and
decisions of the courts of the United States. 15 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 933.
By comparing the timber culture law with the homestead
and pre~mption laws it is plain that the general policy of the
United States in disposing of the public land is to secure to
each entryman his entry and to prevent any one individual
from securing either directly or indirectly more than one entry
under each of the said laws, and any contract which is designed
to subvert that general public policy of the Government cannot
be enforced in a court of equity. Anderson v. Carkins, 135
U. S. 483; Sims v. Bruce, 4 L. D. 369; United States v. Picard,
5 L. D. 313, distinguished. And see Oscanyan v. Arms Co.,
103 U. S. 261.
Mr Alonzo H. Stewart, with whom Mr. Joseph Simon was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
There is nothing in the Timber Culture Act which inhibitq
the sale of the land after the entryman has complied with the
law and completed his entry. No one contends that the application was not made in good faith or that the purpose was
not to hold and cultivate the land. Nothing in the case indicates that the entry was made for the ptrpose of speculation.
After making the entry and complying with the law in good
faith and without any previous intention or purpose so to do,
the entryman contracted to sell to his partnership firm the land

ADAMS v. CHURCH.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in question and this under the law he hdd the absolute right
to do. See opinion of the Supreme Court of Oregon; Sims v.
Bruce, 4 L. D. 369; United States v. Read, 5 L. D. 313.
As sustaining this view of the law in analogous cases, see
Arnold v. Christy, 33 Pac. Rep. 619; Palmerv. Marsh, 24 N. W.
Rep. 374; Richards v. Crews, 11 Oregon, 501; Hyde v. Holland,
18 Oregon, 337; Orr v. Stewart, 67 California, 275; Lang v.
Morey, 40 Minnesota, 396.
Upon the question of fact, as to whether Adams contracted
to sell to the partnership of Steel and Adams and received the
consideration, for the timber culture tract, this court is concluded by the findings of the Supreme Court of Oregon.
It has been repeatedly held, on error to a state court in a
chancery case (as also in a case at law) when the facts are
found by the court below, that the Supreme Court is concluded by such findings. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Dower
v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Bartlett v. Lockwood, 160 U. S. 357;
Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

The finding of facts made in the Supreme Court of Oregon
is binding upon this court and will be the basis of decision here.
Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658.
It appears that Adams made the entry under the Timber
Culture Act before the partnership agreement was entered
into, and there is nothing in the record to show that, in taking
the preliminary oath required by the statute, he acted otherwise than in good faith, and stated the truth as to the situation
and his purpose in making the entry. As recited in the title,
the purpose of the act is to encourage the growth of timber
on the Western prairies, and it is intended to induce settlers
to plant and cultivate trees with a view to receiving a patent
of the lands thus improved. Section 2 of the act (20 Stat.
113) requires the person applying for the benefit of the law to
VOL. oxem-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

19,3 U.

make affidavit that he is the head of a family (or over twentyone years of age) and a citizen of the United States, or has
declared his intention to become such; that the land specified
is devoid of timber; that the entry is made for the cultivation
of timber for the exclusive use and benefit of the applicant;
that the application is made in good faith, and not for the purpose of speculation, or directly or indirectly for the use or
benefit of any other person or persons whomsoever; that affiant
intends to hold and cultivate the land and to comply with the
provisions of the act, and has not made other entry under the
law. Before a final certificate can be given or patent issue,
eight years must elapse from the date of entry, and if at the
expiration of that time, or within five years thereafter, the
person making the entry, or in event of death his heir or legal
representative, shall prove by two credible witnesses that he,
she or they have planted, and for not less than eight years have
cultivated and protected, the required quantity and character
of trees; that not less than twenty-seven hundred trees were
planted on each acre, and that at the time of making such
proof there shall be then growing six hundred and seventyfive living and thrifty trees on each acre, a patent shall issue
for the land.
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that these provisions demonstrate the policy of the law to grant the lands
in question to the person filing the entry, his heirs and legal
representatives, and none other; and that to make the sale
-of an interest in the lands to another as a partner, as is found
to have been done in tlis case, is void as against public policy.
It is pointed out that the final affidavit, required by the rules
and regulations of the General Land Office made under authority of section 5 of the act, is to be in the same terms as
the preliminary one, and requires the claimant to make oath
that his entry was made in good faith, and not for the purpose
of speculation or indirectly for the benefit of any other person
whomsoever.
This requirement and the general purpose indicated in the

ADAMS v. CHURCH.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

terms of the act, it is argued, bring the case within the reasoning and spirit of Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483. In that
case it was held that a court of equity would not grant a decree
for specific performance of an agreement to sell the interest
of the homesteader made after settlement and before the oath
is filed for final certificate. But the homestead act specifically
requires that the applicant shall make affidavit before entry
is made that it is for the purpose of actual settlement and
cultivation, and not directly or indirectly for the use or benefit
of any other person. Rev. Stat. sec. 2290.
Further, the final proof requires affidavit by the applicant
"that no part of such land has been alienated except as provided in section 2288" (Rev. Stat. ยง2291), which section limits
the right of alienation to "church, cemetery or school purposes, or for the right of way for railroads."
In this state of the law, this court, in the Anderson case, in
an opinion by Mr. Justice Brewer, sustained the contention
i'1 behalf of Anderson "that the homestead is a gift from the
Government to the homesteader, conditioned upon his occupation for five years, and upon his making no disposition or
alienation during such term; that the affidavit of non-alienation
is as clear an expression of legislative intent as a direct prohibition; that the whole policy of government in this respect would
be thwarted if the homesteader were permitted to alienate
prior to the expiration of the five years; that a successful alienation could be accomplished only by perjury, and an attempted
alienation would only offer a constant inducement to the
homesteader to abandon his occupation, and thus deprive the
purchaser of any possibility of acquiring title to the land; that
a contract whose consummation necessarily rests on perjury
is illegal." And that courts of equity would not enforce the
performance of such contracts "founded upon perjury and
entered into in defiance of a clearly expressed will of the government." But this case is very far from supporting the contention of the plaintiff in error as to the construction of the
Timber Culture Act. There is no requirement.in the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

act that the entryman shall make oath that he has not alienated
any interest in the land. The policy of the government to
require such affidavit when it intends to make it a condition
precedent to granting a title was indicated in the homestead
act, and could readily have been pursued by a similar provision in the Timber Culture Act if it was intended to extend the
principle to that statute. The final proof under the latter act
has in view sworn testimony that the number of trees required
has been planted, and the prairies theretofore barren of timber
have been supplied with trees to the extent required by the
law before the title shall pass from the government. The
policy of the homestead act, no less than the specific statement
in the final oath, looks to a holding for a term of years by an
actual settler with a view to acquiring a home for himself.
In encouragement of such settlers, and none others, homesteads have been freely granted by the government.
This conclusion is in conformity with the decisions of the
Land Department in Sims v. Bruce, 4 L. D. 309, and United
States v. Read, 5 L. D. 313. In these cases the right of the
timber culture entryman to dispose of his holding, acquired
by him in good faith, before the final certificate, is fully recognized. It is argued that, conceding these decisions to hold
that such entryman can sell his claim after entry and before
final proof, it does not follow that he can sell it and agree to
prove up the entry claim and obtain a patent with a promise
to convey it to another, without violating the policy of the
law. But as the law does not require affidavit before final
certificate that no interest in the land has been sold, we perceive no reason why such contract, as was found to exist. by
the Supreme Court of Oregon, would vitiate the agreement
to convey after the certificate is granted and the patent issued.
If the entryman has complied with the statute and made the
entry in good faith, in accordance with the terms of the law
and the oath required of him upon making such entry, and has
done nothing inconsistent with the terms of the law, we find
nothing in the. fact that, during his term of occupancy, he has

