OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

profile. There is also an averment that this company "paid
taxes duly assessed against it by the city, county and State
of New York," but none that any tax was paid on the right
to construct a railroad in the streets of New York.
The result is that it appeared on the record that complainants possessed no contract rights, which were impaired, or of
which they were deprived, and that the suit did not really and
substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to the application or construction of the Constitution.
We, therefore, do not deem it necessary to further unfold
the convolutions of this lengthy bill. Many matters attacking
the validity of the Rapid Transit acts, and the proceedings in
municipal construction thereunder, were put forward, but we
are not called on to consider them in view of the conclusion
that the Circuit Court did not acquire jurisdiction.
Decree affirmed.

BARNEY v. THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 159.

Argued lMarch 3, 4, 1904.-Decided March 21, 1904.

Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked' on the ground of
deprivation of property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, it must appear at the outset that the alleged
deprivation was by act of the State.
And where it appeared on the face of plaintiff's own statement of his case
that the act complained of was not only unauthorized, but was forbidden,
by the state legislation in question, the Circuit Court rightly declined
to proceed further and dismissed the suit.

THIs was a bill to enjoin the city of New York, the Board
of Rapid Transit Commissioners for New York, John B. McDonald and the administratrix of Shaler, deceased, from proceeding with the construction of the rapid transit railroad

BARNEY v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tunnel under Park avenue, New York, adjacent to the premises
of Charles T. Barney," until the easements appurtenant thereto
shall have been acquired according to law and due compensation made therefor to complainant;" and from constructing
such railroad otherwise than in accordance with the routes and
general plan adopted and approved by the local authorities
and by the owners of abutting property, or the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court in lieu thereof.
From the bill it appeared that the Rapid Transit Board had,
on behalf of the city, devised routes and general plans, and
entered into a contract for the construction of a rapid transit
railroad with McDonald, of whom Ira A. Shaler was a subcontractor, under the Rapid Transit Acts of the State, Laws
1891, c. 4; Laws 1892, c. 102, 556; Laws 1894, cs. 528, 752;
Laws 1895, c. 519; Laws 1900, c. 729; Laws 1901, c. 587; Laws
1902, cs. 533, 542, 544, 584.
Park avenue was one of the streets under which the railroad
was authorized to be built, and the routes and general plan of
the road were prescribed by the board by resolutions of January 14 and February 4, 1897, which received the assent of the
local authorities and of the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court in lieu of the consent of the abutting property owners.
Complainant alleged that he "consented to the construction
of the said rapid transit railroad in accordance with the said
routes and general plan of construction, and did not oppose the
proceedings hereinafter mentioned, which the said Board of
Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners instituted for the purpose of obtaining the determination of three commissioners
appointed by the said Appellate Division that such rapid
transit railroad ought to be constructed and operated; nor did
your orator oppose the confirmation of said determination by
the said Appellate Division."
But complainant averred that the portion of the railroad
under Park avenue and in front of his premises was being built
twenty-seven feet nearer to his premises than was authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

by the routes and general plan; and that the work was "being
thus performed by said defendant, McDonald, and the said
Shaler without any authority other than certain directions
given by the chief engineer employed by the Board of Rapid
Transit Commissioners and embodied in certain so-called working drawings, or detail drawings, prepared by him or at his
instance, and recently approved informally by said board.
.
that the fact that such directions had been
And
given by the chief engineer and that said work was being thus
performed by the contractor, as aforesaid, was not until recently
specifically known to said board; that such action of said chief
engineer and contractor has never been formally or specifically
approved by said board; that there has been no change made
or authorized by said board in the said 'routes and general
plan,' nor has there been any modification of the contract or
specifications with reference to the construction of that part
of the tunnel lying under Park Avenue between Thirty-thi,'d
and Forty-first streets; that no notice was given to any of the
property owners along said street that it was proposed by the
defendants or any of them to change the position of the tunnel
to any material extent from the position shown and described
in the said 'routes and general plan,' nor was any opportunity ever given to said property owners or the citizens generally to be heard with respect to any such change."
Complainant further averred "that at none of the times
herein mentioned did the said Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners have authority (if at all) to enter into any
contract for the construction of any rapid transit railroad
under or upon the said Park avenue, except in accordance
with the said 'routes and general plan' contained in the said
resolutions of January 14 and February 4, 1897, and that
at no time did the said board have authority to prepare detailed plans and specifications, except (if at all) in accordance
with the said general plan of construction or to alter any plans
or specifications prepared by them, excepting in accordance
with said general plan of construction. That the act of the

BARNEY v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

said board in permitting the defendants McDonald and the
said Shaler to enter upon that part of Park avenue between
Thirty-third and Forty-first streets where the tunnel is now
in process of construction, as aforesaid, was illegal and unauthorized, and the defendants McDonald and the said Shaler
have entered upon the same unlawfully and without authority;
and for the further reason that the construction of the rapid
transit railway on the easterly side of Park avenue, in front
of your orator's said premises, takes his property without due
process of law, in violation of the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and that
said rapid transit act, so far as it purports to authorize the
construction of a tunnel and railway in said Park avenue
without the consent of abutting owners or compensation therefor, is void, because it deprives your orator of his property
without due process of law, in violation of the provisions of
the said amendment."
On the bill and affidavits, complainant moved for an injunction pendente lite, and defendants resisted the motion, submitting, in pursuance of stipulation, affidavits filed in their
behalf in the case of Huntington v. City of New York and others,
the same defendants, since brought here, numbered at this
term 173, and argued with this case. The opinion in that case,
118 Fed. Rep. 683, was adopted in this, and the court of its
own motion, under section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
entered a decree dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction,
and certified that question to this court.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts and Mr. Arthur H. Masten for appellants in this case and in No. 173.
The theory of the court seemed to be that an agent of the
State can only be considered such when it acts in conformity
with the specific authority given to it by the act of the Legislature creating it, and that if it does any act without express
legislative authority, although purporting, to act by reason of
the power and right conferred upon it by the State, such act
VOL. cxclII-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

193 U. S.

is not done in its character as agent and is not to be deemed
the act of the State.
This question, however, is no longer open for argument;
any act of an agent of a State, done pursuant to the powers
derived by him from the Legislature and by virtue of his
public position as such agent, whether specifically authorized
by the statute appointing him or not, is an act of the State
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 394; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S.3, 15;
Yick Wo v. Hopkinis, 118 U. S.356, 374; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 34; Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. 8. 403;
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.226, 233.
In N. C. & St. L. Ry. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168, the statute
itself was held unconstitutional. Blake v. MeClung, 172 U. S.
239, involved a dispute over the state statute. In Rirer. ide
& A. Ry. Co. v. Rierside, 118 Fed. Rep. 736; Vicksbiarg Water
Works Co. v. Vicksbztrg, 185 U. S.65, the action complained
of was action by a municipal legislature. In Baocroft v. Coninissioners, 121 Fed. Rep. 874, the act complained of was the
taxing of property by commissioners to whom the State had
directly delegated the power to tax. Water Works Co. v.
San Francisco, 124 Fed. Rep. 574, involved the improper
exercise of a power to fix rates to be paid for water supply,
directly delegated to local authorities by the Legislature.
The court below was without jurisdiction for the reason
that the bill of complaint did not show that the appellant was
threatened with the deprivation of any property.
The fee of the streets of New York belongs to the city itself.
Hoffman, Estate and Rights of the Corporation of New York,
368; People v. Kerr, 27 N. Y. 188; Kellinger v. Forty-second
Street Railway Co., 50 N. Y. 206, 211; M1atter of New York C.
& H. R. R. R. Co., 77 N. Y. 248; Drake v. Hudson River R. R.
Co., 7 Barb. 508. The only easements which the appellant has
in the street are easements of light, air and access. Story v.
N. Y. El. Ry. Co., 90 N. Y. 122; Bischoff v. N. Y. El. R. R.,

BARNEY v.
193 U. S.

CMTY OF NEW YORK.

Argument for Appellees.

138 N. Y. 257, 262; American Bank Note Co. v. New York El.
R. R. Co., 129 N. Y. 252, 271, and cases cited.
Although guilty of a deviation of some thirty feet from the
duly filQd routes and general plan hereinbefore referred to, the
Board of Rapid Transit has acted in the name of and for the
State, and from purely public motives. It has been clothed
with the State's power, and its acts, even though now held by
the court below to have been unauthorized, were in point of fact
carried through solely by virtue of the authority conferred
upon it by the State and because of the power derived from
the Legislature. See Reagan v. Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, 154 U. S. 362.
As to what constitutes the act of a State with reference to
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, see Iron Mountain R. Co. v. Memphis, 96 Fed.
Rep. 113; Pacific Gas Imp. Co. v. Ellert, 64 Fed. Rep. 421, and
cases cited on p. 429.
Mr. Edward M. Shepard for the appellees, members of
the Rapid Transit Board, and Mr. Platt A. Brown, with
whom Mr. DeLancey Nicoll was on the brief, for appellee
McDonald:
In view of the decisions of the state court and for the purposes
of this case it must be assumed that the construction complained of by the appellant is in violation of the laws of New
York and without any authority from the State of New York.
So that the controversy is one between parties all of whom
are citizens of the State of New York in the course of which
the sole question is whether the laws of that State have or have
not been violated by the acts of the defendants. Such a controversy, as we submit, belongs to the courts of the State
itself. Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194; Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S.313; St. Joseph & Grand Island Co. v. Steele,
167 U. S.659; Hartell v. Tilghman, 99 U. S.547; United States
v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 554; United States v,Harris, 106
U. S. 6291 638.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellees.

193 U. S.

The fact that the Rapid Transit Commissioners have some
duties and powers in the construction of a rapid transit railroad
does not commit the State to any acts of theirs in plain excess
of their authority. Missouri v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165. rhe
rigorous provisions of law already quotc(l make it clear that
the placing of the tunnel of a rapid transit railroad under a part.
of the street not within the routes and general plan is as clear
a violation of law as to place a raihoad in an entirely (lifferent
street or in a different city.
Although the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendnent
runs against the State and the State alone, it is not (lis)uted
that the State may act by executive officers as well as by its
courts or its legislature. Ex.parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, at p. 233.
The unlawful act of a man does not give the party aggrieved
a claim against the State or other government of which he was
a public officer. Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; United Statcs
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunst.wick
R. R., 109 U. S.446, 452; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 50R
518; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S.255, 271; Belknap v. Sc/dil,
161 U. S. 10; Guthrie's Fourteenth Amendment, 72; Kiernan
v. Multonomah County, 95 Fed. Rep. 849; Re Storte, 109 lFed.
Rep. 807; Manhattan Ry. Co. v. City of New York, 1S Fed.
Rep. 195. None of these authorities is weakened by the
cases cited by appellants.
The rapid transit railroad in Park Avenue is entirely under
ground, and affects neither light nor air nor access of abutters,
and the alleged impairment of the comfort to be enjoyed in
the plaintiff's premises tnrough the acts of the city and its
Rapid Transit Board underneath the surface of its own streets
is not a taking of property within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Marchant v. Pa. R. R. Co., 153 U. .
380; Meyer v. City of Rich7ond, 172 U. S.82; Gibson v. United
States, 166 U. S. 269; Eldridge v. Trezeicant, 160 U. 8. 452;
Messenger v. M. R. Co., 129 N. Y. 502; Guthrie's Fourteenth
Amendment, 94; Pa. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 132 U. S. 75,

BARNEY v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked upon the
ground that by the tunnel construction sought to be enjoined,
complainant was deprived of his property without due process
of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. But that
amendment prohibits deprivation by a State, and here the bill
alleged that what was done was without authority and illegal.
The city acts through the Rapid Transit Board, which possesses the powers specifically vested. It is empowered to prescribe the routes and general plan of any proposed rapid transit
railroad within the city, and every such plan must "contain
such details as to manner of construction as may be necessary
to show the extent to which any street, avenue or other public
place is to be encroached upon and the property abutting
thereon affected."
Consents of the municipal authorities
and the abutting property owners to construction on the
routes and plan adopted must be obtained, and any change
in the detailed plans and specifications shall accord with the
general plan of construction, and, if not, like consents must
be obtained to such change.
The bill asserted that the easterly tunnel section under
Park avenue was not within the routes and general plan consented to, and that the construction was unauthorized. And
this is the view taken by the Supreme Court of New York.
Barney v. Board of Rapid Transit Commissioners, 38 Misc.
Rep. 549; Barney v. City of New York, 39 Misc. Rep. 719;
Barney v. City of New York, 83 App. Div. (N. Y.) 237.
Thus the bill on its face proceeded on the theory that the
construction of the easterly tunnel section was not only not
authorized, but was forbidden by the legislation, and hence
was not action by the State of New York within the intent and
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the Circuit Court
was right in dismissing it for want of jurisdiction.
Controversies over violations of the laws of New York are

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

controversies to be dealt with by the courts of the State.
Complainant's grievance was that the law of the State had been
broken, and not a grievance inflicted by action of the legislative
or executive or judicial department of the State; and the principle is that it is for the state courts to remedy acts of state
officers done without the authority of or contrary to state law.
Missoitri v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165; Ciiil Rights Cases, 109
UJ. S. 3; Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S. 313.
In Virginia v. Rives, referring to an alleged denial of civil
rights on account of race and color in the empaneling of a
jury, the laws of Virginia in respect of the selection of juries
appearing to be unobjectionable, Mr. Justice Strong, speaking
for the court, said:
"It is evident, therefore, that the denial or inability to enforce in the judicial tribunals of a State, rights secured to a
defendant by any law providing for the equal civil rights of all
persons citizens of the United States, of which sec. 641 speaks,
is primarily, if not exclusively, a denial of such rights, or an
inability to enforce them, resulting from the constitution or
laws of the State, rather than a denial first made maifest at
the trial of the case. In other words, the statute has reference
to a legislative denial or an inability resulting from it.
"When a statute of the State denies his right, or interposes
a bar to his enforcing it, in the judicial tribunals, the presumption is fair that they will be controlled by it, in their decisions; and in such a case a defendant may affirm on oath what
is necessary for a removal. Such a case is clearly within the
provisions of sec. 641. But when a subordinate officer of the
State, in violation of state law, undertakes to deprive an accused party of a right which the statute law accords to him, as
in the case at bar, it can hardly be said that he is denied, or
cannot enforce, 'in the judicial tribunals of the State' the
rights which belong to him. In such a case it ought to be presumed the court will redress the wrong. If the accused is
deprived of the right, the final and practical denial will be in
the judicial tribunal which tries the case, after the trial has

BARNEY v. CITY OV NEW YORK.

193 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

commenced. If, as in this case, the subordinate officer whose
duty it is to select jurors fails to discharge that duty in the
true spirit of the law; if he excludes all colored men solely
because they are colored; or if the sheriff to whom a venire is
given, composed of both white and colored citizens, neglects
to summon the colored jurors only because they are colored;
or if a clerk whose duty it is to take the twelve names from the
box rejects all the colored jurors for the same reason,-it can
with no propriety be said the defendant's right is denied by
the State and cannot be enforced in the judicial tribunals.
The court will correct the wrong, will quash the indictment
or the panel, or, if not, the error will be corrected in a superior
court. We cannot think such cases are within the provisions
of sec. 641. Denials of equal rights in the action of the judicial
tribunals of the State are left to the revisory powers of this
court."
In the Civil Rights Cases, in which the court was dealing
with the act of March 1, 1875, 18 Stat. 335, c. 114, Mr. Justice Bradley said:
"In this connection it is proper to state that civil rights, such
as are guaranteed by the Constitution against state aggression,
cannot be impaired by the wrongful acts of individuals, unsupported by state authority in the shape of laws, customs, or
judicial or executive proceedings. The wrongful act of an
individual, unsupported by any such authority, is simply a
private wrong, or a crime of that individual; an invasion of the
rights of the injured party, it is true, whether they affect his
person, his property, or his reputation; but if not sanctioned
in some way by the State, or not done under state authority,
his rights remain in full force, and may presumably be vindicated by resort to the laws of the State for redress."
There are many cases in this court involving the application
of the Eleventh Amendment which draw the distinction between acts of public officerq virtute officii, and their acts without
lawful right, colore officii; and in Pennoyer v. McConnaughy,
140 U. S. 1, Mr. Justice Lamar defined the two classes to be,

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

those brought against officers of the State as representing the
State's action and liability, and those against officers of the
State when claiming to act as such without lawful authority.
The subject is discussed at length and the cases cited in Tindal
v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, and Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516.
Appellant's counsel rely on certain expressions in the opinion
in Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, but that was a case in
which what was regarded as the final judgment of a state court
was under consideration, and Mr. Justice Strong also said:
"Whoever, by virtue of public position under a state govern-,
ment, deprives another of property, life, or liberty, without
due process of law, or denies or takes away the equal protection of the laws, violates the constitutional inhibition; and as he
acts in the name and for the State, and is clothed with the
State's power, his act is that of the State."
And see Manhattan Railway Company v. City of New York,
18 Fed. Rep. 195; Kiernanv. Multnomah County, 95 Fed. Rep.
849; In re Storti, 109 Fed. Rep. 807.
Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, and Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Company v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, are cited
by appellant, but in those cases judgments of the highest
judicial tribunals of the State were treated as acts of the State,
and no question of the correctness of that view arises here.
And so in Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 154
U. S. 362, the general assembly of Texas had established a railroad commission and given it power to fix reasonable rates,
with discretion to determine what rates were reasonable. The
act provided that suits might be brought by individuals against
the commission "in a court of competent jurisdiction in Travis
County, Texas," and a citizen of another State sued them in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district which
embraced Travis County, and this was held to be authorized
by the state statute.
And as the establishment of rates by the commission was the
establishment of rates by the State itself, and the determination
of what was reasonable was left to the discretion of the com-

