BACHE v. HUNT.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

he says: "The proofs furnished in this case are sufficient to
show that these three persons were engaged in business rather
than in manual labor in 1894."
In this state of the record an examination thereof satisfies
us that the appellants adduced testimony which established
that they were bona fide "merchants" within the meaning of
the law at the time registration was required of laborers by
the act of Congress, and as the orders of deportation were made
on the sole ground that appellants failed to show that fact the
Judgments are reversed and appellants discharged.

BACHE v. HUNT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 177.

Argued M"arch 11, 14, 15, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

The question of jurisdiction which the act of March 3, 1891, provides may
be certified direct to this court must be one involving the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court as a Federal Court and not in respect of its general
authority as a judicial tribunal. Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.
225.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court

Mr. F. Spiegelberg for appellant.
Mr. Adrian H. Joline, with whom Mr. Clarence Brown was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was brought directly to this court as coming within
the first of the classes of cases enumerated in section five of

OCTOIBER TERMA,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. q.

the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, in which that may be done,
the Circuit Court having certified that the jurisdiction of the
court was in issue, and granted the appeal on that ground.
The case was briefly this: Samuel Hunt, receiver, filed his
petition in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio in the foreclosure suit of The Co?tinental Trust Company of New York v. The Toledo, St. Louis
& Kansas City Railroad Company, Jules S. Bache, Sylrester II.
Kneeland and others, asserting that he was entitled, out of
certain of the first mortgage bonds foreclosed in the suit, and
stock of the railroad company, in the hands of the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, to be reimbursed for amounts paid
by him, or his predecessors, as receiver, in the extinguishment
of prior claims which the bonds and stock had been deposited
to secure, and seeking a decree that they be delivered to him
or sold and the proceeds so delivered, etc. The deposit had
been made to secure payment of certain underlying liens,
which Kneeland had agreed to pay and discharge, and which
he had failed to do, and the receiver had clone so out of the
moneys and property of the railroad company.
Bache, who was a citizen of and resided in New York, and
others were ordered to demur, plead or answer the petition,
and copies of the order were mailed to the parties named, including Bache. Bache appeared specially and filed a plea to
the jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter bec(use
of the pendency in the Supreme Court of New York of a suit
instituted prior to the filing of Hunt's petition by Bache as a
judgment creditor of Kneeland against the Toledo, St. Louis
and Kansas City Railroad Company, Kneeland and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, in which the last-nientioned
company had been appointed receiver of the securities forming
the subject of the iHunt petition, on the same day on which
the Hunt petition was filed; and of his person because of the
insufficiency of the method of service of the order. The plea
was overruled.
The Circuit Court held that when the receiver use(d the

BACHE v. HUNT.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

moneys of the receivership to discharge the underlying liens,
the equitable right accrued to him and to those whom he represented, to be reimbursed out of the securities deposited with
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company; and that as a junior
encumbrancer, Bache had never been dismissed from the suit,
and as such was before the court for all purposes of the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property.
It appeared that Bache was made one of the original defendants in the foreclosure suit as a junior encumbrancer and
entered his appearance; that he afterwards set up his claim,
by answer, in that suit, it being the same claim on which his
proceeding in the state court was founded; that he filed his
claims before the special master under order in that behalf;
and that Kneeland was also a party to the cause.
Bache, declining to plead further, the petition was taken
as confessed as to him, and a decree was subsequently entered
that the Toledo, St. Louis and Western Railroad Company, as
successor to the rights of Hunt, as receiver, and his predecessors, was entitled out of the securities in the hands of the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to be reimbursed in the
amounts which had been paid by the receivers in respect of the
prior claims; and that said securities be delivered to the railroad company, or, on default of such delivery within thirty
days, that they should stand cancelled and of no further force
or effect. From this decree the pending appeal was thereupon
taken.
It will be perceived that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
was only questioned in respect of its general authority as a
judicial tribunal and not in respect of its power as a court of
the United States. The established rules of practice as to
bringing in parties to ancillary or pro interesse suo proceedings,
and those governing courts of concurrent jurisdiction as between themselves, were alone involved. It is settled that the
question of jurisdiction which the act of March 3, 1891, provides may be certified to this court directly, must be one
involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal

