OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

adopted which will not render the condition repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, we need not determine.
The statute in question, in its entirety, has been construed by
the Supreme Court of Michigan and held valid, and its decision as to the proper interpretation of the language of the
act in respect to the mole of ascertaining the gross receipts
per mile does not render the statute repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, within the ruling recently made
by this court in JVisconsin & .Aichigan,Railway Company v.
Powers, 191 U. S. 379.
Jrudgment aflirmed.

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SINELL.
FREORI

TO THE SUPREME COUInT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 124. Argued January 14, 1904.-)ecided February 23, 104.

The Fourteenth Amendment safeguards fundamental rights and not, the
mere form which a State may see proper to designate for their enforcement and protection; and where such rights are equally protected and
preserved they cannot be said to be denied because of the forum in which
the State deems it best to provide for a trial.
The more direction of a state law that the venue of a cause under given
circumstances shall be transferred does not violate the equal protection
of the laws where the laws are equally administered in both formns.
Section 5030, Revised Statutes of Ohio, providing for a change of venue
under certain conditions, where a corporation having more than fifty
stockholders is a party, is not repugnant to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

.2Jr.John If Warringlon, with whom Mr. EP1.IF Jfith'ee
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Corporations are persons within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Smytli v. Agnes, 169 U. S. 466, 522.
Plaintiff in error is a domestic corporation and was, therefore,
entitled in the court, where this suit was brought, to privileges
equal to those of its adversary, touching the right to change

CINCINNATI STREET RAILVAY CO. v. SNELL.
193 U. S.

31

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of venue, unless at least the corporation was eliminated in this
regard from the category of natural persons through some
rational and not arbitrary statutory classification. Blake v.
JfcGClung, 172 U. S. 239, 260; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yard Co., 183 U. S. 79; State v. inan, 51 Kansas, 146.
If once the door is opened to the affirmance of the proposiLion that a State may regulate one who does much business,
while not regulating another who does the same but less business, then all significance in the guarantee of the equal protection of the laws is lost. Con nolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540 ; Gu f, Colo. & S. F v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 153,
161; Chicago &c. 2. R2. Co. v. 2Toss, 60 AMississippi, 641.
The present statute cannot be confounded with state legislation limiting the right of trial by jury as to the whole number of a natural and distinct class, Walker v. Sauvinet, 92
U. S. 90 ; or with a statute prohibiting all foreign corporations
violating the enactment from doing business within the State,
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28 ; or with a state
law vesting in the courts power to change the place of trial as
to all persons alike who are prosecuted for criminal violations.
Gut v. Te State, 9 Wall. 35; nor upheld under the right of
States to establish police regulations, Railway Co. v. 3lltthews, 174 U. S. 96 ; or to classify the subjects of taxation,
American Sugar ]R2ftning Co. v. Louisiana,179 U. S. 89;
Billings v. illinois, 188 U. S. 97; or to classify the contracts
of certain corporations, like insurance companies, Fid. Mitt.
-Life Association v. Mettlr, 185 U. S. 308, 326.
This court is not concluded by the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the State. Yick IFo v. Hfopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 366;
Atchison, Topeka &c. 12. 1i. v. iXatthews8, 174 U. S. 96, at 100.
-31r. John TV. Ioyfe, with whom Mr. Tlomas 1. Maiclie was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
Section 5033, Rev. Stat. Ohio is not unconstitutional. It
does not impose a penalty nor is it class legislation but merely
furnishes a rule applicable to all parties similarly situated, and
coming within the terms of its provision, by which to guarantee to everyone a fair trial free from all local influences.

OCTOBER TERMA,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

There is no presumption that one court created by the laws
of the State of Ohio will not give just as fair a trial as any
other court in the same State. This court has always leaned
to the construction of state statutes by the courts of last resort of the State.
In determining whether the legislature in a particular enactment has passed the limits of its constitutional authority,
every reasonable presumption must be indulged in favor of the
validity of such enactment. Sweet v. Recel, 159 U. S. 380,
392; Pressler v. Jllinois, 116 U. S. 252, 269.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not enlarge the privileges
or immunities of a citizen of the United States, but furnishes
a guaranty for existing privileges and immunities and prohibits
the State from abridging them. Bradwell v. The IState, 16
Wall. 130; i ire Lockwood, Petitioner,154 U. S. 116.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not profess to secure to
all persons in the United States the benefit of the same laws
and the same remedies. Great diversity in these respects may
exist in two States separated by an imaginary line. On one
side of this line there may be a right of trial by jury, and on
the other side no such right. Each State prescribes its own
modes of judicial proceeding. .Missouri v. Lewisv, ol U. S.
22, 31. There is no constitutional objection to legislation that
is special in its character. X3fissouri Ry. Co. v. Jiaci' y, 1207
U. S. 205, 209 ; iissouri Pac. fY. Co. v. fllmes, 115 U. S.
512; Minn. i. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 2(1; /inn. & &.
.L. By!. v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 36-1; St. louis & t Fran. fly/.
Co. v. .lathews, 165 U. S. 1 ; Iayes v. .Jrissouri,120 IT. S. 6x;
Bell's Gal ) fy. Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 237; tDohison, Topeka & Santa Kj R. R. Co. v. iMathews, 174 IT. S. 90'.
See also Waters-Pierce Oil Comdpany v. Texas, 177 U. S. 2S.
The States may regulate trials in their own way.
i'a/ker
v. Saitvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Gut v. The State, 9 Wall. 35; .f. I'
& .
. Co. v. New Y rk, 165 U. S. 628.
AIR.

JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Snell, the defendant in error, sued the railvay company, the
plaintiff in error, in the Common Pleas Court of Hamilton

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. v. SNELL.
193 U. S.

33

Opinion of the Court.

County, Ohio, to recover for alleged personal injuries. Availing of a section of the Ohio statutes, Snell moved that the
cause be transferred for trial to the Court of Common Pleas
of an adjoining county, and reserved an exception to a denial
of such request. The trial resulted in a verdict in favor of the
railway company.
Error was prosecuted by Snell to the Circuit Court of
Hamilton County, and the judgment being affirmed in that
court the case was taken to the Supreme Court of Ohio. The
error complained of was the refusal of the trial court to grant
a transfer of the cause. The railway company insisted in both
courts that the transfer had been rightly refused on technical
grounds, and because the state statute upon which the transfer was asked was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. The Supreme Court
of Ohio decided that under the state statute the court should
have transferred the cause and that the statute which required
this transfer was not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. 60 Ohio St. 256. The case was then brought to this
court by the railway company and was dismissed because the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State was not final.
Cincinnati Street Bailway Company v. Snell, 179 U. S. 395.

The cause thereupon proceeded in the state court and was
transferred from Hamilton County to the Common Pleas
Court of an adjoining county, where a trial was had, which
resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of Snell. The
railway company prosecuted error to the Circuit Court of the
county, and, failing to secure a reversal in that tribunal, carried
the case to the Supreme Court of Ohio, by which court the
judgment of the trial court was affirmed. In all the courts
the railway company reiterated its contention concerning the
repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States of the
statute providing for the transfer of the cause, and its claims
on this subject were expressly overruled. This writ of error
was thereupon allowed.
Section 5030 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, upon which
the application for the transfer of the cause was allowed, is as
follows:
V'ol- exciii-3

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

"When a corporation having more than fifty stockholders
is a party in action pending in a county in which the corporation keeps its principal office, or transacts its principal business.
if the opposite party make affidavit that he cannot, as he holieves, have a fair and impartial trial in that county, and his
application is sustained by the several affidavits of five credible persons residing in such county, the court shall change the
venue to the adjoining county most convenient for both
parties."
The Supreme Court of Ohio, in disposing of the objection
that the statute was repuguant to the equal protection and the
due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, among
other things, said:
" We are unable to adopt that view. It has never been regarded as essential to the validity of renedial procedure that
it should be applicable in all of its provisions to all persons or
parties, alike. Different situations and conditions often render
appropriate and necessary different provisions, the necessity
or propriety of which rests largely in the legislative discretion.
Generally, actions against individuals must be brought in
the county where the defendant resides or may be personally
served with process; and generally, actions against corporations are required to be brought in the county in which the
corporation is situate, or has its principal office or place of
business, or an office or agent; while insurance companies
may be sued in any county where the cause of action or
any part of it arose, a mining corporation in any county in
which it owns or operates a mine, and a railroad company in
any county into which the road runs. Of a like nature are
regulations for changes of venue. They are designed to secure to parties a fair and impartial trial of their causes, which
is the ultimate and highest purpose of judicial proceeding; and
the extent to which such regulations may go, for the accomplishment of that purpose, is addressed to a sound legislative discretion, in view of the nature of the case to be provided for, and
the probable conditions likely to arise."
And in further commentihg upon the effect of the remedy

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. v. SNELL.
193 U. S.

35

Opinion of the Court.

which the statute afforded upon the substantial rights of the
parties, the court observed:
" In neither case, however, is any party deprived of the equal
protection of the law, for each is assured of a fair trial, with
equal opportunities to establish and enforce his rights; nor is
the remedy by due course of law denied, because in the forum
to which the cause is removed, the trial i conducted in the
same way, under the same mode of procedure, as in that from
which it was changed, with all remedial rights of the parties
unimpaired. The only complaint is that the trial will be attended with some inconvenience and additional expense; but
in that respect both parties are equally affected, and must
necessarily be so in any change of venue for any cause; and
the objection is, we think, insufficient to annul a statute,
otherwise unobjectionable, which, in the legislative estimation, was demanded in order to secure the impartial administration of justice."
None of the errors assigned or arguments advanced to sustain them pretend that any unequal law governed the trial of
the cause in the courts below or that the result of such trial
was a denial of the equal protection of the laws. The sole
contention is that the equal protection of the laws was denied
because an equal opportunity was not afforded to secure a
transfer of the cause from the court in which it was originally
brought to the court in which it was ultimately tried. Thus,
it is argued that the plaintiff Snell under the statute was given
the right to have the cause transferred whilst a like right was
not conferred on the corporation; that the existence of prejudice justifying the transfer was made by the statute to
depend upon the domicil and number of stockholders in the
corporation, while no equivalent right was given the corporation growing out of any prejudice which might have existed
against the corporation, it being moreover asserted that the
causes stated in the statute as basis for the transfer furnish no
just ground for the classification made by the statute. The
entire ground, therefore, relied on to show that the statute is
repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment rests upon the assumption that such amendment not only secures that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

rights and obligations of persons shall be measured by equal
laws, but also that the provisions of the amendment control
the States in the creation of courts and in the provisions made
for the trial of causes in the courts which are created.
This proposition, however, was long since decided to be untenable. .[is'ouri v. Lewis, lol U. S. 22; Chapp)el Clwmical
f Fertilizel Company v. 1Suiph ur lTin, s ComTany, 172 IT. S.
474. In the first of these cases it was directly held that the
Fourteenth Amendment did not operate to deprive the several
States of the complete power to create such courts as were
deemed essential, and to endow them with such jurisdiction as
was considered appropriate. This being true, it follows, as
the lesser is contained in the greater power, that the state law
which authorized under enumerated circumstances and conditions the transfer of the cause from one court to another, was
equally unaffected by the provisions of the Fourteenth A mendment. But conceding, arguendo, the contrary, this case is
without merit.
As previously shown, the Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio pointed out in its opinion that the rights of the parties
were governed in the court to which the case was transferred
by the same law and the same rules which would have prevailed had the case been tried in the court in which it was
originally brought. And this has not been challenged either
by the assignments of error or any of the arguments made to
sustain them. The proposition to which the case reduces
itself is therefore this: That although the protection of equal
laws equally administered has been enjoyed, nevertheless there
has been a denial of the equal protection of the law within
the purview of the Fourteenth Amendment, only because the
State has allowed one person to seek one forum and has not
allowed another person, asserted to be in the same class, to
seek the same forum, although as to both persons the law has
afforded a forum in which the same and equal laws are applicable and administered. But it is fundamental rights which
the Fourteenth Amendment safeguards and not the mere forum
which a State may see proper to designate for the enforcement and protection of such rights. Given therefore a condi-

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. v. SNELL.
193 U. S.

37

Opinion of the Court.

tion where fundamental rights are equally protected and preserved, it is impossible to say that the rights which are thus
protected and preserved have been denied because the State
has deemed best to provide for a trial in one forum or another.
It is not under any view the mere tribunal into which a person
is authorized to proceed by a State which determines whether
the equal protection of the law has been afforded, but whether
in the tribunals which the State has provided equal laws
prevail.
It follows that the mere direction of the state law that a
cause under given circumstances shall be tried iii one forum
instead of another, or may be transferred when brought from
one forum to another, can have no tendency to violate the
guarantee of the equal protection of the laws where in both
the forums equality of law governs and equality of administration prevails. In Iowa Central Railway Company v. Iowa,
160 IT. S. 389, 393, this court said :
"But it is clear that the Fourteenth Amendment in no way
undertakes to control the power of a State to determine by
what process legal rights may be asserted or legal obligations
be enforced, provided the method of procedure adopted for
these purposes gives reasonable notice and affords fair opportunity to be heard before the issues are decided. This being
the case, it was obviously not a right, privilege or immunity
of a citizen of the United States to have a controversy in the
state court prosecuted or determined by one form of action
instead of by another."
And the same pr'inciple was reiterated in Backus v. Fort
Street Union Depot Company, 169 U. S. 557, 569, and in TViison v. Nort7 Carolina,169 U. S. 586.

It was further expressed

in.Williams v. E]4gleston, 170 U. S. 304, and in Louisville &
Vashville Railroad Comnlpany v. Schmidt,.177 U. S. 230. The
cases decided in this court which are relied upon at bar to
sustain the contrary contention are not apposite. They are
Gulf, Colorado & Santa F Railroad Company v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Company, 183
U. S. 79, and Connolly v. Un;on, Sewer Pipe Company, 184
U. S. 540. Each of these cases irvolved determining whether

