OCTOBER TERAM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

peals is given upon affirming the order granting the injunction.
The case was then tried, and the decision of the United States
Circuit Court in Minnesota, upon such trial, directing judgment for the plaintiffs, is reported in 103 Fed. Rep. 104, and
upon appeal the decision of the United States Circuit Court,
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming the judgment, is
reported in 109 Fed. Rep. 354. Those courts were of opinion
that the Land Department had no right to make the proposed
survey, and that the fractional lots went to the lake, and the
government could not revoke its grant and correct the survey
so far as regarded the patentees, or their grantees, in good
faith. Upon writ of error from this court the judgment was
reversed for the reason that the remedy by injunction was
not proper, and also because the Land Department was vested
with the administration of the public lands and could not be
divested by the fraudulent action of a subordinate officer outside of his authority, and in violation of the statute. The
exact point involved here was not presented in that ase, and
this court held that it could not be passed upon in that proceeding. 189 U. S. 35.
For the reasons we have stated, we cannot concur in the
conclusions of the lower Federal courts, that the patentees
had the right to bound their lots by the lake as it actually
existed. The judgment is
Affirmed.

SECURITY LAND AND EXPLORATION COMPANY r,.
WECKEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 128. Argued January 19, 1904.-Decided February 29, 1904.

Argued shnultaneously with, by the same counsel, and on
the same briefs as, No. 127.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

WINOUS POINT SHOOTING CLUB v. CASPERSEN. 189
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this case land in the same section as in the foregoing case
is involved, and as the title depends upon precisely the same
facts, this case is by stipulation of counsel to abide the event
of the other.
Judgment afirmed.

WINOUS POINT SHOOTING CLUB v. CASPERSEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 153. Argued February 24, 1904.-Decided March 7, 1904.

Federal questions cannot be raised in this court which did not arise below,
and where no Federal question is otherwise raised, and the only provision
of the Constitution referred to in the assignment of errors in the State
Court has no application, an averment of its violation creates no real
Federal question and the writ of error will be dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. S. H. Holding, with whom Mr. Harvey D. Goulder and

Mr. Frank S. Masten were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. True for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a suit brought by the Winous Point Shooting Club
against Caspersen and others in the Court of Common Pleas,
Ottawa County, Ohio, to enjoin defendants from fishing on
certain premises alleged to be parts of Sandusky River and
Mud Creek and to belong to plaintiff.
The court found that the waters in dispute formed part of a
public bay, which defendants had the right to navigate and
to fish in; and dismissed the petition.
The case was then carried to the Circuit Court of Ottawa

