NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 561
Syllabus.

193 U. S.

party could waive any provision either of a contract or of a
statute intended for his benefit; and that, if a course of action
on his part had misled the other party, he ought not to be
allowed to avail himself of his original rights, because under
such circumstances he would be availing himself of what was
substantially a fraud, and that he should not be allowed to
reap any advantage from his own fraud.
"From every consideration of justice and fair dealing, we
think the respondent should not be allowed to recover in this
case."
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court
of Appeals will be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with instructions to set aside the verdict and
grant a new trial and to proceed further in accordance with
the views expressed in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM took no part in the consideration and

decision of this case.

NEWBURYPORT WATER COMPANY v. NEWBURYPORT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 182.

Argued Mlarch 16, 1901.-Decided April 4, 1904.

Where the contention as to want of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, arising
from the alleged absence of constitutional questions, is well founded, it is
the duty of this court not simply to dismiss the appeal, but to reverse
the decree at appellant's costs with instructions to the Circuit Court to
dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction of the Circuit Court does not arise simply because an averment
is made that the case is one arising under the Constitution or laws of the
VOL. XOiii-36

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

United States if it plainly appears that such averment is not real or substantial but is without color of merit.
Where the charter of a water company is not exclusive, and is subject. to
repeal, alteration or amendment at the will of the legislature no deprivation of property without due process of law or impairment of the
obligation of a contract can arise from al act of the legislature empowering the city to erect its own waterworks.
Where the legislature of a State authorizes a city to erect, its own waterworks but on the condition that it purchase the plant of a company then
supplying it, at a valuation to be fixed by judicial proceedings as provided in the lct, and the water company institutes proceedings under the
act, it cannot thereafter claim that because certain incorporeal rights,
franchises and possible future profits were not allowed for in fixing the
valuation, that its property was taken without due process of law, and,
changing its position, cause its voluntary acceptance to become an involuntary one in order to assail the constitutionality of the legislation in
question.

Tun Newburyport Water Company, appella t, is a Massachusetts corporation created by special act on April 23, 1880,
which act was subject to alteration, amendment or repeal at
the pleasure of the legislature.
As authorized by its charter, the water company established
a water supply system in the city of Newburyport. On August 17, 1880, the water company entered into a contract with
the city to furnish water, for fire purposes, during a term of
twenty years, with the privilege to the city of purchasing the
waterworks property after the expiration of ten years.
In the year 1893 the legislature passed an act, (chapter 471,)
conferring power upon the city, if sanctioned by popular vote,
to provide its own water plant, to supply itself and its inhabitants with water, and, if also approved by the voters, to acquire by agreement with the water company its plant. The
voters of the city, however, decided not to purchase the plant,
but to establish and maintain an independent water supply
system. On June 14, 1894, an act, designated as chapter 474,
was passed by the legislature, forbidding the city of Newburyport, in the event that the water company, within thirty (lays
after the passage of the act, elected to offer its property for sale
to the city, from acting under the authority of chapter 471 of

NEWBURYPOR'r
193 U. S.

WVATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 563
Statement of the Case.

the acts of 1893, unless the city first purchased the plant of the
company. A copy of the act is inserted in the margin.'
Availing themselves of the privilege conferred by this act,
'CHAPTER 474.

An act to provide for the purchase of the property of the Newburyport
Water Company by the City of Newburyport.
Be it enacted, etc., as ollows: SEc. 1. If, within thirty days after the passage
of this act, the Newburyport Water Company shall notify the mayor of the
city of Newburyport, in writing, that it desires to sell to said city all the
rights, privileges, easements, lands, waters, water rights, dams, reservoirs,
pipes, engines, boilers, machinery, fixtures, hydrants, tools and all apparatus and appliances owned by said company and used in supplying said city
and the inhabitants thereof with water, said city shall not proceed to supply
water to itself or its inhabitants under the authority of chapter four hundred
and seventy-one of the acts of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-three,
unless it shall have first purchased of said company the property aforesaid;
and said company is authorized to make sale of said property to said city,
and said city is authorized to purchase the same. Whenever said city
shall, by a majority vote of the legal voters of said city present and voting
thereon at a meeting called for that purpose, vote to .purchase said property,
notice of the desire of said company to sell the same having been given as
hereinbefore provided, said company shall, within twenty days after the
vote aforesaid, execute and deliver to said city proper deeds and instruments in writing, conveying to said city the property aforesaid, and said
property thus conveyed shall thereupon become the property of said city,
and said city shall pay to said company the fair value thereof, to be ascertained as hereinafter provided. If at the first meeting a majority of the
voters present and voting do not vote to purchase said property, other
meetings may be called and held therefor. In case the said city and the
said company shall be unable to agree upon the value of said property, the
Supreme Judicial Court, shall, upon application of either party and notice
to the other, appoint three commissioners, two of whom shall be skilled
engineers and the third learned in the law, who shall determine the fair
value of said property for the purposes of its use by said city, and whose
award, when accepted by the court, shall be final. Such value shall be
estimated without enhancement on account of future earning capacity or
good will, or account of the franchise of said company.
SEC. 2. In case said Newburyport Water Company shall convey its property to the city of Newburyport, in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding section, said city shall manage and use the property thus conveyed for the purposes and under the provisions of chapter four hundred
and seventy-one of the acts of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-three.
SEc. 3. The said city may, for the purpose of paying the necessary expenses and liabilities incurred under the provisions of this act, issue from

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

the stockholders of the water company voted to sell to the city
and served notice to that effect upon the mayor. The city,
by a popular vote, decided to buy. The water company
thereupon, on January 20, 1895, executed and delivered to the
city a deed of all its property, both corporeal and incorporeal.
In accepting the deed, however, the city served upon the water
company the notice printed in the margin.'
time to time bonds, notes or scrip to an amount sufficient for such purpose;
such bonds, notes or scrip shall bear on their face the words "Newburypol t
water loan," shall be payable at the expiration of periods not exceeding
thirty years from the date of issue, shall bear interest payable semi-annually
at a rate not exceeding six per centum per annum, and shall be signed by
the treasurer of the city and countersigned by the water eonmissioners
provided for by chapter four hundred and seventy-one of the acts of the
year eighteen hundred and ninety-three.
The said city may sell such
securities at public or private sale, or pledge the same for money borrowed
for the purposes of this act, upon such terms and conditions as it may deem
proper, provided that such securities shall not be sold for less than the par
value thereof. The city shall provide at the time of contracting said loan
for the establishment of a sinking fund, and shall annually contribute to
such fund a sum sufficient with the accumulations thereof to pay the principal of such loan at maturity. The said sinking fund shall remain inviolate
and pledged to the payment of said loan, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
SEc. 4. In case said city shall, in violation of section one of this act, proceed
to supply itself or its inhabitants with water before making the purchase
aforesaid, the Supreme Judicial Court shall, upon petition of said company,
have jurisdiction in equity to enjoin said city from so doing until it shall
have made such purchase.
Suc. 5. This act shall take effect upon its passage.
Approved June 14, 1894.
1 To the Newburyport Water Company:
In accepting the conveyance made to the city of Newburyport by the
Newburyport Water Company, dated January 29, 1895, and delivered to
the mayor on that day by the clerk of thoqt corporation for examination, it.
is not admitted, on behalf of the city, that any franchise is acquired by the
said city under such conveyance, or that the city is under any obligation to
make payment on account of any franchise of said corporation by reason
thereof.
It is further not admitted or claimed that the four filters, with their gates,
pipes, appliances and appurtenances, described in item 2 of said deed as
situated upon the second lot of land described in item 1 therein, are used
in supplying said city or its inhabitants with water, or that. the city is bound
to pay for the same or any part thereof,

NEWBURYPORT
193 U. S.

VATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 565
Statement of the Case.

Under the deed of the water company the city took possession
of the plant. The parties being unable to agree as to the sum
to be paid, the water company petitioned the Supreme Judicial
Court for the county of Essex, to appoint three commissioners
to fix the amount, which was done. Hearings were had and
the commissioners made an award of $275,000, but no allowance was made for the franchise or right of the water company
to lay and maintain pipes in the streets and for its right to
collect water rates or for the profits which the company might
have made on the contract for furnishing water to the city for
fire purposes, had not the sale of the plant to the city taken
place. It is stipulated by counsel that the commissioners did
not value such contract, "it being their opinion that the same
in law could not be valued," and that although the water company offered the contract before the commissioners "no evidence of the quantity of water supplied to the city under the
contract, nor any direct evidence of the cost of performing the
contract or of its value to the company," was introduced.
The stipulation also recites"That counsel for the city in his closing argument asked
counsel for the water company if he had waived the claim to
have the contract valued, and the latter replied that he did not
waive it, and was not prepared to say what use he should make
of it. That thereupon counsel for the city proceeded to argue
that the contract should not be valued; that the counsel for
the water company in his closing argument mentioned the
contract as one of the items of property which the company
had parted with to the city, and urged, but not in this connection, that it was the duty of the commissioners to estimate
the value of all of the property of the company as one whole."
The report- on the award made by the commissioners was
It is further not admitted or claimed that the Newburyport Water Company has any right or authority to convey by said conveyance, or the city
of Newburyport to accept or make payment for anything whatever, except
according to provisions of chapter 474 of the act of 1894.
Adopted by a unanimous yea vote, six aldermen present and voting.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

heard before a single justice of the Supreme Judicial Court, who
reserved for the full court whether the award should be recommitted or be accepted. The full court affirmed and accepted the award of the commissioners. 168 Massachusetts,
541. A rehearing was applied for, but while the petition was
pending the water company brought the present suit in equity
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts. After the bringing of such equity suit the
petition for rehearing was dismissed.
In the bill of complaint the foregoing facts, except as to the
recited provisions referred to as embraced in the stipulation,
were set out with much amplitude, and it was alleged that. no
claim was made before the commissioners or in the state courts
(except in the petition for rehearing) that the act of 1894 was
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
In substance, the grounds for relief propounded in the bill
were that as the act of the legislature which gave the privilege
to the water company to sell had been construed by the Supreme Judicial Court as not entitling that company, on the
sale by it made to the city, to compensation for its franchises
and other valuable incorporeal rights, that act as construed
amounted to a taking of the property of the water company,
against its consent, without due process of law and in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. The bill based this contention upon the charge
that as the legislative act which gave the company the privilege
to sell to the city, if it chose to do so, was coupled with the
right conferred upon the city, if the company did not sell, to
erect a water plant of its own, the sale by the company was
compulsory, since the execution by the city of the authority
to erect its own plant would have worked the ruin of the water
company. In addition, it was charged in the bill that the
failure under the legislative act, of which the company had
availed itself, to value the future profits which the company
might have derived from its contract to furnish the city with
water, impaired the obligation of the contract arising from the

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 567
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

charter, in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution
of the United States. Charging that it was the intention of
the city to issue bonds for the purpose of raising funds with
which to pay the award in question, the bill prayed an injunction and the appointment of a receiver to manage the property
claimed by the water company, which it had conveyed to the
city, until the controversy was finally determined. The ultimate and substantial relief sought by the bill was, first, a
restoration to the water company of the property which it had
conveyed to the city, with damages for its detention, and in the
alternative that full compensation be awarded. The city,
appearing specially for the purpose, moved to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction. This, after hearing, was overruled. Thereupon a demurrer was filed to the bill, which, after argument,
was overruled. Application was next made for a rehearing
on the demurrer, and pending action thereon an answer and
replication were filed. The application for a rehearing on the
demurrer was overruled. A motion was then made for leave
to file a special demurrer to that portion of the bill and prayer
in which a right to a decree for compensation was asserted.
This was refused, and thereafter, by consent of parties, the
following order was made by the court:
"Ordered: That the constitutional question, to wit, whether
or not the plaintiff has been deprived of its property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, be first heard; and
that all questions as to plaintiff's relief, if any, (including questions of valuation of the property alleged to have been taken,)
await the determination of the constitutional question."
Soon afterwards a hearing was had upon the question referred
to in said order, and the decision of the court was adverse to
the water company. 103 Fed. Rep. 584. After this the court
heard argument upon the contention of the water company
that the act of 1894 impaired the obligation of its contract with
the city, and in consequence violated section 10 of article I of
the Constitution of the United States. It was decided that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

193 U. S.

failure to value the contract in question "does not tend to
prove that the act of 1894 was repugnant to the contract clause
of the Constitution." The court having thus decided all the
constitutional questions raised by the water company against
that company, entered a final decree dismissing the bill. This
appeal, directly to this court, was then taken.
Mr. Lauriston L. Scaie and Mr. Robert H. Morse, for appellant in this case and for the appellant in No. 183, argued
simultaneously therewith:
As to jurisdiction and the question of taking of property
without compensation.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is to be determined
wholly upon plaintiff's own allegations, and is not limited
by defendant's denials, nor does it depend upon the result
of the trial of any issues presented by the pleadings of both
parties. 1 Gould & Tucker's Notes to Rev. Stat. 101; Walla
TValla Water Case, 172 U. S. 1, 11; City Railway Co. v. Citizen's Railway Co., 166 U. S. 557; Vicksburg Water Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, 83.
The suits are of a civil nature in equity. Moore v. Sandlord, 115 Massachusetts, 285; Chicago &c. v. Minnesota, 134
U. S. 418, 459. As to duress in equity suits, see Brown v.
Pierce, 7 Wall. 205; Baker v. Morton, 12 Wall. 150; 1 Story's
Eq. Jurisprudence, 13th ed. §§ 239, 700. The matter in dispute involves more than $2,000, and even if this were omitted
from the bill it could be shown aliutnde. United States v.
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 310; Whiteside v. Haselton,
110 U. S. 296.
The appeal was properly made directly to this court. Walla
Walla rater Case, 172 U. S. 1; Am. Sug. Ref. Co. v. New
Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment the plaintiff was deprived by the State of its property without due process of law.
"Due process of law," under the Fourteenth Amendment,

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBUIiYPORT. 569
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

requires compensation to be made or secured to the owner of
private property taken under the authority of the State for
public use.
This provision controls a taking, whatever may be its form
or guise. Chicago &c. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 266; Scott
v. Toledo, 36 Fed. Rep. 395.
Whatever the provisions of the state statute, we are entitled
to go behind the form and to show that what was authorized
by the statute, as construed by the state court, was, in effect
or in substance, a taking of plaintiff's property without compensation, under the form or guise of a sale which was apparently voluntary, but which was in reality compulsory in fact
and in law. Cases cited supra; Thompson v. Androscoggin
&c. Co., 54 N. H. 545, 557; Fallbrook Irrigation District v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 155; Austin v. Murray, 16 Pick. 126; Lake
Shore &c. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, 693.
That the court looks at the "essence and effect" of the state
statute in determining the constitutional question of a taking
is further expressly shown in Missouri Pac. R. Co. v. Nebraska,
164 U. S.403.
All the so-called "railroad-rate cases" are based upon the
principle that the form of the taking is immaterial, but, that
statutes apparently constitutional may, under the form of a
constitutional regulation of rates, be held by their unreasonableness and injustice, as applied, to be in effect an unconstitutional taking of private property. Reagan v. Trust Co.,
154 U. S. 362; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Texas &c. Co., 51 Fed.
Rep. 529; Ames v. Union.Pacific Ry. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 165;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Board of Railroad Comrs., 78 Fed. Rep.
236; Railway Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Capital City Gas
Light Co. v. Des Moines, 72 Fed. Rep. 849; Cotting v. Kansas
City &c. Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 679.
A sale which is compulsory in law under a state statute is
the equivalent of a taking by the State. Parks v. Boston, 15
Pick. 198, 208; Norcross v. Cambridge, 166 Massachusetts, 508,
511.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

193 U. S.

While ordinarily what may be lawfully done may be lawfully threatened, yet if the government, or an officer of the
government acting under color of office, threatens an individual with serious loss, unless the individual will make a
contract to do something not required by law,-different from
that required by law,-and if the contract is made under the
influence of such threat, such contract, though voluntary in
appearance, becomes thereby compulsory in fact and in law,
and is obtained by duress. Hamilton Gas Co. v. Ham ilton,
146 U. S. 258; Silsbee v. IVebber, 171 Massachusetts, 381, and
cases cited; Thayer v. Jaques, 106 Massachusetts, 291; United
States v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 115, 129, and for subsequent cases in
which this case has been cited, see 3 Rose's Notes, 161; Maxwell v. Griswold, 10 How. 242: Swift Co. v. United Slates, 111
U. S. 22, 28; Robertson v. Frank Brothers Co., 132 U. S. 17;
Boston v. Capen, 7 Cush. 116, 124.
The State by the act of 1894 in effect threatened the plaintiff with serious loss unless the plaintiff would, by an apparently voluntary sale and contract, do something not required
by law.
The result of competition by the city without purchasing
its property must necessarily have caused the ruin of the
Water Company. This has been judicially noticed in Walla
Walla Water Case, 172 U. S. 1, 11; Gloucester Water Supply Co.
v. Gloucester, 179 Massachusetts, 365; White v. City of Meadyille, 177 Pa. St. 651; Westerly Water Works v. Westerly, 75
Fed. Rep. 181; Ziegler v. Chapin, Mayor, etc., 126 N. Y. 342.
The rights of the company were franchises and were thus
the property of the Water Company. Boston &c. v. Salem
&c., 2 Gray, 35, and cases cited; Williston Seminary v. County
Commissioners, 147 Massachusetts, 430; Monongahela Na'igation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 327.
No compensation was made or secured by the statute to
the Water Company for a valuable part of the property included in the sale, viz., the right to the use of the streets and
to collect water rates.

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 571
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Duress may be caused by a declaration of a probable or a
certain evil to come, giving to the party threatened a choice
of evils. A submission "merely as a choice of evils" does not
destroy the involuntary character of the act. Robertson v.
Frank Brothers Co., 132 U. S. 17, 22. And the sale thereby
became a compulsory one.
That the company gave a deed which was voluntary in form
is immaterial. The sale remains compulsory in fact and in
law. Baker v. Morton, 12 Wall. 150; Swift Co. v. United States,
111 U. S. 22; Robertson v. Frank Bros. Co., 132 U. S. 17; Long
Isld. WI'ater Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 689; Missouri
Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417.
That a "taking" for public use under a statute is the equivalent of a "compulsory purchase" has been distinctly held in
the following Massachusetts decisions. Parks v. Boston, 15
Pick. 198, 208; Norcross v. Cambridge, 166 Massachusetts, 508,
511, 512. See also Thompson v. Androscoggin &c. Co., 54
N. H. 545; Lewis on Eminent Domain, 48, 55.
The effect of the right of eminent domain against the individual "amounts to nothing more than a power to oblige him
to sell and convey when the public necessities require it."
Cooley's Const. Lii. 6th ed. 691, citing Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87, 145; Bradshaw v. Rogers, 20 Johns. 103; People v.
Mayor, 4 N. Y. 419; Carson v. Coleman, 11 N. J. Eq. 106;
Young v. Harrison,6 Georgia, 130; United States v. Minnesota
&c. R. R. Co., 1 Minnesota, 127; Railroad Co. v. Ferris, 26
Texas, 588; Curran v. Shattuck, 24 California, 427; State v.
Graves, 19 Maryland, 351; IVeckler v. Chicago, 61 Illinois, 142,
147.
The legislation, as construed and applied, impaired the obligation of contracts belonging to said company and to the
stockholders, in violation of see. 10, art. I, of the Constitution of the United States, and the plaintiff's rights thereunder.
Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury, with whom Mr. George H. O'Connell

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

193 U. S.

and Mr. Charles A. Russell were on the brief, for appellee in
this case and appellee in No. 183.
As to jurisdiction: The bill does not present a case arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States. Cooke
v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375, 385; Starin v. New York, 115 U. S.
248, 257.
The case is within the rule that the repugnancy of a state
statute or proceeding to the Federal Constitution is to be
passed upon by the state courts in the first instance, the
presumption being in all cases that they will do what the
Constitution and laws of the United States require; and, if
there be ground for complaint of their decision, the remedy
is by writ of error under section 709 of the Revised Statutes.
New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411, 424; McCain v. Des
Moines, 174 U. S. 168, 181; Bienville Water Supply Co. v.
Mobile, 175 U. S. 109; Defiance IWater Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S.
184, and cases cited; Owensboro v. Owensboro Water Co., 191
U. S. 358; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S. 405, 413.
The principle of estoppel exists and is applicable. One
who takes the benefit of a statute is held thereby to have
waived any right to thereafter attack it as unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid. The present case is directly within this
rule; accordingly, the bill presents no Federal question of
jurisdiction. Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489.
The company, by this bill, is taking advantage of its own
laches and default in omitting to raise the Federal question in
the state court, to secure a consideration of it by this court
to which it would not have been entitled in the regular course
of procedure. If not entitled to it there, it cannot be entitled
to it here.
The principles of waiver and estoppel belong to general
jurisprudence, and are of general application, alike in state
and Federal courts. City Railway Co. v. Citizens Railway Co.,
166 U. S. 557, 568. The company, by its own petition, sought
the act of 1894, which it now attempts to avoid after taking advantage of it. Clay v. Smith, 3 Pet. 411; Chapmanv. Forsyth, 2

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v'. NEWBURYPORT. 573
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

How. 202; Danielsv. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415, 421; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 408; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.
107, 115; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436, 441; Pierce v. Somerset
Railway, 171 U. S. 641, 648; Hale v. Lewis, 181 U. S. 473, and
cases cited; O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450, 491.
For the law of Massachusetts upon the subject, see Haskell
v. New Bedford, 108 Massachusetts, 208, 213; Bancroft v.
Cambridge, 126 Massachusetts, 438, 442; Eustis v. Bolles, 146
Massachusetts, 413; Braintree Water Co. v. Braintree,146 Massachusetts, 482, 486; Rockport Water Co. v. Rockport, 161
Massachusetts, 279; Citizen's Gas Lt. Co. v. Wakefield, 161 Massachusetts, 432, 439; Hudson Elec. Light Co. v. Hudson, 163
Massachusetts, 346, 348; Rosenthal v. Coates, 148 U. S. 142,
147; Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13, 43; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166
U. S. 506, 517.
Appellant sought in the state court, and was given opportunity, to litigate the rights claimed by it; and it cannot complain that the guarantees of the Constitution of the United
States were denied because the litigation did not result successfully. Remington Paper Co. v. Watson, 173 U. S. 443, 451;
Graham v. Boston H. & E. R. R., 118 U. S. 161, 177; Manning
v. Amy, 140 U. S. 137, 141; Wilson v. Lambert, 168 U. S. 611,
618; Mitchell v. First Nat. Bank, 180 U. S. 471, 482; Bienville
Water Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 216; Connihan v. Thompson, 111 Massachusetts, 270..
The Federal claim is simulated, for the purpose of getting a
new trial. The suit "does not really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court," in the sense of Stat. of March 3, 1875, § 5,
18 Stat. 470; and the bill might have been dismissed below
upon this ground. See cases cited supra and New Orleans
Water Works Co. v. Louisiana, 186 U. S. 344, and cases cited.
As to taking of property:
The claim of duress cannot be taken seriously. The element
of illegality is wholly wanting; the alleged "threats" ascribed
to the legislature and the mayor were either lawful acts in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

193 U. S

themselves, or no more than the indication of a purpose to do
lawful acts; the mayor's statements do not bind the city; and
they disappear in the proof.
Nor, as already noted, would duress, if proved, establish a
taking of the company's property, or present any Federal
question. At most, it would only entitle the company to
avoid its deed and have the property restored.
In addition to cases cited by the Circuit Court on duress or
"threats," see French v. Shoemaker, 14 Wall. 314, 332; United
States v. Huckabee, 16 Wall. 414, 431; Doyle v. Continental InR.
Co., 94 U. S. 535, 541; Silliman v. United States, 101 II. S.465;
Carver v. United States, 111 U. S. 609; United State.s v. Des
Moines Co., 142 U. S. 510, 544; Lane & Bodley Co. v. Locke,
150 U. S. 193, 200; While v. United States, 154 U. S. 661;
Thorne Wire Co. v. Washburn & Moen Co., 159 U. S. 423, 44-1;
Cable v. U. S. Life Ins. Co., 191 U. S. 288, 308; Wilcox v. Howland, 23 Pick. 167; Emmons v. Scudder, 115 Massachusetts,
367; Vegelahn v. Guntner, 167 Massachusetts, 92, 107.
The motives, reasons or state of mind of the stockholders
in voting the sale are immaterial. They are bound by the act
of the corporation, and their motives are not necessarily to
be ascribed to the corporation. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S.
319; Glenn v. Leggett, 135 U. S. 533, 544; Louisrille Water ('o.
v. Clark, 143 U. S. 1, 13; Hendrickson v. Bradley, 85 Fed. Rep.
508, 516, and cases cited.
The whole case centers in the single question whether a grant
to a city, by a legislature having a reserved power to alter or
repeal all corporate charters of authority to supply itself with
water in competition with a local company operating under a
non-exclusive franchise and contract, accompanied with the
obligation to buy the company's property, if offered, without payment for its franchise rights, amounts to a taking of
property held under such franchise; a question settled, in
principle, ever since the Charles River Bridge case, and now
repeatedly determined by decisions which directly cover the
whole ground of the company's claim, Of the cases cited by

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 575
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court, Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388,
390; Stein v. Bienville Water Co., 141 U. S. 67, 81; Hamilton
Gas Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258, 268, and Long Island
Water Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 696, are directly in point
and are conclusive. The only question is of legislative power
to authorize competition with a non-exclusive franchise. It
is now settled even that an express stipulation in the contract
that the city should not compete would have given the company no exclusive right as against the legislature. Walla
Walla Case, 172 U. S. 1, 15, as cited in 180 U. S. at p. 618;
Browne v. Turner, 176 Massachusetts, 9, 15; and that competition by the city is not excluded where competition by others
is not excluded. Joplin Case, 191 U. S. 156.
In addition to cases cited by the Circuit Court on the main
question of deprivation of property, see Citizens St. Ry. v.
Detroit Ry., 171 U. S. 48, 53; Walla Walla Case, 172 U. S. 1,
14, 15; San Diego Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 754;
Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587; Rogers Park
Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624; Skaneateles Water Co. v.
Skaneateles, 184 U. S. 354; Bienville Water Supply Co. v.
Mobile, 186 U. S. 212; Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189
U. S. 434; San Diego Land Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439; Joplin
v. Southwest Mo. Lt. Co., 191 U. S. 150; Owensboro v. Owensboro
Water Co., 191 U. S. 358; Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin
Canal Co., 192 U. S. 201; Kennebec Water Dist. v. Waterville,
97 Maine, 185, 206; Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport,
168 Massachusetts, 541; 553, 554; Gloucester Water Supply Co.
v. Gloucester, 179 Massachusetts, 365, 382; Syracuse Water
Co. v. Syracuse, 116 N. Y. 167.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

At the threshold we are met with the objection, raised below
and urged at bar, that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction, because the bill on its face did not state a case arising

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

under the Constitution or laws of the United States, within
the intendment of the act of August 13, 1888. 25 Stat. 433.
As the case is here on direct appeal from the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States, the solution of this question
necessarily involves also deciding whether the cause was properly brought to this court. As the existence of the constitutional question is the only basis of the right to the direct appeal, if there was no such question in the court below there was
and is no such issue by which the direct appeal to this court
can be sustained. Under these circumstances, if the contention as to want of jurisdiction of the court below, arising from
the alleged absence of constitutional questions, be well founded,
our duty is not simply to dismiss the appeal, but to reverse the
decree below with instructions to the Circuit Court to dismiss
the bill for want of jurisdiction. Defiance Water Company v.
Defiance, 191 U. S. 184.
If jurisdiction is to be determined by the mere fact that the
bill alleged constitutional questions, there was, of course, jurisdiction. But that is not the sole criterion. On the contrary,
it is settled that jurisdiction does not arise simply because an
averment is made as to the existence of a constitutional question, if it plainly appears that such averment is not real and
substantial, but is without color of merit. Underground Railroad v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 416; Arbuckle v. Blackburn,
191 U. S. 405; Owensboro v. Owensboro Waterworks Co., 191
LT. S. 358; Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184; Swafford v. Templeton., 185 U. S. 487; McCain v. Des Moincs, 174
U. S. 168, 181, and cases cited. Whether the Constitution of
the United States was and is, in a real and substantial sense,
involved depends upon apparently two considerations: First,
the proposition that the sale made by the company to the city
was compulsory, and hence there was a taking of the property
in disregard of due process of law; and, second, that the failure
of the commissioners to value the future profits arising from
the contract for the furnishing for fires of a water supply to the
city impaired the obligations of the company's contract. We

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 577
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

say apparently two, since the questions are virtually one,
depending both on the same considerations.
Now, it is conceded that the charter of the water company
was not exclusive, and was subject to repeal, alteration or
amendment at the will of the legislature. This being the case,
it is evident that no deprivation of property without due process of law or impairment of the obligations of a contract did or
could arise from the act of the legislature empowering the city
to erect its own waterworks. Having this power, the legislature could therefore have exercised it without compelling the
city to buy the plant of the water company, and the bill proceeds upon the theory that if this right had been exerted by the
legislature the company would have been ruined, and the value
of its property in effect entirely destroyed. This follows, because the averments are based upon the assumption that the
conveyance by the company of its property to the city was not
voluntary, since, if it had not so conveyed, the exercise by the
city of the right to construct its own plant would have destroyed the company's property. The contentions, therefore,
as to the Constitution of the United States are based solely
upon the proposition that because the legislature sought to
protect the company and save its property from ruin by conferring upon it the privilege of selling its property to the city,
if it chose to do so, thereby compulsion, and consequent violation of the Constitution of the United States arose. In other
words, that because there was conferred a benefit upon the
corporation, which the legislature need not have bestowed, and
which the company availed of, that its property was taken from
it forcibly and without its consent. When the contention is
thus reduced to its ultimate analysis, it comes to this-that
the property of the company was taken from it without its
consent, because by the action of the legislature, fqr the benefit
of the company, it was enabled to sell its plant to the city and
thus escape a serious loss. Indeed, in reason, the theory upon
which the bill is based could not be maintained without deciding that the company had an exclusive contract, and thereVOL. cxCITI-37

OCTOBER TERIM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

fore that there was a want of power in the legislature to authorize the city to erect its own plant; or, what is tantamount
thereto, declaring that, although there was no exclusive right.
and therefore power in the legislature, to give the city the
right to erect its own plant, that body must have abstained
from the exercise of its lawful authority, unless it determined
to exert it so as to destroy and ruin the company. The power
being in the legislature, it was competent for that body to
exert it for the benefit and in the interest of the water company, to enable that company, if it chose to sell its plant upon
the terms stipulated, and thus avoid the loss which otherwise,
the bill avers, would have been entailed. And these considerations take this case out of the reach of the authorities which are
relied upon as establishing that one cannot enforce a contract
benefit derived from or advantage gained over another, by
coercing his will by means of threats, even of the doing of a
lawful act. The advantage resulting from the power conferred
upon the company to sell enured to its benefit, since it saved it
from a ruin which otherwise would have been occasioned. No
compulsion in any legal sense can be said to have been exerted
on the company by the option given it, because the exercise by
the company of the option, upon its own theory of the case,
saved its property from destruction. To indulge in the assumption that the action of the company was not voluntary
would require the assumption that the company would have
willingly suffered a most grievous wrong when, by accepting
as it did the benefits of the act, such consequences were averted.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in passing upon
the award made by the commissioners, aptly said (168 Massachusetts, 554):
"It must be remembered that the transaction before us
springs out of a voluntary offer by the petitioner to sell upon
the statutory terms, and therefore there is no reason to try to
bend those terms in its favor. Of course, an offer by a water
company made under the threat of municipal competition and
to avoid ruin, might be voluntary only in name. But we have

NEWBURYPORT WATER CO. v. NEWBURYPORT. 579
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no reason to assume in this case that the petitioner is the
victim of robbery, and must treat it as having acted of its free
choice in fact as well as in form."
It is to be observed that in the legislative act which the company accepted, and in furtherance of which it voluntarily conveyed its property to the city, it was expressly stipulated that
the value of such property "should be estimated without
enhancement on account of future earning capacity or good
will, or on account of the franchise of said company." It is
also worthy of note that before the state courts the only question presented for consideration was the proper interpretation
of the statute in question, and whether or not it provided for
payment for certain incorporeal rights and franchises which
the water company contended should have been allowed for by
the commissioners. Having accepted the statute, conveyed
its property to the city, provoked the state proceedings to
value the property and derived the benefits resulting from the
legislation of the State of Massachusetts, the water company
may not now, because of disappointment at the result of the
interpretation which the statute received at the hands of the
state court, change its position and cause its voluntary acceptance to become an involuntary one in order to assail the constitutionality of the legislation in question.
Concluding, for the foregoing reasons, that the rights asserted in the bill under the Constitution of the United States,
upon which the jurisdiction of this court depends and upon
which also the jurisdiction of the lower court depended, were
so attenuated and unsubstantial as to be absolutely devoid
of merit, our duty is to direct that the decree of the Circuit
Court be reversed at appellant's costs, and that the case be
remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the bill
for want of jurisdiction.
And it is so ordered.

