HUNTINGTON v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

mission, their action could not be regarded as unauthorized, even
though they may have exercised the discretion unfairly.
Similarly in Pacific Gas Imp. Company v. Ellert, 64 Fed.
Rep. 421, where a public board was given power to improve
streets, and proceeded in excess of its powers but not in violation of them, its action was regarded by Mr. Justice McKenna,
then Circuit Judge, as state action.
In the present case defendants were proceeding, not only in
violation of provisions of the state law, but in opposition to
plain prohibitions.
Section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137,
provided that if in any suit in the Circuit Court it should appear,
to the satisfaction of the court, at any time, that the suit did
not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within its jurisdiction, the court should proceed no
further, but dismiss the suit. The last paragraph of this section was in terms repealed by the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
552, c. 373, reinacted August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866,
(the part repealed not being material here,) but otherwise the
section remained and remains in full force. This case went off
on the motion for preliminary injunction, and the bill was
properly dismissed, whether treated as if heard on demurrer,
or on the proofs by affidavit.
Decree affirmed.
HUNTINGTON v. THE CITY OF NEW YORK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 172.

Argued March 3, 4, 1904.-Decided farch 21, 1904.

Decided on authority of Barney v. City of New York, ante, p. 430.

Same counsel as in No. 159.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE. This case is governed by the decision
just announced, and the decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

193 U. S.

BOERING v. CHESAPEAIE BEACH RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
-No.174. Argued M[arch 4, 1904.-Decided M[arch 21, 1904.

Where in an action for personal injuries the trial court submits to the jury
the question whether a person riding on a pass is or is not a free passenger,
and there is a general verdict for the defendant, that question of fact i
settled in favor of the defendant.
A person may not through the intermediary of an agent obtain a privilege
-a mere license-and then plead ignorance of the conditions upon which
it was granted.
The duty of ascertaining the conditions on which a free pass is given and
accepted when the same are plainly printed on the pas, re.ts upon the
person accepting and availing of the pass, and the carrier is not bulid
at its peril to see that the conditions are made known.

THE facts in this case involved the right of the plaintiffs who
were husband and wife to recover for injuries sustained by the

wife while riding upon a pass which contained a stipulation
relieving the carrier from responsibility for injuries whether
caused by negligence of company's agents or otherwise, and
are stated at length in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles F. Carusiand Mr. Charles H. Merillal for plaintiffs in error:
A public carrier may not limit its common law liability for
negligence to passengers by special agreement. This ruh,
founded on public policy, operates no less for the protection of
gratuitous passengers than for passengers for hire. It, is conceded for the purposes of argument, that the plaintiff held a
free pass. This court in Phila. & Reading R. R. v. Derby, 14
How. 485, said that a pass is not free or gratuitous in the sense
in which these words were used by the learned court below if
the consideration therefor be " pecuniary or otherwise," which
distinguishes this case from Duncan v. Maine Central R. I?.
Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 508.

