OCTOBER) TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

193 U. S.

dered a decree dismissing the bill. Whilst agreeing with the
conclusions reached in that court, as to the rights of the Dclawares, we think the bill was broad enough in its allegations and
prayer for relief to require a definite settlement of the rights in
controversy. Instead of dismissing the bill we think a decree
should have been entered finding the registered Delawares
entitled to participate equally with Cherokee citizens of Cherokee blood in the allotment of lands of the Cherokee Nation,
with the addition that if there is not enough land to give to
each citizen of the nation 160 acres, then the registered Delawares shall be given that quantity, together with their improvements. In all other respects the Cherokee citizens,
whether of Delaware or Cherokee blood, should be given equal
rights in the lands and funds of the Cherokee Nation. The
decree dismissing the bill is so modified as to conform to the
terms just stated; and as so modified it is
Affirmed.

GILES v. TEASLEY, BOARD OF REGISTRARS OF
[ONTGOMERY COUNTY, ALABAMA.
GILES v. TEASLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
Nos. 337, 338.

Argued January 5, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.

The right of this court to review the decisions of the highest court of a State
is, even in cases involving the gravity of statements charging violations
by the provisions of a state constitution of the Fifteenth Amendment,
circumscribed by the rules established by law, and in every case coming
to the court on writ of error or appeal the question of jurisdiction must
be answered, whether propounded by counsel or not.
Where the state court decides the case for reasons independent of the Federal right claimed its action is not reviewable on writ of error by this
court.
A negro citizen of Alabama and who had previously enjoyed the right to
vote, and who had complied with all reasonable requirements of the

GILES ii. TEASLEY
193 U. S.

-

Statement of the Case.

board of registrars, was refused the right to vote for, as he alleged, no
reason other than his race and color, the members of the board having
been appointed and having acted under the provisions of the state constitution of 1901. He sued the members of the board for damages for
such refusal in an action, and applied for a writ of mandamus to compel
them to register him, alleging in both proceedings the denial of his rights
under the Federal Constitution and that the provisions of the state constitution were repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment. The complaint
was dismissed on demurrer and the writ refused, the highest court of the
State holding that if the provisions of the state constitution were repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment they were void and that the board of
registrars appointed thereunder had no existence and no power to act
and would not be liable for a refusal to register him, and could not be
compelled by writ of mandamus to do so; that if the provisions were
constitutional the registrars had acted properly thereunder and their
action was not reviewable by the courts.
held that the writs of error to this court should be dismissed as such decisions do not involve the adjudication against the plaintiff in error of a
right claimed under the Federal Constitution but deny the relief demanded on grounds wholly independent thereof.
THESE cases are writs of error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama.
In No. 337, the action was brought to recover damages in
the sum of $5,000 against the board of registrars of Montgomery County, Alabama, for refusing to register the plaintiff as
a qualified elector of the State. The substance of the complaint is: The plaintiff is a native of the State of Alabama,
a resident of Montgomery County for thirty years, and of the
voting precinct for more than two years. Tie applied forreg.
istration, having theretofore enjoyed the right of voting in the
State; the application was made to the board of registrars on
March 13, 4902; the plaintiff complied with all reasonable
requirements of the board, but was arbitrarily refused the right
of registration for no other reason than his race and color.
At the same time a large number of negroes similarly situated
were likewise refused, while all the white men were registered
and given certificates, without denial, nor was any question
raised as to their qualifications. The registrars required the
plaintiff and all members of his race to furnish the testimony
of two white men as to their qualifications and refused to accept the testimony of colored persons, while all the white men

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

were registered without any proof except the oath of the applicant. It is alleged that sections 180,181, 183, 184, 185, 1.6,
187 and 188 of article 8 of the constitution of the State of Alabama, which went into effect November 28, 1901, under authority of which the registrars were acting, was intended, (lesigned and enacted by the constitutional convention to deny

and abridge the right of the plaintiff and others of his race in
the State to vote, solely on account of race, color and previous
condition of servitude. The convention of the State of Alabama was composed entirely of white men, although the population of the State is composed of 1,001,152 white and 827,545
colored persons. It is alleged that article 180 of said constitution is repugnant to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States because subdivisions one and two of said section do not contain astatement
of qualifications applicable to all, regardless of race, color and
previous condition of servitude, but discriminate against negroes

solely on account of race. Subdivision three is unreasonable
and void, in not defining what character a good citizen must
have and what obligations he must understand under a republican form of government, and gives to the registrars a
wide discretion and authority and invests them with arbitrarv
power. That section 181 of article 8 is repugnant to the said
amendments to the Constitution of the United States in that,
while it pretends to describe the qualifications of persons who

shall apply for registration after January 1, 1903, it was in
truth and in effect enacted to apply to the plaintiff and all
negroes of the State, and not to operate against and affect any
white persons in the State, and is a part of a scheme to disfranchise the negroes of Alabama on account of race, color and
previous condition of servitude. By refusing to permit the
negroes to register the board of registrars is forcing them to
wait until January 1, 1903, when section 181 comes into effect.
It is charged that said board is composed exclusively of white
men, and the right of appeal given from the action of said
board to the Circuit Court and thence to the Supreme Court
of the State was given to more effectually hinder the plaintiff
and others of his race in their right to vote and not to accom-

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

plish their registration. The negroes are excluded from serving on juries in the trial courts of the State and have been for
many years, although qualified for the service, on account of
race, color and previous condition of servitude. That on appeal the plaintiff would encounter the same prejudice and obtain the same result as before the board of registrars. The
defendants, well knowing the object of the constitutional provisions, were appointed by the State to administer the same,
and while so engaged did wilfully and wrongfully refuse to
register the plaintiff and others of his race for no other reason
than their race and color, and thus deprived them of the right
to vote as electors of the State, contrary to the provisions of
the first section of the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
In No. 338, the petition for mandamus contains like allegations as to the right of the petitioner to be registered as a
voter in the State of Alabama, and avers that he is a person
of good character and understands the duties of citizenship
under a republican form of government. The petitioner avers,
as in his petition for damages, his application to be registered
March 13, 1902, which was arbitrarily refused for the reasons
set forth in the petition for damages, contrary to the right of
the petitioner. He repeats the allegations as to the registration of white persons, and avers that the denial of registration to him and others of his race was a denial by the State of
Alabama of the equal protection of the laws and the denial of
his right to vote solely on account of his race, color and previous condition of servitude, and was in violation of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States. Allegations are inserted as to the intent and
purpose of the State in calling the constitutional convention
and the adoption of the constitution September 3, 1901. It is
alleged that the sections 180, 181, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187 and
188 of article 8 of said new constitution were enacted with the
intent and for the purpose set forth in the petition for damages. Allegations are set forth as to the exclusion of the
negroes from representation, notwithstanding the part they
compose of the population of the State. It is claimed that

15o0

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

section 180 of article 8 is obnoxious and repugnant to the
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, in that it divides the inhabitants into three
classes, viz: 1, soldiers' class; 2, descendants of soldiers' class;
3, a class not soldiers nor their descendants. That the class
not soldiers or their descendants are under greater restrictions
andgiven greater burdens than the other classes. That section three is void and unreasonable, failing to define what
duties and obligations a citizen must understand under a republican form of government, and gives too wide a discretion
to the registrars, amounting to vesting them with arbitrary
power. Subdivisions I and 2 do not contain a statement of
qualifications which are applicable to all alike, but discriminate
against the negroes of the State on account of race, color and
previous condition of servitude. The petition in mandamus
contains substantially the allegations of the petition for (amages as to the manner in which the constitution was adopted,
and avers that section 181, describing the qualifications of persons who apply for registration after January 1, 1903, was designed and intended to apply to petitioner and others of his
race and not intended to operate against and affect while persons in the State of Alabama. It is charged that in th counties
of Alabama colored persons are refused registration, while,
under the same circumstances and possessing the same (lualifications, white men are registered without objection, thereby
compelling colored men to wait until January 1, 1903, when
the provisions of section 181 will be in operation, and compelling the colored men to have greater and different qualifications
than are imposed upon the white men in the State, all of which,
it is charged, was in pursuance of a design to evade the terms
of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, and to deny to the plaintiff and
others of his race the equal protection of the laws, and to deprive them of the right to vote solelyon account of their race,
color and previous condition of servitude. Petitioner repeats
the allegations of the former petition for damages as to the
composition of the board of registrars, and the remedy of
appeal from their action to the courts of the State, and claims

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that if such appeal was prosecuted it could not be heard and
determined before the election, but the hearing of the cases
would take many years. -There are attached to the petition
as exhibits extracts from the speeches and debates in the convention of Alabama. The petition charges that the board of
registrars refused to register colored men, so that not less than
75,000 of such persons were denied registration solely on account of race, color and previous condition of servitude, although
possessing the necessary qualifications of electors, while the
white men were permitted to register without let or hindrance.
Affidavits were filed with the petition setting forth the denial
of the right of colored persons in various counties in the State
of Alabama. The prayer of the petition is that the aforesaid
sections of the state constitution be declared absolutely null
and void as repugnant to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, and for a
writ of mandamus commanding the board of registrars to register the plaintiff as a qualified voter of the State of Alabama, and to issue to him a certificate of the fact, and the
like to all voters of his race in the State of Alabama who were
such under the constitution of the State prior to the adoption
of sections 180, 181, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187 and 188 of the
new constitution of the State. And that said board befurther
commanded not to refuse to register said petitioner or other
inembers of his race on account of their race or color and previous condition of servitude.
To the petitions in .both cases demurrers were filed in thecourt of original jurisdiction, which were sustained, and upon
appellate proceedings in the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama the decisions of the lower court were affirmed.
These writs of error seek to bring this action of the state
courts in review here.
Xi-. Wiylford H. Smith for plaintiff in error:
The record clearly shows that nothing but a Federal question was therein presented to the highest court of Alabama
for decision, and that its decision was absolutely necessary to
the determination of the causes, and that the judgment ren-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

dered by the Supreme Court of Alabama could not have been
rendered without deciding the Federal question. fohnson v.
.Risk, 137 U. S. 300; Tood .Machine Oo. v. Skinner, 139 U. S.
293.
It, however, undertook to avoid the Federal question relying on cases cited in 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), 727.
This action has resulted in denying the rights claimed by
the plaintiff in error under the Constitution of the United
States, and to uphold the suffrage provisions of the constitution of Alabama, and the authority exercised under them,
which were drawn in question as being repugnant to the Federal Constitution, and it is well settled that this court has
jurisdiction in such cases to review the decision of a state court.
Railway Co. v. L'lliolt, 184 U. S. 534.
The political nature of the rights involved cannot be urged
against the jurisdiction of this court. MlfPherson v. Blacker,
146 U. S. 23.
Viley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58; Swa/frd v.
Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, were suits for damages where political
rights under the Federal Constitution had been denied by virtue of an unconstitutional state statute. See also Kinneen v.
Wells, 144 Massachusetts, 497.
All the material facts alleged by the plaintiff in error were
admitted by the demurrers.
The purpose of framers of the suffrage provisions of the constitution of Alabama was repugnant to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States,
such purpose being to disfranchise the negroes without disfranchising any white man.
Al How v. Nunan, 5 Sawyer,
553; Cooley, Constitutional Limitations (3d ed.), p. 65
Goedell v. Palmer,15 App. Div. N. Y. 86.
Had the constitutional convention been called for the purpose of establishing an educational or a property qualification,
or a qualification of good moral character for all the electors
of Alabama, black and white alike, and had carried out such a
purpose, the plaintiff in error and the negroes of that Commonwealth would have made no complaint. But the convention made race and color the stabdard of qualification by
resorting to a trick or legerdemain of law in constitution

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

making, as evidence by the addresses in the constitutional
convention on this subject.
The suffrage provisions of the constitution of Alabama are in
themselvesrepugnant to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States by their language and meaning, they being so artfully constructed as to
evade the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution, so that
white men alone can become electors and negroes can be excluded on account of their race and color and previous condition. Cox v. The State, 144 N. Y. 396 ; Colon v. Lisk, 153
N. Y. 188; Peoplev. Albertson, 55 N. Y. 50.
Not only were they constructed in defiance and in fraud of
the Federal Constitution, but with great ingenuity, so as to
make it difficult to get the question of their constitutionality
before the courts.
Subd. 1 and 2, § 180, art. 8 are not such a statement of qualifications as are applicable to and attainable by all alike, regardless of race, color or previous condition, but were framed
purposely to discriminate against the negroes of Alabama, and
to deny them the same rights as electors given to white men.
Subd. 3, § 180, art. 8 is made so general and indefinite as to
invest the registrars with arbitrary power, so that they could
discriminate against negroes and favor white men. The citizen is left to conjecture as to what kind of good character is
meant, whether good moral character, or good character for
peace or violence, or for honesty and fair dealing, or for truth
and veracity. Likewise is a citizen at a loss to know what or
which of the manifold duties and obligations of citizenship he
is required to understand in order to meet the requirements
of this subdivision.
Section 186 of the suffrage article is repugnant to the Federal
Constitution, in so far as the registrars were given the discretion and power of a court, with the right of appeal from their
decision to the Circuit Court, thence to the Supreme Court, in
view of the purpose the convention sought to accomplish by
giving such discretion and power and in view of the admitted
manner in which the registrars have used such discretion in
the discharge of the duties of their office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

The admitted facts showing the suffrage provisions of the
Alabama constitution in actual operation establish that practically all white men in the State were admitted to the electorate
and given life certificates, while practically all the negroes
were denied registration on account of their race and color
and previous condition, which alone would render them unconstitutional, no matter what the intent was at the time of
their enactment, and no matter in what form of language they
were expressed. Yicek. Io v. Hfop)ins, 118 U. S.356 ; Dais
v. illoKeeby, 5 Nevada, 396.
Section 181 of the suffrage article is a part of one entire scheme
to evade the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, and to subject the negroes of Alabama to a
different test than that required of white citizens, and should
also be declared null and void, since it is admitted that practically all the white men have been admitted to the electorate
for life under section 180, or the temporary plan, and practically all the negroes have been refused.
To allow section 181 to stand would be to sanction the discrimination against negroes, and force them to submit to an
educational and property qualification test not required of
white men, in contravention of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Federal Constitution. United States v.
]eese, 92 U. S. 214.
Fair and equal treatment as a citizen is all that the plaintiff
in error and the negroes of Alabama are contending for in
this litigation, which treatment will be accorded wherever the
Fifteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution is held in
proper esteem.
.1.
William A. Cunter for defendant in error:
The Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution and the
statutes to enforce its provisions relate only to civil rights.
Either to the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; or, the right of life, liberty and property,
unless taken away by "due process of law;" or, the equal
protection of the laws. Slaughter ITouse Ca.ves, 16 Wall. 36;
Strauder v. Tfest Virginia,100 U. S.303-306 ; Gibson v. MAfiss-

I GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

issippi, 162 U. S. 566; Tirginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313;
Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213.
The provisions of same amendment all have reference to
state action exclusively, and not to any action of private individuals.
irginiav. Rives, 100 U. S. 318.
While under the fifth section of the Amendment Congress
may enforce the prohibitions whenever they are disregarded
by either the legislature, the executive, or the judicial department of the State, it is plain that the action of Congress
to enforce a limited power cannot extend beyond the power
granted.
The Fourteenth Amendment not only does not undertake
to deal with political rights, but in the second section expressly contemplates that the privilege of voting may be
denied at the pleasure of the State, attaching, however, a
penalty in the way of a reduction of representation. The
prohibitions of section one of the Amendment have no reference to political rights, and the authority of Congress, given
by the fifth section, is limited by the second section.
The Fifteenth Amendment is limited to a single matter and
the power of Congress to enforce the same, by appropriate
legislation, is also restricted to that item. The prohibition of
this amendment also refers to governmental action of the
United States or by the State, and not to any action of private
individuals. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 318; Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 37, 77, 126.
The Fifteenth Amendment itself can never be violated except by a State or the United States, and not by them urjtil
there is a denial or restriction by some law of the right to vote.
To bring a statute within the operation of the Constitution it must appear to be passed under a grant of power
contained therein, United States v. Hlarris,106 U. S. 35, and
to bring a case within a statute of the United States, it must
appear that the right, the enjoyment of which is interfered
with, is one granted or secured by the Constitution or the laws
of the United States. Everything essential to make out a case
must be charged positively and not inferentially. United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 54:9, 555.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

On every writ of error to a state court the doctrine of r'es
judicata is called in question. It must appear by all the certainty and according to the principles of r'esjudicata,that a
Federal right was directly or necessarily involved and decided
adversely to the plaintiff in error claiming such right. If
there are several questions involved upon one or more of
which judgment may rest without the decision of a Federal
question, this court is without jurisdiction to hear the case.
New Orleans v. New Orleans 1laterworks, 142 U. S. 84;
12 Notes to U. S. Rep. 64; Capital Bank v. Cadiz Bank, 172
U. S. 425; Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606.
There is a single exception to the rule that this court vill
adopt the state construction of its statutes and constitution.
and that is "when it has been called upon to interpret the
contracts of States," etc. Mobile & 074o R. R. v. Tenn.e.,e,
153 U. S. 492, 493; Jefferson Bank v. Kielly, 1 Black, 436,443.
But if this court is not so restricted in this case, nevertheless
a view of the nature of the proceeding is conclusive that the
registrars were acting judicially. They were judges, and
their action judicial, and not to be called in question by a suit
against them personally for damages. 17 Ency. of Law (2d
ed.), pp. 726, 727, 728; Flournoy v. City of Jeffersonvilh', 79
Am. Dec. 468; Bradley v. Fisher, 13 Wall. 335 ; 7 Notes to
U. S. Rep. 712; Busteed v. Parsons, 54 Ala. 393, 401.
Neither the Fourteenth nor Fifteenth Amendments, or statutes enforcing their provisions, overturn the rule that a judge
Virginia v. iv?,es,
is not liable civiliter for judicial conduct.
100 U. S. 318; Iarrisonv. Nixon, 9 Pet. 503; (nited Ntatcs
v. H7arris,106 U. S. 639 ; IIems.ley v. -Myers, 45 Fed. Rep.
283; construing these amendments make it impossible to suppose that § 1979, Rev. Stat., was intended to take away from
state courts the right to pass judicially on questions before
them and within their jurisdiction.
No Federal question was raised in the case and adversel v
decided. It is impossible to discover the adjudication of any
Federal question in the state court adversely to the right
claimed, which is a sine qua non to the jurisdiction of this
court. Ins. Co. v. The Treasurer,11 Wall. 208; CapitalBank

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

v. Cadiz Bank, 172 U. S. 430; Rev. Stat. § 709; Scott v.
Jones, 5 How. 375; Michigan Central R. P. v. Michigan S.
R. R., 19 How. 379.
The demurrer in the state court which disposed of the case
did not controvert any Federal right. It only raised questions
of procedure as to sufficiency of pleading and of general jurisprudence as to the individual liability of persons acting officially. If a dismissal may rest upon one of several grounds
there is no right to confine it to any particular ground, and if
an appeal must be based on a decision of a particular ground,
when other questions equally may have been the point decided,
the predicate of appeal is wanting. Connecticut,etc., v. Mood'iff 153 U. S. 689; Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73;
Veg Orleans v. New Orleans if. TV. Co., 142 U. S. 79 ; Delaware NPao. Co. v. Reybold, 142 U. S. 636. The Rev. Stat.
§ 1979, under which the action is brought, is unconstitutional, and there is no basis for the suit, and if not unconstitutional has no application to this suit. United States v. flarris,
106 U. S. 629, Baldwin v. _Franks, 120 U. S. 678, held that
Rev. Stat. § 5519, punishing violations of the third clause of
§ 1980, was unconstitutional, and in United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214, Rev. Stat. §§ 2007, 2008, and 5506, were
held to be unconstitutional as too broad for the powers given
by the Constitution to Congress; that they were not appropriate legislation.
Section 1979, however, has no application to this case. H-iolt
v. Indiana Jlfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68; IWiley v. Sinkler, 179
U. S. 58; Swaford v. Ternpleton, 185 U. S. 487; Logan v.
United States, 144 U. S. 293.
If the constitution of Alabama were a violation of the Federal Constitution the effect would be to nullify and discharge the entire registration program. Exp)arte Yarborough,
110 U. S. 651, 665; Giles v. Iarris,189 U. S. 475.
This court can only act upon the cases made by the pleadings, and the case here simply discloses a judgment which
must necessarily rest upon grounds not touching the construction of the constitution of Alabama or any right claimed in
opposition to its terms.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

And it is accepted, as an undeniable proposition, that the
"Denials of equal rights in the action of the judicial tribunals
of the State are left to the revisory powers of this court."
Vigvini v. Rives, 100 U. S. 322; Straieder v. Test iyrgin4ia, 100 U. S. 310; In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278; Gibson v.
Xississippi, 162 U. S. 565, 583.
And, therefore, if the right in this case sought to be vindicated
rested upon a statutory declaration of a liability on the part
of judges, it would make no difference, for a statute holding
them liable civiliter would not be "appropriate legislation."
As to the clauses of the state constitution objected to while
the history and circumstances of the enactment of Constitutions may be looked at, it is only for the purpose of understanding and applying the words themselves where there is
obscurity or doubt about the real meaning. Bleaker v. J]f,Pherson, 146 U. S. 27; Ogden v. 8aunders, 12 Wheat. 332;
Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 670.
INo legislative body can be held responsible for individual
declarations of members when it is not evident from the laws
themselves that the particular matter has been incorporated
in the enactment. The corpus delicti is wanting and there
can be no conviction, when the law does not disclose "the
bloody deed." Fletcher v. Peek, 6 Cranch, 87; .Jfxwell v.
Dow, 176 U. S. 601 ; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 374; tUnited
States v. Des 3-1oines, 142 U. S. 545; Downes v. Bidwell, 1S2
U. S. 254; Williams v. fississipp)i, 170 U. S. 222; Lake
County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 670.
The third class comprises, " All persons who are of good
character and who understand the duties and obligations of
citizenship under a republican form of government." This
is a provision under which any citizen of any race or color or
previous condition of servitude worthy to be admitted as an
elector may be registered. It has been held by this court that
provisions of exclusion predicated on bad character, or adniission to privileges on "good character," are not discriininations against races. Williams v. lfississiffi, 170 U. S. 222;
-Inre Wood, 140 U. S. 284; In re Tugiro, 140 U. S. 291, 298.
If defendants committed any wrong or error in the admin-

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

istration of the law, the law cannot be blamed for the administration; and their wrong, whatever it may have been, can
only be corrected by the revisory powers of this court, in the
original suit or application for registration. Where the objection is not founded on defects of the law itself, but relates
to its administration only, the remedy is only through the
revisory powers of the courts of the United States after the
state courts have decided against the claim or right founded
on the Constitution and laws of the United States. In re
Wood, 140 U. S. 284; Gibsony
v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 583;
In re Frederick, 149 U. S. 77; Vi'rginia v. Rives, 100 U. S.
321.
The bad administration of other persons, if there has been
such, defendants in error are not accountable for ; nor is the
law itself to be blamed for administration not traceable
to its words. Ykie Wo v. lopkins, 118 U. S. 356, distinguished.
It is suggested as a solution of the whole difficulty that if
the plan of registrationunder the Constitution of Alabama is
in violation of the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution,
the law is simply void and is not in the way of voting when
ballots may be offered, and that until a ballot is offered and
refused, there is no ground for a private citizen to ask judicial
action against the validity of the void law of registration,
since until then he is not injured. Tawpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S.
51; Tyler v. Judges of Registration, 179 U. S.405.
And, on the other hand, if there was only bad administration of a valid law, the objection should have been made in
the course of an appeal provided for in cl. 6 of § 186 of the
Constitution. It must be presumed the state court would
have corrected any abuse whatever. There was, therefore,
no occasion for or right to a mandamus.
Independently of all other questions, application for the
mandamus could not be awarded after the defendants have
long since been out of office by expiration of their term, and
could not possibly obey the judgment, which this court, it
seems, must judicially know here to be the case. Case No. 338
should abate. United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604 ; .Mills

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

v. Green., 159 U. S. 651, 657; Century Dig. vol. 33, col. 2132,
see. 52; col. 2151, see. 60.
AIR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The right to review in this court the judgment of a state
court is regulated by section 709 of the Revised Statutes. The
extent and nature of the remedy therein given has been the
subject of numerous decisions. The jurisdiction in the cases
now under consideration is invoked because of alleged denial
of the rights of the plaintiff in error, secured to him by the
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States. When the jurisdiction depends, as in the
present cases, upon a right, privilege or immunity under the
Constitution of the United States specially set up and denied
in the state court, certain propositions, it is said by Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, spealdng for the court in Sayward v. Denny,
158 U. S.180, 184, are well settled, among others, "The right on
which the party relies must have been called to the attention
of the court, in some proper way, and the decision of the court
must have been against the right claimed. Hloyt v. Sheldon,
1 Black, 518 ; Jhaxwell v. ewhold, IS How. 511, 515. Or, at
all events, it must appear from the record, by clear and necessary intendment, that the Federal question was directly involved so that the state court could not have given judgment
without deciding it." It is equally well settled that if the decision of a state court rests on an independent ground-one
which does not necessarily include a determination of the Federal right claimed-or upon a ground broad enough to sustain
it without deciding the Federal question raised, this court has
no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state court.
New Orleans v. New Oleanv ltterwor'k- (%., 142 U. S. 79;
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361 ; Dower v. Richards,151 U. S.
658, 666 ; Wade v. Lawder, 165 U. S. 624, 628.
In every case which comes to this court on writ of error or
appeal the question of jurisdiction must be first answered,
whether propounded by counsel or not. Defi ance Waterworks

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company v. Dejiance, decided at this term, 191 U. S. 184. In
No. 337, in {vhich an action was begun against the registrars
for damages, the case was decided upon demurrer to the declaration. The Supreme Court of Alabama placed its decision
affirming the lower court, which sustained the demurrer, upon
two grounds, as follows:
"If we accept (without deciding) as correct the insistence
laid in appellant's brief that section 186 of article VIII of the
constitution of 1901 is void because repugnant to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States, then the defendants were wholly without authority to register the plaintiff as a-voter, and their refusal to
do so cannot be made the predicate for a recovery of damages
against them.
"On the other hand, if that section is the source of their
authority, the jurisdiction is expressly conferred by it upon
the defendants as a board of registrars to determine the qualifications of plaintiff as an elector and of his right to register
as a voter. For their judicial determination that plaintiff did
not possess the requisite qualifications of an elector, and their
judicial act of refusing to register him predicated upon that
determination, they are not liable in this action. 17 Am. &
Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), pp. 727, 728, and notes.-Affirmed."
136 Alabama, 164-.
A consideration of the plaintiff's petition shows that it attacked the provisions of the Alabama constitution regulating
the qualifications and registration of the electors of the State
as an attempt to disregard the provisions of the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, by qualifying the whites to exercise the elective franchise and denying the same rights to the negroes of the State.
It is alleged that sections 180, 181,182,183,184, 185,186,187 and
188 of theAlabama constitution, which took effect on November 28, 1901, and under which the defendants were appointed
registrars, and were acting at the time, were enacted by the
State of Alabama, through its delegates to the constitutional
convention, to deny and abridge the right of the plaintiff and
others of his race to vote in the State on account of their color
VOL. cXCII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

and previous condition of servitude, without disfranchising a
single white man in the State. These sections of the Alabama
constitution were before this court in the case of Ciles v. Ik-arr'is, 189 U. S. 475, and the general plan of voting and registration was summarized by Mr. Justice Holmes, delivering the
opipion of the court as follows:
"By § 178 of article 8, to entitle a person to vote he must
have resided in the State at least two years, in the county one
year and in the precinct or ward three months, immediately
preceding the election, have paid his poll tax and have been
duly registered as an elector. By § 182, idiots, insane persons
and those convicted of certain crimies are disqualified. Subject
to the foregoing, by § 180, before 1903 the following male
citizens of the State, who are citizens of the United States, were
entitled to register, viz: First. All who had served honorably
in the enumerated wars of the United States, including those
on either side in the 'war between the States.' Second. All
lawful descendants of persons who served honorably in the
enumerated wars or in the war of the Revolution. Third. ' All
persons who are of good character and who understand the
duties and obligations of citizenship under a republican form
of government.' . . . By § 181, after January 1, 1903,
only the following persons are entitled to register: First.
Those who can read and write any article of the Constitution
of the United States in the English language, and who either
are physically unable to work or have been regularly engaged
in some lawful business for the greater part of the last twelve
months, and those who are unable to read and write solely because physically disabled. Second. Owners or husbands of
owners of forty acres of land in the State, upon which they
reside, and owners or husbands of owners of real or personal
estate in the State assessed for taxation at three hundred dollars or more, if the taxes have been paid unless under contest.
By § 183, only persons qualified as electors can take part in
any method of party action. By § 181, persons not registered
are disqualified from voting. By § 185, an elector whose vote
is challenged shall be required to swear that the matter of the
challenge is untrue before his vote shall be received. By § 186,

GILES v. TEASLEY.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the legislature is to provide for registration after January 1,
1903, the qualifications and oath of the registrars are prescribed, the duties of registrars before that date are laid down,
and an appeal is given to the county court and Supreme Court
if registration is denied. There are further executive details
in § 187, together with the above-mentioned continuance of
the effect of registration before January 1, 1903. By § 188,
after the last mentioned date applicants for registration may
be examined under oath as to where they have lived for the
last five years, the names by which they have been known,
and the names of their employers."
It is apparent that paragraph 3 of section 180, permitting
the registration of electors before 1903, of "all persons who
are of good character and who understand the duties and obligations of citizenship under a republican form of government," opened a wide door to the exercise of discretionary
power by the registrars. It is charged that this section, in
connection with section 181, permitting the registration of
certain persons after January, 1903, was intended to be so
carried into operation and effect that the negroes of Alabama
should be excluded from the elective franchise, and to permit
the white men to register before January 1, 1903, and thus
become electors, compelling the colored men to wait until after
January 1, 1903, and then to apply under conditions which
were especially framed and would have the effect to exclude
the colored man from voting. It is charged that the registrars
well knew the scheme and purpose set forth in the complaint
to work the disfranchisement of negro voters and to qualify
the white voters to exercise the elective franchise, and it is
charged that the defendants were appointed by the State under
sections of the state constitution adopted for the purpose of
denying the colored man the right to vote and under which
the defendants are undertaking to carry out the scheme and
were so acting when they denied the right of the plaintiff to
register, thus depriving him of the right guaranteed to him
by the first section of the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. A consideration of the allegations of this complaint, to which the demurrer was sustained,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

makes apparent that the Federal right for which the plaintiff
sought protection and the recovery of damages was that secured by the amendment to the Federal Constitution, which
prohibits a State from denying to the citizen the right of suffrage because of race, color or previous condition of servitude.
But in the present case the state court has not sustained the
right of the State to thus abridge the constitutional rights of
the plaintiff. It has planted its decision upon a ground independent of the alleged state action seeking to nullify the force
and effect of the constitutional amendments protecting the
right of suffrage. The first ground of sustaining the demurrer
is, in effect, that, conceding the allegations of the petition to
be true, and the registrars to have been appointed and qualified under a constitution which has for its purpose to prevent
negroes from voting and to exclude them from registration for
that purpose, no damage has been suffered by the plaintiff, because no refusal to register by a board thus constituted in defiance of the Federal Constitution could have the effect to disqualify a legal voter, otherwise entitled to exercise the elective
franchise. In such a decision no right, immunity or privilege,
the creation of Federal authority, has been set up by the plaintiff in error and denied in such wise as to give this court the
right to review the state court decision. This view renders
it unnecessary to consider whether, where a proper case was
made for the denial of the right of suffrage, it would be a defence for the election officers to say that they were acting in
a judicial capacity where the denial of the right was solely
because of the race, color or previous condition of servitude of
the plaintiff. In the ground first stated we are of opinion
that the state court decided the case for reasons independent
of the Federal right claimed, and hence its action is not reviewable here.
In the case for a writ of mandamus the same attack was
made upon the action of the State of Alabama in adopting and
enforcing the provisions of the state constitution which it was
charged were adopted for the purpose of disfranchising the
negroes and permitting white men only to exercise the elective

GILES v. TEASLEY.
103 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

franchise. In the mandamus case the decision of the state
court was:
"The petition in this case is for a writ of mandamus to compel the board of registrars for Montgomery County to register
the petitioner as an elector. It alleges that sections 180, 181,
183, 184, 185, 186, 187 and 188 of art. VIII of the constitution of 1901, fixing the qualifications of electors and prescribing the mode of registration, are unconstitutional because
violative of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States. The prayer is in substance
that these sections of the constitution above enumerated be
declared null and void, and that an alternative writ of mandamus issue to the board of registrars commanding them to
register as a qualified elector of the State of Alabama, upon
the books provided therefor, the name of petitioner and to
issue to him a certificate of the fact in disregard of said sections of the constitution, etc.
"As these sections of the constitution assailed created the
board of registrars, fixed their tenure of office, defined and
prescribed their duties, if they are stricken down on account
of being unconstitutional, it is entirely clear that the board
would have no existence and no duties to perform. So then,
taking the case as made by the petition, without deciding the
constitutional question attempted to be raised or intimating
anything as to the correctness of the contention on that question, there would be no board to perform the duty sought to
be compelled by the writ and no duty imposed of which the
petitioner can avail himself in this proceeding, to say nothing
of his right to be registered.-Affirmed." 136 Alabama, 228.
We do not perceive how this decision involved the adjudication of a right claimed under the Federal Constitution
against the appellant. It denies the relief by way of mandamus, admitting the allegations of the petition as to the
illegal character of the registration authorized in pursuance
of the Alabama constitution.
This is a ground adequate to sustain the decision and wholly
independent of the rights set up by the plaintiff as secured
to him by the constitutional amendments for his protection.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

The plaintiff in error relies upon two cases adjudicated in
this court, Viley v. Sin kler, 179 U. S. 58, and Swafford v.

Temipleton, 185 U. S. 487. In the former it was held that an
action nmy be sustained in a court of the United States against
election officers for refusing the plaintiff's vote for member
of Congress. The allegations of the complaint are set forth
in full in the statement of the case, and it appears that the
board of managers were averred to be legally qualified to preside at the Federal election, and as such wrongfully refused
the proffered vote of the plaintiff, a duly qualified elector,
willfully and without legal excuse. It was held that the complaint was defective for not averring that the plaintiff was a
duly registered voter. It appeared that the registration law
bad not been held unconstitutional, and it further appeared
that if such was the fact plaintiff was not in a position to impugn its constitutionality. In Swcqff rd v. Te leton,, it was
held that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing for want of jurisdiction an action kindred to that sustained in liley v.

-i4nk,',

wherein the plaintiff was denied the right to vote for member
of Congress, which was held to have its foundation in the
Constitution of the United States, with consequent jurisdiction
in a Federal court to redress a wrongful denial of the right.
Neither of these cases is in point in determining our right
to review the action of the state court in the case now before
us. It is apparent that the thing complained of, so far as it
involves rights secured under the Federal Constitution, is the
action of the State of Alabama in the adoption and enforcing
of a. constitution with the purpose of excluding from the exercise of the right of suffrage the negro voters of the State, in
violation of the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. The great difficulty of reaching the political action of a State through remedies afforded in the courts,
state or Federal, was suggested by this court in Giles v. Jlarri,,
suyra.
In reaching the conclusion that the present writs of error
must be dismissed the court is not unmindful of the gravity of
the statements of the complainant charging violation of a
constitutional amendment which is a part of the supreme law

