LEIGH v. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LEIGH v. GREEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 119. Argued January 13, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.
Where the claim that a state statute is unconstitutional is first made on a
motion for rehearing in the highest court of the State, and the motion is
entertained, and the Federal question decided against the contention of
the plaintiff in error, the question is reviewable in this court. Mallett v.
North Carolina,181 U. S. 589.
Where the State seeks directly or by authorization to others to sell land
for taxes upon proceedings to enforce a lien for the payment thereof, and
the owner is unknown, it may proceed directly against the land within the
jurisdiction of the court, and a notice which permits all interested, who
are "so minded," to ascertain that it is to be subjected to sale to answer
for taxes, and to appear and be heard, whether to be found within the
jurisdiction or not, is due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
The statute of Nebraska, Laws, 1875, February 19, p. 107, for the enforcement of liens for taxes by sale of the property is not repugnant to the due
process clause of the Constitution because in certain cases it permits,
under the provisions prescribed in the statute, a proceeding in rem against
the land.

-Tim facts essential to the determination of this case are
briefly summarized as follows: Irwin Davis was the owner of
certain lands in Knox County, Nebraska. On the twentyfourth day of November, 1880, an action was begun by
Algernon S. Patrick against Davis, in the District Court of
the county, and an attachment was issued and levied upon the
lands. The case was afterwards removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska, on October 18, 1882, where on January 21, 1890, an order for the sale
of the lands in question was made for the satisfaction of the
judgment, and the same were sold on May 15, 1891, by the
United States marshal to Lionel C. Burr. Burr afterwards
conveyed the lands to Crawford and Peters. On June 23,
1894, Crawford and Peters conveyed the premises to Alvin L.
Leigh, the plaintiff in error in the present case.
Fending said attachment proceedings, on December 28, 1882,

OCTOBER TERM1, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

a deed was filed for record in the clerk's office of Knox County,
purporting to convey the lands to Henry A. Root on October
8, 1880. Afterwards, on May 12, 1894, a decree was rendered
in the District Court of Douglass County, Nebraska, in a, cause
wherein said Patrick was plaintiff and Davis and others were
defendants, setting aside the deed from Davis to Root as
fraudulent and void as against the said Patrick.
in 1891 actions were brought in the District Court of Knox
County, wherein the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was
plaintiff and Henry A. Root and different subdivisions of the
lands were defendants, for the foreclosure of certain tax liens,
which actions, taken together, cover the lands in controversy
in the present suit.
In the same year, 1891, decrees were entered in those cases,
and orders made directing the sale of the lands for the satisfaction of the amounts found due by the decrees. In pursuance of said decrees the lands were sold by the sheriff to
Henry S. Green, defendant in error in the present action.
The deeds of conveyance were made and delivered to him by
the sheriff. Plaintiff in error claims title because of the
attachment proceedings, and defendant in error bases his claimn
to title upon the proceedings had for the foreclosure of the tax
liens. This suit was brought by the plaintiff in error Leigh,
in the District Court of Knox County, to quiet title to the
lands in controversy.
In that court a decree was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
in error Leigh, which decree 'was reversed by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, and the cause remanded with directions to
render a decree in favor of the defendant (reen.
This writ of error is prosecuted to review the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Nebraska. 64 Nebraska, 533.
-Mrk. J. 2W. Toolworth and XJr. IF. D. XfcHugh for plaintiff
in error:
We admit the rule that the legislature may adopt the most
summary, stringent and arbitrary administrative measures to
compel the payment of taxes, and that the legislature may
authorize the forfeiture of lands upon which taxes have been

LEIGH v. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

assessed and levied but have not been paid when due, without
notice to the owner of the assessments or the levy, or of his
delinquency, or of the forfeiture. Rules protecting the property of the citizen against proceedings to divest him of his
property without due process of law, are inappropriate to
those intended to compel payment of taxes. But when the
State goes into its courts and invokes their power, in order to
aid and give effect to such administrative proceedings, another principle obtains. In doing so it abdicates its sovereignty and puts itself on the footing of any one of its subjects.
The same principles and rules which govern private citizens
when seeking redress of their grievances, in the judicial courts,
governs the State when it becomes a suitor or consents to be
sued. United States v. Aredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 734; -Mitchellv.
United States, 9 Pet. 711, 742; Brent v. Bank of IFasington, 10 Pet. 596 (citing 2 Co. Inst. 573 ; 2 Yes. Sen. 296 ; Hard.
60, 460; 7 Co. Inst. 19; 6 Hard. 27, 170, 230, 502; 4 Co. Inst.
190); Smoot's case, 15 Wall. 36; State v. -Kennedy, 60 Nebraska, 300 ; _Tew Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371, and
cases cited p. 399; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152. See also where
this rule has been applied, Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S. 436;
Burrs v. Arkansas, 20 How. 271, 529; Moore v. Tate, 87
Tennessee, 725; Greene v. State, 73 California, 29; People v.
Stephens, 71 N. Y. 527; Southern Pacific Railroad Co. v.
United States, 183 U. S. 519.

Questions relating to taxation and to proceedings to compel
the payment of taxes, when brought within the judicial cognizance, are not exceptions to what has been said. All of the
judgments, in which the rule has been laid down that the
State may adopt whatever measures it sees fit to enforce taxes,
were where the proceedings in question were administrative;
in none of them was the rule applied to judicial process. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Hlagar v. Reclamation
District, 111 U. S. 701 ; .New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167

U. S. 371, 387.
This eliminates from the inquiry the circumstances that
the defendant derives his rights from the State, which, if it
were the party suing, would be subject to the rules governing
VOL. cxcIn-6

OCTOBEFAZR TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

actions between private parties, and, that the action, judgment, sale and deed in the foreclosure proceedings were to enforce the payment of taxes.
As to the validity of the statute and the proceedings to foreclose the tax liens, the statute changes the form from actions
in personam, to actions in, rem, and, by applying the rule in
the latter that all the world is a party to them, attempts to
avoid the necessity of bringing in lienholders personally, but
as to the nature of a proceeding in rem, see Freeman.v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185, from which it appears that "actions for
the enforcement of mortgages and other liens" are not actions
in rem strictly considered.
Our concern with the statute is not because it attempts to
transfer actions to foreclose a tax lien from the class called in.
persanam to that called in rem. The legislature undoubtedly
may have the power to regulate the form of remedies. But
what is radically wrong in this statute is that it attempts by
the judgment and proceedings which it authorizes, to conclude
parties who have no notice of them, although resident within
the jurisdiction and accessible to process and known to the
plaintiff, and knowledge of the interests is easily ascertainable. This cannot be done by the legislature simply changing the form of the action, thus evading the fundamental
principle in the jurisprudence of all civilized peoples that no
judgment is of any validity against one not a party to the action in which the judgment is rendered. Tylerl v. Cour1t qf
Registration, 175 Massachusetts, 71.
It is no answer to say that the notice published in the newspaper ran to "all persons interested" in the land, for the statute does not authorize or contemplate such notice, or any
notice to any one but the owner of the fee; and, besides, if notice
by publication were authorized by statute, it must, to be
effective, run to the parties to be reached by it and not to all
interested parties without naming them.
3fr. Edward P. Smith and M1r. lilliam, R. Green for
defendant in error:
The constitutional requirements of due process of law re-

LEIGH v. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

late to the remedy or means used and not to substantive law,
and the complainant's property is not taken from him without
due process of law if he is allowed a hearing at any time before the lien of the assessment becomes enforced. Board v.
Collins, 46 Nebraska, 627; C. B. & Q. v. State, 47 Nebraska,
519.
It is sufficient if a notice is given which will enable the
property owner to obtain a hearing before some tribunal and
contest the validity and fairness of the taxes assessed against
him. Gillmore v. ilentig, 33 Kansas, 405; Board v. Collins,
46 Nebraska, 427.
The notice is to be considered in connection with the provisions of the statute which the taxpayer is bound to know.
Lent v. Tillson, 72 California, 404; S. C., affirmed, 140 U. S.
316; Kansas City v. Duncan, 135 Missouri, 571; Davis v.
City, 86 California, 37; Ball v. Ridge oppei, Co., 118 Michigan, 7.
The Constitution should be read into the statute with relation to notice. Lent v. Tillson, 14 Pac. Rep. 71 ; Kentucky
Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 316; Paulsen v. Portland,149 U. S. 30;
Gillmore v. Hlentig, 33 Kansas, 405.
It is not necessary to adopt the same procedure collecting
taxes through the courts as in a strictly judicial proceeding.
Dulutdh v. Dibble, 62 Minnesota, 18 ; King v. .ullen, 171 U. S.
404; Marray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272.
In regard to taxes it is the land and not the owner that owes
the debt and an action in rein is proper. Blavins v. Smith,
13 L. R. A. 441 ; Cooley on Taxation, sec. 15; Blackwell on
Tax Titles, sec. 954; Jones v. -Devine, 8 Ohio St. 430; Freeman on Judgments, sees. 607, 1055; Pritchardv. Madren, 24
Kansas, 349; 6lhancey v. W1ass, 35 Minnesota, 1; Ball v.
Ridge 'oy)per Co., 118 Michigan, 7. As to judgment in rem,
Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185, distinguished. See Woodrif v. Taylor, 20 Vermont, 65.
It is immaterial that grantor of plaintiff in error was not
made a party. Herman on Estoppel, sec. 296; Wells on Res
Adjudicata, 507, citing Monroe v. Douglas, 4 Sandf. Ch. 182.
Nor is seizure necessary where the property is land within

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

the court's jurisdiction. Hlamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S. 256.
The owner if he desires can always appear as claimant. A'7utucky Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321.
If no personal defendants are necessary, it is not necessary
to give any notice in actions strictly in rem, to defendants by
personal citation. While notice is necessary, within reasonable limits the legislature may prescribe the nature of such
notice, and when notice is given in conformity with the legislative provisions, it affords everyone interested in the property
due process of law. AMonroe v. Douglas, 4 Sandf. Ch. 182.;
Do Freville v. Smalls, 98 U. S. 525; ]foodr?/f v. Taylor, 20
Vermont, 73; ]5 re Empi:e State Bank, 18 N. Y. 199, 215;
Hapy v. iJIosher, 48 N. Y. 313 ; Campbell v. .Evan , 45 hN. Y.
356; Ilogle v. 2fott, 62 Vermont, 255. See brief of authorities on this question, 50 L. R. A. 599.
It is only necessary in actions strictly in rei to serve notice
on the ,res, and when notice is so served it is notice to the world.
Cross v. Armstrong, 44 Ohio St. 624 ; Branch Bank v. llodges,
12 Alabama, 118; Freeman on Judgments, ยง 606.
It was the duty of all parties interested in the land in controversy to watch for the proceedings providcd for by the
statute for the foreclosure of the lien, and interpose any objection they might have to the validity of the tax. Francis
v. Grote, 14 Mo. App. 234; Ball v. Ridge Copper Co., 118
Mkichigan, 7.
Every one knows that his property will be sold for taxes
if the taxes are not paid; parties interested in the land are
presumed to know the law, and that the sale under the provisions of the statute would be an absolute bar against them.
Davidson v. .ew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97.
It was entirely immaterial whether plaintiff's grantor was
a resident or non-resident. Case supra, and Siepard v. WVare,
46 Minnesota, 184; S. C., 48 N. W. Rep. 773.
Where a statute can be construed in such a manner as to
make it conform to the constitution, that construction ought
to be given it. The Nebraska Supreme Court has passed
upon the form of notice in this case and has held that it
conformed to the provisions of the statute, and its construe-

LEIGH i,. GREEN.
193 U. S.

85

Opinion of the Court.

tion is entitled to be followed by this court. It has twice,
in the cases of Carmen v. Harrig,61 Nebraska, 40, and Grant
v. Bartiholomew, 57 Nebraska, 673, held that the action is one
in -em.
MR. Jusrricn DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss because the claim of impairment of a right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment was
not made in the courts of Nebraska until the motion for rehearing was filed in the Supreme Court. We are unable to
discover a specific claim of this character made prior to the
motion for rehearing. In the motion reference is made to the
failure of the Nebraska Supreme Court to decide the claim
heretofore made, that the statute of Nebraska was unconstitutional because of the alleged violation of the right to due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States. Be this as it may, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska entertained the motion and decided the Federal question raised against the contention of
the plaintiff in error. In such case the question is reviewable
here, although first presented in the motion for rehearing.
]allet v. North Ca-rolina, 181 U. S. 589.
The Federal question presented for our consideration is
briefly this: Is the Nebraska statute under which the sale was
made and under which the defendant in error claims title, in
failing to make provision for service of notice of the pendency
of the proceedings upon a lienholder, such as Patrick, a deprivation of property of the lienholder without due process of
law within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment?
The statutes of Nebraska under which the conveyances
were made to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company are given
in the margin.1
I SEc. 1. That any person, persons or corporation having by virtue of
any provisions of the tax or revenue laws of this State a lien upon any real
property for taxes assessed thereon, may enforce such lien by an action in
the nature of a foreclosure of a mortgage for the sale of so much real estate
as may be necessary for that purpose and costs of suit.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 IT. S.

The evident purpose of section 4, where the owner of the
land is unknown, is to permit a proceeding inv'en, against the
land itself, with a provision for service as in case or a nonresident. By section 6 it is provided that in cases where the
SEC. 2. That any person, persons or corporation holding or possessing
any certificate of purchase of any real estate, at public or private tax sale,
or any tax deed, shall be deemed entitled to foreclose such lien under the
provisions of this act, within any time not exceeding five years from the date
of tax sale (not deed) upon which such lien is based; And provided, That the
taking out of a tax deed shall in nowise interfere with the rights granted in
this chapter.
SEc. 3. All petitions for foreclosure or satisfaction of any such tax lien
shall be filed in the District Court in chancery, where the lands are situated.
SEC. 4. Service of process in causes instituted under this chapter shall be
the same as provided by law in similar causes in the District Courts, and
where the owner of the land is not known the action may be brought against
the land itself, but in such case the service must be as in the case of a ionresident; if the action is commenced against a person who disclaims the
land, the land itself may be substituted by order of court for the defendant.,
and the action continued for publication.
SEC. 5. All sales of lands under this chapter, by decree of court., shall be
made by a sheriff or other person authorized by the court, in the county
where the premises or some part of them are situated.
SEc. 6. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such sheriff, which shall
vest in the purchaser, the same title that was vested in the defendant to the
suit at time of the assessment of the tax or taxes against the same; and such
deed shall be an entire bar against the defendant to such suit, and again.st
all parties or heirs claiming under such defendants; and in case the land
itself is made defendant in the suit, the deed shall be an absolute bar against
all persons, unless the court proceedings are void for want of jurisdiction;
the object and intent of this section being to create a new and independent
title, by virtue of the sale, entirely unconnected with all prior titles.
SEc. 7. The proceeds of every sale made under a decree, by virtue of this
chapter, shall be applied to the discharge of the debt, adjudged by the court
to be due and of the costs awarded, and if there be any surplus it shall be
brought into court for the use of the defendant, or of the person entitled
thereto, subject to the order of the court.
SEC. S. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in court, for
the period of three months, without being applied for, the court may direct
the same to be put out at interest, under the direction of the court, for the
benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them
by the order of the court; the party to whom said surplus shall be loaned
to be designated by the court, and the sureties, upon which said money is
loaned, to be approved by the judge.
SEC. 9. All lands sold by the sheriff by virtue of this act, shall be ap-

LEIGH i. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

land itself is made defendant the deed shall be an absolute bar
against all persons, unless the court proceedings are void for
want of jurisdiction. The object and intent of the action is defined to be "to create a new and independent title, by virtue
of the sale, entirely unconnected with all prior titles."
The Supreme Court of Nebraska has held that the term
"owner," as used in the fourth section, applies to the owner
of the fee, and does not include a person holding a lien upon the
premises. It is this section (4) and section 6 which are alleged
to be in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The arguinent for the appellant concedes that the State may adopt
summary or even stringent measures for the collection of
taxes so long as they, are " ad ministrative" in their character;
and it is admitted that such proceedings will not divest the
citizen of his property without due process of law, although
had without notice of assessments or levy, or of his delinquency and the forfeiture of his lands. But the argument is,
that when the State goes into court and invokes judicial
power to give effect to a lien upon property, although created
to secure the payment of taxes, the same principles and rules
prevail which govern private citizens seeking judicial remedies, and require service on all interested parties within the
jurisdiction. The right to levy and collect taxes has always
been recognized as one of the supreme powers of the State,
essential to its maintenance, and for the enforcement of which
the legislature may resort to such remedies as it chooses,
keeping within those which do not impair the constitutional
rights of the citizen. Whether property is taken without due
process of law depends upon the nature of each particular
case. If it be such an exercise of power "as the settled
maxims of law permit and sanction, and under such safeguards
for the protection of individual rights as those maxims prepraised, advertised, and sold as upon execution and the title conferred by
his deed shall be entitled to all the presumptions of any judicial sale.
SEC. 10. This act shall be construed as cumulative and not exclusive
in respect to the remedy for enforcing liens, and collecting delinquent taxes,
by sale of property or otherwise, in the cases herein provided for, and shall
in nowise interfere with, alter, or amend the existing revenue laws of the
State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

scribe for the classes to which the one in question belongs," it
is due process of law. Cooley on Oonst. Lim. (7th ed.) 506.
The most summary methods of seizure and sale for the satisfaction of taxes and public dues have been held to be authorized and not to amount to the taking of property without due
process of law, as a seizure and sale of property upon warrant
issued on ascertainment of the amount due by an administrative officer, lurray v. Hoboken, Land Co., 18 how. 272; the
seizure and forfeiture of distilled spirits for the payment of the
tax, Henderson's Distilled Spirits, 14 Wall. 44. The subject
underwent a thorough examination in the case of David.on
v. l3ew Orleans, 96 IT. S. 97, in which Mr. Justice Aliller,
while recognizing the difficulty of defining satisfactorily due
process of law in terms which shall apply to all cases, and the
desirability of judicial determination upon each case as it
arises, used this language: "That whenever by the laws of a
State, or by state authority, a tax, assessment, servitude, or
other burden is imposed upon property for the public use,
whether it be for the whole State or of some more limfited
portion of the community, and those laws provide for a mode
of confirming or contesting the charge thus imposed, in the
ordinary courts of justice, with such notice to the person, or
such proceeding in regard to the property as is appropriate to
the nature of the case, the judgment in such proceedings cannot be said to deprive the owner of his property without due
process of law, however obnoxious it may be to other objections."
In the present case, the argument is that, as the State has
not seen fit to resort to the drastic remedy of summary sale of
the land for delinquent taxes, but has created a lien in favor
of a purchaser, at tax sale, after permitting two years to elapse
in which the owner or lienholder may redeem the property, it
has in authorizing a foreclosure without actual service, taken
property without due process of law, because the proceedings
and sale to satisfy the tax lien do not require all lienholders
within the jurisdiction of the court to be served with process.
If the State may proceed summarily, we see no reason why it
may not resort to such judicial proceedings as are authorized

LEIGH v. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in this case. And if the State may do so, is the property
owner injured by a transfer of such rights to the purchaser at
the tax sale, who is invested with the authority of the State ?
In Davidson v. New Orleans, suyra, the" objection was made
that the State could not delegate its power to a private corporation to do certain public work, and, by statute fix the
price at which the work should be done. In that connection,
speaking of the Slaughter-Rouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, Mr. Justice
Miller said : "The right of a State to use a private corporation
and confer upon it the necessary powers to carry into effect
sanitary regulations was affirmed, and the decision is applicable
to a similar objection in the case now before us."
In the statute under consideration, for the purpose of collecting the public revenue, the State has provided for the enforcenent of a lien by the purchaser at a tax sale, and authorized
him to proceed against the land subject to the tax to enforce
the right conferred by the State. The State has a right to
adopt its own method of collecting its taxes, which can only
be interfered with by Federal authority when necessary for
the protection of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. In authorizing the proceedings to enforce the payment
of the taxes upon lands sold to a purchaser at tax sale, the
State is in exercise of its sovereign power to raise revenue essential to carry on the affairs of state and the due administration of the laws. This fact should not be overlooked in determining the nature and extent of the powers to be exercised.
"The process of taxation does not require the same kind of
notice as is required in a suit at law, or even in proceedings
for taking private property under the power of eminent domain. It involves no violation of due process of law when it is
executed according to customary forms and established usages,
or in subordination to the principles which underlie them."
Bell's Gap Railroad v. Penns-yvania,134 U. S. 232, 239.
In authorizing the proceedings under the statute to enforce
the lien of the purchaser, who has furnished the State its
revenue in reliance upon the remedy given against the land
assessed, the State is as much in the exercise of its sovereign
power to collect the public revenues as it is in a direct pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

ceeding to distrain property or subject it to sale in summary
proceedings.
Nor is the remedy given in derogation of individual rights,
as long recognized in proceedings in rei, when the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted. The statute undertakes to proceed in iern, by making the land, as such, answer for the public dues. Of course, merely giving a name to an action as
concerning the thing rather than personal rights ill it cannot
justify the procedure, if in fact the property owner is deprived
of his estate without due process of law. But it is to be remembered that the primary object of the statute is to reach
the land which has been assessed. Of such proceedings, it is
said in Cooley on Taxation (2d ed., 527): "Proceedings of
this nature are not usually proceedings against parties ; nor,
in the case of lands or interests belonging to persons unknown,
can they be. They are proceedings which have regard to the
land itself, rather than to .the owners of the land ; and if the
owners are named in the proceedings, and personal notice is
provided for, it is rather from tenderness to their interests, and
in order to make sure that the opportunity for a hearing shall
not be lost to them, than from an' necessity that the case
shall assume that form." And see IWiow.u Land Go. v.fi/Tnneseoti, 159 U. S. 526.
Such being the character of the proceedings, and those interested having an opportunity to be heard upon application,
the notice was in such form as was reasonably calculated to
bring the same to the attention of those interested in the lands.
In the present case the notice was in the form given in the
margin.'
Legal Notice.
In the District Court of Knox County, Nebraska.
The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, Plaintiff,)
I
vs.
Henry A. Root and The Northwest Quarter of L
Section Twenty-two (22), Township Thirty-one
(31), Range Three (3) West, of the 6th Principal Meridian, Defendants.
The State of Nebraska, Knox County, to the above-named defendants and
all persons interested in said real estate:
You are hereby notified that the petition of plaintiff is now on file in the

LEIGH v. GREEN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This notice was to all persons interested in the property.
The lienholder, the Nebraska court has held, may appear in
court and set up his claim. The notice was good as against
the world, and all that is necessary when the proceedings are
in r-em :

"Laws exist under which property is responsible for taxes
imposed upon it. These same laws often authorize the obliga-"
tion by them imposed upon the property, to be enforced by
proceedings in which no service of process is required except
upon such property. The judgment resulting from such a
procedure is in i-em, and satisfaction thereof is produced by
an execution authorizing the sale of the property. The sale
acts upon the property, and, in so acting, necessarily affects
all claimants thereto." Freeman on Judgments, see. 606.
When the proceedings are in person a' the object is to
bind the rights of persons, and in such cases the person must
be served with process; in proceedings to reach the thing
service upon it and such proclamation by publication as gives
opportunity to those interested to be heard upon application
is sufficient to enable the court to render judgment. Cross v.
Armstrong, 44 Ohio St. 613, 624. Where land is sought to be
sold and is described in the notice a technical service upon it
would add nothing to the procedure where the owner is unknown. The publication of notice which describes the land
District Court of Knox County, Nebraska, wherein plaintiff claims that it
purchased said real estate for taxes due thereon in the sum of twenty-four
dollars and fifty-one cents at the tax sale held in said county on the 12th day
of June, 1888; that under said sale it has paid subsequent taxes on said land
as follows, to wit: on the 10th day of August, 1888, twenty-one dollars and
seventy-nine cents, and on the 9th day of July, 1889, nineteen dollars and
sixty-three cents, for which sum, with interest as provided by statute,
plaintiff claims the first lien against said premises and asks the foreclosure
thereof, and that the said property be sold to satisfy the amount due plaintiff, together with the further sum of ten per cent of said amount as attorney's fees and costs of suit. And you are further notified to appear and
answer said petition on or before Monday, the 9th day of November, 1891,
or the petition will be taken as true and judgment rendered accordingly.
Dated this 30th day of September, 1891.
FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY,

By M. J.

SWEELEY,

Its Attorney.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

is certainly the equal in publicity of any seizure which can be
made of it.
In Tyler v. Judges of the Court of ]Registration, 175 Massachusetts, 'i1, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
upheld as constitutional an act providing for registering and
confirming titles to lands, in which the original registration
deprived all persons, except the registered owner, of any interest in the land, and the act gave judicial powers to the recorder after the original registration, although not a judicial
officer, and there was no provision for notice before registration of transfer or dealings subsequent to the original registration. The majority opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice
lolmes, then chief justice of Massachusetts. In the course
of the opinion, speaking of the Massachusetts Bill of Rights
and the Fourteenth Amendment, he said: "Looked at either
from the point of view of history or the necessary requirements of justice, a proceeding in r'em dealing with a tangible res, may be instituted and carried to judgment without
personal service upon claimants ithin the State or notice by
name to those outside of it, and not encounter any provision
of either constitution. Jurisdiction is secured by the power of
the court over the res."
In lRuling v. TTaw YFalley Railway & Improvement Co., 13o
U.S. 559, it was held that notice by publication in proceedings
to condemn land for railway purposes was sufficient notice to
non-resident owners, and was due process of law as to such
owners. So as to adjudications of titles of real estate within
the limits of the State as against non-resident owners, brought
in by publication only. Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, 327;
Jamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S. 256, 274.
The principles applicable which may be deduced from the
authorities we think lead to this result: Where the State
seeks directly or by authorization to others to sell land for
taxes upon proceedings to enforce a lien for the payment
thereof, it may procede directly against the land within the
jurisdiction of the court, and a notice which permits all interested, who are "so minded," to ascertain that it is to be
subjected to sale to answer for taxes, and to appear and be

