POPE v. WILLIAMS.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

within the act of 1891 the treaty must be directly involved,
and upon its construction the rights of the parties must rest.
Within these cases it cannot be said that the construction of
any treaty is drawn in question herein when the rights of
neither party are necessarily dependent upon such construction, but are dependent upon that which may be given the
statute of 1882, and when the construction of that statute is
independent of that which may be given any of the treaties
mentioned, although weight may be given to the treaties in
determining the question of the construction of the statute.
See also Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248.
The motion is granted and the appeals
Dismissed.

POPE v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 503.

Argued March 8, 9, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

While the privilege to vote may not be abridged by a State on account of
race, color and previous condition of servitude, the privilege is not given
by the Federal Constitution or by any of its amendments nor is it a privilege springing from citizenship of the United States. Minor v. Happersell, 21 Wall. 162.
While the right to vote for members of Congress is not derived exclusively
from the law of the State in which they are chosen but has its foundation
in the Constitution and laws of the United States, the elector must be one
entitled to vote under the state stutute.
An act of the legislature of a State providing that all persons who shall
thereafter remove into the State from any other State, District or Territory, shall make declaration of their intent to become citizens and residents of the State a year before they have the right to be registered as
voters, is not violative of the Federal Constitution as against a citizen of
another State moving into the enacting State after the passage of the act.

THIS is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the State of
Maryland, to review its judgment affirming that of the Circuit
Court for Montgomery County, which affirmed the proceedings
of the board of registry of election district No. 7 of that county,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

refusing to register petitioner as a legal voter on the ground
of his non-compliance with the Maryland law making it necessary for a person coming into the State, with the intention of
residing therein, to register his name with the clerk of the
Circuit Court of the proper county, and thereby to indicate the
intent of such person to become a citizen and resident, of
the State.
The act in question was passed March 29, 1902, as chapter 133
of the laws of that year, and as an amendment and supplement
to the Public General Laws of the State, title "Elections,"
sub-title "Registration," as section 25B, and it is reproduced
in the margin.1
Plaintiff in error on September 29, 1903, presented his apSEc. 25B. All persons who, after the passage of this act shall remove into
any county of this State, or into the city of Baltimore from any other State,
District or Territory, shall indicate their intent to become citizens and residents of this State by registering their names in a suitable record book, to be
procured and kept for the purpose by the clerk of the Circuit Court for the
several counties, and by the clerk of the Superior Court of Baltimore CitY;
such record to contain their names, residence, age and occupation; and the
intent of such persons to become citizens and residents of this State shall
date from the day on which such registry shall be so entered in such record
book by the clerk of the Circuit Court for the county, or of the Superior
Court of Baltimore City, as the case may be, into which county or city such
person shall so remove from any other State, District or Territory. And no
person coming into this State from any other State, District or Territory
shall be entitled to registration as a legal voter of this State until one year
after his intent to become such legal voter shall be thus evidenced by such
entry in such record book, and such entry or a duly certified copy thereof
shall be the only competent and admissible evidence of such intent. And
the clerk of the Superior Court of Baltimore City and the several courts of
the several counties shall immediately, upon the passage of this act, procure
a suitable record book for the recording therein of such entries arranged
alphabetically under the names of such persons. For every person so
registered under the provisions of this section they shall be entitled to demand and receive the sum of twenty-five cents, to be paid to said clerks by
the mayor and city council of Baltimore and the county commissioners
respectively. A copy of such record, duly certified by said clerks, shall be
evidence of the right of such persons to registration as legal voters according
to law, and each person so registered shall be entitled to such certified copy
upon demand without charge.

POPE v. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

plication to the board of registry of election district No. 7,
Montgomery County, Maryland, then sitting at a place within
such district, to be registered and entered as a qualified voter
on the registry of voters of that election district, which application the board refused and declined to comply with, for the
sole reason that he had not complied with this law of Maryland.
Thereafter the plaintiff presented a sworn petition to the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, in the State of Maryland,
praying that court to enter an order to revise the action of the
board of registry, and to order and direct that the name of the
petitioner should be entered as a qualified voter on the registry
of voters of the election district already named. In that
sworn petition he alleged that he had on June 7, 1902, with
his wife and child, removed from the city of Washington,
District of Columbia, into Montgomery County, in the State
of Maryland, "having then had and ever since and now having
the intention of making the State of Maryland the permanent
domicil of himself and his family, and of becoming a citizen of
said State; and ever since said June 7, 1902, petitioner has
resided in the subdivision of Otterbourne, near Chevy Chase,
in said Montgomery County, and in the seventh election district of said county."
The petitioner further showed in his petition that he had
made application to the proper board of registry in the election
district mentioned, and the board had refused to enter his
name as a qualified voter on the ground already stated, of
non-compliance with the Maryland statute.
The petitioner admitted "that he did not within a year
prior to said application for registration as a qualified voter,
or at any time during the year 1902, in any manner, make or
register, in the office of or before the clerk of Montgomery
County, Maryland, or in a record book kept by said clerk, a
declaration of intention to become a citizen and resident of
Maryland, such as is required by the aforesaid law to be made
by persons who remove into the State of Maryland after
March 29, 1902, as a condition precedent to subsequent regis-

OCTOBER TERM1, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

tration of such persons as qualified voters.

193 U. S.

Petitioner, how-

ever, claims and asserts that said section 25B of article 33 of
the Code of Public General Laws of Maryland affords no
justification for said refusal to register your petitioner as a
qualified voter, because said alleged law contravenes and is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and the
constitution of Maryland, and is, therefore, null and void."
The petitioner then asserts and sets forth in his petition
several grounds which, as he therein alleges, render the state
law a violation of the constitution of the State of Maryland,
and he also specially sets up and claims that the law is a violation of the Constitution of the United States in the particulars
named by him, and which are as follows:
"Said law is repugnant to that portion of section 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, which declares that 'all persons born or naturalized in
the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they
reside,' because by said law it is in effect ordained that male
citizens of the United States of the age of twenty-one years
and upwards, removing into the State of Maryland after
March 29, 1902, with the intention of making said State their
permanent domicil, shall not be treated as citizens or residents
of Maryland, or given the rights and privileges of citizens of
Maryland, until they have been naturalized in the mode prescribed by said law.
"Said law is also repugnant to that portion of section 1 of
said Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States which prohibits a State from denying any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, because said
law operates an unjust and unreasonable discrimination against
citizens of the United State6 coming into the State of Maryland to permanently reside therein after March 29, 1902, who
may desire to become qualified voters therein.
"Said law is also repugnant to the general spirit of the
Constitution of the United States and the fundamental rights

POPE v. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of citizens of the United States, which deny to a State the
power to attach unreasonable or burdensome conditions to
the free movement of citizens of the United States out of, into
and settlement within the confines of any State, District or
Territory within the United States."
To this petition there was a general demurrer, which was
sustained by the court, which thereupon entered judgment
dismissing the petition with costs to the defendants.
Mr. William H. Pope, plaintiff in error, pro se:
The deprivation of a political right or privilege dependent
upon a state constitution, if such deprivation be grounded upon
an abridgement of a right or privilege conferred by the Constitution of the United States, presents a Federal question
entitling this court to review the judgment of a state court.
Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135.
State citizenship is a right, privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States. § 1, Fourteenth Amendment;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 80. By the express terms of
the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may not abridge the same.
The first sentence of the Fourteenth Amendment is in effect
a national naturalization law; and the acquisition of United
States and state citizenship is solely regulated by it. The
common law and general law of evidence in force at the time
of the adoption of the Amendment determine what is residence
and how it may be acquired. United States v. Wong Kim Ark,
169 U. S.654; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 630; United
States v. King, 34 Fed. Rep. 306.
Section 1, Art. I, of the constitution of Maryland confers the
voting franchise upon adult male citizens of the .United States
who have resided in the State one year. The general assembly of Maryland cannot add to these qualifications. Southerland v. Norris, 74 Maryland, 326. The term "resident," as
employed in the clause of the state constitution referred to is
synonymous with "citizen."
Art. 7, Maryland, Bill of Rights:
Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S.702.
VOL. cxcHi-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

It is a privilege of a citizen of the United States, of his own
volition, instantly to transfer his citizenship from one State
to another. llorris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315; Slaughter Hoarse
Cases, siupra. Unlike citizenship of the United States, (in the
case of a foreign born person,) no "declaration of intention"
is required.
The Federal privilege of state citizenship acquired by plaintiff in error on his removal into Maryland was clearly abridged
by the statute here assailed, which operates only against, persons, after their remoral into the State of Maryland, when, by
force of the Constitution of the United States, iany such
persons immediately on removal become residents of the State
of Maryland. The statute dates the residence and citizenship
from the time of the making of the declaration of intention rcquired by the statute, thus in effect annulling the residence and
citizenship acquired by force of the Constitution of the United
States, and compelling the acceptance of citizenship under
the state law. Further, the requirement of attendance at the
county seat to make the declaration in question-no matter
how far removed from the residence of the would-be-voter, or
how great may be the pecuniary injury sustained by loss of
time and money, outlay for railroad fares, etc.-is an oppressive and onerous burden, not imposed upon other citizens of
the State. It deters and hinders citizens from establishing
and exercising such right. See No. 61 of The Federalist, by
Alexander Hamilton, p. 281. The statute necessarily abri(dges
the Federal right and privilege, and is therefore unconstitutional. Crandall v. Nerada, 6 Wall. 36; Hendersoon v. Mayor,
92 U. S. 268; Vanwe v. TV. A. Vandereook Co., 170 U. S. 43,q;
Connoily v. Union Sewver Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 558.
The declaration of intention required by the Maryland law
is a condition and qualification for the acquisition of the right
to vote, and not a mere rule of proof. § 2165, Rev. Stat.;
Vance v. TV. A. Vandercoolk Co., 170 U. S. 438, 455; Sinnot
v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 241.
It is immaterial to the right of the plaintiff in error to claim

POPE r. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the benefit of the Federal privilege that the statute was enacted
before his removal into the State. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Denlon, 146 U. S. 207, and cases cited.
On the transfer of residence from one State to another a
citizen of the United States is vested "with the same rights as
other citizens of that State." Slaughter House Cases, supra.
This necessarily includes the right not to be arbitrarily discriminated against in the acquisition and enjoyment of political rights, because of his removal from another State. The
statute may, therefore, properly be held also to be repugnant to the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.
249.
Mr. John Prentiss Poe, with whom Mr. Bowie F. Waters was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
So far as the act is claimed to be contrary to the constitution
of the State the question is finally set at rest by the decision of
the Court of Appeals and that question is not subject to review
by this court.
It has long been an established doctrine of this court that the
construction by the courts of the several States of their constitution and laws is binding upon this court in all cases except
where a Federal question is involved. Guthrie on 14th Amendment, 44; Brannon on 14th Amendment, 395, 419; Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 66; Louisianav. Pilsbury, 105 U. S. 294;
Gibson v. M1ississippi, 162 U. S. 582; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166
U. S. 519, and cases cited.
The writ of error should be dismissed because it is no
longer within the power of the defendants to register the
plaintiff, as the registration books are not now and never will
or can be in their possession or custody or subject to their
control. Maryland Code, Art. 33, §§ 29, 30. The case is now
a moot case. Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 653; Schilling v. Summerson, 94 Maryland, 582, 591.
The act does not affect or impair any fundamental and

OCTOBER TERAM,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 I. S.

inalienable rights "of the plaintiff as a citizen of the United
States secured or guaranteed to him by that Amendment."
Residence in its legal sense is made up of two distinct elements: first, the physical, tangible fact of removal into the
State; and second, the quo anino or intent with which such
removal is made. Mitchell v. United States, 21 Wall. 350.
As to how to prove that a resident is entitled to vote, see
Fen wick v. State, 63 Maryland, 241; Fisk v. Che er, 8 Gray,
508; Cooley's Const. Law (7th ed. 1903), 524; 11 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law (2d ed.), title Evidence, page 550, and cases there
cited; 6 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), title Constitutional
Law, page 950, and cases there cited.
The Court of Appeals have decided in several cases that.
legislation of this sort relating to persons abandoning their
homes in Maryland and removing from the State into other
States, is constitutional and valid. Act of 1890, ch. 573,
sec. 14; Act of 1901, ch. 2; Code, Art. 33, title Elections, § 25a,
Shaefer v. Gilbert, 73 Maryland, 70, 72; Southerland v. Norris,
74 Maryland, 326; Sterling v. Horner, 74 Maryland, 573; McLaire v. Hobbs, 74 Maryland, 166; Bowling v. Turner, 78 Maryland, 595; Thomas v. Warner, 83 Maryland, 20; Howard v.
Skinner, 87 Maryland, 559.
By their judgment in the present case they have decided
that this section 25B is nothing but a lawful regulation of the
evidence necessary to prove what constitutes "residence."
Citizenship and suffrage are by no means inseparable; the
latter is not one of the universal, fundamental, inalienable
rights with which men are endowed by their Creator, but is
altogether conventional. Suffrage is not a right of property
or absolute personal right. Anderson, v. Baker, 23 Maryland,
531, 629; Cooley's Principles of Constitutional Law, 276;
Gougar v. Tiinberlake, 148 Indiana, 38; Black's Constitutional
Law, 466; Story on Constitution, § 581; Kinneenv. Wells, 144
Massachusetts, 497; Stone v. Smith, 159 Massachusetts, 413;
16 Alb. Law J. 272; United States v. Susan B. Anthony, 11
Blatch. C. C. 202; Van Valkenburg v. Brown, 43 California, 43;

POPE v. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 178; United States 'v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
Since the Fifteenth Amendment the whole control over
suffrage and the power to regulate its exercise is still left with
and retained by the several States, with the single restriction
that they must not deny or abridge it on account of race, color
or previous condition of servitude. United States v. Harris,
106 U. S. 636, 644; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127.
There are, it is true, the two provisions, first, that while
"the times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators
and Representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the
legislature thereof, the Congress may at any time by law make
or alter such regulations except as to the places of choosing
Senators." Constitution, Art. I, sec. 4; Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371; Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399; Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731; Logan v. United States,
144 U. S. 263.
As § 25B does not conflict with the Fifteenth Amendment
but in express terms applies to "all persons," it does not impair, abridge, affect, or even touch any privilege or immunity
of the plaintiff in error which is covered by the guaranty of the
Fourteenth Amendment. W1illiams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S.
213; Gibson v. Afississippi, 162 U. S. 582; Giles v. Harris, 189
U. S. 475; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127. And see also
Scott v. Sandjord, 19 How. 393; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall.
418; Neale v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Amy v. Smith, 1 Litt.
(Ky.) 326; Lanz .v. Randall, 4 Dill. 425; Short v. State, 80
Maryland, 401.
The protection designed by the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment declaring that no State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States, as has been repeatedly held,
has no application to a citizen of the State whose laws are
complained of. Bradwell v. State, 16 Wall. 130; In re Taylor,
48 Maryland, 28; In re Maddox, 93 Maryland, 728, 729.
As to the privileges and immunities belonging to the citi-

OCTOBER TERMT,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

zens of a State, these "must rest for their security and protection where they have heretofore rested," that is, with the
State in which the citizen resides. Slaughter House Cases, 16
Wall. 74; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 266; Short v. State, 80
Maryland, 401.
By removing into Maryland the plaintiff became a citizen
of that State and voluntarily subjected himself to the operation of her laws. Why then shall he not be bound by them?
As to equal protection of the laws the equality extends only
to civil rights as distinguished from those that are political or
arise from the form of the government and its mode of administration. Field, J., Ex parte Yirginia, 100 U. S. 637.
Equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of
equal laws. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 369.
The clause is not violated by any diversity in the jurisdiction
in the several courts as to subject matter, amount or finality
of decision, if all persons within the territorial limits of their
respective jurisdictions have an equal right in like cases and
under like circumstances to resort to them for redress. il1issoari v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 30; 1Furts v. Hoagland, 114 U. S. 615.
Class legislation discriminating against some and favoring
others is prohibited, but legislation, which in carrying out a
public purpose is limited in its application if within the sphere
of its operation it affects alike all persons similarly situated,
is not within the Amendment,. M1unn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 134;
Chicago R. R. Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 163; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27, 32; Soon Ling v. Crowlcy, 113 U. S. 703; Missouri
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Huines, 115 U. S. 523; Kentucky R. R. Tax
Case, 115 U. S. 337; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 266; Hayes v.
Missouri, 120 U. S. 71; Dow v. Biedehnan, 125 U. S. 691;
Missouiri R. R. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 209; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 687; Walslon v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 582;
Minnesota R. Rt. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 29; Hoine Ins. Co.
v. New York, 134 U. S. 606; Marchant v. Pennsylvania R. IV.,
153 U. S. 389; St. L. & San Fran. Ry. v. Mathews, 165 U. S.
24; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. TV. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 155; Orient Ins.

POPE r. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Ins. Co. v. Warren, 181 U. S. 73;
Ins. Co. v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308; Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S.
97; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Farmers' Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301; Short v. State, 80 Maryland, 402; Brannon
on 14th Amendment, ch. 16; on Equal Protection of the Laws,
315, 380; Guthrie on 14th Amendment, 106, 142.
Tests, qualifications, disqualifications, denials, abridgments,
distinctions, inequalities, may still lawfully be made at the
pleasure of the States, provided only they do not discriminate
against the negro.
If they apply equally, impartially and uniformly to white
and black citizens alike, they are not condemned by the letter
or the spirit of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments. They may perhaps cost the States a reduction
in their Congressional representation in the proportion in
which the number of adult males disfranchised by such state
legislation bears to the whole number of its adult male population. But this is the only legal consequence, and there is no
warrant for the contention that the Federal judiciary can also
declare such legislation absolutely void.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
This is not a case of a statute of the State having been passed
subsequently to the time when the individual had removed
from another State or from a Territory or from the District of
Columbia into the State of Maryland. There is, therefore, no
alteration of any possible rights which the plaintiff in error
might have already acquired and which he might claim were
taken from him by the passage of such statute. On the contrary, this statute took effect on March 29, 1902, more than
two months prior to the removal of the plaintiff in error from
Washington in the District of Columbia to Montgomery
County, within the State of Maryand. The objections of a
Federal nature, which are made by the plaintiff in error, to
the validity of the statute are set out in his petition, and are

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 Ut. S.

also contained in the above statement of facts, and are substantially reproduced in his assignment of errors.
We are of opinion that the statute does not violate any
Federal right of the plaintiff in rror which he seeks to assert
in this proceeding. The statute, so far as it concerns him and
the right which he urges, is one making regulations and conditions for the registry of persons for the purpose of voting.
It was only for the purpose of thereafter voting that the
plaintiff in error sought to be registered, and it was the denial
of that right only which he can now review. His application
for registry as a voter was denied by the board of registry
solely because of his failure to comply with the statute. Whatever other right he may have as a citizen of Maryland by reason
of his removal there with an intent to become such citizen, is
not now in question. So far as appears no other right, if any
he may have, has been infringed by the statute. The simple
matter to be herein determined is whether, with reference to
the exercise of the privilege of voting in Maryland, the legislature of that State had the legal right to provide that a person
coming into the State to reside should make the declaration
of intent a year before he should have the right to be registered
as a voter of the State.
The privilege to vote in any State is not given by the Federal
Constitution, or by any of its amendments. It is not a privilege springing from citizenship of the United States. Minor
v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162. It may not be refused on account.
of race, color or previous condition of servitude, but it does not
follow from mere citizenship of the United States. In other
words, the privilege to vote in a State is within the jurisdiction
of the State itself, to be exercised as the State may direct, and
upon such terms as to it may seem proper, provided, of course,
no discrimination is made between individuals in violation of
the Federal Constitution. The State might provide that persons of foreign birth could vote without being naturalized, and,
as stated by Mr. Chief Justice Waite in Minor v. Iappersell,
supra, such persons were allowed to vote in several of the

POPE v. WILLIAMS.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States upon having declared their intentions to become citizens
of the United States. Some States permit women to vote;
others refuse them that privilege. A State, so far as the
Federal Constitution is concerned, might provide by its own
constitution and laws that none but native-born citizens should
be permitted to vote, as the Federal Constitution does not
confer the right of suffrage upon any one, and the conditions
under which that right is to be exercised are matters for the
States alone to prescribe, subject to the conditions of the
Federal Constitution, already stated; although it may be observed that the right to vote for a member of Congress is not
derived exclusively from the state law. See Federal Constitution, Art. 1, sec. 2; Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58. But the
elector must be one entitled to vote under the state statute.
(Id., Id.) See also Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 491.
In this case no question arises as to the right to vote for electors
of President and Vice President, and no decision is made thereon. The question whether the conditions prescribed by the
State might be regarded by others as reasonable or unreasonable is not a Federal one. We do not wish to be understood,
however, as intimating that the condition in this statute is
unreasonable or in any way improper.
We are unable to see any violation of the Federal Constitution in the provision of the state statute for the declaration of
the intent of a person coming into the State before he can
claim the right to be registered as a voter. The statute, so
far as it provides conditions precedent to the exercise of the
elective franchise within the State, by persons coming therein
to reside, (and that is as far as it is necessary to consider it in
this case,) is neither an unlawful discrimination against any
one in the situation of the plaintiff in error nor does it deny to
him the equal protection of the laws, nor is it repugnant to any
fundamental or inalienable rights of citizens of the United
States, nor a violation of any implied guaranties of the Federal Constitution. The right of a State to legislate upon the
subject of the elective franchise as to it may seem good, sub-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

ject to the conditions already stated, being, as we believe,
unassailable, we think it plain that the statute in question
violates no right protected by the Federal Constitution.
The reasons which may have impelled the state legislature
to enact the statute in question were matters entirely for its
consideration, and this court has no concern with them.
It is unnecessary in this case to assert that under no conceivable state of facts could a state statute in regard to voting
be regarded as an infringement upon or a discrimination against
the individual rights of a citizen of the United States removing
into the State and excluded from voting therein by state
legislation. The question might arise if an exclusion from
the privilege of voting were founded upon the particular State
from which the person came, excluding from that privilege,
for instance, a citizen of the United States coming from Georgia
and allowing it to a citizen of the United States coming from
New York or any other State. In such ease an a'rgument
might be urged that, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Federal Constitution, the citizen from Georgia was by the
state statute deprived of the equal protection of the laws.
Other extreme cases might be suggested. We neither assert
nor deny that in the case supposed the claim would be well
founded that a Federal right of a citizen of the United States
was violated by such legislation, for the question does not arise
herein. We do, however, hold that there is nothing in the
statute in question which violates the Federal rights of the
plaintiff in error by virtue of the provision for making a declaration of his intention to become a citizen before he can have the
right to be registered as a voter and to vote in the State.
The plaintiff in error has no ground for complaint in regard
to the decision of the courts below, and the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland is, therefore,
Affirmed.

