NORTHERN SECIJRIITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 197
193 U.S.

Syllabus.

NORTHERN SECURITIES COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 277.

Argued December 14, 15, 1903.-Decided March 14, 1904.

Stockholders of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies-corporations having competing and substantially parallel lines
from the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean at
Puget Sound-combined and conceived the scheme of organizing a corporation, under the laws of New Jersey, which should hold the shares
of the stock of the constituent companies, such shareholders, in lieu of
their shares in those companies, to receive, upon an agreed basis of value,
shares in the holding corporation. Pursuant to such combination the
Northern Securities Company was organized as the holding corporation
through which that scheme should be executed; and under that scheme
such holding corporation became the holder-more properly speaking,
tile custodian-of more than nine-tenths of the stock of the Northern
Pacific, and more than three-fourths of the stock of the Great Northern,
the stockholders of the companies, who delivered their stock, receiving,
upon the agreed basis, shares of stock in the holding corporation.
Held, that, necessarily, the constituent companies ceased, under this arrangement, to be in active competition for trade and commerce along their
respective lines, and became, practically, one powerful consolidated corporation, by the name of a holding corporation, the principal, if not the
sole, object for the formation of which was to carry out the purpose of
the original combination under which competition between the constituent companies would cease.
Held, that the arrangement was an illegal combination in restraint of interstate commerce and fell within the prohibitions and provisions of the
act of July 2, 1890, and it was within the power of the Circuit Court, in
an action, brought by the Attorney General of the United States after the
completion of the transfer of such stock to it, to enjoin the holding company, from voting such stock and from exercising any control whatever
over the acts and doings of the railroad companies, and also to enjoin the
railroad companies from paying any dividends to the holding corporatipn on any of their stock held by it.
Held, that although cases should not be brought within a statute containing
criminal provisions that are not clearly embraced by it, the court should
not by narrow, technical or forced construction of words exclude cases
from it that are obviously within its provisions and while the act of
July 2, 1890, contains criminal provisions, the Federal court has power
under § 4 of the act in a suit in equity to prevent and restrain violations

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

193 U. S.

of the act, and may mould its decree so as to accomplish practical results
such as law and justice demand.
HARLAN,

BnowN, McKENNA and DAY, JJ.

The combination is, within the meaning of the act of Congress of July 2,
1890, known as the Anti-Trust Act, a "trust"; but if not, it is a combination in restraint of interstate and international commerce, and that is
enough to bring it under the condemnation of the act.
From prior cases in this court, the following propositions are deducible and
embrace this case:
Although the act of Congress known as the Anti-Trust Act has no reference
to the mere manufacture or production of articles or commodities within
the limits of the several States, it embraces and declares to be illegal
every contract, combination or conspiracy, in whatever form, of whatever nature, and whoever may be parties to it, which directly or necessarily operates in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States
or with foreign nations.
The act is not limited to restraints of interstate and international trade or
commerce that are unreasonable in their nature, but embraces all direct
restraints, reasonable or unreasonable, imposed by any combination, conspiracy or monopoly upon such trade or commerce.
Railroad carriers engaged in interstate or international trade or commerce
are embraced by the act.
Combinations, even among private manufacturers or dealers, whereby
interstate or international commerce is restrained, are equally embraced
by the act.
Congress has the power to establish rules by which interstate and international commerce shall be governed, and by the Anti-Trust Act has
prescribed the rule of free competition among those engaged in such
commerce.
Every combination or conspiracy which would extinguish competition
between otherwise competing railroads, engaged in interstate trade or
commerce, and which would in that way restrain such trade or commerce, is made illegal by the act.
The natural effect of competition is to increase commerce, and an agreement
whose direct effect is to prevent this play of competition restrains instead of promotes trade and commerce.
To vitiate a combination, such as the act of Congress condemns, it need not
Mr. Justice HARLAN announced the affirmance of the decree of the Circuit
Court and delivered an opinion in which Bnow;, MCKENNA and DAY, JJ.,
concurred. Mr. Justice BREwEp delivered a separate opinion in which he
concurred in affirming the decree of the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice WHITE delivered a dissenting opinion in which the CHIEF
JUSTICE and PECKHA.M and HOLMES, JJ., concurred; Mr. Justice llOL.NES
delivered a dissenting opinion in which the CHIEF JUSTICE and WHITE and
PEcKHAMu, JJ., concurred.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. ??. UNITED STATES. 199
193 U. S.

Syllabus.

be shown that such combination, in fact, results, or will result, in a total
suppression of trade or in a complete monopoly, but it is only essential
to show that by its necessary operation it tends to restrain interstate or
international trade or commerce, or tends to create a monopoly in such
trade or commerce, and to deprive the public of the advantages that flow
from free competition.
The constitutional guarantee of liberty of contract does not prevent Congress from prescribing the rule of free competition for those engaged in
interstate and international commerce.
Under its power to regulate commerce among the several States and with
foreign nations, Congress had authority to enact the statute in question.
United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; United States v, Trans1fissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290; United States v. Joint Traffic
Association, 171 U. S. 505; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U.S. 604; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Montague & Co. v. Lowr/, 193 U. S. 38.
Congress may protect the freedom of interstate commerce by any means
that are appropriate and that are lawful and not prohibited by the Constitution.
If in the judgment of Congress the public convenience or the general welfare
will be best subserved when the natural laws of competition are left undisturbed by those engaged in interstate commerce, that must be, for all,
the end of the matter, if this is to remain a government of laws, and not
of men.
When Congress declared contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade or commerce to be illegal, it did nothing more than apply
to interstate commerce a rule that had been long applied by the several
States when dealing with combinations that were in restraint of their
domestic commerce.
Subject to such restrictions as are imposed by the Constitution upon the
exercise of all power, the power of Congress over interstate and international commerce is as full and complete as is the power of any State
over its domestic commerce.
No State can, by merely creating a corporation, or in any other mode,
project its authority into other States, so as to prevent Congress from
exerting the power it possesses under the Constitution over interstate
and international commerce, or so as to exempt its corporation engaged
in interstate commerce from obedience to any rule lawfully established
by Congress for such commerce; nor can any State give a corporation
created under its laws authority to restrain interstate or international
commerce against the will of the nation as lawfully expressed by Congress. Every corporation created by a State is necessarily subject to the
supreme law of the land.
Whilst every instrumentality of domestic commerce is subject to state
control, every instrumentality of interstate commerce may be reached
and controlled by national authority, so far as to compel it to respect
the rules for such commerce lawfully established by Congress.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.
By MR.

193 U. S.

JUSTICE BREWER.

The act of July 2, 1890, was leveled, as appears by its title, at only unlawful
restraints and monopolies. Congress did not intend to reach and destroy those minor contracts in partial restraint of trade which tile long
course of decisions at common law had affirmed were reasonable and
ought to be upheld.
The general language of the act is limited by the power which each individual has to manage his own property and determine the place and
manner of its investment. Freedom of action in these respects is among
the inalienable rights of every citizen.
A corporation, while by fiction of law recognized for some purposes as a
person and for purposes of jurisdiction as a citizen, is not endowed with
the inalicnable rights of a natural person, but it is an artificial pelson,
created and existing only for the convenient transaction of business.
Where, however, no individual investment is involved, but there is a coinbination by several individuals separately owning stock in two competing
railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce, to place the control
of both in a single corporation, which is organized for that purpose expressly and as a mere instrumentality by which the competing railroa(
can be combined, the resulting combination is a direct restraint of trade
by destroying competition, and is illegal within the meaning of the let
of July 2, 1890.
A suit brought by the Attorney General of the United States to declare this
combination illegal under the act of July 2, 1890, is not ,n interference
with the control of the States under which the railroad companies and the
holding company were, respectively, organized.
THE pleadings in this action and the decree of the Circuit
Court are as follows:

PETITION.

To the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota:
Now comes the United States of America, by Milton D.
' Bill in equity of United States, this page, supra.
Exhibit: Certificate of Incorporation of Northern Securities Company,
page 216, post.
Answer of Northern Securities Company, page 221, post.
Answer of Hill and other defendants, page 241, post.
Answer of Great Northern Railway Company, page 241, post.
Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company, page 242, post.
Answer of Morgan and other defendants, page 247, post.
Answer of Lamont, defendant, page 255, post.

NORTH-l?,RN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 201
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

Purdy, the United States attorney for the District of Minnesota, acting under direction of the Attorney-General of the
United States, and brings this its proceeding by way of petition
against the Northern Securities Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey; the
Great Northern Railway Company, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Minnesota; the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Wisconsin; James J. Hill, a
citizen of the State of Minnesota and a resident of St. Paul,
and William P. Clough, D. Willis James, John S. Kennedy,
J. Pierpont Morgan, Robert Bacon, George F. Baker, and
Daniel Lamont, citizens of the State of New York and residents of New York City, and, on information and belief, complains and says:
I. The defendants, the Northern Pacific Railway Company
and the Great Northern Railway Company, were, at the times
hereinafter mentioned, and now are, common carriers, employed in the transportation of freight and passengers among
the several States of the United States and between such States
Decree of the Circuit Court, page 255, post.
Summary of facts from argument and brief of Mr. George B. Young for
appellants, page 257, post.
Abstract of argum nt of Mr. John G. Johnson for appellant Northern
Securities Company, page 268, post.
Abstract of argum nt of Mr. Charles W. Bunn for appellant Northern
Pacific Railway Company, page 273, post.
Abstract of brief submitted by Mr. John W. Griggs for appellant Northern
Securities Company, page 276, post.
Abstract of brief submitted by Mr. M. D. Grover for appallant Great
Northern Railway Company, page 280, post.
Abstract of brief submitted by Mr. Francis Lynde Stetson and Mr. David
Willcox for appellants Morgan, Bacon and Lamont, page 290, post.
Abstract of argument and brief of Mr. Attorney General Knox and Mr.
William A. Day, assistant to Attorney General, for the United States, appellee, page 297, post.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, page 317, post.
Opinion of Mn. JUSTICE BREWER, page 360, post.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE WHITE, page 364, post.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, page 400, post.

OCTOBER "I'ERAM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. f.

and foreign nations, and, as such carriers so employed, were
and are engaged in trade and commerce among the several
States and with foreign nations.
II. On and prior to the 13th day of November, 1901, the defendants, James J. Hill, William P. Clough, D. Willis James, and
John S. Kennedy, and certain other persons whose names are
unknown to the complainant, but whom it prays to have made
parties to this action when ascertained (hereinafter referred
to as James J. Hill and his associate stockholders), owned or
controlled a majority of the capital stock of the defendant, the
Great Northern Railway Company, and the defendants. J. Pierpont Morgan and Robert Bacon (members of and representing
the banking firm of J. P. Morgan & Co., of New York City),
George F. Baker and Daniel S. Lamont, and certain other persons whose names are unknown to the complainant, but whom
it prays to have made parties to this action when ascertained
(hereinafter referred to as J. Pierpont Morgan and his associate
stockholders), owned or controlled a majority of the capital
stock of the defendant, the Northern Pacific Railway Company.
II. The Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Great
Northern Railway Company, at and prior to the doing of the
acts hereinafter complained of, owned or controlled and operated two separate, independent, parallel, and competing lines of
railway running east and west into or across the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana, Idaho, Washington,
and Oregon, the Northern Pacific system, extending from Ashland, in the State of Wisconsin, and from Duluth and St. Paul,
in the State of Minnesota, through Helena, in the State of
Montana, and Spokane, in the State of Washington, to Seattle
and Tacoma, in the State of Washington, and Portland, in the
State of Oregon, and the Great Northern system, extending
from Superior, in the State of Wisconsin, and from Duluth and
St. Paul, in the State of Minnesota, through Spokane, in the
State of Washington, to Everett and Seattle, in the State of
Washington, and to Portland, in the State of Oregon, with a
branch line to Helena, in the State of Montana, thus furnishing

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 203
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

to the public two parallel and competing transcontinental lines
connecting the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River with
Puget Sound and the Pacific Ocean. At the times mentioned,
these two railway systems, which will hereafter be referred to
respectively as the Northern Pacific system and the Great
Northern system, each of which, with its leased and controlled
lines, main and branch, aggregates over 5,500 miles in length,
were the only transcontinental lines of railway extending across
the northern tier of States west of the Great Lakes, from the
Great Lakes and the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean, and
were then engaged in active competition with one another for
freight and passenger traffic among the several States of the
United States and between such States and foreign countries,
each system connecting at its eastern terminals, not only with
lines of railway, but with lake and river steamers to other
States and to foreign countries, and at its western terminal§
with sea-going vessels to other States, Territories, and possessions of the United States and to foreign countries.
IV. Prior to the year 1893 the Northern Pacific system was
owned or controlled and operated by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation organized and existing under certain acts and resolutions of Congress. During that year the
company became insolvent, and the line was placed in the hands
of receivers by the proper courts of the United States. While
in this condition, awaiting foreclosure and sale, an arrangement
was entered into between a majority of the bondholders of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company and the defendant, the
Great Northern Railway Company, for a virtual consolidation
of the Northern Pacific and Great Northern systems and the
placing of the practical control of the Northern Pacific system
in the hands of the defendant, the Great Northern Railway
Company. This arrangement contemplated the sale, under
foreclosure, of the property and franchises of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company to a committee of the bondholders,
who should organize a new corporation, to be known as the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, which was to become the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

successor of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company; one-half
of the capital stock of the new company was to be turned over
to the shareholders of the defendant, the Great Northern Railway Company, which in turn was to guarantee the payment of
the bonds of the Northern Pacific Railway Company. An
agreement was to be entered into for the exchange of traffic at
intersecting and connecting points and for the division of earnings therefrom. The carrying out of this arrangement was defeated by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States in the case of Pearsall v. The Great Northern Railway
Company (which was decided March 30, 1896, and is reported
in the one hundred and sixty-first volume of the reports of
said court, beginning on page 646, to which reference is made),
in which it was held that the practical effect would be the consolidation of two parallel and competing lines of railway, and
the giving to the defendant, the Great Northern Railway Company, a monopoly of all traffic in the northern half of the State
of Minnesota, as well as of all transcontinental traffic north of
the line of the Union Pacific, to the detriment of the public
and in violation of the laws of the State of Minnesota.
V. Early in the year 1901 the defendants, the Great Northern
and Northern Pacific Railway companies, acting for the purpose
of promoting their joint interests, and in contemplation of the
ultimate placing of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific
systems under a common source of control, united in the purchase of the total capital stock of the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company, of Illinois, giving the joint bonds
of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies,
payable in twenty years from date, with interest at 4 per cent
per annum, for such stock, at the rate of $200 in bonds in exchange for each $100 in stock, and in this manner purchased andi
acquired about $107,000,000 of the $112,000,000 total capital
stock of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, or about 98 per cent thereof. In this manner, at the time
stated, the defendants, the Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway companies, secured control of the vast system of rail-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 205
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

way lines known as the Burlington system, about 8,000 miles
in length, extending from St. Paul, in the State of Minnesota,
where it connects with the Great Northern and Northern
Pacific Railway systems, through the States of Minnesota,
Wisconsin, and Illinois, to Chicago, in the State of Illinois,
and from these two cities through said States and through the
States of Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, Colorado, South Dakota,
Wyoming, and Montana, to Quincy, in the State of Illinois;
to Burlington and Des Moines, in the State of Iowa; to St.
Louis, Kansas City, and St. Joseph, in the State of Missouri;
to Omaha and Lincoln, in, the State of Nebraska; to Denver,
in the State of Colorado; to Cheyenne, in the State of Wyoming, and to Billings, in the State of Montana, where it again
connects with the Northern Pacific Railway system, these
States lying west of Chicago and south of the States crossed
by the Great Northern and Northern Pacific systems, and
constituting the territory occupied in part by what is known
as the Union Pacific Railway system, which has been and is a
parallel and competing system within said territory with the
said Burlington system.
VI. The attempt to turn over a controlling interest in the
stock of the Northern Pacific Railway Company to the Great
Northern Railway Company and thus effect a virtual consolidation of the two railway systems, having thus, in the year 1896,
been defeated by a decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States, the defendants James J. Hill and his associate stockholders of the defendant, the Great Northern Railway Company, owning or controlling a majority of the stock of that
corporation, and the defendants J. Pierpont Morgan and his
associate stockholders of the defendant, the Northern Pacific
Railway Company, owning or controlling a majority of the
stock of that corporation, acting for themselves as such stockholders and on behalf of the said railway companies in which
they owned or held a controlling interest, on and prior to the
13th day of November, 1901, contriving and intending unlawfully to restrain the trade or commerce among the several States

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

and between said States and foreign countries carried on by
the Northern Pacific and Great Northern systems, and contriving and intending unlawfully to monopolize or attempt to
monopolize such trade or commerce, and contriving and intending unlawfully to restrain and prevent competition among said
railway systems in respect to such interstate and foreign trade or
commerce, and contriving and intending unlawfully to deprive
the public of the facilities and advantages in the carrying on of
such interstate and foreign trade or commerce theretofore enjoyed through the independent competition of said railway systems, entered into an unlawful combination or conspiracy to
effect a virtual consolidation of the Northern Pacific and Great
Northerrr systems, and to place restraint upon all competitive
interstate and foreign trade or commerce carried on by them,
and to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the same, and to
suppress the competition theretofore existing between said railway systems in said interstate and foreign trade or commerce,
through the instrumentality and by the means following, to wit:
A holding corporation, to be called the Northern Securities
Company, was to be formed under the laws of New Jersey, with
a capital stock of $400,000,000, to which, in exchange for its
own capital stock upon a certain basis and at a certain rate, was
to be turned over and transferred the capital stock, or a controlling interest in the capital stock, of each of the defendant
railway companies, with power in the holding corporation to
vote such stock and in all respects to act as the owner thereof,
and to do whatever it might deem necessary to aid in any
manner such railway companies or enhance the value of their
stocks. In this manner, the individual stockholders of these
two independent and competing railway companies were to be
eliminated and a single common stockholder, the Northern
Securities Company, was to be substituted; the interest of the
individual stockholders in the property and franchises of the.
two railway companies was to terminate, being thus converted
into an interest in the property and franchises of the Northern
Securities company. The individual stockholders of the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 207
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

Northern Pacific Railway Company were no longer to hold
an interest in the property or draw their dividends from the
earnings of the Northern Pacific system, and the individual
stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company were
no longer to hold an interest in the property or draw their
dividends from the earnings of the Great Northern system,
but having ceased to be stockholders in the railway companies
and having become stockholders in the holding corporation,
both were to draw their dividends from the earnings of both
systems, collected and distributed by the holding corporation.
In this manner, by making the stockholders of each system
jointly interested in both systems, and by practically pooling
the earnings of both systems for the benefit of the former stockholders of each, and by vesting the selection of the directors
and officers of each system in a common body, to wit, the
holding corporation, with not only the power but the duty
to pursue a policy which would promote the interests, not of
one system at the expense of the other, but of both at the
expense of the public, all inducement for competition between
the two systems was to be removed, a virtual consolidation
effected, and a monopoly of the interstate and foreign commerce formerly carried on by the two systems as independent
competitors established.
VII. In pursuance of the unlawful combination or conspiracy
aforesaid, and solely as an instrumentality through which to
effect the purposes thereof, on the 13th day of November, 1901,
the defendant, the Northern Securities Company, was organized
under the general laws of the State of New Jersey, with its principal office in Hoboken, in said State, and with an authorized
capital stock of $400,000,000. A copy of the articles of incorporation of such company is attached to and made'a part of this
petition. Among the purposes and powers designedly inserted
in said articles is the purpose and power, not only to "purchase" and "hold" "shares of the capital stock of any other
corporation or corporations," under which said company wrongfully claims and is exercising the power to acquire by exchange

OCTOBER TIRM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

and hold the stock of the Northern Pacific and the Great Northern Railway companies, but the purpose and power, while
owner thereof, "to exercise all the rights, powers, and privileges
of ownership;" that is, to vote such stock, collect the dividends
thereon, and in all respects act as a stockholder of such railway
companies; and the purpose and power "to aid in any manner
or
of which any bonds
any corporation
and to do any acts or things designed
stock are held,
to protect, preserve, improve, or enhance the value of any such
bonds
or stock," meaning thereby to do whatever
it may deem necessary to aid in any manner the Northern Pacific and the Great Northern Railway companies, or to preserve
or enhance the value of their stocks or bonds.
VIII. In further pursuance of the unlawful combination or
conspiracy aforesaid, and solely as an instrumentality through
which to effect the purposes thereof, on or about the 14th (lay
of November, 1901, the defendant the Northern Securities
Company was organized by the election of a board of directors
and the selection of a president and other officers, the defendant
James J. Hill, the president and controlling power in the
management of the defendant the Great Northern Railway
Company, being chosen a director and president thereof; and
thereupon, in further pursuance of the unlawful combination or
conspiracy aforesaid, the defendants James J. Hill and his associate stockholders of the defendant the Great Northern Railway
Company assigned and transferred to the defendant the Northern Securities Company, a large amount of the capital stock of
the Great Northern Railway Company, the exact amount being
unknown to complainant, but constituting a controlling interest
therein, and complainant believes a majority thereof, upon the
agreed basis of exchange of 8180, par value, of the capital stock
of the said Northern Securities Company for each share of the
capital stock of the Great Northern Railway Company; and the
defendants J. Pierpont Morgan and his associate stockholders of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company assigned and transferred to the defendant the Northern Securities Company a

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES.

209

Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

large majority of the capital stock of the defendant the Northern Pacific Railway Company, the exact amount being unknown
to complainant, upon the agreed basis of exchange of $115, par
value, of the capital stock of the said Northern Securities Company for each share of the capital stock of the Northern Pacific
Railway Company; and thereafter, in further pursuance of the
unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid, the defendant,
the Northern Securities Company, offered to the stockholders of
the defendant railway companies to issue and exchange its capital stock for the capital stock of such railway companies, upon
the basis of exchange aforesaid, no other consideration being
required. In further pursuance of the unlawful combination
or conspiracy aforesaid the defendant the Northern Securities
Company has acquired an additional amount of the stock of the
defendant railway companies, issuing in lieu thereof its own
stock upon the basis of exchange aforesaid, and is now holding,
as owner and proprietor, substantially all of the capital stock of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company and, as complainant
believes and charges, a majority of the capital stock of the
Great Northern Railway Company, but if not a majority, at
least a controlling interest therein, and is voting the same and
is collecting the dividends thereon, and in all respects is acting
as the owner thereof in the organization, management, and
operation of said railway companies, and in the receipt and
control of their earnings, and will continue to do so, unless
restrained by the order of this court. By reason whereof a
virtual consolidation under one ownership and source of control of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway
systems has been effected, a combination or conspiracy in restraint of the trade or commerce among the several States and
with foreign nations formerly carried on by the defendant railway companies independently and in free competition one with
the other has been formed and is in operation, and the defendants are thereby attempting to monopolize, and have monopolized, such interstate and foreign trade or commerce, to
the great and irreparable damage of the people of the United
VOL. cxciii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

States, in derogation of their common rights, and in violation
of the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, entitled "An act to pro-

tect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies."
IX. If the defendant the Northern Securities Company has
not acquired a large majority of the capital stock of the defendant the Great Northern Railway Company, it is because the
individual defendants named, and their associates in the combination or conspiracy charged in this petition, or some of them,
since it became apparent that the legality of their corporate
device for the merger of the stock of competing railway coinpanies, through the instrumentality of a central or hokling
corporation, would be assailed in the courts, have purposely
withheld, or caused to be withheld, a large amount of the capital stock of said railway company from transfer for the stock
of the Northern Securities Company, and have purposely discouraged and prevented the transfer and exchange of such
stock for the stock of the Northern Securities Company, all for
the purpose of concealing the real scope and object of the
unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid, and of deceiving
and misleading the state and Federal authorities, and of furnishing a ground for the defence that the Northern Securities
Company does not hold a clear majority of the stock of the
Great Northern Railway Company. The complainant avers
that such stock, so withheld or not transferred to the Northern
Securities Company, is now in the hands of some person or
persons (unknown to the complainant) friendly to and under
the influence of the individual defendants named and their
associates aforesaid, or some of them, and will either not be
voted, or be voted in harmony with the Great Northern stock
held by the Northern Securities Company, until the question
of the legality of this corporate device for merging competing railway lines shall be finally and judicially determined,
when such stock will either be turned over to the Northern
Securities Company or continue to be held and voted outside
said company but in harmony with the Great Northern

NORxHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 211
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

stock held and voted by it, as may at the time seem advisable.
X. In further pursuance of the unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid, the Northern Securities Company (subject, it
may be, to the condition stated in the next preceding paragraph) is about to and will, unless restrained by the order of
this court, receive and acquire, and hereafter hold and control
as owner and proprietor, substantially all of the capital stock of
the defendant railway companies, issuing in lieu thereof its own
capital stock to the full extent of the authorized issue, of which,
upon the basis of exchange aforesaid, the former stockholders
of the Great Northern Railway Company have received or will
receive and hold about 55 per cent thereof, the balance going
to the former stockholders of the Northern Pacific Railway
Company.
XI. No consideration whatever has existed, or will exist, for
the transfer as aforesaid of the stock of the defendant railway
companies from their stockholders to the Northern Securities
Company, other than the issue of the stock of the Northern
Securities Company to them in exchange therefor, for the purpose, after the manner, and upon the basis aforesaid.
The defendant, the Northern Securities Company, was not
organized in good faith to purchase and pay for the stocks of
the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway companies. It was organized solely to incorporate the pooling of
the stocks of said companies and to carry into effect the unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid. The Northern Securities Company is a mere depositary, custodian, holder, and
trustee of tle stocks of the Great Northern and the Northern
Pacific Railway companies, and its shares of stock are but
beneficial certificates issued against said railroad stocks to
designate the interest of the holders in the pool. The Northern
Securities Company does not have and never had any capital
sufficient to warrant such a stupendous operation. Its subscribed capital was but $30,000, and its authorized capital
stock of $400,000,000 is just sufficient, when all issued, to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 U. S.

represent and cover the exchange value of substantially the
entire stock of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, upon the basis and at the rate agreed upon,
which is about $122,000,000 in excess of the combined capital
stock of the two railway companies taken at par.
XII. If the Government fails to prevent the carrying out, of
the combination or conspiracy aforesaid, and the defendant, the
Northern Securities Company, is permitted to receive and hold
and act as owner of the stock of the Northern Pacific and Great,
Northern Railway companies as aforesaid, not only will a virtual consolidation of two competing transcontinental lines, with
the practical pooling of their earnings, be effected, and a
monopoly of the interstate and foreign commerce formerly
carried on by them as competitors be created, and all effective
competition between such lines in the carrying of interstate and
foreign traffic be destroyed, but thereafter, to all desiring to use
it, an available method will be presented, whereby, through the
corporate scheme or device aforesaid, the act of Congress of
July 2, 1890, entitled "An act to protect trade and commerce
against unlawful restraints and monopolies," may be circumvented and set at naught, and all transcontinental lines, indeed
the entire railway systems of the country, may be absorbed,
merged, and consolidated, thus placing the public at the absolute mercy of the holding corporation.
XII-I. In furtherance of the purpose and object of the unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the trade or commerce among the several
States, and between such States and foreign countries, formerly
carried on in free competition by the defendants, the Northern
Pacific and Great Northern Railway companies, and to place a
restraint thereon, the individual defendants named and their
associate stockholders of the defendant railway companies,
have combined or conspired with one another and with other
persons (whose names are unknown to the complainant, but
whom it prays to have made parties to this action when ascertained) to use and employ, in addition to the corporate scheme

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. r. UNITED STATES. 213
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

or device aforesaid, and in aid thereof, various other schemes,
devices, and instrumentalities, the precise details of which are
at present unknown to the complainant but will be laid before
the court when ascertained, by means of which, unless prevented by the order of this court, the object and purpose of the
unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid may and will be
accomplished.
PRAYER.

In consideration whereof, and inasmuch as adequate relief in
the premises can only be obtained in this court, the United
States of America prays your honors to order, adjudge, and
decree that the combination or conspiracy hereinbefore described is unlawful, and that all acts done or to be done in carrying it out are in derogation of the common rights of all the people of the United States and in violation of the act of Congress of
July 2, 1890, entitled "An act to protect trade and commerce
against unlawful restraints and monopolies," and that the
defendants and each and every one of them, and their officers,
directors, stockholders, agents, and servants, and each and
every one of them, be perpetually enjoined from doing any act
in pursuance of or for the purpose of carrying out the same,
and, in addition, that the several defendants be respectively
enjoined as follows:
First. That the defendant, the Northern Securities Company,
its stockholders, officers, directors, executive committee, and its
agents and servants, and each and every one of them, be perpetually enjoined from purchasing, acquiring, receiving, holding, voting (whether by proxy or otherwise), or in any manner
acting as the owner of any of the shares of the capital stock of
either the Northern Pacific Railway Company or the Great
Northern Railway Company; and that a mandatory injunction
may issue requiring the Northern Securities Company to recall
and cancel any certificates of stock issued by it in purchase of
or in exchange for any of the shares of the capital stock of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Bill in Equity.

193 IT. S.

either of said railway companies, surrendering in return therefor to the holders thereof the certificates of stock in the respective railway companies in lieu of which they were issued.
Second. That the defendant, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, its stockholders, officers, directors, agents, and servants, and each and every one of them, be perpetually enjoined
from in any manner recognizing or accepting the Northern Securities Company as the owner or holder of any shares of its
capital stock, and from permitting such company to vote such
stock, whether by proxy or otherwise, and from paying any
dividends upon such stock to said company or its assigns, unless
authorized by this court, and from recognizing as valid any
transfer, mortgage, pledge, or assignment by such company of
such stock, unless authorized by this court.
Third. That the defendant, the Great Northern Railway
Company, its stockholders, officers, directors, agents, and servants, and each and every one of them, be perpetually enjoined
from in any manner recognizing or accepting the Northern Securities Company as the owner or holder of any shares of its
capital stock, and from permitting such company to vote such
stock, whether by proxy or otherwise, and from paying any
dividends upon such stock to said company or its assigns, unless
authorized by this court, and from recognizing as valid any
transfer, mortgage, pledge, or assignment by such company of
such stock unless authorized by this court.
Fourth. That the individual defendants named, and their
associate stockholders, and each and every stockholder of either
of said railway companies who has exchanged his stock therein
for the stock of the Northern Securities Company, be each,
respectively, perpetually enjoined from in any manner holding,
voting, or acting as the owner of any of the stock of the Northern Securities Company, issued in exchange for the stock of
either of the said railway companies, unless authorized by this
court; and that a mandatory injunction may issue requiring
each of the said defendants to surrender any stock of the Northern Securities Company so acquired and held by him, and accept

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. r. UNITED STATES. 215

193 U. S.

Bill in Equity.

therefor the stock of the defendant railway company in exchange for wlich the same was issued.
Fifth. That the individual defendants named, and their associate stockholders, and each and every person combining or
conspiring with them, as charged in Paragraph XIII hereof,
and their trustees, agents, and assigns, present or future, and
each and every one of them, be perpetually enjoined from doing
any and every act or thing mentioned in said paragraph, or in
furtherance of the combination or conspiracy described therein,
or intended or tending to place the capital stock of the defendant railway companies, or the competing railway systems operated by them, or the competitive interstate or foreign trade or
commerce carried on by them, under the control, legal or
practical, of the defendant, the Northern Securities Company,
or of any person or persons, or association or corporation, acting
for or in lieu of said company, in the carrying out of the unlawful combination or conspiracy described in said paragraph.
The United States prays for such other and further relief as
the nature of the case may require and the court may deem
proper in the premises.
To the end, therefore, that the United States of America may
obtain the relief to which it is justly entitled in the premises,
may it please your honors to grant unto it writs of subpcena
directed to the said defendants, the Northern Securities Company, the Northern Pacific Railway Company, the Great Northern Railway Company, James J. Hill, William P. Clough, D.
Willis James, and John S. Kennedy, and their associate stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company, as their
names may become known to complainant and the court be
advised thereof, J. Pierpont Morgan, Robert Bacon, George F.
Baker, and Daniel S. Lamont, and their associate stockholders
of the Northern Pacific Railway Company, as their names may
become known to complainant and the court be advised thereof,
and the persons referred to in Paragraph XIII hereof, as their
names may become known to complainant and the court be
advised thereof, and to each of them, commanding them, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Bill in Equity; Exhibit.

193 U. S.

each of them, to appear herein and answer (but not under oath)
the allegations contained in the foregoing petition, and abide by
and perform such order or decree as the court may make in the
premises; and that, pending the final hearing of this case, a temporary restraining order may issue enjoining the defendants and
their associates, and each of them, and their stockholders, directors, officers, agents, and servants as hereinbefore prayed.
The petition was signed and verified by Milton D. Purdy,
Attorney of the United States for the District of Minnesota,
and also signed by Philander C. Knox, Attorney-General of
the United States, and John K. Richards, Solicitor-General
of the United States.
Annexed to the petition as an exhibit was the charter of the
Northern Securities Company, as follows:
CERTIFICATE

OF

INCORPORATION

OF NORTHERN

SECURITIES

COMPANY.
STATE OF NEW JERSEY, ss:

We, the undersigned, in order to form a corporation for the
purposes hereinafter stated, under and pursuant to the provisions of the act of the legislature of the State of New Jersey
entitled "An act concerning corporations" (revision of 1896),
and the acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, do
hereby certify as follows:
First. The name of the corporation is Northern Securities
Company.
Second. The location of its principal office in the State of
New Jersey is at No. 51 Newark street, in the city of Hoboken,
county of Hudson. The name of the agent therein, and in
charge thereof, upon whom process against the corporation may
be served, is Hudson Trust Company. Such office is to be the
registered office of the corporation.
Third. The objects for which the corporation is formed are:
(1) To acquire by purchase, subscription, or otherwise, and to
hold as investment, any bonds or other securities or evidences of

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
193 U. S.

'.

UNITED STATES. 217

Bill in Equity; Exhibit.

indebtedness, or any shares of capital stock created or issued by
any other corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory, or country.
(2) To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge,
or otherwise dispose of any bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness created or issued by any other corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the State of
New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory, or country, and
while owner thereof to exercise all the rights, powers, and privileges of ownership.
(3) To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge,
or otherwise dispose of shares of the capital stock of any other
corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the
State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory, or country, and while owner of such stock to exercise all the rights,
powers, and privileges of ownership, including the right to vote
thereon.
(4) To aid in any manner any corporation or association of
which any bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or stock are held by the corporation, and to do any acts or
things designed to protect, preserve, improve, or enhance the
value of any such bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or stock.
(5) To acquire, own, and hold such real and personal property
as may be necessary or convenient for the transaction of its
business.
The business or purpose of the corporation is from time to
time to do any one or more of the acts and things herein set
forth.
The corporation shall have power to conduct its business in
other States and in foreign countries, and to have one or more
offices out of this State, and to hold, purchase, mortgage, and
convey real and personal property out of this State.
Fourth. The total authorized capital stock of the corporation
is four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), divided into

OCTOIIER TERM, 1903.
Bill in Equity; Exhibit.

193 T. S.

four million (4,000,000) shares of the par value of one hundred
dollars ($100) each. The amount of the capital stock with
whih the corporation will conmmence business is thirty thousand dollars.
Fifth. The names and post-office addresses of the incorporators, and the number of shares of stock subscribed for by each
(the aggregate of such subscriptions being the amount of capital
stock with which this company will commence business), are as
follows:
Name and post-office address.

Number of
asares.

George F. Baker, jr., 258 Madison avenue, New York, N. Y...
Abram M. Hyatt, 214 Allen avenue, Allenhurst, N. J ......... ..
Richard Trimble, 53 East Twenty-fifth street, New York, N. Y.

100
100
100

Sixth. The duration of the corporation shall be perpetual.
Seventh. The number of directors of the corporation shall be
fixed from time to time by the by-laws; but the number, if fixed
at more than three, shall be some multiple of three. The
directors shall be classified with respect to the time for which
they shall severally hold office by dividing them into three
classes, each consisting of one-third of the whole number of the
board of directors. The directors of the first class shall be
elected for a term of one year, the directors of the second class
for a term of two years, and the directors of the third class for
a term of three years; and at each annual election the successors
to the class of directors whose term shall expire in that year
shall be elected to hold office for the term of three years, so that
the term of office of one class of directors shall expire in each
year.
In case of any increase of the number of the directors the
additional directors shall be elected as may be provided in the
by-laws, by the directors or by the stockholders at an annual or
special meeting, and one-third of their number shall be elected
for the then unexpired portion of the term of the directors of the
first class, one-third of their number for the unexpired portion

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 219
193 U. S.

Bill in Equity; Exhibit.

of the term of the directors of the second class, and one-third of
their number for the unexpired portion of the term of the
directors of the third class, so that each class of directors shall
be increased equally.
In case of any vacancy in any class of directors through
death, resignation, disqualification, or other cause, the remaining directors, by affirmative vote of a majority of the
board of directors, may elect a successor to hold office for the
unexpired portion of the term of the director whose place shall
be vacant, and until the election of a successor.
The board of directors shall have power to hold their meetings outside the State of New Jersey at such places as from
time to time may be designated by the by-laws, or by resolution
of the board. The by-laws may prescribe the number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum of the board of
directors, which number may be less than a majority of the
whole number of the directors.
As authorized by the act of the legislature of the State of New
Jersey passed March 22, 1901, amending the seventeenth section
of the act concerning corporations (revision of 1896), any action
which theretofore required the consent of the holders of twothirds of the stock at any meeting after notice to them given, or
required their consent in writing to be filed, may be taken upon
the consent of, and the consent given and filed by, the holders
of two-thirds of the stock of each class represented at such
meeting in person or by proxy.
Any officer elected or appointed by the board of directors
may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole board of directors. Any other officer or employ6 of the corporation may be removed at any time by vote
of the board of directors, or by any committee or superior officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the
by-laws or by vote of the board of directors.
The board of directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority
of the whole board, may appoint from the directors an executive committee, of which a majority shall constitute a quorum,

OCTOBER TERII, 1903.
Bill in Equity; Exhibit.

193 IT. S.

and to such extent as shall be provided in the by-laws such committee shall have and may exercise all or any of the powers of
board of directors, including power to cause the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers that may require it.
The board of directors may appoint one or more vice-presidents, one or more assistant treasurers, and one or more assistant secretaries, and, to the extent provided in the by-laws, the
persons so appointed, respectively, shall have and may Oxereise
all the powers of the president, of the treasurer, and of the
secretary, respectively.
The board of directors shall have power from time to time to
fix and determine and to vary the amount of the working capital of the corporation; to determine whether any, and if any,
what part of any accumulated profits shall be declared in dividends and paid to the stockholders; to determine the time or
times for the declaration and payment of dividends, and to
direct and to determine the use and disposition of any surplus
or net profits over and above the capital stock paid in; and in its
discretion the board of directors may use and apply any such
surplus or accumulated profits in purchasing or acquiring its
bonds or other obligations, or shares of the capital stock of the
corporation to such extent and in such manner and upon such
terms as the board of directors shall deem expedient; but shares
of such capital stock so purchased or acquired may be resold,
unless such shares shall have been retired for the purpose of
decreasing the capital stock of the corporation to the extent
authorized by law.
The board of directors, from time to time shall determine
whether and to what extent, and at what times and places and
under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books
of the corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholders shall have any
right to inspect any account or book or document of the corporation except as conferred by statute of the State of New
Jersey, or authorized by the board of directors or by a resolution of the stockholders.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. o. UNITED STATES. 221
193 U.S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

The board of directors may make by-laws, and from time to.
time may alter, amend, or repeal any by-laws; but any by-laws
made by the board of directors may be altered or repealed by
the stockholders at any annual meeting or at any special meeting, provided notice of such proposed alteration or repeal be
included in the notice of the meeting.
In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals
the 12th day of November, 1901.
Signed, sealed and acknowledged by Geo. F. Baker, Jr.,
Abram M. Hyatt and Richard Trimble.
The answer of the Northern Securities Company to the
petition of the United States of America, was as follows:
I. This defendant admits and avers that the defendant railway companies were, at the time mentioned in the petition, and
are now common carriers employed in transportation of freight
and passengers within and among those States of the United
States in which the railways operated by them are situated, and
not further or otherwise, but were and are engaged in commerce
among the several States and with foreign nations.
II. This defendant admits that, on and prior to November 13,
1901, the capital stock of the defendant railway companies was
owned and controlled by their respective shareholders, and it
avers, on information and belief, that the outstanding capital
stock of the Great Northern Railway Company was owned by
more than eighteen hundred (1,800) separate owners, and the
outstanding capital stock of the Northern Pacific Railway
Company was owned by more than thirty-five hundred (3,500)
separate owners; and that among the shareholders of the Great
Northern Railway Company (hereinafter called the Great
Northern Company) were the defendants Hill, Clough, James,
Morgan, and Kennedy; and that among the shareholders of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company (hereinafter called the
Northern Pacific Company) were the defendants Morgan,
Bacon, Baker, Hill, Kennedy, James, and Lamont. It avers
that the persons named and meant to be designated in the peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

tion as owning, controlling, or as being associated in the ownership. and control of a majority of the stock of the Grean Northern Company, did not at any time, nor in any manner, own
or control a majority of said stock, nor as much as one-third (1)
part thereof. Their holdings in said stock were at all times
separate and individual, and not in association with each
other, or with any other person or persons, and neither of
them was under any obligation or promise to any of the others,
or to any other person, to hold, use, or vote his stock otherwise than as he should, from time to time, determine to be
best for his own individual interest. The persons named
and meant to be designated in the petition as owning, controlling, or as being associated in the ownership and control
of a majority of the stock of the Northern Pacific Company,
did not, at the date named, nor at any time, or in any manner,
own or control a majority of such stock, nor as much as onethird (I) part thereof. Their holdings in said stock were at
all times separate and individual, and neither of them had any
control of the holdings of the other, or of any other person or
persons, and neither of them was under any promise of obligation to the other, or to any person, to hold, use or vote his stock
otherwise than as he should, from time to time, determine to
be best for his own individual interest.
Except as herein admitted and averred, this defendant (enies each and every allegation of subdivision II of the petition.
III. This defendant admits that the Northern Pacific Company owned and operated a railway from Ashland, in Wisconsin,
via Duluth, and from St. Paul, across Minnesota, North Dakota,
Montana, Idaho, and Washington, and into Oregon, passing
through Helena, in the State of Montana, and Spokane, in the
State of Washington, and extending to Tacoma and Seattle in
Washington, and to Portland in Oregon, and that the Great
Northern Company operated lines of railway extending from
St.. Paul, in the State of Minnesota, across said State and North
Dakota, Montana, Idaho, and Washington to Everett and
Seattle in Washington, passing through Spokane in that State.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 223
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

It admits that the said lines so operated by said companies
connected with other railway lines, and that, either directly or
by means of such other railway lines, they connected with lines
of steamships on the Great Lakes and the ocean; and that the
mileage operated by said companies aggregated about fifty-five
hundred (5,500) miles for the Northern Pacific Company and
about forty-one hundred and twenty-eight (4,128) miles for the
Great Northern Company.
It denies that the lines operated by said companies are parallel or competing, except for the short distances and to the
limited extent hereinafter mentioned, and denies that said companies were engaged in active competition with each other, except in the manner and to the extent hereinafter stated.
Except as hereinabove and hereinafter stated, it denies each
and every allegation in subdivision III of said petition.
IV. This defendant admits and avers that prior to 1893 those
-portions, and those portions only, of the lines of the Northern
Pacific Company which had been built and were operated by
virtue of the act of Congress incorporating the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, approved July 2, 1864, were owned
and operated by the last-named company, and that in the year
1893 that company became insolvent and its lines passed into
the hands of receivers appointed by various Federal courts.
It admits that while in this condition a contract was made,
as set forth in the report of the Pearsallcase, referred to in the
petition. It avers that said contract was made under and in
conformity with the provisions of the act of incorporation of the
Great Northern Company, and that the only objection made to
the validity of the contract was that the provisions in said
charter under which it was made had been repealed by subsequent general laws of the State. It denies that the case, or
that the decision therein, is correctly stated in the petition.
And it avers that neither the said contract nor the issues raised
and decided in the said case have any relevancy to the matters
in controversy in this case.
V. This defendant admits and avers that in the winter and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

spring of 1901 the defendant railway companies, for the purpose of promoting their several interests and the interests of
the country traversed by their lines and by those of the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, purchased in equal
parts the stock of the last-named company to the amount and
at the price and upon the terms of payment stated in the
petition. It admits that the lines operated by the Chic'ago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company and its connections
are substantially as stated in the petition. It denies that what
is called in the petition the Burlington system was or is parallel to or competing with what is therein called the Union
Pacific system, but admits that some of the lines of each system compete with some lines of the other.
It denies that said purchase of stock was made in contemplation of the ultimate placing of the Great Northern and Northern
Pacific systems under a common source of control, or that it. was
made for any other motive or with any other purpose than is
hereinafter stated.
Except as herein admitted, it denies each and every allegation in subdivision V of the petition.
VI. This defendant denies that prior to its organization the
defendants James J. Hill or J. Pierpont Morgan, or said Hill
and Morgan, or any persons associated with them, or either of
them, owned or controlled a majority of, or held a controlling
interest in, the stock of either of said railway companies.
It denies that said persons, or that any of the persons concerned in its organization, contrived or intended any of the
things alleged in subdivision VI of the petition or entered into
any agreement or conspiracy to do any of the tlings charged in
said subdivision.
It admits and avers that said James J. Hill and other holders
(not exceeding ten in number) of the stock of the Great Northern Company, but not including the defendants Morgan, Bacon,
or Lamont, did plan its organization with an authorized capital
of four hundred million dollars '($400,000,000) for the purposes, and those only, set forth in its certificate of incorporation.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 225
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

It denies that James J. Hill and J. P. Morgan agreed between
themselves, or with other stockholders of either of the defendant railway companies, or with either of said railway companies,
or with anyone whomsoever, that a controlling interest of the
stock of either of said railway companies should be turned over
or transferred to this defendant, whether in exchange for its
stock or otherwise.
It denies that any of the matters stated in said subdivision VI of the petition were contemplated or intended, or have
resulted, or will result, from its formation and operation. And
it denies the allegation that it is the duty of the directors of said
railway companies to pursue a policy which will promote the
interest of both systems at the expense of the public.
It alleges that the motives and intentions of the persons so
forming this defendant were and are such, and such only, as are
in this answer stated, and it denies each and every allegation in
subdivision VI of the petition not herein expressly admitted or
specifically denied.
VII. This defendant admits its formation under the laws of
New Jersey, with the articles, a copy of which is attached to the
petition, and that the provisions of said articles were designedly
inserted therein and were fully authorized by the general corporation laws of that State. And it says that the exercise of
the powers of a stockholder provided for in said articles was not,
as wrongly stated in the petition, confined to the stock of the
defendant railway companies which this defendant might hold.
It avers that the clause in said articles, partially quoted in paragraph VII of the petition, was not intended to, and does not,
enlarge its powers, as the same are set forth in the preceding
clauses of said articles, but makes clear its power to do such acts
as making or. procuring advances of money to any corporation
whose securities are held by it, the indorsement or guaranty
by it of the obligations of such corporation, becoming surety
therefor, or in any lawful manner using its name or resources
in aid of such corporation.
VIII. This defendant admits and avers that on or about the
VOL, oxcai-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

14th day of November, 1901, its directors and officers were
elected, and among them the defendant James J. Hill as a director and president, but denies that he was or is the controlling
power in the management of the Great Northern Company.
It admits and avers that thereafter the defendant James J.
Hill and other stockholders of the Great Northern Company,
severally and each acting for himself alone, and without any
agreement to that effect with any other stockholder, sold to this
defendant a large amount of Great Northern stock at one hundred and eighty dollars ($180) per share in exchange for stock
of this defendant at par, but it avers that the stock so sold was
not within twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000) of a majority of the stock of the Great Northern Company.
It admits and avers that thereafter and about November 22,
1901, it offered like terms of purchase to the other shareholders
of the Great Northiern Company, the offer to hold good for
sixty days from its date, and that many of the shareholders of
that company, each acting for himself alone, accepted such
offer and made such sale.
It admits and avers that the defendant J. P. Morgan and
other shareholders of the Northern Pacific Company sold to the
defendant a majority of the stock of the Northern Pacific Company; and that this defendant has received such dividends as
have been paid on the shares held by it, in the same manner
and at the same rate as other shareholders; but it denies that
it has acted, whether as owner of stock or otherwise, in the
management or direction of either of said railway companies
or in receipt or control of the earnings of either of them, and
it avers that no change whatever has taken place in the management of the said railway companies, or either of them, and
that each of them is managed by the same board of directors
and officers as existed before the organization of this defendant.
It denies that any of the things done by the defendants
James J. Hill and J. Pierpont Morgan, or by either of them,
or by this defendant or its promoters, directors, officers, or
stockholders, or any of them, were done in pursuance of the pre-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. c. UNITED STATES. 227
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

tended combination or conspiracy alleged in subdivision VIII
of the petition, or as an instrumentality to effect the purposes
thereof, and it denies that by reason of the matters or any of
them in the petition alleged a virtual or any consolidation of
said defendant railway companies or their business has been
effected or intended; and it denies any conspiracy or combination in restraint of trade or commerce among the States, or with
foreign nations, or that the defendants or any of them are
attempting or intending to monopolize or restrain any such
trade or commerce.
IX. It denies each and every allegation in subdivision IX
of the petition.
X. This defendant says that it does not know and cannot set
forth how much additional stock of either defendant railway
company it is likely to acquire, since each acquisition of shares
by it depends, among other contingencies, on the willingness of
the holders of the said stock to sell it upon terms which this
defendant may be willing to accept.
XI. This defendant says it has bought and paid for and has
caused to be transferred to it upon the records of the Great
Northern Company, in accordance with the by-laws of that
company, about five-twelfths (A) of the shares of that com-pany's stock; and has also negotiated for, but has not yet
caused to be presented to the Great Northern Company for
transfer upon its records, other shares of the stock of that company aggregating about four-twelfths (TA) of the total amount
of its stock, but has not acquired a right to vote as stockholder
of the Great Northern Company on stock not so transferred.
This defendant, in acquiring shares of the Great Northern Company and of the Northern Pacific Company, dealt solely with
the separate owners of the said shares in their respective individual capacities. It has no knowledge of any agreement,
promise, or understanding between any of the holders of said
stock concerning the sale thereof to it, and it denies that any
such agreement, promise, or understanding was ever made.
All the sales and transfers of the said stock to this defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

191 IT. 8.

were absolute and without any reservation of any right
or interest in any share thereof to the seller or to any other
person.
This defendant has not paid for all the stock of the Great,
Northern Company and of the Northern Pacific Company
acquired by it in shares of its own stock, but, on the contrary,

has expended upward of forty million dollars ($40,000,000)
cash in the making of such purchases. Every share of the
Great Northern Company and the Northern Pacific Company
acquired by this defendant has been, and so long as it, remains
the property of this defendant will continue to be, held and
owned by it in its own right, and not under any agreement,
promise, or understanding on its part, or on the part of its stockholders or officers, that the same shall be held, owned, or kept
by it for any period of time whatever, or under any agreement
that in any manner restricts its right and power immediately to
sell or otherwise dispose of the same, or that restricts or controls to any extent any use of the same, which might lawfully
be exercised by any other owner of said stocks. There has
been and is no agreement, promise, or understanding between
any of the holders of said stock so acquired by this defen(la,
or between any of them and any other person or corporation,
that any of said shares should at any time be held, used, or
voted by this defendant for the purpose of combining or consolidating or placing under one common management or control
the railways of the Great Northern Company and of the Northern Pacific Company, or the business thereof, or for the purpose
of monopolizing or restraining traffic or competition between
the said railways. Many stockholders of the said companies
have not sold, and may never sell, their shares to this defendant; and the said railway companies have not nor have any of
the directors of either of them, by any act, formal or informal,
or by suggestion, ever solicited any of their respective shareholders to sell their shares to this defendant. This defendant
was organized in good faith, and it denies all the allegations in
subdivision XI of the petition.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 229
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

XII. This defendant denies each and every allegation in
subdivision XII of the petition.
XIII. This defendant denies each and every allegation in
subdivision XIII of the petition.
SECOND.

Further answering the petition, this defendant, upon information and belief, says that the facts as to the purchase of the
shares of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company (hereinafter called the Burlington Company) and the
planning and forming of this defendant and the motives,
intentions, and purposes of the persons and corporations concerned in these enterprises, or either of them, were not as
erroneously stated in the petition, but were and are as follows:
I. When projecting the line of the Great Northern Company
to the Pacific coast, that company and its directors contemplated the necessity of creating for the line not merely State and
interstate, but an international commerce. Nearly all the
country traversed or reached by the line was then but sparsely
settled or not settled at all. It was principally agricultural,
grazing, or timber land, with mineral deposits in the mountain
ranges believed to be large and valuable, but not developed or
explored. Whatever commodities the region might furnish for
carriage would be raw material, of great weight and bulk in
proportion to its value, which would not bear transportation
to market except at a low mileage rate, such as could be made
possible only by every practical reduction in the cost of transportation. The available market for all such products was far
from the places of production.
In Washington and Oregon are the largest and finest bodies
of standing timber in the United States, the best market for
which is in the prairie States of the Mississippi Valley east of
the Rocky Mountains; but the lumber and shingles from the
Pacific coast would not bear the cost of transportation to those
States if the cars carrying them had to be hauled back empty,
or nearly so, for a distance of from 1,500 to 2,000 miles. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

the same is true of the other products. On the other hand, the
unoccupied or sparsely populated country along the line, or
reached by it, could not furnish a market for commodities
enough to load the returning cars; the result being that unless
the company could secure traffic for carriage beyond the Pacific
coast no great traffic either way could exist or be created.
To meet these conditions the Great Northern Company not
only went to great additional expense in the construction of its
line to obtain gradients lower than those of any other line to
the Pacific coast, but also made great efforts to create and
increase in the countries of eastern Asia a demand for the
products of this country; and soon after the completion of its
railway in 1893 it induced a Japanese company to run a line of
steamships, connecting with its railway, on the route between
Seattle and ports of Japan, China, and Russian Siberia, and
succeeded in creating and has since been actively engaged in
building up a commerce in which the flour manufactured along
its line, cotton (both raw and manufactured), iron anl steel
(especially steel rails and plates), machinery, and such other
manufactures of this country as a market could be found or
made for in eastern Asia, have been carried to oriental ports,
and return cargoes of such oriental products as are consumed
in this country have been brought back. A large west-bound,
as well as an increased east-bound, traffic has thus been secured
by the company, enabling it to make such-rates on lumber and
other products of the country served by it as permit them to be
shipped to Eastern markets with a profit to the shippers.
One year before the Burlington purchase, this oriental traffic
had reached such proportions that the Great Northern Company
caused to be begun the construction of steamships to run from
Seattle to ports in Japan, China, and the Philippines, which,
from their great carrying capacity (being the largest in the
world), will be able to carry at very low rates (if full cargoes
can be secured), and thus enable the company to move the
largest volume of west-bound traffic (and also of east-bound
traffic) at the lowest cost.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. ?.. UNITED STATES. 231
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

In the interstate and international commerce which the
Great Northern Company has thus built up, it competes both
in this country and on the ocean with the other transcontinental lines (including the Canadian Pacific), and at the oriental
ports it competes for commerce of the world. Its rates are and
must be made in competition with the rates of ocean carriers
and by way of the Suez Canal.
The policy thus followed by the Great Northern Company in
building up an international, and thereby interstate, commerce
has been followed by the Northern Pacific Company since its
reorganization in 1896.
In creating and maintaining this competitive interstate and
international commerce both the Great Northern Company and
the Northern Pacific Company were hampered and placed at a
disadvantage with the other transcontinental railways, as well
as with European competitors, by the want of sufficient direct
connection with the territory offering the best markets for the
products of the country along their lines, and with the places
of production and great centers of distribution from which their
traffic must be supplied. For many months before the purchase of the Burlington shares they had considered the best
means of getting closer to such markets and sources of supply.
The lines of the Burlington, better than those of any other
company, fulfilled the requirements of both the Great Northern
Company and the Northern Pacific Company in respect of
markets for east-bound and freight for west-bound traffic.
The Burlington lines traverse the treeless States of Illinois,
Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, Wyoming, Kansas, and Colorado,
which afford the best markets for the lumber of the Pacific coast.
They reach Denver, Kansas City, Omaha, and Aurora, where
are located the principal smelters of silver-lead ores, such as
are mined near the lines of the defendant railway companies.
They reach Omaha, Kansas City, and Chicago, where are the
great packing houses and the great markets for the cattle and
sheep of the ranges of North Dakota, Montana, Wyoming,
Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

They reach St. Louis and Kansas City, connecting there with
lines traversing the cotton States, from which come raw and
manufactured cotton required for shipment to China and Japan.
At Chicago and St. Louis they connect with the lines which
reach the points of supply of manufactured iron, steel, machinery, and other manufactured articles that find a market
in Japan and China.
The Burlington line southward from Minneapolis and St.
Paul along the Mississippi River reaches the great coal deposits
of southern Illinois, the largest west of Pennsylvania and West
Virginia; and its light gradients and consequent low cost. of
transportation make it possible to supply such coal to points on
the lines of each defendant railway company east of the Missouri River, relieving the people and the railways of that territory from entire dependence upon the Pennsylvania and West.
Virginia mines, the supply from which is yearly becoming more
costly and less certain.
The price paid for said Burlington stock was lower per mile
of main track covered by the stock than that for which the
stock of any other large and well established system in the same
general territory could have then been bought.
The purchase of the Burlington stock by the Northern Pacific
and Great Northern companies in equal parts served each coipany as well as if it were the sole owner of such stock, while
such purchase might have been beyond the financial means of
either company by itself.
The Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies therefore each purchased an equal number of shares of the Burlingtion stock as the best means and for the sole l)urpose of reaching
the best markets for the products of the territory along their
lines, and of securing connections which would furnish the
largest amount of traffic for their respective roads, increase the
trade and interchange of commodities between the regions traversed by the Burlington lines and their connections and the
regions traversed or reached by the Great Northern and Northern Pacific lines, and by their connecting lines of shipping on

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 233
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

the Pacific coast. These connections and such interchange of
traffic were deemed to be and are indispensable to the maintenance of their business, local as well as interstate, and to the
development of the country served by their respective lines,
and of like advantage to the Burlington lines and the country
served by them, and strengthen each company in the competition with the more southerly lines to the Pacific coast, with the
Canadian Pacific Railway, and with European carriers, for the
trade and commerce of the Orient.
In such purchase there was no purpose to lessen any competition of the Burlington lines with those of either of the purchasers, for they are not competitive, or to lessen any competition between the purchasers. Such purchase was not intended
to have, and it cannot have, any such effect.
The purchase of the Burlington stock was not made in view
of the formation of this defendant, but solely from the motives
and with the purposes already stated.
II. The project of forming a holding company of any kind was
not the result, in any way, of the failure of the plan which was,
defeated by the decision of the Supreme Court in the Pearsall
case. There was no connection whatever between the two.
The project of a holding company which finally developed
into the formation of this defendant had its inception years
before that date, among several gentlemen, not exceeding ten in
number, who had been large shareholders in the Great Northern
Company and its predecessor, the St. Paul, Minneapolis and
Manitoba Railway Company; some of them from the original
organization of the latter company in 1879, and others from
dates not long after that time. They have never held a majority of ihe stock of the Great Northern Company, but have taken
an active interest in its policy and administration; have aided
it when necessary in financing its operations; have acted together in promoting its interests; have, with some exceptions,
served from time to time as directors and officers (Mr. Hill
having been president of the successive companies since 1882);
and by reason of their active interest in the company and serv-

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

ices to it have influenced to a large degree its policy and
management. As far back as 1893, most of these gentlemen
being well advanced and some far advanced in years, they
began to discuss together what would be the effect upon the
policy which under their influence the company had pursued
with great benefit to its shareholders and the public, should
their holdings by death or otherwise become scattered, and by
what means their holdings could be kept together, so as to
secure the continuance of such policy in the management of
the company. It was considered that if a. company should be
formed to which they might transfer their individual holdings,
their shares were likely to be held together, so long as the
majority in the holding company should so wish, and this would
tend to give stability to the policy of the Great Northern Company, be of aid to it in financial"operations, and maintain the
value of their investments. These conclusions were the result
of various consultations among the persons mentioned, or sone
of them, but no definite agreement was made for forming such
a company or binding anyone to transfer his shares to it if
formed.
From time to time, beginning with the reorganization of
the Northern Pacific Company in 1896, Mr. Hill and said other
Great Northern shareholders who had discussed with him the
plan of forming a holding company, had made large purchases of Northern Pacific shares, individually, each for himself, without any concerted action, and solely as investments.
About May 1, 1901, their aggregate holdings of the common
stock of the Northern Pacific Company amounted to nearly
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) of the eighty million dollars (880,000,000) common stock of the company, which also
had a preferred stock, amounting to seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000), with the same voting power as the comnmon
stock. At this time the firm of J. P. Morgan & Co. held about
six million dollars (.6,000,000) of the common stock. In the
fall of 1900 Mr. Hill and said Great Northern shareholders
discussed the question of putting their holdings of Northern

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 235
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

Pacific stock into the proposed holding company, as well as the
suggestion that all the other stockholders of the Great Northern
Company should be given the opportunity of selling and transferring their shares to the holding company, and that its capital
stock should be made large enough to enable it to buy such
holdings, though it was not known that the holders of any
considerable amount of Great Northern stock, other than those
above named, would desire to make such transfer.
At the time of the purchase of the Burlington shares it was
not contemplated by either purchasing company or its shareholders that any alliance between the purchasing companies,
or among their shareholders, was needed to preserve to each
company its fair share of the advantages secured by the purchase. It was thought that the manifest interest of each company rendered any further guaranty or security needless. But
pending or just after the conclusion of the negotiations for the
Burlington stock, parties acting in the interest of the Union
Pacific Railway system did purchase Northern Pacific shares,
both common and preferred, to the amount of about seventyeight million dollars ($78,000,000), being a clear majority of the
entire capital stock of that company. The apparent intent of
such purchase was to defeat and, if successful, it would have
defeated, the carrying out of the purposes for which the Burlington shares had been bought by the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific companies, and the development of the interstate and international commerce of each of them, and would
have subordinated the policy of each to an interest adverse to
both the Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies, and
to the public served by their lines.
To protect the interests of the shareholders of the Northern
Pacific Company, J. P. Morgan & Co. made additional purchases of Northern Pacific common stock, which, with the
holdings in said stock of Mr. Hill and other Great Northern
shareholders who had discussed with him the plan of forming a
holding company, constituted about forty-two million dollars
($42,000,000), being a majority of the common stock. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 IT. S.

view of the injury apprehended to both companies, and to their

shareholders, and the better to protect their interests in the
future, the Great Northern shareholders holding Northern
Pacific shares, deemed it advisable that the projected holding
company should have power to purchase not only their own
Great Northern and Northern Pacific shares, but. also the shares
of such other Great Northern and Northern Pacific shareholders
as might wish to sell their stock to said holding company, and
the shares of companies already formed, and others that might,
be formed, for the purpose of aiding the traffic or operations of
the Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies, respectively. At this time it was not expected by any of the persons
concerned that any Northern Pacific shares except the said
forty-two million dollars (842,000,000) would be acquired
by the proposed holding company. The organization of such
company was not dependent on any agreement, that it should
acquire a majority of the shares of either defendant railway
company. It would have been organized if the Burlington purchase had not been made, and if its promoters had had no other
shares to transfer to it than the thirty-four million dollars
($34,000,000) Great Northern stock and the twenty million
dollars (820,000,000) Northern Pacific stock held by them on
May 1, 1901. It was not known that all or how many of the
shareholders of either of the railway companies would be ]ike]y
to transfer their shares to this defendant when formed. After
its organization this defendant bought and still holds about one
hundred and fifty million dollars (8150,000,000) of the stock of
the Northern Pacific Company; and it has also purchased and
negotiated for the purchase of the stock of the Great Northern
Company, as hereinbefore stated. Neither the said persons
who were concerned in the formation of this defendant, nor the
said persons from whom it has acquired the stocks of said railway companies, nor this defendant itself since its formation, nor
its stocldolders, directors, or officers, have planned or intended
that the stock of said railway companies acquired by this defendant, or any part thereof, should be held, used, or voted by

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 237
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

it, or by its officers, agents or proxies, for the purpose of combining, consolidating or placing under one common management or control the railways of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies, or the business thereof; or for the purpose
of monopolizing or restraining competition between the said
railway companies; or for any other purpose than the election
by each of said railway companies of a competent and distinct
board of directors, able and intending to manage each of them
independently of the other, and for the benefit of their shareholders and of the public. By the acts of the legislature of the
State of Minnesota incorporating the Great Northern Railway
Company, and by the acts of the legislature of the State of
Wisconsin incorporating the Northern Pacific Railway Company, it is, in substance, provided that the business and affairs
of each railway company shall be managed by a board of directors to be elected by the stockholders, and that all the
powers of each corporation relating to said matters shall be
vested in such board.
Every share of sfock issued by this defendant has been issued
to the persons and corporations receiving the same in good faith,
for full value paid to it, either in cash or its equivalent, and in
accordance with the provisions of its articles of incorporation
and with the laws of the State of New Jersey. No agreement,
promise, or understanding has been made between this defendant and any of its stockholders, or between its stockholders
themselves or any of them, or between said stockholders or any
other persons or corporations, that the stock of this defendant
should be held, used, or voted other than by each stockholder,
separately and individually, and in such way as he should see
fit; and there has been no agreement, promise, or understanding
between said stockholders themselves, or any of them, or between said stockholders and any other person or corporation,
that they or any of them should use, hold, or vote their stock in
this defendant in association or for any common purpose or
object. The owners and holders of stock of this defendant are
more than thirteen hundred (1,00) in number, and the owner-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

ship of the stock is being changed from day to day by sales
and transfers in the usual course of dealing. The said persons
who formed or were otherwise concerned in the formation of
this defendant have never, all together, held, owned or otherwise controlled an amount of stock of the said company equal to
so much as one-third of the whole amount thereof now out-

standing. This defendant has no contract or obligation to purchase or acquire any shares whatever in either railway conpany,
in addition to those which it has purchased or negotiated to purchase, as above stated. Its authorized capital was fixed by persons who planned its organization to enable it to give to each
stockholder in each of the defendant railway companies an opportunity to sell his stock to it, should he see fit, to do so, and
should this defendant desire to acquire it. The sum fixed was
deemed ample by those who planned the formation of this
defendant to furnish the means to pay for all such shares as
would likely be acquired by it, and to leave remaining a large
amount to be used for the purchase of stock in other corporations, not common carriers, which this defendant might consider beneficial to acquire. This defendant was not formed as
a scheme or a device to evade the act of Congress known as the
"Anti-Trust Act, " or any other law whatever, but solely for
the purposes hereinbefore stated.
III. This defendant was not formed, nor did any of those concerned in its formation, nor any of those who sold their shares
of stock to it, have any purpose or intention, to restrain tradIe
or commerce, or to lessen competition between said railway
companies, or to monopolize traffic in any manner whatever;
nor can any such results follow from the formation or operation
of this defendant. In point of fact, since the organization of
this defendant rates on the defendant railway companies' lines,
including rates to and from points common to both, have voluntarily been so reduced as to decrease their earnings by
upwards of a million of dollars annually. For all interstate
commerce on the lines of either the defendant railway companies, except traffic beginningoand ending on their own lines

NOWTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 239
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Securities Company.

respectively, the rates are fixed by joint tariffs with connecting
lines. In respect to all such traffic neither of the defendant
companies has ever had, or can have, any independent ratemaking power or control of traffic or rates. All jointtariffs with
other companies to or from points common to the lines of the
defendant railway companies have always been, and necessarily
must be, the same, whether the traffic is carried by one or the
other of said companies. The total amount of all other interstate traffic, that is, traffic between common points on the two
roads, which is not competitive both as to rates and quality of
service with other carriers having equal rate-making power
with them, is less than 2 per cent of the total interstate traffic
of the two companies.
IV. The sale and transfer of property, whether in the form of
shares of corporate stock or otherwise, has never been adjudged
to be, and is not, in violation of the act of Congress of July 2,
1890, known as the "Anti-Trust Act."
This defendant is not a railroad company, and it has no
power to. operate or manage railways or make or control rates
of transportation, nor to monopolize or restrain traffic of any
kind. So far from intending to violate any provision of said
act of Congress, the persons who were concerned in organizing
this defendant and those who have sold their shares to it had
every reason to believe and did believe that such sales were
not in any way in contravention of that act. In common with
the general public, they were aware that during the eleven
years since the passage of that act in many instances the stock
of a competing railway company has been acquired by its competitor or the shareholders thereof, such acquisition including
many of the principal railivays doing business throughout the
country. This has been done without objection from any
branch of the Government of the United States, and has
invariably proven beneficial to the railway companies concerned and to the public, and those making sales of stocks
to this defendant had no reason to believe that such sales
were open to any legal objection or question whatever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Securities Company.

193 U. S.

V. This defendant was not organized for the purpose of acquiring a majority of the stock of either the Great Northern or
the Northern Pacific Company, but merely to purchase ie
stock of those who wished to sell, as above stated, and was not.
organized for the purpose of controlling railway rates in the
slightest degree, and has not had and cannot have any such
effect. The transactions referred to in the petition have consisted in the organization of a lawful corporation and the purchase of property by it. All acts (lone in relation to the organization of this defendant and in the conduct of its business have
been expressly authorized by law, and have had no effect,
whatever to restrain trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations. If these lawful transactionjs
should hereafter have any effect to restrain trade or commerce
among the several States or with foreign nations (which is
hereby denied), that effect would be merely indirect, remote,
incidental, and collateral, and not intended, and as nothing
compared with the great expansion of the volume of interstate
and international commerce which was intended, and which
this defendant believes is destined to result from the enierprise of the two railway companies, that culminated in the
purchase of the Burlington stock.
And this defendant says:
1. The "Anti-Trust Act" was not intended to prevent, or
defeat an enterprise in aid of a great competitive interstate
and international commerce merely because such enterprise
may carry with it the possibility of incidental restraint
upon some commerce, trifling both as respects territory anid
volume.
2. Nor was the act intended to limit the power of the several
States to create corporations, define their purposes, fix the
amount of their capital, and determine who may buy, own, and
sell their stock.
3. Otherwise construed, the act would be unconstitutional,
because:
The power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 241
193 U. S.

Answers of Hill and other Defendants.

among the States does not give Congress the power to regulate
any of the matters above mentioned in respect to corporations
created by the States; and because
Persons may not be deprived of their property without due
process of law, by taking from them the right to sell it as their
interest may suggest.
VI. There is a defect of necessary parties defendant, because,
as already set forth, the persons who made sales of stock of the
said. railway companies to this defendant were numerous, exceeding more than 1,300 in number, and few of them had any
connection whatever in the planning or forming of this defendant, and in their absence from this litigation no decree can
be made affecting their rights in the premises.
VII. And this defendant denies all and all manner of unlawful
combination and confederacy wherewith it is by the said petition charged, without this, that if there is any other matter,
cause, or thing in the petition contained material or necessary
for this defendant to make answer unto, and not herein or
hereby well and sufficiently answered, confessed, traversed,
and avoided or denied, the same is not true to the knowledge
or belief of this defendant; all of which matters and things this
defendant is ready and willing to aver, maintain, and prove as
this honorable court shall direct, and humbly prays to be hence
dismissed, with its reasonable costs and charges in this behalf
most wrongfully sustained.
Signed (no verification) for the Northern Securities Company, by John W. Griggs and Geo. B. Young, solicitors and
counsel.
A separate answer was filed by the defendants James J. Hill,
William P. Clough, D. Willis James, John S. Kennedy, and
George F. Baker, which was substantially the same as the answer of the defendant Northern Securities Company.
The answer of the Great Northern Railway Company was
substantially the same as that of the Northern Securities ComVOL. oxciir-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

193 U. S.

pany with the omission of Paragraph II of the second statement of defence.
The answer of the defendant the Northern Pacific Railway
Company was as follows:
I. This defendant admits the allegations of Paragraph I of
the petition that this defendant and the Great Northern Railway Company were at the times mentioned in said petition and
now are common carriers employed in the transportation of
freight and passengers among the several States of the United
States within which the railways operated by them are situated.
This defendant denies each and every other allegation of paragraph I of the petition.
II. This defendant admits the allegations of Paragraph II of
the petition that prior to November 13, 190t, the stock of this
defendant was owned and controlled by its shareholders, and
that among them were the parties in that behalf alleged.
This defendant denies any knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief of each and every other allegation of Paragraph II of the petition.
III. This defendant admits the allegations of Paragraph III
of the petition that this defendant at the times mentioned
owned and operated a railway extending from Ashland in Wisconsin via Duluth, Minnesota, and from St. Paul, Minnesota,
across Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana, Idaho, and Washington, passing through Helena, in the State of Montana, and
Spokane, in the State of Washington, and extending to Tacoma
and Seattle, in Washington, and to Portland, in Oregon; that
the Great Northern Company operated lines of railway extending from St. Paul aforesaid across Minnesota, North Dakota,
Montana, Idaho, and Washington, passing through Spokane
and extending to Everett and Seattle, in the State last aforesaid; that the said lines connected with other railway lines,
and either directly or by means of such other railway lines
connected with lines of steamships on the Great Lakes and the
ocean, and that the mileage operated by said companies aggregated about five thousand five hundred miles for this defendant

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 243
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

and about four thousand one hundred and twenty-eight miles
for the Great Northern Company.
This defendant denies each 4and every other allegation of
Paragraph III of the petition.
IV. This defendant admits the allegations of Paragraph IV
of the petition that, prior to the year 1893, a corporation known
as the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, organized and existing under certain acts and resolutions of Congress, and which
then operated some parts of the lines of this defendant, became
insolvent and was placed in the hands of receivers appointed by
various courts of the United States; that, while in this condition, a plan of reorganization was entered into by the bondholders of said company, and that an arrangement was
proposed between the said bondholders and the Great
Northern Company which was never carried out. This defendant admits that a case entitled Pearsall against the
Great Northern Railway Company was decided by the Supreme Court of the United States on March 30, 1896, and is
reported in volume 161 of the reports of said court, beginning
on page 696.
This defendant denies any knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief of each and every other allegation of
Paragraph IV of the petition. It is informed and believes that
said paragraph is wholly irrelevant to the cause of action, if
any, stated in the petition.
V. This defendant admits the allegations in Paragraph V of
the petition that early in the year 1901 this defendant and the
Great Northern Company, acting for the purpose of promoting
their several interests, each purchased shares of stock of the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company of Illinois,
paying therefor with the joint bonds of the Great Northern Company and the Northern Pacific Company, payable in twenty
years from date, with interest at 4 per cent per annum, at the
rate of $200 in bonds for each $100 in stock, and in this manner
the said companies severally purchased and acquired each
About 49 per cent of said stock; that the lines operated by said

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

193 U. S.

Burlington Company and its connections were geographically
as stated in the petition, and that some of said lines compete
with some lines of what is called in the petition the Union Pacific system.
This purchase was made by these defendants primarily in
order to secure a terminus in Chicago and permanent connection with the eastern and southeastern markets, which tire
especially valuable to the agricultural and mineral products of
the northwest, and also because the Burlington system serves
a large and growing territory, and the purchase was deemed
desirable and profitable in itself. It had no connection with the
future formation of any company whatsoever and was not,
made with intent to violate the statute or common law of any
State or of the United States, and was not in violation of any
such law.
This defendant denies each and every other allegation of Paragraph V of the petition. It is informed and believes that said
paragraph is wholly irrelevant to the cause of action, if any,
stated in the petition.
VI. This defendant denies any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief of each and every allegation of Paragraph VI of the petition.
VII. This defendant admits the allegation of Paragraph VII
of the petition, that the defendant Northern Securities Company was heretofore organized, as it is informed and believes,
under the general laws of the State of New Jersey.
This defendant denies any knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief of each and every other allegation of
Paragraph VII of the petition.
VIII. This defendant achnits the allegations of Paragraph
VIII of the petition that the defendant, Northern Securities
Company, has purchased and now holds and owns a large majority of the capital stock of this defendant, and that the Securities Company has received such dividends as have been paid on
any shares held by it.
This defendant denies any knowledge or information suffi-

NORTHERN SECURITIES 'CO. v. UNITED STATES. 245
193 U. S.

Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

cient to form a belief of each and every other allegation of
Paragraph VIII of the petition.
IX. This defendant denies any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief of each and every allegation of Paragraph IX of the petition.
X. This defendant denies any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief of each and every allegation of Paragraph X of the petition.
XI. This defendant denies each and every allegation of Paragraph XI of the petition.
XII. This defendant denies each and every allegation of Paragraph XII of the petition. It is informed and believes that
said paragraph consists merely of expressions of opinion, and
is, therefore, without weight in support of any cause of action.
XIII. This defendant denies any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief of each and every allegation of Paragraph XIII of the petition.
XIV. As this defendant is informed and believes, the purchase by the Northern Securities Company of shares of stock
of this defendant and the sale thereof by the owners have been
expressly authorized by law. They have had no effect whatever, in law or in fact, in restraint or monopoly of trade or commerce among the several States or. with foreign nations. The
petition does not allege that at any place within the jurisdiction
of this court or elsewhere any such restraint or monopoly has
been effected.
If these lawful transactions, consisting merely of the purchase and sale of property, should hereafter have any effect in

restraint or monopoly of trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations, that would not be their direct
effect, but would be merely indirect, remote, incidental, and collateral, and would, therefore, not bring said transactions within
said act of Congress above mentioned. Any other construction
would render the statute unconstitutional, as beyond the power
of Congress, and as depriving the sellers of the stock thus sold
and also the stockholders of this defendant who have not sold

OCTOBER TERMf, 1903.
Answer of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

193 U. S.

their shares to the Securities Company, of liberty and property
without due process of law, because, thus construed, it would
be an inhibition upon their right to sell their property. If
complainant's contention be sustained, the right of the owner
of property to sell the same will be dependent upon what the
courts at any future time may hold to have been the intention
of the purchaser in buying such property. This result would
seriously impair the liberty of the owner and the value of his
property, and is contrary to the constitutional guaranties
thereof.
These transactions are, therefore, not within the act of Congress above mentioned; nor has Congress any constitutional
power to annul or prohibit action thus expressly authorized by
state statutes under which the same has been or may hereafter
be taken.
XV. There is a defect of necessary parties defendant herein,
because in this suit it is sought to annul all sales of shares made
by shareholders of this defendant to the Northern Securities
Company and to cancel all certificates of stock of the latter
company issued in purchase of the same. The parties nmaking
such sales are numerous, and many of them had no connection
With the matter save to sell their shares to the Securities Company after its organization. It is obvious that in their a bsence
no adjudication can be made annulling such sales to the Securities Company. A decree to such effect as prayed for by the
petition necessarily would deprive such original sellers of their
property without due process of law. All persons who sold
shares in this defendant to the Securities Company are, therefore, necessary parties, and the petition is bad by reason of
their absence.
XTI. And this defendant denies all and all manner of unlawful combination and confederacy wherewith it is by the said
petition charged, without this, that if there is any other m'atter,
cause, or thing in the petition contained material or necessary
for this defendant to make answer unto, and not herein or hereby well and sufficiently answered, confessed, traversed, a"nd

NORTHERN SECUIRITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 247
193 U. S.

Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

avoided or denied, the same is not true to the knowledge or
belief of this defendant; all of which matters and things this
defendant is ready and willing to aver, maintain, and prove as
this honorable court shall direct, and humbly prays to be hence
dismissed with its reasonable costs and charges in this behalf
most wrongfully sustained.
The first five paragraphs of the answer of the defendants,
J. Pierpont Morgan and Robert Bacon, were substantially the
same as the same paragraphs of the answer of the Northern
Pacific Railway and the remainder of the answer of such defendants was as follows:
VI. These defendants admit that the defendant James J.
Hill and certain other persons decided upon the formation of
a securities company for the purposes set forth in the certificate
of incorporation of the Northern Securities Company attached
to the petition and in all respects as therein stated.
These defendants deny each and every other allegation of
Paragraph VI of the petition.
VII. These defendants admit the allegations of Paragraph
VII of the petition that on November 13, 1901, the defendant
Northern Securities Company was organized under the general
laws of the State of New Jersey, with its principal office in
Hoboken, in said State, and with an authorized capital stock of
$400,000,000, and that a copy of the articles of incorporation
of said company correctly stating its powers is attached to the
petition.
These defendants deny each and every other allegation of
Paragraph VII of the petition.
VIII. These defendants admit the allegations of Paragraph
VIII of the petition that on or about November 14, 1901, the
defendant Northern Securities Company was organized by the
election of directors and officers; that the defendant James J.
Hill was chosen a director and president thereof; that thereupon the said James J. Hill and other stockholders of the
Great Northern Company, each individually and separately

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

193 U. S.

from the others, sold to the Securities Company a large amount
of the capital stock of the Great Northern Company for the
price of $180 par value of the capital stock of the Securities
Company for each share of the capital stock of the Great Northern Company; that these defendants and other stockholders of
the Northern Pacific Company, each individually and separately from the others, sold to the Securities Company a large
amount of the capital stock of the Northern Pacific Company;
that the Securities Company also offered, for a limited period,
like terms of. purchase to the other shareholders of the Great
Northern Company; that the Securities Company now holds
and owns a large majority of the capital stock of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, and a large amount, though less
than a controlling interest, of the stock of the Great Northern
Company, and has negotiated for the purchase of additional
shares of that company, and that the Securities Company has
received such dividends as have been paid on any shares held
by it.
These defendants deny each and every other allegation of
Paragraph VIII of the petition.
IX. These defendants deny each and every allegation of
Paragraph IX of the petition.
X. These defendants deny any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief of each and every allegation of Paragraph X of the petition.
XI. These defendants deny each and every allegation of
Paragraph XI of the petition.
XII. These defendants deny each and every allegation of
Paragraph XII of the petition. They are informed and believe that said paragraph consists merely of expressions of
opinion, and is, therefore, without weight in support of any
cause of action.
XIII. These defendants deny each and every allegation of
Paragraph XIII of the petition.
XIV. In July, 1896, the capital stock of the Northern Pacific Railway Company was fixed at $155,000,000, of which

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 249
193 U. S.

Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

$75,000,000 were preferred and $80,000,000 common stock.
The preferred stock of the company was issued in exchange for
various obligations of the former Northern Pacific Railroad
Company because the holders thereof would not accept new
common stock therefor. At the same time it was contemplated that the time would arrive when said preferred stock
should properly be retired, and it was, accordingly, then provided that the preferred stock might be retired in whole or in
part at par on any first day of January, up to and including
January 1, 1917. Both classes of stock were made subject to
a voting trust in this defendant Morgan and others, continuing
until November 1, 1901, but terminable by the trustees in
their discretion at an earlier date.
The Northern Pacific Company shared in the recent prosperity of the country, and its common stock appreciated in
value until it was deemed practicable to carry out the original
intention of retiring the preferred stock and also to terminate
the voting trust. Accordingly said trust was terminated by the
trustees upon January 1, 1901, and the preferred stock was
retired. Although the latter action was in contemplation and
was practically decided upon some time before the termination
of the voting trust, it was not made the subject of formal action
by the board of directors until November 13, 1901, and was
completed upon January 1, 1902.
XV. As hereinbefore stated, early in 1901, the Northern
Pacific Company, and the Great Northern Company, each purchased about 49 per cent of the capital stock of the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company. This purchase was
made by the Northern Pacific Company primarily in order to
secure a terminus at Chicago and permanent connection with
the eastern and southeastern markets, which are especially
valuable for the agricultural and mineral products of the
northwest, but also because the Burlington system serves a
large and growing territory, and the purchase was deemed
desirable and profitable in itself.
These purchases were not made, as the petition alleges, "in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

193 U. S.

contemplation of the ultimate placing of the Great Northern
and Northern Pacific system under a common source of control." They had no connection whatever with the future
formation of the Northern Securities Company, or any other
company whatsoever, and had no connection with the fact
alleged in the petition that the Union Pacific Railway system
is to some extent a competing system with the Burlington
system.
The said purchases were not made with intent to violate the
statute or common law of any State or of the United States;
were not in violation of any such law, and are not charged in
the petition to have been in any respect unlawful.
XAI. During the reorganization of the Northern Pacific
system the firm of J. P. Morgan & Co., of which these defendants are members, acted as reorganization managers, an(I ever
since the reorganization of the Northern Pacific Company has
been its fiscal agent. Said firm has accordingly at all times
desired to further the best interests of the company and all its
stockholders, and especially to aid in steadily devolopiig the
business of the company and the prosperity of the country
which it serves. Said firm considered that these results were
accomplished, so far as possible, by the policy of the company
during the existence of the voting trust, as above stated. Not
long after the termination of the voting trust, however, an(
very early in May, 1901, said firm became aware that unusually
large purchases of both classes of stock were in progress in the
stock market, apparently in a single interest. Said firm was
apprehensive that these purchases were for the purpose of
securing control of the direction of the Northern Pacific Company and thus managing it, not for what said firm conceived
to be the best interest of the company, but for some ulterior
purpose of which said firm was not informed.
Accordingly said firm, prior to Mray 7, 1901, purchased common stock of the Northern Pacific Company in consi(lerable
amounts, and their holdings upon that day amounted to about
two hundred thousand shares. In making these purchases said

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 251
193 U. S.

Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

firm acted on its own account and in behalf of no other person
whomsoever, and was actuated by no motive save those above
stated.
The said purchases were not made with intent to violate the
statute or common law of any State or of the United States, and
were not in violation of any such law.
XVII. For some years the defendant Hill and others who
were interested in the Great Northern Company, but not including these defendants, had in contemplation the formation of
a corporation for the purpose of purchasing their separate interests in that company, with the general object that said interests
should be held together and the policy and course of business of
the Great Northern Company should be continuous in developing the company's system and the territory served by it, and
not subject to radical change and possible inconsistency from
time to time. In or about August, 1901, as this plan was approaching maturity, said parties for similar reasons determined
that they would also sell to the new company, when formed,
their interests in the Northern Pacific Company, which were
considerable in amount, and that the capital of the new company should be made sufficiently large to enable it to purchase
all shares of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies which the holders might desire to sell and any other
shares which the new company might deem it advisable to
acquire.
By this time it had become known that the purchases in the
market of shares of the Northern Pacific Company, to which
reference is made above, had been made in behalf of a corporation known as the Oregon Short Line Railroad Company, controlled by the Union Pacific Railroad Company; that there
were held in that interest shares of the Northern Pacific Company to about the amount of $41,000,000 of preferred stock,
which, however, was to be retired on January 1, 1902, and
$37,000,000 of common stock, together making 780,000 shares
and constituting an absolute majority of the total capital stock
of the Northern Pacific Company. Thereupon and therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

193 UJ. S.

with the view and for the purpose of protecting the Northern
Pacific Company and the holders of its common stock against
the possible control of the direction of said company in an adverse interest, these defendants determined and also advised
their friends to sell their Northern Pacific stock to the new
company.
As set forth in the petition, the Northern Securities Company was duly organized pursuant to the laws of New Jersey
upon November 13, 1901. It was organized according to law,
and possesses all the powers set forth in its certificate of incorporation, and has full power to do every act which it has in fact
done, and the petition does not allege the contrary.
It having become known that the Oregon Short Line Company was not disinclined upon satisfactory terms to sell its
holdings of the major part of the Northern Pacific stock, the
firm of J. P. Morgan & Company, deeming such action for tlhe
best interest of the Northern Pacific Company, purchased from
said Oregon Short Line Company all its holdings of the capital
stock of the Northern Pacific Company.
After its organization the Northern Securities Company duly
purchased all the shares of the Northern Pacific Coml)any anid
of the Great Northern Company hereinbefore mentioned, including those purchased by the firm of J. P. Morgan & Company from the Oregon Short Line Company, for which it paid
partly in cash and partly in its own shares. It also was willing
to purchase the shares of any other shareholders of the Great
Northern Company, who desired to sell the same, for the price
of one hundred and eighty dollars for each share of the Great.
Northern Company, payable in its own shares, and did actually
purchase and pay for considerable amounts of said stock at such(
price.
None of these purchases by the Northern Securities Company
were made with intent to violate the statute or common law of
any State or of the United States, or were in violation of any
such law.
XVIII. The foregoing is a correct statement of all the mat-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v." UNITEI) STATES. 253
193 U. S.

Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

ters mentioned in the petition, omitting its many irrelevant
adjectives, adverbs, and conclusions, and of some other facts in
addition thereto. The transactions prior to the formation of
the Northern Securities Company had no connection whatever
with the formation thereof, save as above stated. That company was organized, not for the purpose of acquiring a majority
of the stock of either the Great Northern or the Northern Pacific Company, but as above set forth. It was not organized
for the purpose of affecting railway rates or competition in the
slightest degree, and has not had any such effect. In the transactions above stated these defendants and, so far as they are
aware, the other parties who have been engaged therein have
never sought or intended to violate the act of Congress of July 2,
1890, entitled "An act to protect trade and commerce against
unlawful restraints and monopolies" (26 Stat. 209, c. 647), or
to enter into any contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States or with foreign nations, or to monopolize or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with
any other person or persons to monopolize, any part of the trade
or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations.
The transactions have consisted merely in the organization of
a lawful corporation of New Jersey and the sale to and purchase by it of property lawfully salable. All acts done in
relation to the organization of the Securities Company and the
purchase by it of shares of stock of the railway companies and
the sale thereof by the owners have been expressly authorized
by law. They have had no effect whatever, in law or in fact,
in restraint or monopoly of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations. The petition does not allege
that at any place within the jurisdiction of this court or elsewhere any such restraint or monopoly has been effected.
If these lawful transactions, consisting merely of the purchase and sale of property, should hereafter have any effect in
restraint or monopoly of trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations, such effect would not be their

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Answer of Morgan and other Defendants.

193 U. S.

direct effect, but would be merely indirect, remote, incidental,
and collateral, and aside from any intention of the parties, and
therefore would not bring said transactions within said act of
Congress. Any other construction would render the statute
unconstitutional as beyond the power of Congress, and as depriving these defendants and the sellers generally of the stock
thus sold, of liberty and property without due process of law,
because, thus construed, it would be an inhibition upon their
right to sell their property. If complainant's contention be
sustained, the right of the owner of property to sell the same
will be dependent upon what the courts at any future time may
hold to have been the intention of the purchaser in buying
such property. Such a result, would seriously impair the liberty
of the owner and the value of his property, and is contrary to
the constitutional guaranties thereof.
These transactions are, therefore, not within the act of Congress above mentioned; nor has Congress any constitutional
power to annul or prohibit action thus expressly authorized by
state statutes under which the same has been taken.
XIX. There is a defect of necessary parties defendant herein
because in this suit it is sought to annul all sales of shares made
by shareholders of the Great Northern Company and the
Northern Pacific Company to the Northern Securities Company,
and to cancel all certificates of stock of the latter company
issued in purchase of the same. As already set forth, the parties making such sales are numerous, and many of them had no
connection with the matter save to sell their shares in the railway companies to the Securities Company after its organization.
It is obvious that in their absence no adjudication can be made
annulling such sales to the Securities Company. A decree to
such effect as prayed for by the petition necessarily would
deprive such original sellers of their property without due process of law. All persons who sold shares in the railway cornpanies to the Securities Company are, therefore, necessary
parties, and the petition is bad by reason of their absence.
XX. And these defendants deny all and all manner of

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 255
193 U. S.

Decree of the Circuit Court.

unlawful combination and confederacy wherewith they are by
the said petition charged, without this, that if there is any
other matter, cause, or thing in the petition contained material
or necessary for these defendants to make answer unto, and not
herein or hereby well and sufficiently answered, confessed,
traversed, and avoided or denied, the same is not true to the
knowledge or belief of these defendants; all of which matters
and things these defendants are ready and willing to aver, maintain, and prove as this honorable court shall direct, and humbly
pray to be hence dismissed with their reasonable costs and
charges in this behalf most wrongfully sustained.
The answer of the defendant Daniel S. Lamont was substantially the same as that of defendants Morgan and Bacon
except. that certain allegations as to the actions of J. P. Morgan & Co. in Paragraphs XVI and XVII were omitted.
On April 9, 1903, after the case had been tried before a Circuit Court consisting of Circuit Judges Caldwell, Sanborn,
Thayer and Vandevanter (for opinion of Judge Thayer, see
120 Fed. Rep. 720), the following decree was entered:
"Ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows, to wit:
"That the defendants above named have heretofore entered
into a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade and conmerce among the several States, such as an act of Congress,
approved July 2, 1890, entitled 'An act to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies' denounces as illegal.
"That all the stocks of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and all the stock of the Great Northern Railway Company, now claimed to be owned and held by the defendant, the Northern Securities Company, was acquired and is
now held by it in virtue of such combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce among the several
States.
"That the Northern Securities Company, its officers, agents,
servants and employ~s be and they are hereby enjoined from

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Decree of the Circuit Court.

193 IT.S.

acquiring, or attempting to acquire further stock of either of
the aforesaid railway companies.
"That the Northern Securities Company be enjoined from
voting the aforesaid stock which it now holds or may ae(luire
and from attempting to vote it, at any meeting of the stockholders of either of the aforesaid railway companies and from
exercising or attempting to exercise any control, direction,
supervision or influence whatsoever over the acts and(ldoings
of said railway companies or either of them by virtue of its
holding such stock therein.
"That the Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Great
Northern Railway Company, their officers, directors, servants
and agents be and they are hereby respectively and collectively
enjoined from permitting the stock aforesaid to be voted by
the Northern Securities Company, or in its behalf, by its attorneys or agents at any corporate election for directors or
officers of either of the aforesaid railway companies.
"And that they, together with their officers, directors, servants and agents, be likewise enjoined and respectively restrained from paying any dividends to the Northern Securities
Company on account of stock in either of the aforesaid railway
companies which it now claims to own and hold;
"And that the aforesaid railway companies, their officers,
directors, servants and agents, be enjoined from permitting or
suffering the Northern Securities Company or any of its officers or agents, as such officers or agents, to exercise any control
whatsoever over the corporate acts of either of the aforesaid
railway companies.
"But nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Northern Securities Company from returning and
transferring to the Northern Pacific Railway Company and
the Great Northern Railway Company, respectively, any and
all shares of stock in either of said railway companies which
said, The Northern Securities Company, may have heretofore
received from such stockholders in exchange for its own stock;
and nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. r. UNITED STATES. 257
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

the Northern Securities Company from making such transfer
and assignments of the stock aforesaid to such person or
persons as may now be the holders and owners of its own
stock originally issued in exchange or in payment for the
stock claimed to have been acquired by it in the aforesaid
railway companies.
"It is further ordered and adjudged that the United States
recover from the defendants its costs herein expended, the
same to be taxed by the clerk of this court, and have execution
therefor."
Mr. George B. Young for appellants argued and presented
in a brief the following summary of the facts:
1. For some years prior to 1901 the two railway companies
had been engaged in an enterprise of building up a great interstate and Oriental commerce.
2. In April, 1901, they purchased nearly all the Burlington
shares at a cost of over $200,000,000, paying for them with
their joint bonds, and not with the bonds of the Burlington
as stated in the decision of the lower court. They made the
purchase not with any view of placing the two companies,

their shares or their commerce, under a single control.
3. Immediately after this purchase, persons interested, in
the Union Pacific attempted to obtain the stock control of the;
Northern Pacific, their object being to prevent the carrying
out of the enterprise of the defendant railway companies, and
especially to prevent the use of the Burlington road in carrying out that enterprise.
4. This " raid" (as it is called) on the Northern Pacific stock
failed, the failure being largely due to an error of the raiders
in buying common instead of preferred stock. But there was
imminent danger that another like attempt might be made
and be successful.
5. Such a raid, if successful, would destroy the commerce
the railway companies were building up, and in aid of which
they had bought the Burlington shares.
VOL. OXCIII-17

OCTOBFR TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

1'93 U. S.

6. For some years prior to 1901, Mr. Hill and ten other
shareholders in the Great Northern Co., holding less than 30
per cent of its stock had contemplated the formation of a
company to which they should make absolute transfers of their
shares in consideration of the shares of such new company.
Their purpose was that the shares should be voted alike in
the future as they had been in the past, and that they should
fare alike in any sale of them that might be made.
7. In June, 1901, after the defeat of the raid, it was first
suggested that the proposed company should be enlarged so
as to include the Northern Pacific common stock (about
$21,000,000) held by the same persons, and later the plan was
still further widened so as to include the Northern Pacific
common stock (about $20,000,000) held by J. P. Morgan &
Co. should they desire to make such disposition of the stock
held by them.
8. It had all along been the purpose of Mr. Hill and his ten
associates that every shareholder in the Great Northern Co.
should be given an opportunity to join the company as originally planned,-this not because they needed or desired the
accession of such other shareholders, but to avoid any complaint of unfair treatment on their part.
Q. This purpose was carried into the enlarged project, and
at the instance of Mr. Morgan, the same opportunity was to
be given to holders of Northern Pacific stock. And like the
company originally projected, the enlarged company was to be
authorized and was expected to acquire shares in coal mines
and in industrial enterprises of utility to the railways, but.
whose stock the railway companies could not hold, and also
to be a financial as well as an investment company, with
power in that capacity to aid the operations of the railway
companies, or of any other companies whose shares or securities it might hold.
10. The amount of Great Northern stock held by Mr. Hill
and his ten associates was from 33 to 35 millions out of a
total capital of $125,000,000. In 1896, they had severally

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 259
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

acquired $29,000,000 of Northern Pacific common stock, which
amount had, on May 1, 1901, been reduced by sales to
$20,000,000.
11. In forming the Northern Securities Co. it was the intention of its promoters that it should acquire, if it could, a majority of Northern Pacific stock, thereby protecting such stock
from future raids, and protecting the commerce of the railways from the ruin that would result from a successful raid.
They did not desire or expect that the Securities Co. should
acquire a majority of Great Northern shares. Such acquisition was not deemed necessary for the protection of the stock
of that company or of the commerce of the roads.
12. While the capitalization of the Securities Co. is nearly,
it is not (as stated in the opinion) the exact amount required
to pay for all the shares of the two railway companies at the
prices ($180 for Great Northern and $115 for Northern Pacific) fixed for such exchanges.
13. Mr. Hill and his ten associates who promoted the Securities Co. did not agree or bind themselves even to transfer
their own shares to the Securities Co. Each of them was
left to decide for himself. Mr. Hill retained between two
and three millions of his shares.
And neither they, nor any one concerned in promoting the
Securities Co., nor J. P. Morgan & Co. ever agreed in any
manner that upon the organization of the Securities Co. they
would "use their influence to induce other stockholders in
their respective companies to do likewise," as erroneously
stated in the decision of the lower court.
14. The Securities Co. is not a railway company and has no
power to build or operate railways. Its powers are limited to
buying, selling and holding stocks, bonds and other securities,
with power to aid in any manner any company whose stock
or bonds it may hold, and to do all acts designed to aid any
company whose shares or securities it may hold, and protect
or enhance the value of its investment; also to hold any real
or personal property required for the transaction of its business.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

19:" IT. '.

In short, it is at once an investment and a financial company.
15. Soon after its organization, and on November 18, 1901,
the Securities Co. purchased the Northern Pacific shares that
had been acquired by those concerned in the raid, known as
the Harriman shares. Those had been purchased from them
by J. P. Morgan & Co. The purchase comprised $37,023,000
of common stock and $41,085,000 of preferred stock, at a lunp
price of $91,407,500, payable (and paid) $8,915,629 in cash,
and $82,491,871 in shares of the Securities Co. at par. About,
the same time it received from its promoters and J. P. Morgan
& Co., the Northern Pacific common stock (about $42,000,000)
held by them. It availed itself of its right as a common stockholder of the Northern Pacific to purchase at par for cash,
the new common stock (issued to replace the $75,000,000 preferred stock retired) to the amount of 75-80 of the amount, of
common stock held by it. As a result of these purchases, the
Securities Co., at the beginning of the year 1902, and before
this suit was begun (in March, 1902) held about $152,000,000
of the total $155,000,000 stock of the Northern Pacific.
16. Soon after its organization, Mr. Hill and the other promoters of the Securities Co. transferred to it about 30 millions
of Great Northern shares at $180 in exchange for Securities
shares at par, and within three months from its organization,
(and before the commencement of this suit,) the Securities
Co. had acquired, on the same terms and from other holders,
about 65 millions of Great Northern shares, making its total
holdings 95 millions of the total capital of 125 millions.
17. It is not the fact, as stated in the decision that the
Securities Co. was enabled to make the purchase of 65 millions
of stock bought from non-promoters, or of any of it, by the
advice, procurement or persuasion of the Great Northern
shareholders who had been instrumental in organizing the
Securities Co. There is not any evidence in support of this
finding, and the evidence is conclusive against it.
The facts proved beyond question are that each purchase

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v,. UNITED STATES. 261
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

was an independent transaction between the seller of stock,
and the Securities Co,, without solicitation, persuasion or other
influence by the Securities Co., or any one else.
18. At the time of the formation of the Securities Co., the
Great Northern shareholders were 1,800 in number. Of them
about 1,200 transferred their shares to the Securities Co.
When this suit was begun, in April, 1902, the shareholders
of the Securities Co. were more than 1,300; in October, 1902,
they were about 1,800.
19. The Securities Co. is the absolute owner of the shares
acquired by it and of the dividends thereon. The shares are
not pooled or consolidated, nor are the earnings of the two
roads pooled. It is in no sense a "trust."
20. The promoters of the Securities Co.-Mr. Hill and his
ten associates-do not, all of them together hold, nor have they
ever held more than one-third of the $360,000,000 stock of the
Securities Co. that has been issued and is outstanding, and these
gentlemen and J. P. Morgan & Co. have never held more than
$140,000,000.
21. By the charter of each railway company, its commerce
is controlled and directed wholly by a board of directors, the
members of which are chosen for prescribed terms and cannot
be removed during their terms. And by the laws of Minnesota and Wisconsin no person who is a director in one company can be a director in the other.
22. The Securities Co. has not attempted to control or meddle
with the commerce or the management of either railway, nor
is there any evidence that it purposes doing either. Ever since
its formation such commerce has been conducted by the two
boards of directors in complete independence of each other.
23. There has been no agreement to suppress and no suppression of competition between the two railway companies, which
is as active as it was before the Securities Co. was formed.
24. The entire interstate commerce of the two railways,
the rates on which can be controlled by those companies without other competition or consent of connecting lines, falls short

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

193 U. S.

of three per cent of their total interstate commerce; and any
restraint that could be in any event impqsed by the Securities
Co. on their interstate commerce could only affect this three
per cent.
All the interstate commerce of each railroad (including the
competitive three per cent) has been largely increased since
the organization of the Securities Co., owing to the great advantages of the Burlington connection, and to the protection
afforded to all the commerce of the roads by placing a majority of Northern Pacific shares beyond the reach of raids, in
the ownership. of the Securities Co. And during such period
rates have been reduced to such an extent as to reduce net
earnings by upwards of $1,000,000.
25. There has been no increase of capitalization of either
railway company, nor any watering of that of the railway companies or of the Northern Securities Co. The capital of each
railway remains unchanged. If the Securities Co. had issued
its shares at par for cash, and used the money to buy the railway shares for cash in the market at their market value, its
outstanding shares would be more than at present. It would
have had to issue and sell at least 190 of its shares, to be able
to buy for cash each 100 shares of Great Northern which it
has obtained by exchange of only 180 of its own shares. And
it would have had to pay more than $115 for Northern Pacific.
The course pursued, instead of watering in any way the Securities Co.'s stock, has furnished that company with properties of a market and intrinsic value considerably in excess
of the par value of the shares issued by it in payment for them.
Appellants contend as to the Anti-Trust Act and its meaning:
1. The act is wholly a criminal law, directed to the punishment and prevention of crime. The remedy by injunction,
etc., given by the fourth section is not to protect property interests, but solely to prevent "violations of this Act" (i. e.
crimes, for every violation of the act is a crime, and, without
this section, would not be within the competence of a court of
equity to restrain by injunction).

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 263
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

2. Being a criminal statute, the act is not to be enlarged by
construction. The first section cannot be stretched so as to
make criminal (and whatever the section declares unlawful, it
makes criminal, and makes nothing criminal it has not declared
unlawful) every agreement, combination or conspiracy that
merely tends to restrain commerce among the States, or that
confers on the parties to it or any one else the power to restrain trade.
3. The act makes unlawful and criminal every contract,
combination or conspiracy in direct restraint of interstate
trade or commerce.
The gist of the crime is the contract, combination or conspiracy, and the offense is complete on the making of such contract, or the formation of such combination or conspiracy,
though nothing be done to carry it out, and though trade be
not in fact restrained.
But to constitute a combination or conspiracy in restraint of
interstate trade or commerce, the parties must combine or conspire to do acts, which, if performed, will of themselves restrain
such trade or commerce, and will directly restrain it-that is,
acts which operate directly on such commerce.
If the acts which the parties combine or conspire to do fall
short of this, if they are not such as operate directly on the
commerce, and by such operation directly restrain it, then the
combination or conspiracy is not within the act.
4. The act makes criminal those contracts, combinations and
conspiracies only which directly and immediately restrain interstate trade or commerce-that is by acting directly and
immediately upon such trade or commerce. 171 U. S. 568,
592; 175 U. S. 234, 245.
5. As the crime consists in contracting, combining or conspiring to do acts which by their own operation will directly
and immediately restrain interstate commerce, it necessarily
follows that if the acts which the parties contract or combine to
do are of that description, they violate the law, though they had
no conscious purpose or "specific intent" to restrain interstate

OCTO13ER TERNI, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

193 U. S

commerce by the means of such acts or at all. 156 U. S.
341.
On the other hand, if the acts to be done are not such as by
their own operation on interstate commerce directly restrain it.
the contract, combination or conspiracy to do those acts is not
a crime under the Anti-Trust Act. 175 U. S. 234.
6. The act makes criminal every contract, etc., in direct
restraint of commerce, without respect of persons.
A contract or combination or conspiracy that would be criminal as in restraint of interstate commerce or trade if made between two or more railway companies, is equally a crime if made
between two or more interstate carriers by wagon or stagecoach or ferry, or between two or more interstate traders
wholesale or retail. 166 U. S. 312.
7. Any restraint of interstate commerce, or power to restrain
it, directly consequent upon the acquisition of property anl incident to its ownership, is not, nor is the agreement for such
acquisition made criminal by, this act. 156 U. S. 16.
Hence, where competitors in interstate trade or commerce
agree to and do form a partnership or a corporation, or where
one of them buys out the other, or a third person or association
of persons buys out both, whatever suppression of competition
or power to suppress competition may follow is not, nor is the
agreement to form such corporation, partnership or association for such purchase, made criminal by the act. 171 U. S.
505, 567.
8. So where a combination is formed to acquire, and which
does acquire, nearly all of an article in common use throughout the country and shipped in large quantities among the
States, such ownership, though it gives the power to control
the interstate trade and commerce in such article, and to suppress such trade and commerce altogether, is not, nor is such
combination, a restraint of commerce prohibited by the AntiTrust Act, the power being an incident of ownership. 156
U. S. 1, 16.
9. By this act Congress regulates commerce by punishing

NORTHERiN SECL]RrPES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 265
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

the making of certain contracts by fine and imprisonment.
The regulation is and must be uniform throughout the United
States, for an act made criminal when done in Minnesota cannot be innocent when done in Massachusetts. The matters
embraced in the act, thus requiring a uniform regulation
throughout the country, are matters within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, and no matters that are not within such
exclusive jurisdiction are within the act. If it appears that
the States have jurisdiction of any matter (e. g., the ownership
of stock in or the consolidation of railway companies doing
an interstate business) claimed to be within this act, the existence of jurisdiction in the States is conclusive that such
matter is not within the act.
The appellants, therefore, maintain the following propositions:
1. The Government is not entitled to maintain this proceeding under sections 1 and 4 of the Anti-Trust Act, nor had the
Circuit Court jurisdiction of it under those sections, for the
conspiracy or combination charged in the petition and found
by the Circuit Court, if it ever existed, had done all it was
formed to do, and had come to an end, before the proceeding
was instituted.
2. The only combination of which there is any evidence is
a combination formed in aid of commerce, to liberate, protect
and enlarge and not to restrain it, and which has liberated,
protected, aided and enlarged it, and has not restrained and
does not threaten to restrain it.
3. There is no evidence of the combination or conspiracy
charged in the petition, or of the combination or conspiracy
found by the Circuit Court.
4. The conspiracy or combination in question whether as
alleged in the petition or 4s found by the Circuit Court, was
not a combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce, for the only things which the parties thereto combined
or conspired to do or procure to be done were (1) the organization of the Securities Co., and (2) the acquisition by the Se-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

193 11. 0.

curities Co., with their help, of a large majority of the shares
of each of the defendant railway companies in exchange for
its own shares.
The things so to be done or procured to be done (whether
taken separately or together) are such as do not and cannot in
any wise restrain interstate commerce, and hence a combination or conspiracy to do them or procure them to be done is
not in restraint of interstate commerce.
The Circuit Court erred in holding (1) that the Securities
Co., having acquired such majority of shares, has power to
suppress competition between the railway companies. In
fact, the Securities Co. is without power to suppress competition. It is a mere shareholder and not a director. The
office of director is created by the State and not by the shareholder. As to power of directors being distinct from those of
shareholders, see Hoyt v. Thompson, 19 N. Y. 207, 216; Burrill v. Nahant Bank, 2 Mete. 163; Pullman Car Co. v. Missouri Pac. Ry. Co., 115 U. S. 587. The charter of each railway company gives to the board of directors all the powers
attributed to it in the foregoing decisions. Rev. Stat. Wisconsin, 1878, c. 87, § 1804; Gen. Stat. Minnesota, 1894, § 2717;
(2) that it obtained and holds such power by means of and as
a party to the combination or conspiracy and not as an incident
of its ownership of the shares; (3) that the possession of such
power to suppress competition is of itself, and irrespective of
its exercise, a restraint of interstate commerce; and therefore (4) the combination or conspiracy in question was in
restraint of such commerce.
5. The petition does not allege nor do the proofs disclose
any facts showing a monopoly or a conspiracy or attempt to
monopolize any interstate or foreign commerce. For definition
of monopoly, see Texas Pacific v. Interstate Coni. Coin., 162
U. S. 197, 210; United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S.
290; Pearsall v. Great Northern, 161 U. S. 646, 676; United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 10; In re Corning, 51
Fed. Rep. 205, 211.

NORTHERN SECCURITIES CO. t. UNITEi) STATES. 267
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Young for Appellants.

6. The case is not within the Anti-Trust Act, for in any view
of the matters complained of, their effect upon commercewhether much or little, for good or for ill-is indirect and
remote. The Anti-Trust Act and the regulative power of Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution, are alike
strictly limited to matters which directly and immediately
affect interstate or foreign commerce.
In determining what is a combination in direct restraint of
commerce the distinction between direct and indirect regulations of commerce becomes important, see Fargo v. Michigan,
121 U. S. 230; Phila. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326,
328; N. Y., L. Erie &c. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431;
Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway Co., 142 U. S. 217; Pickard
v. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34; Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania,
141 U. S. 18, 25. In the declarations of the limitations of
the act and of the power of Congress, the court has merely
repeated its settled doctrine. Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.
648, 655; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 278.
Where subjects for commercial regulation are of a nature
to require or admit of one uniform system or plan of regulation, the power to regulate them is exclusively in Congress,
and any attempted regulation by a State whether to enlarge or
restrain, is simply ultra vires, for it is a usurpation of a power
vested exclusively in Congress. Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 574; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489, 492; Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326, 336; Bowman v. Chicago, etc., R. R. Co., 125
V. S. 465, 480. Anything, therefore, not exclusively within
the jurisdiction of Congress is not within the act.
7. The very general language of the Anti-Trust Act was
not intended to include combinations to purchase railways or
railway shares, competing or non-competing, nor consolidations actual or "virtual" of railways or railway companies.
Congress, when passing the act did so with full knowledge
of the situation. Ches. & 0. Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S.
238, 245. It knew that the railway systems of the country

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Johnson for Northern Securities Co.

193 U. S.

rested on such combinations authorized by state laws, some
of them having existed many years.
These are matters of public history and within the knowledge of the court. Ohio L. & T. Co. v. Debold, 16 How. 416,
435; R. R. Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 469; Brown v. Piper,
91 U. S. 37, 42; Phillips v. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604, 606; Lehigh
Valley v. Pennsylania,145 U. S. 192, 201; Louis ille & Nashville v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 699; Preston v. Browder, 1
Wheat. 115, 121; United States v. Union Pacific, 91 U. S. 72,
79; Platt v. Union Pacific, 99 U. S. 48, 55.
If Congress had meant to declare such consolidations and
stock purchases of competing companies to be illegal, the securities issued by them void and state legislation unconstitutional, it would have said so in plain, specific and apt language.
The construction put on the act by all branches of the government and by everybody down to the commencement of
this proceeding, has been in full accord with our position
that the act has nothing to do with combinations to own railways or railway shares. The following consolidations of conipeting railroad lines existed at the time of the passage of the
act or have been effected since that time: Boston & Maine
Railroad Company and competing lines; New York, New
Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., and New England Railroad
Co. and other roads; New York Central Railroad and the
West Shore and Rome, Watertown and Ogdensburg and other
railroad companies; Pennsylvania Railroad Company and Baltimore and Ohio and other companies; the Reading Company.
8. Even though the Government were entitled to any inljunction, the decree goes far beyond what the Government
was entitled to receive, or the Circuit Court authorized to
grant.
Mr. John G. Johnson, for appellant, Northern Securities
Company, argued:
The facts found by the court below cannot be deduced from
the testimony and the substratum of the bill filed, of the ar-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 269
193 U. S. Argument of Mr. Johnson for Northern Securities Co.

guments below in its support, and of the decision of the lower
court was the assertion of a conspiracy which never existed.
It is conceded that the Securities Company did acquire a majority of stock of both railroad companies and such acquisition
was because of its intent to acquire. The company is chargeable with all the legal consequences of an intentional acquisition of such shares. It is denied, however, that any individuals or corporations conspired to do anything except to
form a corporation and acquire shares of the Northern Pacific
Railway Company belonging to them, and about twenty-seven
per cent of the stock of the Great Northern Railway Company.
The subsequent acquisition of an additional fifty per cent of
the Great Northern stock was for third persons over whom the
defendants had no control but who simply accepted an invitation to sell their stock issued by the Securities Company after
its formation. The authorized capital of that company was
made sufficiently large to enable it to acquire all the stock of
both roads but this was not in pursuance of any combination,
conspiracy or contract but of the policy of the appellants to let
every co-shareholder of the railroad companies have the benefit of every advantage obtained for themselves.
Everything of which the Government complains was done
with the intention of working out with permanent results the
problem of interstate and international commerce. In order
to effect permanent arrangements and to promote a great public end through a greatly increased commerce, at low rates, the
two railway companies purchased the shares of the Burlington road for over $200,000,000, paid by their joint and several bonds, thus being able to give assurances of permanency
of low rates and do such other things as were necessary in
building up and enlarging this great commerce. This resulted
in demands by the Union Pacific for a part of the traffic
and on their being refused the Oregon Short Line acting for
the Union Pacific acquired a large amount, almost a controlling interest, in the stock of the Northern Pacific. The situation was critical and the organization of the Securities Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Johnson for Northern Securities Co.

193 U. S.

pany and all that followed was for the purpose of preventing
a raid on the stock similar to that which had so nearly succeeded and was done solely with the attempt to secure the
maintenance of the benefit to commerce, which had resulted,
and which, still more in the future, would result from the acquisition of the Burlington shares.
Such alliances as that of the Burlington with the Northern
Pacific and Great Northern are valuable because they give an
opportunity of securing a large number of markets in a great,
and rich territory under a fairly permanent transportation
policy. They are of enormous value to the people along the
lines of the railroads, to the country generally and to the world.
To transact business, large investments must be made and the
condition prerequisite thereto is reasonable assurance of continuance. When the Government seeks to condemn an arrangement which promotes the interest of the whole nation by
pretending that it was intended to restrain trade, it must establish convincingly the existence of the illegal intent alleged.
The sole question of law to be determined is whether or not
the acquisition by a corporation of a controlling interest in the
shares of two competitive railway companies, violates the
Sherman Act. It is not illegal for an existing corporation to
acquire such controlling interest; it is not illegal for persons
holding a sufficient number of shares to enter into an agreement that will form a company to acquire such control. An
agreement to do what is legal cannot be an illegal conspiracy,
combination or contract.
The Sherman Act is a penal one, defining a criminal offense,
for which it provides a punishment. It is an indispensable
prerequisite to a conviction for a criminal misdemeanor, especially if there be no criminal intent, and such does not exist in
the present case, that the offense condemned shall be clearly defined, and it is well settled that penal laws are to be strictly
construed. United States v. IlWillberger, 5 Wheat. 76; United
States v. Whittier, 5 Dillon, 35, citing United States v. Morris,
14 Pet. 464; United States v. Sheldon, 2 Wheat. 119; United

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 271
193 U. S Argument of Mr. Johnson for Northern Securities Co.

States v. Clayton, 2 Dillon, 219; Bishop on Statutory Crimes,
sec. 41; Andrews v. United States, 2 Story, 213; United States
v. Iarwell, 6 Wall. 385, 396; Swearingen v. United States,
161 U. S. 446, 451; France v. United States, 164 U. S. 676,
682; Schooner Paulina's Cargo v. United States, 7 Cr. 52, 61;
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 219; United States v.
Comerford, 25 Fed. Rep. 902; United States v. Chase, 135 U. S.
255, 261; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 102; Sarlls
v. United States, 152 U. S. 570, 575.
This court will not legislate but will merely discharge its duty
of construction. If the legislation is incomplete a crime cannot be fastened upon one who has done innocently something
not defined as criminal. An act not made criminal cannot be
condemned because it may seem equally, or even more, evil
than the one made criminal. That Congress had no clearly
defined understanding of the nature of the misdemeanor at
which it struck, is evidenced by the final debates in the House
of Representatives.
The purchase by a person or corporation, of a majority of
the shares of two competing railway companies, is not "a contract, combination in the form of a trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States." The Sherman Act prohibits, not a contract tending
to restrain trade, but one actually in restraint thereof. The
meaning of "restraint of trade" was well understood when the
Sherman Act was passed. United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 328. In the Addyston Case, 175 U. S.
211, the contract was actually in restraint of trade.
The holding by a person or corporation as owner of a majority of the shares of two competing railway companies,
is not "a contract or combination or conspiracy in restraint
of trade" within the meaning of the act.
A corporation, though incorporated for the purpose of holding, and actually holding, a majority of the shares of two
competing railway companies is not such a combination or
conspiracy. See the PearsallCase, 161 U. S. 646; United'States

()CTOBEIB'TERMI,

1903.

Argument of Mr. Johnson for Northern Securities Co.

1)3 U. S.

v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, 567. A person or
corporation, by purchasing a majority of the shares of two
competing railway companies does not monopolize, or attempt
to monopolize, "any part of the trade or commerce among
the several States." As to what a monopoly is, see In re
Green, 52 Fed. Rep. 104; dissenting opinion of Story, J., in
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 606: 20
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 846; 2 Rawle's Bouvier's Dictionary, 435, and cases cited; Blackstone, Bk. IV, 159; Century
Dictionary.
The purchase by one person, of the property of his rival,
with the intention thereby to destroy his competition, is not
illegal, although by the purchase he will acquire the power to
prevent the same. Oregon Coal Co. v. lVin. or, 20 Wall. 64.
A person or corporation, by holding, as owner, the majority
of the shares of two competing railway companies, does not
monopolize, or attempt to monopolize "any part of the tra(le
or commerce among the several States."
The power of Congress to regulate commerce does not confer upon it a right to prescribe the persons who may engage
therein, or to regulate, or to control, the ownership of shares
of stock of corporations engaging therein. United States v.
Knight, 156 U. S. 1; Louisville & Nashville v. Kentucky, 161
U. S. 677, 693.
The States create railroad corporations and may prescribe
the manner of issuance of their shares, and the nethod of
transfer of title thereto. In the use and operation of railroads
engaged in interstate commerce, the corporations owning the
same must submit to Federal jurisdiction but this does not involve any right on the part of the United States to control
the transfer of shares by the shareholders, even though as a
result of said transfers the controlling interest may be transferred. It is not within the power of the Federal government
to destroy the title to property created by the State.
Congress has unrestricted power to prevent restraint or
monopolization of interstate commerce, as the authorities de-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 273
193 U. S. Argument of Mr. Bunn for Northern Pacific Railway.

fine those words, but not as the United States now claims.
Properly interpreted, the Sherman Act is constitutional but
the United States is now endeavoring to have its provisions
interpreted so as to be violative of States' rights. Such a
construction should not be adopted, if there is one which harmonizes with the Constitution. Grenada County v. Brogden,
112 U. S. 261; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197.
The mere ownership of property cannot be an illegal restraint of trade. As to the power of the State over railroad
corporations, see Railroad' Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456;
Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436.
The relief decreed by the lower court was improper under
any aspect of the case. UnitedStates v. Knight, 156 U.S. 1, 17.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for appellant, Northern Pacific Railway Company, argued:
The Sherman Act only declares those contracts illegal
which are in restraint of trade. The government cannot rest
on proof of combination and conspiracy but must establish
restraint of commerce and to do this must prove that the
ownership by one person of the stocks of two competing roads
is per se such restraint.
The statute must be interpreted so as to fall within the constitutional powers of Congress which do not extend to determine the ownership of stock in corporations or to the
regulation of consolidations of railroad companies chartered
by the States.
This power belongs to the States; Congress only has the
power to regulate the use of such property in commerce between the States. See definition of commerce in Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189, 196, as repeated by this court in Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 394, 462; Henderson v. Mayor, 92
U. S. 259, 270; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 346. Congress has
power only under § 8, Art. I, of the Constitution, and by
Amendment X all power not thus granted is reserved to the
States. Under the guise of regulating commerce Congress
VOL. CXCIII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Mr. Bunn for Northern Pacific Railway.

103 U. S.

cannot prescribe general rules as to transfer of real or personal
property or prohibit the purchase of stock and bonds because
when bought they may be used in a business carried on with
intent to monopolize or restrict interstate commerce. In re
Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104, 113, citing County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 702; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196, 203; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S.
1. The power of Congress extends only to those things that
directly and immediately pertain to conunerce; the powers
of the States include many things which operate indirectly
though importantly on commerce. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 203. For cases involving this demarkation between
national and state powers, see United States v. Joint Traffic
Association, 171 U. S. 505; Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211, 228; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578,
592; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, 615; Sherlock
v. Ailing, 93 U. S. 99; Louisville & Nashville v. Kentucky,
161 U. S. 677, 701. In the last case this court cites decisions
in which state statutes prohibiting or permitting consolidation were enforced. This would have been erroneous if the
things complained of fell within the power of Congress, for
that power if it exists is exclusive of all state action, and
must be so in order that it be uniform. As to matters in regard to which the States may act until Congress acts, see
Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens, 12 flow. 299; The James
Gray v. The John Fraser, 21 How. 184; Pound v. Turck, 95
U. S. 459; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489,
492; and cases cited supra. No rule of law is introduced by the
Sherman Act; what was restraint of commerce is the same
now; the only feature of the act is making the preliminary
conspiracy a crime. The Constitution itself forbade restraint
of interstate commerce. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564. A combination that is restraint of trade now was restraint of trade
before the act of leasing, buying and consolidation of comipeting railroads has gone on for fifty years both before and
since the act of 1890.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 275
193 U. S.

Argument of Mr. Bunn for Northern Pacific Railway.

If a thing restrains interstate commerce it is immaterial how
innocent the intent may be, and if it does not restrain it, it is
immaterial how evil the intent may be. The question is does
the agreement restrain trade or commerce. United States v.
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 341; Addyston Case, supra.
If an action be lawful its purpose is immaterial. This is elementary. Phelps v. Nowlen, 72 N. Y. 39, 45; Kiff v. Youmoans, 86 N. Y. 324, 329; Wood v. Amory, 105 N. Y. 278, 281;
Lough v. Outerbridge, 143 N. Y. 271, 282; Adler v. Fenton, 24
How. 407, 410; United States v. Greenhut, 51 Fed. Rep. 205,
211; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104, 111; Randall v. Hazleton, 12 Allen, 412, 418; Brackett v. Griswold, 112 N. Y. 454;
United States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496; Dickerman v. Northern
Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181; Fahrney v. Kelly, 102 Fed. Rep.
403; Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, App. Cas. (1892) 25, 41;
Allen v. Flood, L. R. App. Cas. (1898) 1; Bohn Mjg. Co. v.
Hollis, 54 Minnesota, 223, 234. The opinion of the court below proceeds upon the proposition that a combination of two
competitors is a restraint of trade-because it lessens competition. This is error. The Trans-Missouri, Joint Traffic and
Addyston cases prove only that a contract restraining rival
companies from competing is a restraint of trade. No such
agreement exists in this case. The law does not require competition. The business of a rival may be purchased for the
purpose of being rid of his competition. Gamble v. Queens
County Water Co., 123 N. Y. 91, 104; Diamond Match
Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473; Rafferty v. Buffalo City Gas
Co., 37 N. Y. App. Div. 618, 621; Trenton Potteries Co. v.
Olyphant, 56 N. J. Eq. 680; Oakdale Co. v. Garst, 18 R. I.
484.
The Securities Company is neither alleged nor proved to have
(lone or omitted anything which can be construed as a violation of the Anti-Trust Act. If it has the power to suppress or
diminish competition it has not used it and if the act has been
violated at all it must be due to the mere existence of the Securities Company, to its powers as applicable to railway com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Griggs for Northern Securities Co.

19:3 IT. S.

panics or to something illegal in its origin. The illegality can
not be sustained under the decisions of this court.
Mr. John TV. Griggs for appellant, Northern Securities

Company, submitted a brief:
The acts of the defendants do not constitute a contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade or coinmerce within the meaning and prohibition of the Sherman
Act. The United States rests its case upon two allegations:
First. That the Northern Securities Company has been
formed and has taken over a majority of the shares of the two
railroad companies in the manner indicated by the pleadings
and proofs.
Second. That the intended and the necessary effect, of those
acts is to destroy competition between the two railroad coinpanies.
The answer of the defendants is:
First. That the formation of the Northern Securities Company and the acquirement by it of stock of the two railroad
companies was a lawful transaction, governed solely by local
state laws, and not in contravention of any provision of the
Federal Constitution or statutes.
Second. That the acts of the defendants were all done in
good faith, without any purpose to destroy competition or restrain trade.
To put it more concisely: The defendants contendI that
what they have done is lawful, has no direct effect in restraint
of competition, and was not intended to restrain competition.
The creation of railway corporations; the form of their corporate organization; the character and qualities of their corporate stock; the routes which their roads shall take, whether
they may connect with other roads running in the same general direction, whether they may or may not consolidate with
parallel lines, or operate parallel lines through different portions of a State-all these matters are, and always have been,
subjects of state jurisdiction. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. ,r. UNITED STATES. 277
193 U. S.

Brief of Mr. Griggs for Northern Securities Co.

Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 702; Pearsall v. Great Northern, 161
U. S. 646; Lake Shore & Mich. Southern v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285; Missouri, Kansas & Texas v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Cleveland &c. Railway v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514.
The lower court did not find as matter of fact that the defendants had in any way restrained trade or commerce; or
that they had attempted so to do; or that they had contracted
or combined so to do. What the court did find and decide
was, that the defendants had done certain things whereby they
had obtained the power to suppress competition between two
interstate carriers who own and operate competing and parallel lines of railroad. This idea is repeated again and again
throughout the opinion. It speaks of "a direct restraint of interstate commerce because it would have placed in the hands
of a small coterie of men the power to suppress competition
between two competing interstate carriers."
To say that one person, or several persons, cannot acquire
or own a majority of the stock of two competing railroad corporations because they are thereby occupying a vantage
ground from which they can, if they choose, effect an agreement or understanding between the two companies in restraint
of competition, is to say that the power to commit a crime is
equivalent to its actual commission.
The acts of the defendants being prima facie lawful, the
burden of proof is upon the Government to show that they
were, as the Attorney General charges, not bona fide, but a
mere formal device intended to defeat the provisions of the
Sherman Act. Joint Traffic, Trans-Missouri, Addyston Pipe
Cases; United States v. Hopkins, 171 U. S. 578; United States
v. Workingmen's Amalgamated Council, 54 Fed. Rep. 994;
State v. Shippers Compress & Warehouse Co., 67 S. W. Rep.
(Texas) 1049; S. C., affirmed, 69 S. W. Rep. 58.
Afiy restraint of trade or commerce which may result from
the acts done by the defendants is indirect and incidental only,
and not covered by the act. In every instance where this
court has had occasion to pass upon the meaning of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Griggs for Northern Securities Co.

193 U S.

it has carefully distinguished between acts which directly restrain commerce, and acts which only indirectly or incidentally
have that effect. United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U.
S. 1, 12, 16; Joint Traffic Case, 171 U. S. 505, 566; United
States v. Ches. & Ohio Fuel Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 93; S. C., affirmed, 115 Fed. Rep. 610.
If the Sherman Act can be so construed as to forbid the sale
of stock in two competing railroad corporations to one purchaser, then that act is an attempted interference on the part
of Congress with transactions which are wholly within the
control of the States of the Union, and in that respect the act
is unconstitutional.
As to the extent of state legislative power over the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, see Lozisville & Nash'ille
Case, 161 U. S.677, 702; C. & C. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204. Regulation of commerce, to be constitutional,
must be confined to commerce itself, and cannot reach out to
those things which not being designed as agencies of such
commerce, or not being actually enjoined therein, may yet
have an indirect or ultimate relation thereto.
Such a construction of the Constitution would vest, in Congress the regulation of all branches of productive business from
their first beginnings. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462.
The fact that an article was manufactured for export to another State does not make it an article of interstate commerce.
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1.
The creation of state corporations and the regulation of the
sales of corporation shares belong to the class of business affairs over which the States have exclusive jurisdiction. Uited
States v. Boyer, 82 Fed. Rep. 425; Clark v. Central R. R. &
Banking Co. of Georgia, Jackson, J., June 30, 1893, U. S.Circuit Court, Savannah; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104, 112:
Pearsallv. Great Northern, 161 U. S.646, 671; Rogers v. Nashville &c. Ry. Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 312.
But assuming that Congress may, under the commerce clause
of the Constitution and as a regulation of commerce, restrain

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 279
193 U. S.

Brief of Mr. Griggs for Northern Securities Co.

the States in the exercise of their prerogatives from permitting
two or more corporations to which the States have given life
from merging, yet such a purpose on the part of the Government ought to be clearly and distinctly expressed, and not be
found in the judicial interpretation of doubtful language contained in a penal statute.
So that, if it be argued that Congress may forbid the sale of
one railroad to another, it is enough to reply that it has never
done so; that the Sherman Act does not expressly, or by any
just interpretation, do so.
The Sherman Act is a penal statute; every act which may
be prevented by injunctive order would, if committed and
proven, subject the parties to criminal prosecution. The rule
of strict construction must be therefore applied. United States
v. Whittier, 5 Dillon, 35; United States v. Sheldon, 2 Wheat.
119; United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385; United States v.
Shacklord, 5 Mason, 445; United States v. Clayton, 2 Dillon,
219; United States v. Garretson, 42 Fed. Rep. 22; Dwarris'
Stat. 641; Hubbardv. Johnstone, 3 Taunt. 177.
Acquiescence by the Government for more than eleven years
in the actual merger and consolidation of many important
parallel and competing lines of railroads and steamships engaged in interstate and international commerce, has given a
practical construction to the act of July 2, 1890, to the effect
that it was not intended to forbid, and does not forbid, the
natural processes of unification which are brought about under modern methods of lease, consolidation, merger, community of interest, or ownership of stock. As held in 1803 in
Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299, where the right of a justice 'of
the Supreme Court to sit as a Circuit Judge was challenged,
upon the ground that, not having been appointed as such, and
not having been distinctly commissioned as such, the act of
Congress of 1789, under which the Circuit Court was originally instituted, was unconstitutional.
"Practice and acquiescence for a period of several years,
commencing with the organization of the judicial system,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mfr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

193 U. S.

affords an irresistible answer, and has indeed fixed the construction. It is a contemporary interpretation of the most,
forcible nature. This practical exposition is too strong and
obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Of course, the question
is at rest, and ought not to be disturbed."
This is a just principle of jurisprudence, founded upon the
very highest considerations of public equity.
It has frequently been invoked and enforced in order to prevent the disturbance and unsettlement of important affairs
which have been transacted in reliance upon a general public
and private belief that the law did not include them in its
terms of condemnation.
But we venture the assertion that no case has ever arisen
in which a disregard of that salutary rule of construction
would result in such widespread and irremediable injury to
vested interests as this. Not that any decree which this court
could make against these defendants would particularly or
radically affect their property interests, but because the decision
once made that the Sherman Act applies to such transactions
as the purchase, lease, merger or consolidation of plarallel lines
of transportation, would render every such transaction for
the last thirteen years unlawful, and require the Attorney
General, in the due discharge of his duty, to bring suit for dissolution and injunction. Unnumbered millions of dollars of
capital stock and bonds issued upon railroad mergers and consolidations would be tainted with illegality, or affected in
value by the withdrawal of the property against which they
were issued. Purchases of stock in underlying roads long ago
made and paid for would be unsettled, and financial chaos
would result.
Mr. M. D. Grover for appellant, Great Northern Railway
Company, submitted a brief:
The findings of fact upon which the decree rests are contrary to the evidence. This is made clear by separating
the findings and considering the evidence bearing on each

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 281
193 U. S.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

separately. There was no desire or intent to evade the
Anti-Trust Act, to restrain competition, to monopolize
trade, to inflate securities, water stock, or create fictitious
capital.
I. It is not denied that the Northern Securities Company
is a corporation lawfully organized under the laws of the
State of New Jersey, with charter power to purchase and
sell securities of all kinds, and to purchase, hold, vote and
sell all the shares of stock of any single corporation or of
non-competing corporations. Its right to purchase, hold, vote
and sell all the stock of the Great Northern Railway Company alone, or the Northern Pacific Railway Company alone,
is not denied.
II. The organization of the company was the result of a
plan to form an investment or holding company, which had
its inception years before its articles were filed, among not exceeding ten large holders of Great Northern stock, who had
taken an active interest in the policy of the company and its
administration, but who never had held in the aggregate to
exceed one-fourth of its outstanding stock. It was thought
that if a company were formed to which they might sell their
individual holdings, their shares would be likely to be held together, so long as a majority of the holding company should
wish, and that this would tend to give stability to the policy
of the company, be of aid to it in its financial operations, and
maintain the value of its investments.
III. The Burlington purchase was made to enlarge trade,
not to restrain it; to increase competition, not to suppress it.
At the time of the purchase it was not contemplated by either
purchasing company or its shareholders that any alliance
between the purchasing company or its shareholders was
needed to preserve to each company its fair share of the advantages secured by the purchase.
IV. At the time of the organization of the Securities Company the Great Northern shareholders referred to owned
about $30,000,000 of Great Northern stock, and $35,000,000

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

193 U. S.

of Northern Pacific common stock, having increased their
holdings of the latter by purchases from J. P. Morgan & Co.
They did not control a majority of the shares of either of the
defendant railway companies. In view of the injury apprehended to both companies, and their shareholders, and the
better to protect their interests in the future, against raids of
adverse interests, the Great Northern shareholders referred to
deemed it advisable that the holding company which they had
considered should be organized, should have power to purchase, not only their own Great Northern and Northern Pacific shares, but also the shares of such other Great Northern
and Northern Pacific shareholders as might wish to sell their
stock to it, and also the shares of companies already formed,
and others that might be formed, for the purpose of aiding
the traffic operations of the Great Northern and Northern
Pacific companies.
V. At this time it was not expected by any of the persons
concerned, that any Northern Pacific shares, except the
$42,000,000 owned by them and by J. P. Morgan & Co. would
be acquired by the proposed holding company. The organization of the company was not dependent on any agreement that it should acquire, nor upon the question of, a
majority of the shares of either of the defendant railway companies. There was no agreement or understanding between
the Great Northern shareholders referred to, that they or
either of them would undertake to influence any one of the
other 1,800 Great Northern shareholders, or of the other 3,600
Northern Pacific shareholders, to sell their shares to the company.
VI. The Great Northern shareholders referred to, upon the
organization of the Northern Securities Company and the sale
of their shares to it, parted with such stock control as they
had in the Great Northern and Northern Pacific companies.
They do not own to exceed one-third of the outstanding capital stock of the Securities Company. At. the time of the
trial the stock of the Securities Company was held by 1,800

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. %. UNITED STATES. 283

193 U S.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

separate owners. The stock control of the Securities Company is, therefore, not in the eight or ten Great Northern
shareholders referred to, but in the 1,790 other shareholders
of the Securities Company, owning at least two-thirds of its
outstanding shares.
VII. Nothing has been done except the purchase by the
Securities Company of a majority of the stock of the Great
Northern and Northern Pacific companies.
VIII. The Securities Company as owner of the stock so
purchased may sell it or pledge it. It has made no agreement
as to what it will do with it, or how it will vote it, or how it
will dispose of the dividends received upon it. It is not a
trustee of those from whom it received such shares, and owes
them no duty or obligation respecting the shares, since they
have no further interest in them.
IX. It is not claimed or pretended that the defendant railway companies have entered into any contract or combination
in restraint of trade, or that either of them has done anything
to restrain trade or in violation of law. It is not claimed that
the Securities Company can restrain trade, except through the
exercise of its right, as owner of the shares it purchased, to
vote them at stockholders' meetings, in the election of a separate board of directors for each of the defendant railway companies; for the boards must be separate under the laws of the
States of Minnesota and Wisconsin.
X. This suit was not brought to prevent or restrain the execution of a contract, or the forming of a combination, in restraint of trade, but to restrain the Securities Company from
voting the stock it owns at stockholders' meetings, and from
receiving dividends thereon, thereby preventing payment of
dividends upon its own shares issued in payment for the shares
it purchased, upon the ground that mere possession of the voting power of the shares, is an unlawful restraint and regulation of the interstate commerce of the defendant railway companies.
XI. The Government has no financial interest in this suit.

OO"L"OBEIR TER2MI, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

193 U. S.

The only way in which the Securities Company could rest rain
the commerce of the two railway companies, is through the
voting power of the shares it owns. If it had purchased the
shares of only one of the companies, its right to vote such
shares would not be questioned. Trade could not, within the
contention of the Government, or the ruling of the court, be
restrained by the Securities Company, should its voting powers
be limited to the shares of one of the companies. The decree
enjoins it from voting the shares of either company and from
receiving dividends from either. The effect of the decree is
to deprive it of the means to pay dividends upon its own stock
whether issued in payment for the stock it purchase(], or issued
for cash. Thus the decree destroys the earning power of the
stock of the Securities Company, a large majority of which is
now held by over eighteen hundred bona fide holders in the
usual course of business not parties to the suit.
The important questions are: 1. Does the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States confer upon Congress
jurisdiction to regulate the issue, sale and ownership of the
capital stock of corporations organized under the laws of any
one of the several States, or to inquire into the motives of incorporators, or of the buyers or sellers of their shares?
2. Has Congress, under the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States, power to forbid or regulate the
purchase or lease, by one railway company engaged in interstate commerce, of the railway of its competitor, or the purchase or lease by the owner of one ferryboat, stage coach or
river steamboat, engaged in interstate trade, of the ferryboat,
stage coach or river steamboat, of a competitor, on the ground
that through such purchase or lease competition may be restrained, and commerce regulated?
3. Is the unity of ownership through purchase, partnership,
consolidation or lease, of a majority of the shares of competing corporations, engaged in interstate trade, a contract or
combination in the form of trust or otherwise, forbidden by
the Anti-Trust Act, as in restraint of trade?

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. r. UNITED STATES. 285
193 U. S.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

4. Is there anything in connection with the organization of
the Northern Securities Company, or its purchasers of stock,
that in any way distinguishes its right to vote and receive dividends upon such stock from the right of any single interest,
individual or corporate, to vote and receive dividends upon
shares of competing corporations engaged in interstate trade,
purchased in the ordinary course of business, or acquired by
gift or inheritance?
5. This suit was brought under section 4 of the Anti-Trust
Act, which gives the court jurisdiction to prevent and restrain
violations of the act. Every violation of the act is criminal.
The court is, therefore, given jurisdiction to prevent and restrain the commission of a crime. Months before the suit was
begun, the Securities Company had acquired a large majority
of the shares of the defendant railway companies, from time
to time, from hundreds of individual shareholders, who sold
their holdings in good faith, and much of the stock so taken
in payment therefor has since been sold and exchanged, and
passed through many hands, in the usual course of business.
Does the Anti-Trust Act give the court jurisdiction to annul
the purchases made by the Northern Securities Company, and
compel a return of the shares it purchased? Payment for the
shares it bought was made in its own stock in part only. It
paid cash to the amount of over $40,000,000. The owners of
such shares are changing from day to day; they are-not before the court. The decree does not restrain a contract or
combination in restraint of trade. It destroys or impairs the
value of millions of dollars worth of property, owned by many
hundreds of people who acquired their title in good faith and
who are not parties to this suit. First. The commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States does not take away
from the several States the right to authorize the formation
of corporations, define their business, fix the amount of their
capital or purchasing power, and regulate the issue, sale and
ownership of their capital stock.
As respects the purchase by one corporation of the shares

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

193 U. 8.

of another, the matter rests with the States which have created
the corporations. Should unification of ownership of property
in corporations proceed to such an extent as to be thought
against public policy, it may be prevented by the several States,
through limiting the power of corporations, and restraining
their right to engage in business.
It has been the practice, since the infancy of railroads in this
country, for one railroad company to purchase or lease the
railroad of a competing company, or to acquire a majority of
the shares of a competing company, or of two companies competing with each other, or to effect the consolidation of competing companies. This has been done without objection from
any branch of the Federal Government, and has invariably
proven beneficial to the railway companies concerned, to their
shareholders, and to the public. The extent to which this has
been done appears in the record, and is shown by extracts
from Poor's Manual and from the annual reports made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission to Congress, from 1889
to 1900. And see the brief of Judge Young where this
subject is discussed at length with proper reference to the
record.
Second. Unity of ownership of shares of competing corporations, engaged in interstate trade, does not restrain such trade,
and is not forbidden by the Anti-Trust Act, nor is such unity
of ownership a regulation of interstate commerce, and thus
subject to exclusive Federal jurisdiction under the commerce
clause of the Constitution. Joint Traffic, Trajs-Missouriand
Addyston Pipe Co. cases.
There is a distinct difference between an agreement between
the owners of competing concerns, to divide territory, to restrain output, or to maintain prices, and the unconditional sale
of the property or business of one of them to the other, or of
the property of business of both to another person. In the
former case, the agreement in terms restrains competition in
trade operations, between separate owners or establishments,
or instrumentalities engaged in such operations. The agree-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 287
193 U. S.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

ment relates to the manner in which competitors shall conduct their business. If one competing concern buys the plant
or business of its competitor, competition is not thereby directly restrained. The restraint in such case, if any, is merely
an incident to the ownership of property, and the fact that
there may be such a restraint does not forbid the acquiring of
such ownership. By unity of interest output is not necessarily
limited, prices are not necessarily increased. On the contrary,
the public may be benefited, prices may be less by reason of
greatly increased volume of business and less cost per unit of
production.
Third. The Anti-Trust Act is a penal statute and, as construed by the court below, it makes unity of ownership of a
majority of the shares of competing corporations engaged in
interstate trade, no matter how such ownership is acquired,
criminal, because such ownership gives power to commit crime.
It is conceded that such ownership, so far as it may control
the policy of the corporations, can be exercised for a lawful
purpose, for building up trade, increasing competition and reducing prices.
It is not claimed or pretended that in the case under review
trade has been restrained, yet the court below held that unity
of ownership of a majority of the-stock of the defendant railway companies was unlawful, and, therefore, criminal, because
such ownership has necessarily caused the doing of something
that has not been done; has necessarily restrained trade,
though trade has not been restrained.
Stated in another way, the court below decided that ownership by the Securities Company of a majority of stock of the
defendant railway companies regulates the commerce of the
companies, and though such commerce- has in fact been so regulated as to build up trade, increase competition and reduce
prices, in law it has necessarily been so regulated as to restrain
trade, suppress competition and increase prices because through
unity of ownership motive to compete* has been destroyed.
Tozer v. United States, 4 I. C. C. Rep. 246; R1. R. Co. v. Dey,

OCTOBER TER1,

1903.

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

193 U. S.

2 I. C. C. Rep. 325; Schooner Paulina's Cargo v. United States,
7 Cranch, 52, 61; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214.
Fourth. Trade has not been restrained through the exercise
of the voting power of these stocks. The ruling that ti'ade
has been restrained, is contrary to the facts, and charges the
individuals engaged in this transaction with a crime, that has
not been committed nor intended.
When this suit was begun, the shares of the Northern Securities Company were held by over eighteen hundred separate
owners who had purchased them in good faith, in the usual
course of business. The shareholders of the defendant railway companies, who were instrumental in organizing the Securities Company, have never owned to exceed one-third of its
stock. The control of the Securities Company, so far as stock
ownership can control it through the election of a board of
directors, is not in the eight Great Northern shareholders who
were concerned in the organization of the company, but in the
seventeen hundred and ninety shareholders owners of more
than two-thirds of its stock. The combination of which the
court convicted the eight individual defendants, was not one
by which they were to acquire control over the two railway
companies, for themselves, but one through which such control would necessarily be conferred upon the seventeen hundred and ninety other stockholders of the Securities Company.
The ruling of the court that the possession of the voting
power of a majority of the shares of the defendant railway
companies by the Securities Company, necessarily restrains
trade through suppressing competition, finds no support in
facts. The boards of directors of both railway companies
may be elected by the Securities Company. The executive
officers of the two companies will be elected by these boards,
and the ruling of the courts rests upon the proposition, that
such boards and officers will be influenced, persuaded or coerced
in such way, that they will lack their former incentive to compete for traffic, to obtain it from each other, and to underbidl
each other for the purpose of getting it; that they will enter

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 289
193 U. S

Brief of Mr. Grover for Great Northern Railway.

into contracts or in some way through concert of action, maintain higher rates than ought to be maintained; in other words,
that they will charge unreasonable rates, will not provide
adequate facilities, nor extend construction of lines.
The Northern Securities Company has no power or motive
to restrain trade which any single owner of a majority of the
shares of defendant railway companies would not have, and
which the individual owners of the shares did not have, by lawful conference and concert of action, before they transferred
their shares to it.
The defendant railway companies were hampered and placed
at disadvantage with other transcontinental railways, as well
as with ocean competitors by the want of sufficient direct
connection with traffic centers offering the best markets for
the products of the country along their lines, and with places
of production and distribution from which their traffic must
be supplied. Through the Burlington purchase they acquired
permanent access to markets and sources of supply, instead
of a temporary one resting upon joint rates subject to change
at any time without regard to their interest. Having made
the purchase and assumed the resulting joint and several
obligations, it became a matter of the highest importance
to each company that the burdens should be equally borne
and the advantages equally shared. Through placing the
ownership of a majority of the shares of both companies in the
hands of a single owner, the benefits of the Burlington purchase
became better assured than would be the case if the shares were
held in many hands, and liable at any time to be sold to an
interest adverse to the building up of the business of the defendant railway companies and the country which their lines
traverse.
It has not been shown that the power of the defendant railway companies to restrain competition can affect more than
three or four per cent of their interstate traffic, or that it has
affected or can affect construction or extension of their lines,
or the amount or quality of their equipment. Through their
VOL. OXOI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Air. Stetson and Mr. Willcox for Morgan and others. 193 U. S.

ownership of Burlington shares, and by reason of the obligation assumed in paying for the shares, they have a common
interest in building up the traffic of each in connection with
the Burlington Company. This connection became necessary
to their prosperity, to the welfare of their patrons, and to the
successful meeting of a world-wide competition. What has
been done was done, not to restrain competition, but to enlarge it.
The unity of ownership of their shares has not restrained
the. commerce of either, and the extent to which such unity
can restrain it, is as nothing compared with the great increase
in volume of interstate and international commerce which was
intended, and which will result from the carrying out of the
enterprise of the two companies in the purchase of the Burlington stock, and the preservation of the purchase, and its
benefits, by placing the stock of the railroad companies where
it is less likely to become scattered and to pass under control
of adverse interests, than it would be if held by many owners.
Mr. Francis Lynde Stetson and Mr. David Willcox for appellants, Morgan, Bacon and Lamont, submitted a brief:
The transactions alleged are entirely lawful in their character. They consisted merely in the organization of a lawful
corporation of New Jersey, and in the sale to, and purchase by,
it of property lawfully salable. All the acts were expressly
authorized by law. The legal effect of the transaction has
been that the owner of stock in one of the railway companies
has sold the same to the Securities Company, and has received therefor stock of the Securities Company, which company owns the stock not merely of one of the railway companies, but the stock of both. So that each individual who
has transferred his property to the Securities Company has
obtained therefor something entirely different-namely, an
interest in a company holding stock of the other railway company as well. It is manifest that in the fullest possible sense
this constituted a sale of the property. Berger v. U. S. Sleel

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. c. UNITED STATES. 291
193 U. S. Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Willcox for Morgan and others.

Corp., 53 Atl. Rep. (N. J.) 68. The title passed for valuable
consideration to a purchaser authorized to hold the property.
Aside from the corporate form of the transaction, the effect,
too, was that each stockholder in one of the railway companies transferred an interest in his holdings to every other
such stockholder.
These transactions being lawful are not affected by allegations as to the motive which actuated them. As the means
employed were lawful, the only question must be whether the
result accomplished was unlawful. Pettibone v. United States,
148 U. S. 197, 203; United States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496; Adler
v. Fenton, 24 How. 407, 410; Kifi v. Youmans, 86 N. Y. 324,
329; cited with approval in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540, 546; Randall v. Hazleton, 12 Allen, 412, 418;
Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181, 190; Strait v.
National Harrow Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 819; Phelps v. Nowlen, 72
N. Y. 39, 45; Wood v. Amory, 105 N. Y. 278, 281; Lough v.
Outerbridge, 143 N. Y. 271, 282; National Assn. v. Cumming,
170 N. Y. 315, 326, 340; Mogul Steamship Co. v. McGregor,
App. Cas. 1892, pp. 25, 41, 42; Allen v. Flood, L. R. App. Cas.
1898, p. 1; Pender v. Lushington, L. R. 6 Ch. Div. 70, 75.
An intent to violate the Anti-Trust Act, and therefore to
commit a crime, could not in any case be inferred, but must
be actually proved.
No indirect or remote effect of these lawful transactions
upon competition between the railway companies could bring
them within the Federal Anti-Trust Act.
The mere fact that a contract has the effect of restraining
trade or suppressing competition in some degree does not
render it injurious to the public welfare and thus bring it within
the police power. Oregon Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64; Gibbs
v. Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396; Hyer v. Richmond Co., 168 U. S. 471,
477, affirming, 80 Fed. Rep. 839; ContinentalIns. Co. v. Board,
67 Fed. Rep. 310; Diamond Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473;
Ilodge v. Sloan, 107 N. Y. 244; Leslie v. Lorillard,110 N. Y. 519;
Tode v. Gross, 127 N. Y. 480; Matthews v. Associated Press, 136

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Willcox for Morgan and others. 193 U. S.

N. Y. 333; Lough v. Outerbridge, 143 N. Y. 271, 145 N. Y. 601;
Oakes v. Cattaraugus Co., 143 N. Y. 430; Crran v. Galen, 152
N. Y. 33, 36; Watertown Co. v. Pool, 51 Hun, 157, affirmed 127
N. Y. 485; Central Shade Roller Co. v. Cushman, 143 Massachusetts, 353.
In United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171
U. S. 604, and Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 246, the Anti-Trust Act concerns only those agreements of which the direct and immediate effect is to restrain
commerce. The transaction now under review was lawful, and,
however considered, was not prohibited by the Anti-Trust Act,
because such restraint upon interstate trade or commerce, if
any, as it might impose, would be indirect, collateral and remote.
This act is a criminal statute pure and simple and its meaning
and effect as now determined must also be its meaning and
effect when made the basis of a criminal proceeding. Conversely, the act should not receive such construction only as it
would receive upon the trial of those indicted for violating its
provision. Criminal intent is essential to constitute a crime,
and the testimony bearing thereon is always a question for the
jury. People v. Wiman, 148 N. Y. 29, 33; People v. Flack, 125
N. Y. 324, 334.
Regardless of all other considerations presented on this argument, the judgment under review must be reversed unless it is
to be established as matter of law that the mere possession of
the power to control all the means of transportation of two
competing interstate commerce carriers operates as the effectual exercise of such power and directly affects interstate commerce, notwithstanding the fact that such power has never
been exercised by its possessors, and the further fact that it is
perfectly practicable for them to exercise it in a perfectly
proper way. Support for the proposition now under review
was sought below in the Pearsallcase, 161 U. S. 646, 674, the
Joint Traffic case, the Traas-Missouricase and the Addsyton

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES.

293

193 U. S. Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Willcox for Morgan and others.

Pipe case. The proposition, however, can be deduced from
these cases only by what to us seems violent distortion. As
to the case first cited, see Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.,
123 Fed. Rep. 692, 705.
In the other cases and also in cases decided by the Circuit
Court and Court of Appeals, the combinations had been formed
by corporations or individuals engaged in business independently of one another and they had agreed to regulate their
prices or mode of carrying on their business by the rules of the
combination. United States v. Jellico Coal Co., 46 Fed. Rep.
432; United States v. California Coal Dealers Association, 85
Fed. Rep. 252; Chesapeake Fuel Co. v. United States, 115 Fed.
Rep. 610; Gibbs v. McNeeler, 118 Fed. Rep. 120.
It has been held repeatedly that such restraints as result
from the sale or the purchase of property are not within the
provisions of anti-trust statutes. Indeed, it is the settled law
that the transfer of a business is not illegal because it restrains
trade, even by an express covenant. Oregon Co. v. Winsor,
20 Wall. 64; Union Co. v. Connolly, 99 Fed. Rep. 354, aff'd
184 U. S. 540; Fisheries Co. v. Lennen, 116 Fed. Rep. 217;
Harrison v. Glucose Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 304; Hodge v. Sloan,
107 N. Y. 244; Leslie v. Lorillard, 110 N. Y. 519; Tode v. Gross,
127 N. Y. 480; Oakes v. CattaraugusCo., 143 N. Y. 430; Watertown Co. v. Pool, 51 Hun, 157, approved 127 N. Y. 485; Wood
v. Whitehead Co., 165 N. Y. 545; Walsh v. Dwight, 40 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 513; Park & Sons Co. v. Druggists' Association, 54
App. Div. (N. Y.) 223; S. C., 175 N. Y. 1; Diamond Match Co.
v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473.
So, too, it has been ruled precisely that the formation of
associations or corporations is not illegal, because the result
will be to restrain competition. Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604; United States
Vinegar Co. v. Foehrenbach, 148 N. Y. 58; Rafferty v. Buffalo
City Gas Co., 37 App. Div. (N. Y.) 618; Gamble v. Queens County
Water Co., 123 N. Y. 91, 104; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104;
United States v. Greenhut,51 Fed. Rep. 205; Inre Terrell, 51 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Willcox for Morgan and others. 193 U. S.

Rep. 213; Trenton Potteries Co. v. Olyphant, 58 N. J. Eq. 507;
Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, App. Cas. (1892) 25; Lough v.
Outerbridge,143 N. Y. 283; State v. Continental Tobacco Co., 75
S. W. Rep. (N1o.) 737.
It is very doubtful whether in any case the second section
of the act applies to railroads. Prof. Langdell, 16 Harvard
Law Review, 545, June, 1903; Mr. Thorndike, Pamphlet, 1903,
The Merger Case, p. 32.
In the Joint Traffic cases the court did not specifically define
"monopoly," but said that it had the meaning given to it in
the body of the Anti-Trust Act, which was not involved in the
Pearsallcase, and the decision there cannot now be urged upon
this court as a limitation upon its freedom of construction of
the statute. See Laredo v. International Bridge Co., 66 Fed.
Rep. 246.
Obviously, a consolidation of two railroads authorized by
the laws of every State which they enter would not be condemned as constituting a monopoly; nor would a purchase of
all the stock of one road by a competing road similarly authorized be so condemned; nor would a combination to induce
the legislatures of the several States to authorize such a consolidation or such a purchase. It cannot be that, in prohibiting monopolies, the Congress intended to forbid these familiar
processes of railroad amalgamation, and if, when authorized
by state law, the consummated act is not a monopoly, it
would not be such merely because it has not been so authorized.
The construction claimed would make the statute unconstitutional because it would deprive the Securities Company of
its property without due process of law. Corporations are
entitled to the same constitutional protection of their property
rights as natural persons. Minneapolis Railway Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Carrington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164
U. S. 578, 592; Gulf Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154; Lake
Shore Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, 690; County of Santa Clara
v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385, 404; Cozunty

NORTHERN SECURITIES.CO. v. UNITED STATES. 295
193 U. S. Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Wilcox for Morgan and others.

of San Malteo v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 722,
745, 760.
This constitutional provision protects the right to acquire
property-equally with the right-to hold the same after it
has been acquired. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391;
State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163, 173; Knight Case, 156 U. S. 1.
The Pearsall Case, 161 U. S. 646, distinctly recognizes that
a natural person would be entirely at liberty to buy all the
shares which his means permitted of the stock of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Great Northern Railway Company. The State creating a corporation might limit
its power in this respect, but Congress had no such general
authority to cut down the powers granted by the States to
their corporations, merely because they are artificial instead
of natural persons. Therefore, it is obvious that a corporation having authority by its charter to make such purchases
cannot, merely because it is a corporation, be prevented from
so doing without depriving it of that right without due process of law.
As construed and applied by the Circuit Court the Anti-Trust
Act is unconstitutional, in that it discriminates between persons in the matter of property rights and privileges on grounds
that are purely arbitrary and are without justification in reason.
The power to suppress competition between two competing interstate railroad companies being always existent and
under the theory of the Circuit Court always attaching to a
majority of the shares of both, whether owned by one person or by several, the Anti-Trust Act, if understood as intended
to do away with such power, should be enforced so as to prevent any one person, as much as any two or more persons, from acquiring stock in both of such competing coinpanies.
If as construed by the court below, the Anti-Trust Act
arbitrarily and without reason discriminates between persons
in the matter of their property, rights and privileges, the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Brief of Mr. Stetson and Mr. Wilicox for Morgan and others. 193 U. S.

is beyond the power of Congress as clearly as it would be beyond the power of any state legislature.
"Liberty," as used in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution means not merely bodily liberty-freedom from
physical duress, but in effect comprehends substantially all
those personal and civil rights of the citizen which it is meant
to place beyond the power of the general government to
destroy or impair. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 122,
127; Munn v. Illinois, 94 UT. S. 113, 142; People v. Walsh,
117 N. Y. 60; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent Co., 111 U. S.
746; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; United States v.
Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, 572; Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 228; Bertholj v. O'Reilly,
74 N. Y. 509; In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; People v. Gillson, 109
N. Y. 389; People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418; Godcharles v. Wigeman, 113 Pa. St. 431. And see Regina v. Druitt, 10 (lox C. C.
592, 600.
It follows that, as used in the Fifth Constitutional Amendment, "liberty" includes equality of rights under the law and
secures citizens similarly situated against discriminations between them which are arbitrary and without foundation in
reason. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. . 542, 554; Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Gulf, Colorado & Santa
FdRy. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 160.
Hence, the principles affirmed and acted upon by this court
in applying the Fourteenth Amendment to state legislation,
are equally applicable to legislation by Congress, and, as construed by the court below, the Anti-Trust Act is invalid as
trespassing upon the "liberty" of citizens, by denying them
equality of rights and discriminating between them in the
matter of their property rights, arbitrarily and without reason.
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 106; Connolly
v. Union Sewer Co., 184 U. S. 540; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27, 31.
As construed and applied by the Circuit Court, the statute
is unconstitutional because without due process of law, it

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v,. UNITED STATES. 297
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

would deprive these defendants and all others who sold to the
Securities Company of their property. If there were any
prohibitions on the companies it would not apply to their
stockholders. A corporation and its stockholders are different
entities. Pullman Co. v. Missouri Pacific, 115 U. S. 587;
Watson v. Bonfils, 116 Fed. Rep. 157; American Preserves Co.
v. Norris, 43 Fed. Rep. 711; Electric Co. v. Jamaica Co., 61
Fed. Rep. 655, 678.
Any effort to limit the right to sell necessarily would deprive
these defendants of their property without due process of law.
Cleveland Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445; People ex rel.
Manhattan Co. v. Barker, 146 N. Y. 304, 312; People ex rel.
ManhattanInstitution v. Otis, 90 N. Y. 48, 52; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 391; People v. Marx, 99 N. Y. 377, 386; People
v. Gillson, 109 N. Y. 389; Forsterv. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577; Ingersoll v. Nassau Co., 157 N. Y. 453, 463; Purdy v. Erie R. R. Co.,
162 N. Y. 42, 49; City v. Collins Baking Co., 39 App. Div. (N. Y.)
432; Rochester Turnpike Co. v. Joel, 41 App. Div. (N. Y.) 43; People v. Meyer, 44 App. Div. (N. Y.) 1; Ingrahamv. National Salt
Co., 72 App. Div. (N. Y.) 582; Janesville v. Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 288, 301.
If complainant's contention should be sustained, the right
of an owner of property to sell the same would be dependent
upon what the courts at any future time might hold to be the
intention of the purchaser in buying the property. Such a
result would seriously impair the liberty of the owner, and the
value of his property.
Whatever view be taken of the character of the transaction
the decree of the Circuit Court transcended the authority of
the court under the statute, which was the sole ground and
source of its jurisdiction.
Mr. Attorney General Knox, with whom Mr. William A.
Day, Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for
the United States, appellee:
The bill was filed by the United States to restrain a violation

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209; the defendant, Northern Securities Company, is a corporation organized under the general laws of New Jersey; the two railway
companies are common carriers engaged in freight and passenger traffic among the several States and with foreign nations;
the Great Northern was chartered by the State of Minnesota
and the Northern Pacific Railway Company operates under a
Federal franchise originally granted to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, and in taking over that franchise it not
only became invested with the rights and privileges incident
thereto, but also became charged with the duties, obligations
and conditions which Congress attached to the granting thereof.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company was the constant
concern of Congress. See Act of July 2, 1864, Res. May 7,
1866, extending time for completion; Act of June 25, 1868, relative to filing reports; Joint Resolution, July 1, 1868, extending time for completion; Joint resolution of March 1, 1869,
allowing issue of bonds; Joint Resolution, April 10, 1869,
granting right of way; Resolution of May 31, 1870, authorizing issue of bonds; act of September 29, 1890, forfeitig
certain granted lands; act of February 26, 1895, providing
for classification of mineral lands; act of July 1, 1898, granting
lands in lieu of those taken by settlers.
The individual defendants were, prior to November 13, 1901,
large and influential holders of the stock, some of one railway
company and some of both companies. The two railroads
are practically parallel for their entire length; each system
runs east and west through Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana, Idaho and Washington; each connects with steamers on
Lake Superior running to Buffalo and other eastern points and
at Seattle with lines of the steamships engaged in trade with
the Orient. The lower court found that the roads "are, and
in public estimation have ever been regarded as, parallel and
competing." The testimony in this case establishes that fact
which is also res judicata, Pearsallv. Great Northern Raihray
Co., 161 U. S. 646, and even if the roads only competed for

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNiITED STATES. 299
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

three per cent of their interstate business they would be competing lines.
It has been the ever present aim of those dominating the
policy of the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific, during
the past few years, to bring about a community of interest or
some closer form of union to the end that the motive from
which competition springs might be extinguished. On at
least three prior occasions Mr. Ill and Mr. Morgan and their
associates acted in concert in transactions affecting both roads:
the attempted transfer of half the stock of the Northern Pacific
to the Great Northern in exchange for a guarantee of the bonds
of the Northern Pacific which was held to be violative of the
laws of Minnesota, Pearsall v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 161
U. S. 646; the joint purchase of the Burlington in 1901; in
the events leading up to the panic of May, 1901. After the
refusal to admit the Union Pacific to an interest in the
Burlington purchase, those in control of the Union Pacific
attempted to acquire control of the Northern Pacific and as
soon as Mr. Hill and Mr. Morgan heard of this attempt they
reached an understanding to oppose it in concert, and this
resulted in the threat to retire the preferred stock of the
Northern Pacific, and the subsequent conference at which the
plan announced in the statement of June 1, in the Wall Street
Summary, was arranged. The testimony of defendants shows
that the incorporation of the Securities Company, and its
acquisition of a large majority of the stock of both railway
companies were the designed results of a plan or understanding
between the defendants Hill and Morgan and their associates,
which was carried out to the letter by the parties thereto.
The facts, as the Government asserts them, are recapitulated
in the opinion of the Circuit Court.
On the facts as proved the Government maintains that a
combination has been accomplished by means of the Securities
Company which is in violation of § 1 of the act of July 2, 1890;
that the defendants have monopolized or attempted to monopolize a part of the interstate or foreign commerce of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

States and that if either result has been accomplished, the
relief granted by the Circuit Court was authorized by law.
The contention as to whether the Anti-Trust Act is or is not, a
criminal statute is not material. Nor was it in the Joint
Traffic Case, 171 U. S. 505. The primary aim of Congress
in passing the act was not to create new offenses but to pronounce and declare a rule of public policy to cover a field
wherein the Federal government has supreme and exclusive
jurisdiction. As the United States has no common law, contracts in restraint of trade would not be repugnant to any
law or rule of policy of the United States in the absence of a
statute, and the controlling purpose of the act was to declare
that the public policy of the nation forbade contracts, combinations, conspiracies, and monopolies in restraint of interstate and international trade and commerce, and the jurisdiction conferred upon courts of equity to restrain violations of
the act was intended as a means to uphold and enforce the
principle of public policy therein asserted, not as a means to
prevent the commission of crimes. United States v. Trans-Mo.
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 342.
If the Anti-Trust Act is a criminal statute, it is also in the
highest degree a remedial statute; as such it is invoked in the
case at bar, and as such it ought to be construed liberally and
given the widest effect consistent with the language employed.
It ought not to be frittered away by the refinements of criticism. Broom's Legal Maxims, 5th Am. ed., 3d London ed.,
80; Potter's Dwarris on Stat. and Const. 231, 234; Pierce and
Hopper, Str. 253. It makes no difference in the application
of these rules that the statutes have a penal as well as a remedial side. Ch. Prac. 215.
A statute may be penal in one part and remedial in another
part. But in the same act a strict construction may be put
on a penal clause and a liberal construction on a remedial
clause. Sedgwick on Construction of Statutory and Constitutional Law, (2d ed.) 309, 310; Dwarris on Statutes, 653,
655; Hyde v. Cogan, 2 Doug. 702.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 301
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

The Anti-Trust Act was purposely framed in broad and
general language in order to defeat subterfuges designed to
evade it. It is framed in sweeping and comprehensive language
which includes every combination, regardless of its form or
structure, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations, and every person, natural or
artificial, monopolizing, attempting to monopolize, or combining with any other person to monopolize any part of such
trade or commerce.
The form or framework is immaterial. Congress, no doubt,
anticipated that attempts would be made to defeat its will
through the "contrivances of powerful and ingenious minds,"
and to meet these it used the broad and all-embracing language
found in the act; and it is in this light that that language is
to be construed. And the device of a holding corporation
for the purpose of circumventing the law can be no more
effectual than any other means. Noyes on Intercorporate
Relations, § 393.
This court has decided that this act applies to common
carriers by railroad, as well as all other persons, natural or
artificial. Trans-Missouri Case, 166 U. S. 290. The words
in restraint of trade as used in the act extend to any and all
restraints whether reasonable or unreasonable, partial or total,
and there are peculiar reasons why this applies to railroad
corporations.
In exercising its powers over commerce Congress may to
some extent limit the right of private contract, the right to
buy and sell property, without violating the Fifth Amendment. It may declare that no contract, combination, or
monopoly which restrains trade or commerce by shutting
out the operation of the general law of competition shall be
legal. Trans-Missouri Case, supra; Joint Traffic Case, supra;
Addyston Pipe Co. Case, 175 U. S. 211.
When its natural effect is to stifle, smother, destroy, prevent,
or shut out competition, the agreement or combination is in
restraint of trade or commerce and illegal under section 1 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

the act if in interstate or international trade or commerce.
Trans-11issouriCase, supra.
"To prevent or suppress competition" and "to restrain
trade" are, in fact, often used by judges as convertible terms
to express one and the same thought.
Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, L. R. App. Cas. (1892), 25, was
decided upon common law principles, there being no statute,
such as the Federal Anti-Trust Act, making it unlawful and
criminal to enter into agreements or combinations in restraint
of trade.
Both the Court of Appeal and House of Lords held that, the
action could not be maintained because, even if it were in
restraint of trade, an agreement in restraint of trade was not
unlawful at common law in the sense that it furnished cause
for a civil action by one damaged by it, but only in the sense
that it was void and unenforceable if sued on.
The Government does not claim that ordinary corporations
and partnerships formed in good faith in ordinary course of
business come within the prohibitions of the act because incidentally they may to some extent restrict competition, but
those where the corporation or partnership is formed for the
purpose of combining competing businesses. The act embraces not only monopolies but attempts to monopolize. The
term monopoly as used by modern legislators and judges
signifies the combining or bringing together in the hands of
one person or set of persons the control, or the power of control,
over a particular business or employment, so that competition
therein may be suppressed. People v. Chicago Gas Trust
Company, 130 Illinois, 294; People v. North River Sugar Refining Co., 54 Hun (N. Y.), 377; United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. 1. And as to railroads, see Pearsall v. Great
Northern Railway, 161 U. S. 646, 677; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677.
A combination or monopoly exists within the meaning of
the act even if the immediate effect of the acts complained of
is not to suppress competition or to create a complete monopoly.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 303
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

It is sufficient to show that they tend to bring about those
results. Cases cited supra, and Salt Co. v. Guthrie, 35 Ohio St.
672.
It is not essential to show that the person or persons charged
with monopolizing or combining have actually raised prices or
suppressed competition, or restrained or monopolized trade or
commerce in order to bring them within the condemnation of
the act. It is enough that the necessary effect of the combination or monopoly is to give them the power to do those
things. The decisive question is whether the power xists,
not whether it has been exercised. In the Trans-lissouri,
Joint Traffic, Pearsall and Addyston Cases, supra, this court
held that it was immaterial that trade or commerce had not
actually been restrained-that it made no difference, even,
that rates and prices had been lowered, it being enough to
bring the combination within the condemnation of the act
that it had the power to restrain trade or commerce. The
very existence of the power, under these rulings, constitutes a
restraint.
It is not necessary in order to bring a combination or conspiracy within the operation of the act that the members bind
themselves each with the other to do the acts alleged to be in
restraint of trade. It is enough that they act together in
pursuance of a common object, and while, of course, this
presupposes agreement between them in a broad sense, an
agreement or contract in the technical sense is not at all essential. Reg. v. Murphy, 8 C. & P. 397.
A combination or a monopoly, the necessary effect of which
is to restrain trade or commerce, is a violation of the act, and
the aim, motive, intention, or design with which the combination is entered into or the monopoly created is wholly immaterial and outside the question. It may have been to aid and
further commerce rather than to restrain it; but if in point of
law the effect or the tendency of the combination is to restrain
trade or commerce the combination is unlawful, and the motive
behind it, however beneficent, does not alter that fact in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

slightest degree. Trans-MissouriCase, 166 U. S. 290, 341; C.
& 0. Fuel Co. v. United States, 115 Fed. Rep. 623.
A combination or monopoly of competing lines of interstate
railway-of competing instrumentalities of interstate commerce-is a combination or monopoly in restraint of interstate
commerce within the prohibition of the act. The transportation of persons and things is commerce and if a combination
or monopoly of such transportation is a combination or
monopoly in restraint of commerce within the act, and
hence illegal,.it follows as a corollary that a combination or
monopoly of the means or instrumentalities of transportation
is likewise a combination or monopoly in restraint of commerce, because a monopoly of the means of transportation
leads directly and inevitably to a monopoly of transportation
itself.
Again, a monopoly of the means of transportation puts it in
the power of the monopolist to stifle competition in the business
of transportation, and a combination or monopoly which had
the power to stifle competition in the business of transportation
among the States is in restraint of interstate commerce and
therefore illegal.
From still another standpoint, Congress may prohibit, and
has prohibited, combinations and monopolies in the business
of interstate and international transportation. But what does
this power amount to if Congress may not also prohibit monopolies of the means and instrumentalitiesof such transportation-of the roads themselves? Virtually nothing; for he who
has a monopoly of the means of transportation has a monopoly of transportation itself. See the Trans-M11issouri
Case, Joint Traffic Case and PearsallCase, supra.
The Anti-Trust Act prohibiting combinations and monopolies in restraint of interstate and foreign commerce is an exercise of the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce,
Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321, and the term "commerce"
as used in that grant embraces the instrumentalities by which
commerce is or may be carried on. Railroad Co. v. Fuller,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. o. UNITED STATES. 305
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

17 Wall. 560, 568; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280;
PensacolaTel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203.
But put the proposition as it is put by appellants: Can Congress regulate the ownership of interstate railroads under its
power to regulate commerce among the States, and has it done
so by this act of 1890? Most certainly, yes. Congress can
regulate anything and everything in the sense that it can prohibit and prevent its use in a way that will defeat a law that
Congress may constitutionally enact. For this purpose, the
supreme power operates upon everything, upon every one.
No device of State or individual creation can be interposed
as a shield between the Federal authority and those who attempt to subvert it. No rules of law which govern the relations which individuals have created inter sese, or which have
been assumed between themselves and a State, are to be considered in an issue between them and the United States to defeat the ends of a constitutional law. The Federal power
would not be supreme if the operation of its laws could be defeated, embarrassed, or impeded by any means whatsoever.
It is no violation of the reserved rights of the States, but, on
the contrary, is clearly within the Federal power for Congress
to enact that no persons, natural or artificial, shall form a
combination of the instrumentalities of any part of interstate
commerce the effect or tendency of which would be to restrain
interstate trade or commerce, and that no person or persons,
natural or artificial, shall acquire a monopoly of such instrumentalities. This is a natural and logical deduction from the
supreme, plenary, and exclusive nature of the power of the
Federal Government over foreign and interstate commerce,
in the exercise of which Congress may descend to the most
minute directions.
The "penetrating and all-embracing " nature of this power
has often been stated, explained, and emphasized by this
court. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 197, and see concurring
opinion of Johnson, J., also. The principles announced in
VOL. oxcni-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

this case have never been departed from, but have been
reaffirmed time and again by this court, notably in Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Passenger Cases, 7 how. 283;
In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321;
Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 11, '16.
The fact that in recent years interstate commerce has come
to be carried on by railroads and over artificial highways has
in no manner narrowed the scope of the constitutional provision or abridged the power of Congress over such commerce. On the contrary, the same fullness of control exists
in the one case as in the other, and the same power to remove
obstructions from the one as from the other.
Of course, it makes no difference whether the obstruction
be physical or economie-whether it be a sand bar, a mob, or
a monopoly-whether it result from the sinking of a vessel or
the stifling of competition-the power of Congress to remove
it is the same in each case. Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall.
713, 724.
On these subjects the state legislatures have no jurisdiction.
Addyston Pipe Co. Case, 175 U. S. 211, 232; Boardmanv. Lake
Shore &c. Ry. Co., 84 N. Y. 157, 185.
Congress has the power to legislate upon the subject of consolidations of railroad corporations when the consolidations
form interstate lines; in the absence of legislation by Congress,
the power exists in the States to legislate upon the subject, but
in the presence of legislation by Congress the power of the
States over the subject is excluded. Noyes on Intercorporate
Relations, § 19, citing Louisville & Nashville v. Kentucky,
supra.
This exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Government over
commerce with foreign nations and among the States, and
over the instrumentalities of such commerce, includes the
power of police, or, that which is its equivalent, over those
subjects in all its undefined breadth and fullness and which
is just as full, complete, and far-reaching as is the police power
of the state legislatures with reference to subjects within the,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 307
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

exclusive jusridiction of the States. In either case there are
no limitations to its exercise, except the constitutional guaranties in favor of life, liberty, and property. Thayer's Cases
on Const. Law, 742, note; Cooley's Const. Lim. 723; Noyes on
Intercorp. Rel. § 409.
Anti-trust statutes are enacted in the exercise of the police,
or an analogous, power. State v. Firemen'sFund Ins. Co., 152
Missouri, 46; State v. Schlitz Brewing Co., 104 Tennessee, 715;
Waters-Pierce Co. v. State, 19 Tex. Civ. App. 1.
Congress having the police power, or its equivalent, over
foreign and interstate commerce and the instrumentalities
thereof, may in exercising it, strike down restraints upon such
commerce, whether they result from combinations and monopolies of the agencies of transportation or otherwise, just
as a State could prohibit similar restraints upon interstate
commerce. To contend otherwise is to contend that the
Federal power over interstate and foreign commerce is not
supreme, but is in some respects subordinate to state authority; that the police powers or the reserved powers of the States
are, for some purposes, paramount to the powers of Congress
in fields wherein the Federal Government has been invested
by the Constitution with complete and supreme authority.
This, of course, is not so. New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana
Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661.
The Louisville & Nashville Case, supra, does not hold that
Congress has no power to prohibit the consolidation of competing interstate railroads. Congress has created "the instruments of such commerce," and it has passed regulations
concerning them, and the power to do these things is now
unquestioned. Calijorniav. Pacific Railway Co., 127 U. S. 1.
What the court meant in the Louisville Case was that in respect of matters of a local nature, which did not admit or
require uniform regulation, the States may "regulate the
instruments of such commerce" until Congress legislates on
the same subjects, while in respect of matters of national
importance, or which admit of uniform regulation, the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

of the States is wholly excluded.

193 U. S.

The distinction was stated

in Welton v. -Missouri,91 U. S. 275.
Ownership of a majority of its stock constitutes the control
of a corporation when the inquiry is whether a combination
or monopoly has been formed to stifle competition between
two or more rival and competing railroads. Noyes on Intercorp. Rel. § 294; Farmers' L. & T. Co. v. N. Y. &c. R. R. Co.,
150 N. Y. 410, 424; People v. Chicago & Gas Trust Co., 1:30
Illinois, 268, 291; Greenhood on Public Policy, 5; Richardson
v. Crandall, 48 N. Y. 343; Salt Co. v. Guthric, 35 Ohio St. 666;
Milbank v. N. Y., L. E. & IV., 64 How. (N. Y.) 29; Pcar.all
v. Great Northern Railway, 161 U. S. 646, 671; Pidlman Co. v.
Mo. Pac. R. Co., 115 U. S. 587; Pa. R. Co. v. Commonwealth,
7 Atl. Rep. 368, 371.
The Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway comipanies, competing interstate carriers, have been combined in
violation of section 1 of the Anti-Trust Act, that is to say, a
majority of the stock of each road has been transferred to a
common trustee, the Securities Company, which is thus vested
with the power to control and direct both roads for the common
benefit of the stockholders of each.
The Anti-Trust Act condemns in express terms every "coinbination in the form of trust," and if those companies have
been combined "in the form of trust," a violation of the very
letter of the statute has been proved.
There is no great difficulty in getting at what Congress
meant by a "trust." The meaning of the term was well
understood in the economic and industrial world at the tine
of the passage of the Anti-Trust Act, and is now. The word
was first used to describe an arrangement whereby the business
of several competing corporations is centralized and combined
by causing at least a majority of the stock of the constituent
corporations to be transferred to a trustee, who, in return,
issues to the stockholders "trust certificates." The trustee
holds the legal title to the shares and has the right to vote
them, and in this way exercises complete control over the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 309
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

business of the combination. The trustee also receives the
dividends on the shares, and out of these pays the former
stockholders of the constituent corporations dividends on the
"trust certificates." See Century Dictionary; Am. & Eng.
Ency. Law, 2d ed., title Monopolies & Trusts; State v. Standard
Oil Co., 49 Ohio St. 137; Eddy on Combinations, § 582; Noyes
on Intercorp. Rel. § 304; Dodd's Pamphlet on Combinations: Their Uses and Abuses. The facts show that the
Northern Securities Company constitutes a trust-it has all
the essential elements of one. It is a trustee, and as such
holds the stock of two competing companies; it has the legal
title, its stockholders have the equitable title, to the property.
Morawetz, § 237, and cases cited. There is a trust agreement,
the terms whereof are in the charter; it is sufficient to show an
agreement if the stockholders acted in pursuance of any understanding plan or scheme, verbal or otherwise. Harding v.
Am. Glucose Co., 182 Illinois, 551. The certificates of stock
of the company represent and fill the same office as trust
certificates; the company has the power to vote the stock
of both railways and thus elect the directors of both. As
trustee, it collects the dividends on the stock of both companies and thereout pays dividends on its own stock exactly
as a trustee of a trust collects and pays on the trust certificates.
It constitutes a trust in another light also. As the courts
throughout the country held with practical unanimity that the
class of "trusts" just described is illegal, a second class was
invented of corporations that have acquired control of other
corporations by purchasing their stock. This organization is
of the same general character as the preceding, but the form
is changed in order to escape the force of the decisions of the
courts relating to corporate partnerships. Beach on Monopolies and Industrial Trusts, § 159. The Securities Company
clearly comes within this second classification of "trusts."
Noyes on Intercorp. Rel. §§ 310, 285, 393; People v. Chicago
Gas Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 268, 292, 302, citing Chicago Gas

OCTOBER "ERYI,

1903.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

Light Co. v. People's Gas Light Co., 121 Illinois, 530; Am. Glucose Case, supra.
It is not essential, however, to show that the Great Northern
and Northern Pacific Railway companies have been combined
in the technical form of "trust," or "corporate combination,"
as some writers call it when the trustee is a holding corporation. Section 1 of the Anti-Trust Act covers any and every
form of combination. A violation of that section will have
been established, therefore, if it is shown thatMr. Hill, Mr. Morgan, and the other individual defendants,
acting in concert or in pursuance of a previous understanding,
have caused the title to a majority of the shares of the Great
Northern and Northern Pacific companies to be vested in a
single person-the Securities Company-thereby centering the
control of the two roads in a single head and in that way effecting a combination of them, the effect or tendency of which is
to suppress competition between them.
When analyzed the disguise by which the defendants sought
to hide the fact of the combination, and their connection therewith, appears so thin and transparent that it is a cause of
wonder that they should ever have adopted such a flimsy

device.
It may succeed for a time in baffling persons who may

have an interest in preventing its being done and has succeeded, but it was a mere crafty contrivance to evade the
requisition of the law. Altorney-General v. The Great Northern Railway Company, 6 Jur. (N. S.) 1006; S. C., 1 Drew. &
Smale, 159.
The defendants seem to have thought that they could procure the organization of a corporation and have it do what
they could not lawfully do themselves or through the agency
of natural persons, as if that which would have been illegal
if done through the agency of a natural person would lose the
stamp of illegality if done through the agency of a corporate
organization; but see Attorney General v. Central R. Co.,
50 N. J. Eq. 52; Fordv. Chicago Milk Shippers' Assn., 155 Illi-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. V. UNITED STATES. 3i
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

nois, 166, 178, 180, citing Morawetz, § 227; 1 Kyd on
Corp. 13; State ex rel. v. Standard Oil Co., 49 Ohio St. 137;
Distilling and Cattle Feeding Co. v. People, 156 Illinois, 448,
490.
Defendants insist that it is immaterial that a combination
can be discovered by going behind the fiction that the Securities Company is a private person with an existence separate and apart from its members, because, as they say, the
law will not allow that fiction to be disregarded or contradicted-will not allow the acts of the corporate entity to be
treated as the acts of the natural persons who compose it.
The defendants thus seek to defeat the ends of the law by a
fiction invented to promote them. This proposition cannot
be sustained. People v. North River Sugar Rfg. Co., 121 N. Y.
582, 615.
It can never be a question as to whether parties to a combination in restraint of trade are individuals or corporations;
it is always a question as to the nature, effect, and operation
of the combination.
Of course a State has certain powers over the instrumentalities of commerce which it creates, as it has over the individuals by whom commerce is conducted. But a State has no
power over either instrumentalities or individuals that can be
interposed between them and the obligations imposed by a
Federal statute regulating interstate commerce.
Where the subject is national in its character the Federal
power is exclusive of the state power. Welton v. Missouri,
91 U. S. 280.
Congress has power to regulate commerce among the
States, and when in the exercise of that power it becomes
necessary to legislate respecting the instrumentalities of commerce, it may do so, irrespective of the question as to how or
by what authority those instrumentalities were created.
And if regulation of the control of these instrumentalities
is essential to prevent the subversion of a policy of Congress
it may regulate that control.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

The power to regulate commerce among the several States
includes the power to prevent restraint upon such commerce.
To restrain commerce is to regulate it.
Therefore any law of any State which restrains interstate
commerce is invalid; and any contract between individuals or
'corporations, or any combination in any form which restrains
such commerce is invalid.
The supreme power extends to the whole subject. Under
this plenary power Congress has supervised interstate commerce from the granting of franchises to engage therein, to
the most minute directions as to its operation. For this purpose it possesses all powers which existed in the States before the adoption of the National Constitution, and which have
always existed in the Parliament of England. In re Dcbs,
158 U. S. 586; Gilman.v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 725.
If the arrangement accomplishes that which the law prohibits, through the means which the law prohibits, it is certainly within the prohibition of the law, and if this were a
consolidation under state athority instead of being a combination which effects that which defies the law of every foot of
land which these railroads occupy, there should be no hesitation in saying that it violated the Federal statute, if it accomplished a restraint upon interstate commerce. To hold otherwise would be to read into the law a proviso to the effect that
the act should not apply when the combination took the form
of a railroad consolidation under authority of state legislation.
Fictions of law, invented to promote justice, can never be
invoked to accomplish its defeat. "In fictione juris semper
wquitas existit." Mostyn v. Fabriges, Cowper, 177; Morris v.
Pugh, 3 Burr. 1243; Morawetz, §§ 1, 227; Taylor on Corporations, § 50; Clark and Marshall on Private Corporations, 17, 22;
State v. Standard Oil Co., 49 Ohio St. 137; Ford v. M1ilk Shippers, supra, and other cases cited supra.
The Northern Securities Company, in violation of section 2
of the Anti-Trust Act, has monopolized a part of interstate
commerce by acquiring a large majority of the shares of the

NOR'T'HERN SECURITES CO. v. UNITED SrATES. 313
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

capital stock of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway companies-two parallel and competing lines engaged
in interstate commerce; and the Northern Securities Company
and the individual defendants, or two or more of them, have
combined, each with the other, so to monopolize a part of
interstate commerce.
From the facts and the argument already made it appears
that by acquiring a majority of the shares of the Great Northern
and Northern Pacific the Securities Company has obtained
the control of, and, therefore, the power to suppress competition between, two rival and competing lines of railway engaged
in interstate commerce, and in that way has monopolized a
part of interstate commerce. This conclusion is sustained
by the judgment of this court in the case of Pearsall v. Great
Northern Railway, supra, which is conclusive of the case at
bar, since it establishes the principle that to vest, designedly,
in one person or set of persons, a majority of stock of two
competing lines of interstate railway is to monopolize a part
of interstate railroad traffic.
Even if a natural person could lawfully have done what the
Securities Company has done, that would be no argument to
prove that the Securities Company, in so doing, has not violated the law against monopolies. People v. North River Sugar
Refining Company, supra, p. 625.
It is not denied that the very spirited contention that the
construction the Government puts upon the law in question interferes with the power of people to do what they will with
their property.
That was the very object of the law, and it was certainly
contemplated that the rights of purchase, sale, and contract
would be controlled, so far as necessary, to prevent those
rights from being exercised to defeat the law.
A combination cannot be imagined coming into existence
without more or less redistribution of property between individuals through purchases, sales, or contracts. Combinations
are never bestowed upon us ready made.

OCTOBER TERM, 190:L
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

It must be remembered that the monopoly complained of is
a monopoly of railway traffic resulting from centering in a
single body controlling stock interests in two competing railways, and whatever may be the power of Congress or state
legislatures over monopolies in general, they may unquestionably, in the exercise of their broad regulative powers
over quasi-public corporations, prohibit any monopoly of
railway transportation within their respective spheres of
action.
As to the contention that the transaction is simply a sale of
stock to an investor and to stamp it as illegal would be an
unwarranted infringement upon the right of contract, and that
the Securities Company never intended to take any active
part in the controlling of the two companies, the argument is
not sincere and it is demonstrated by the testimony of the
individual defendants that the Securities Company was the
designed instrument for directing and controlling the policies
of the competing lines.
As to the circular of Mr. Hill to the stockholders, it is well
settled that because a person has the right to purchase stock
it does not follow that stockholders of two or more competing corporations can combine among themselves and with such
person to sell him their stock and induce others to do the same,
so as to center the controlling stock interests of the several
corporations in a single head, in violation of statutes against
combinations, consolidations, and monopolies. Noyes on
Intercorp. Rel. § 36; Perna. R. Co. v. Corn., 7 Atl. Rep.
373.
This distinction between an actual bona fide sale, and one
which is merely nominal and really a cloak under which to
accomplish a combination sometimes leads to confusion of
language or thought. See Trenton Potteries Co. v. Olyphant,
58 N. J. Eq. 507; Noyes on Intercorp. Rel. § 354.
As to the argument of the appellants that the "acquiescence
by the Government for more than eleven years in the merger
and consolidation of many important parallel and competing

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 315
193 U. S.

Argument of Attorney General for United States.

lines of railroad and steamships engaged in interstate commerce and foreign commerce has given a practical construction
to the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, to the effect that it was
not intended to forbid and does not forbid the natural processes
of unification which are brought about under modern methods
of lease, consolidation, merger, community of interest, or
ownership of stock," there is no force whatever to the contention which the court below evidently deemed too flimsy
even to refer to. But the answer to it is threefold-the case
of a company formed for the purpose of holding stocks of two
competing lines of interstate railways is a new one and arose
for the first time in this case; the 'constitutionality of the act
and its application to railroads was not settled until 1898 by
the decision of Trans-Missouriand Joint Traffic Cases, supra;
even if there had been acquiescence as to certain combinations
it would not amount to an estoppel against the Government
for prosecuting this action. Louisville & Nashville v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 689.
The combination and monopoly charged by the United
States operate directly on interstate commerce, and do not
affect it only indirectly, incidentally, or remotely. Noyes on
Intercorp. Rel. § 392, and authorities there cited.
The question in this case is not whether the means by which
the power of the combination is brought into play are direct
or indirect, but whether the combination itself, whenever its
power has been brought into play-it matters not how indirect
may have been the means employed in bringing it into playoperates directly on interstate or international commerce.
The failure of the defendants' counsel to bear this in mind has
led them to make very elaborate arguments to show that the
combination charged by the Government affects interstate
commerce only indirectly and remotely. In reply to the contention on this point, see opinion of the court below, after
citing United States v. E. C. Knight Company, 156 U. S. 1;
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604, on which counsel for defendants rely,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument of Attorney General for United States.

193 U. S.

properly held that no combination could more immediately
affect such commerce.
The relief granted by the Circuit Court was authorized by
section 4 of the Anti-Trust Act.
The gist of the Government's charge being that a combination of the two railway companies has been formed by centering
the title to a majority of their respective shares in the Securities Company, which by obtaining such majority of both
stocks has acquired a monopoly-all in violation of the AntiTrust Act and as unlawful combination and monopoly exists
solely by virtue of the Securities Company's ownership of such
majorities the logical and most direct way to destroy the combination and monopoly and prevent the continued violation
of the statute is to strip such ownership, which was acquired in
pursuance of an illegal object, of its powers and incidentsto disarm it of its power to violate the law. And this is what
the Circuit Court did. Clearly this decree violates no rights
of property which the Securities Company or any of the other
defendants is entitled to claim.
It is proper to grant this relief even though the purpose of
the company had already been accomplished. The combination charged by the Government is a combination of the two
railways, formed by concentrating in the Securities Company
the power to control both roads. This combination did not
"come to an end," did not "accomplish its purpose," with
the organization of the Securities Company, and therefore the
violation of the Anti-Trust Act did not "come to an enl"
there, but continued on without interruption, and under the
act the Circuit Courts can prevent, restrain, enjoin or otherwise prohibit violations thereof, and are left free to frame their
remedial process to meet the exigencies of the case, and ais
courts of equity they enjoy the same wide latitude in formulating relief in cases of this class that they enjoy in any other
class of cases within the jurisdiction of equity. Taylor v.
Simon, 4 Mylne & Craig, 141; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Union Pacific Ry. Co., 47 Fed. Rep. 15, 26.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 317
193 U. S.

HARLAN, J., Affirming Decree.

There is no defect of parties; all interests materially affected
by the decree of the Circuit Court are represented by the parties before the court.
There were 1,300 persons who exchanged stock of the railway companies for stock of the Securities Company, and in a
court of equity the interests of absent parties are represented
when there are parties having similar interests before the court.
Smith v. Swornstedt, 16 How. 288, 302.
Any question as to a defect of parties which might have
existed has been removed from the case by the form of the
decree entered by the Circuit Court, which simply adjudges
that the parties defendant have entered into an unlawful combination and conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce,
and then proceeds to enjoin the defendants, the Securities
Company, and the railway companies from doing the things
which alone give life and force to the combination. Tme
decree thus operates only on the parties to the bill and materially affects only their interests. The defendant corporations
stand for the interests of their respective stockholders. Sanger
v. Upton, 91 U. S. 59; Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 329; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199.
MR.JUSTIcE HARLAN announced the affirmance of the (lecree of the Circuit Court, and delivered the following opinion:

This suit was brought by the United States against the
Northern Securities Company, a corporation of New Jersey; the Great Northern Railway Company, a corporation of
Minnesota; the Northern Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of Wisconsin; James J. Hill, a citizen of Minnesota;
and William P. Clough, D. Willis James, John S. Kennedy,
J. Pierpont Morgan, Robert Bacon, George F. Baker and
Daniel S. Lamont, citizens of New York.
Its general object was to enforce, as against the defendants,
the provisions of the statute of July 2, 1890, commonly known
as the Anti-Trust Act, and entitled "An act to protect trade

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies."
26 Stat. 209. By the decree below the United States was
given substantially the relief asked by it in the bill.
As the act is not very long, and as the determination of the
particular questions arising in this case may require a consideration of the scope and meaning of most of its provisions, it
is here given in full:
"

SEC. 1. Every contract, combination in the form of trust or

otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby
declared to be illegal. Every person who shall make any such
contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand
dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both
said punishments, in the discretion of the court.
"SEc. 2. Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or
persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce
among the several States, or with foreign nations, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
" SEC. 3. Every contract, combination in form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or connerce in
any Territory of the United States or of the District of Columbia, or in restraint of trade or commerce between any
such Territory and another, or between any such Territory or
Territories and any State or States or the District of Columibia, or with foreign nations, or between the District of Columbia and any State or States or foreign nations, is hereby
declared illegal. Every person who shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. a. UNITED STATES. 319
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
" SEC. 4. The several Circuit Courts of the United States are
hereby invested with jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of this act; and it shall be the duty of the several district attorneys of the United States, in their respective districts,
under the direction of the Attorney-General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations.
Such proceedings may be by way of petition setting forth the
case and praying that such violation shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited. When the parties complained of shall have
been duly notified of such petition the court shall proceed, as
soon as may be, to the hearing and determination of the case;
and, pending such petition and before final decree, the court
may at any time make such temporary restraining order or
prohibition as shall be deemed just in the premises.
" SE.5. Whenever it shall appear to the court before which
any proceeding under section four of this act may be pending,
that the ends of justice require that other parties should be
brought before the court, the court may cause them to be summoned, whether they reside in the district in which the court
is held or not; and subpoenas to that end may be served in
any district by the marshal thereof.
" SEc. 6. Any property owned under any contract or by any
combination, or pursuant to any conspiracy (and being the
subject thereof) mentioned in section one of this act, and
being in the course of transportation from one State to another, or to a foreign country, shall be forfeited to the United
States, and may be seized and condemned by like proceedings
as those provided by law for the forfeiture, seizure, and condemnation of property imported into the United States contrary to law.
" Sc. 7. Any person who shall be injured in his business or
property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act, may sue
therefor in any Circuit Court of the United States in the dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

trict in which the defendant resides or is found, without respect to the amount in controversy, and shall recover threefold
the damages by him sustained, and the costs of suit, including
a reasonable attorney's fee.
"SEc. 8. That the word 'person,' or 'persons,' wherever used
in this act shall be deemed to include corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either the
United States, the laws of any of the Territories, the laws of
any State, or the laws of any foreign country."
Is the case as presented by the pleadings and the evidence
one of a combination or a conspiracy in restraint of trade or
commerce among the States, or with foreign states? Is it one
in which the defendants are properly chargeable with monopolizing or attempting to monopolize any part of such trade
or commerce? Let, us see what are the facts disclosed by the
record.
The Great Northern Railway Company and the Northern
Pacific Railway Company owned, controlled and operated separate lines of railway-the former road extending from Superior, and from Duluth and St. Paul, to Everett, Seattle, and
Portland, with a branch line to Helena; the latter, extending
from Ashland, and from Duluth and St. Paul, to Helena, Spokane, Seattle, Tacoma and Portland. The two lines, main
and branches, about 9,000 miles in length, were and are parallel and competing lines across the continent through the northern tier of States between the Great Lakes and the Pacific,
and the two companies were engaged in active competition for
freight and passenger traffic, each road connecting at its respective terminals with lines of railway, or with lake and river
steamers, or with seagoing vessels.
Prior to 1893 the Northern Pacific system was owned or
controlled and operated by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, a corporation organized under certain acts and resolutions of Congress. That company becoming insolvent, its
road and property passed into the hands of receivers appointed
by courts of the United States. In advance of foreclosure and

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 321
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

sale a majority of its bondholders made an arrangement with
the Great Northern Railway Company for a virtual consolidation of the two systems, and for giving the practical control
of the Northern Pacific to the Great Northern. That was the
arrangement declared in Pearsall v. Great Northern Railway
Company, 161 U. S. 646, to be illegal under the statutes of
Minnesota which forbade any railroad corporation or the
purchasers or managers of any corporation, to consolidate
the stock, property or franchises of such corporation, or to
lease or purchase the works or franchises of, or in any way
control, other railroad corporations owning or having under
their control parallel or competing lines. Gen. Laws, Minn.
1874, c. 29; ch. 1881.
Early in 1901 the Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway companies, having in view the ultimate placing of
their two systems under a common control, united in the purchase of the capital stock of the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company, giving in payment, upon an agreed
basis of exchange, the joint bonds of the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway companies, payable in twenty years
from date, with interest at 4 per cent per annum. In this
manner the two purchasing companies became the owners of
$107,000,000 of the $112,000,000 total capital stock of the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, whose
lines aggregated about 8,000 miles, and extended from St.
Paul to Chicago and from St. Paul and Chicago to Quincy,
Burlington, Des Moines, St. Louis, Kansas City, St. Joseph,
Omaha, Lincoln, Denver, Cheyenne and Billings, where it
connected with the Northern Pacific railroad. By this purchase of stock the Great Northern and Northern Pacific acquired full control of the Chicago, Burlington. and Quincy
main line and branches.
Prior to November 13, 1901, defendant Hill and associate
stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company, and
defendant Morgan and associate stockholders of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, entered into a combination to form,
VOL. OXCnT-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

under the laws of New Jersey, a holding corporation, to be
called the Northern Securities Company, with a capital stock
of $400,000,000, and to which company, in exchange for its
own capital stock upon a certain basis and at a certain rate,
was to be turned over the capital stock, or a controlling interest in the capital stock, of each of the constituent railway
companies, with power in the holding corporation to vote such
stock and in all respects to act as the owner thereof, and to
do whatever it might deem necessary in aid of such railway
companies or to enhance the value of their stocks. In this
manner the interests of individual stockholders in the property and franchises of the two independent and coml)ethlg
railway companies were to be converted into an interest in the
property and franchises of the holding corporation. Thus,
as stated in Article VI of the bill, "by making the stockholders of each system jointly interested in both systems, and
by practically pooling the earnings of both for the benefit of
the former stockholders of each, and by vesting the selection
of the directors and officers of each system in a common
body, to wit, the holding corporation, with not only the
power but the duty to pursue a policy which would promote
the interests, not of one system at the expense of the other,
but of both at the expense of the public, all inducement for
competition between the two systems was to be removed, a
virtual consolidation effected, and a monopoly of the interstate and foreign commerce formerly carried on by the two
systems as independent competitors established."
In pursuance of this combination and to effect its objects,
the defendant, the Northern Securities Company, was organized November 13, 1901, under the laws of New Jersey.
Its certificate of incorporation stated that the objects for
which the company was formed were: "1. To acquire by
purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to hold as investment,
any bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness, or
any shares of capital stock created or issued by any other corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v;. UNITED STATES. 323
193 U. S.

HARL&N,

J., Affirming Decree.

State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory or country. 2. To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage,
pledge or otherwise dispose of any bonds or other securities
or evidences of indebtedness created or issued by any other
corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the
State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory or country, and while owner thereof to exercise all the rights, powers
and privileges of ownership. 3. To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of shares
of the capital stock of any other corporation or corporations,
association or associations, of the State of New Jersey, or
of any other State, Territory or country, and while owner of
such stock to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges
of ownership, including the right to vote thereon. 4. To aid
in any manner any corporation or association of which any
bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or stock
are held by the corporation, and to do any acts or things designed to protect, preserve, improve or enhance the value of
any such bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness
or stock. 5. To acquire, own and hold such real and personal
property as may be necessary or convenient for the transaction
of its business."
It was declared in the certificate that the business or purpose of the corporation was from time to time to do any one
or more of such acts and things, and that the corporation
should have power to conduct its business in other States and
in foreign countries, and to have one or more offices, and hold,
purchase, mortgage and convey real and personal property,
out of New Jersey.
The total authorized capital stock of the corporation was
fixed at $400,000,000, divided into 4,000,000 shares of the par
value of $100 each. The amount of the capital stock with
which the corporation should commence business was fixed at
$30,000. The duration of the corporation was to be perpetual.
This charter having been obtained, Hill and his associate
stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U S

Morgan and associate stockholders of the Northern Pacific
Railway Company, assigned to the Securities Company a controlling amount of the capital stock of the respective constituent companies upon an agreed basis of exchange of the
capital stock of the Securities Company for each share of
the capital stock of the other companies.
In further pursuance of the combination, the Securities Company acquired additional stock of the defendant railway companies, issuing in lieu thereof its own stock upon the above
basis, and, at the time of the bringing of this suit, held, as
owner and proprietor, substantially all the capital stock of the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, and, it is alleged, a controlling interest in the stock of the Great Northern Railway
Company, "and is voting the same and is collecting the dividends thereon, and in all respects is acting as the owner
thereof, in the organization, management and operation of
said railway companies and in the receipt and control of
their earnings."
No consideration whatever, the bill alleges, has existed or
will exist, for the transfer of the stock of the defendant railway companies to the Northern Securities Company, other
than the issue of the stock of the latter company for the purpose, after the manner, and upon the basis stated.
The Securities Company, the bill also alleges, was not organized in good faith to purchase and pay for the stocks of
the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies,
but solely "to incorporate the pooling of the stocks of said
companies," and carry into effect the above combination;
that it is a mere depositary, custodian, holder or trustee of the
stocks of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway
companies; that its shares of stock are but beneficial certificates against said railroad stocks to designate the interest of
the holders in the pool; that it does not have and never had
any capital to warrant such an operation; that its subscribed
capital was but $30,000, and its authorized capital stock of
$400,000,000 was just sufficient, when all issued, to represent

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. tNITED STATES. 325
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

and cover the exchange value of substantially the entire stock
of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, upon the basis and at the rate agreed upon, which was
about $122,000,000 in excess of the combined capital stock of
the two railway companies taken at par; and that, unless prevented, the Securities Company would acquire as owner and
proprietor substantially all the capital stock of the Great
Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, issuing
in lieu thereof its own capital stock to the full extent of its
authorized issue, of which, upon the agreed basis of exchange,
the former stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company have received or would receive and hold about fifty-five
per cent, the balance going to the former stockholders of the
Northern Pacific Railway Company.
The Government charges that if the combination was held
not to be in violation of the act of Congress, then all efforts of
the National Government to preserve to the people the benefits of free competition among carriers engaged in interstate
commerce will be wholly unavailing, and all transcontinental
lines, indeed the entire railway systems of the country, may
be absorbed, merged and consolidated, thus placing the public
at the absolute mercy of the holding corporation.
The several defendants denied all the allegations of the bill
imputing to them a purpose to evade the provisions of the act
of Congress, or to form a combination or conspiracy having
for its object either to restrain or to monopolize commerce or
trade among the States or with foreign nations. They denied
that any combination or conspiracy was formed in violation
of the act.
In our judgment, the evidence fully sustains the material
allegations of the bill, and shows a violation of the act of Congress, in so far as it declares illegal every combination or conspiracy in restraint of commerce among the several States and
with foreign nations, and forbids attempts to monopolize such
commerce or any part of it.
Summarizing the principal facts, it is indisputable upon this

OCTOBER TERAT, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

record that under the leadership of the defendants Hill and
Morgan the stockholders of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway corporations, having competing and substantially parallel lines from the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean at Puget Sound combined and
conceived the scheme of organizing a corporation under the
laws of New Jersey, which should hold the shares of the stock
of the constituent companies, such shareholders, in lieu of
their shares in those companies, to receive, upon an agreed
basis of value, shares in the holding corporation; that pursuant to such combination the Northern Securities Company
was organized as the holding corporation through which the
scheme should be executed; and under that scheme such holding corporation has become the holder-more properly speaking, the custodian-of more than nine-tenths of the stock of
the Northern Pacific, and more than three-fourths of the stock
of the Great Northern, the stockholders of the companies who
delivered their stock receiving upon the agreed basis shares of
stock in the holding corporation. The stockholders of these
two competing companies disappeared, as such, for the moment,
but immediately reappeared as stockholders of the holding
company which was thereafter to guard the interests of both
sets of stockholders as a unit, and to manage, or cause to be
managed, both lines of railroad as if held in one ownerdship.
Necessarily by this combination or arrangement the holding
company in the fullest sense dominates the situation in the interest of those who were stockholders of the constituent companies; as much so, for every practical purpose, as if it had been
itself a railroad corporation which had built, owned, and operated both lines for the exclusive benefit of its stockholders.
Necessarily, also, the constituent companies ceased, under such
a combination, to be in active competition for trade and commerce along their respective lines, and have become, practically, one powerful consolidated corporation, by the name of a
holding corporation the principal, if not the sole, object for the
formation of which was to carry out the purpose of the original

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v.-UNITED STATES. 327
193 U. S.

HAALAN, J., Affirming Decree.

combination under which competition between the constituent
companies would cease. Those who were stockholders of the
Great Northern and Northern Pacific and became stockholders in the holding company are now interested in preventing
all competition between the two lines, and as owners of stock
or of certificates of stock in the holding company, they will
see to it that no competition is tolerated. They will take
care that no persons are chosen directors of the holding company who will permit competition between the constituent
companies. The result of the combination is that all the
earnings of the constituent companies make a common fund
in the hands of the Northern Securities Company to be distributed, not upon the basis of the earnings of the respective
constituent companies, each acting exclusively in its own interest, but upon the basis of the certificates of stock issued
by the holding company. No scheme or device could more
certainly come within the words of the act--" combination in
the form of a trust or otherwise

.

.

.

in restraint of com-

merce among the several States or with foreign nations,"or could more effectively and certainly suppress free competition between the constituent companies. This combination
is, within the meaning of the act, a "trust;" but if not, it is a
combination in restraint of interstate and international commerce; and that is enough to bring it under the condemnation
of the act. The mere existence of such a combination and the
power acquired by the holding company as its trustee, constitute a menace to, and a restraint upon, that freedom of commerce which Congress intended to recognize and protect, and
which the public is entitled to have protected. If such combination be not destroyed, all the advantages that would
naturally come to the public under the operation of the general laws of competition, as between the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway companies, will be lost, and the entire commerce of the immense territory in the northern part
of the United States between the Great Lakes and the Pacific
at Puget Sound will be at the mercy of a single holding cor-

OCTOBER TR1, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

poration, organized in a State distant from the people of that
territory.
The Circuit Court was undoubtedly right when it said-all
the Judges of that court concurring-that the combination referred to "led inevitably to the following results: First, it
placed the control of the two roads in the hands of a single
person, to wit, the Securities Company, by virtue of its ownership of a large majority of the stock of both companies; second, it destroyed every motive for competition between two
roads engaged in interstate traffic, which were natural competitors for business, by pooling the earnings of the two rolds
for the common benefit of the stockholders of both companies." 120 Fed. Rep. 721, 724.
Such being the case made by the record, what are the principles that must control the decision of the present case? Do
former adjudications determine the controlling questions
raised by the pleadings and proofs?
The contention of the Government is that, if regard be had
to former adjudications, the present case must be determined
in its favor. That view is contested and the defendants insist
that a decision in their favor will not be inconsistent with
anything heretofore decided and would be in harmony with
the act of Congress.
Is the act to be construed as forbidding every combination
or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce among the
States or with foreign nations? Or, does it embrace only such
restraints as are unreasonable in their nature? Is the motive
with which a forbidden combination or conspiracy was formed
at all material when it appears that the necessary tendency of
the particular combination or conspiracy in question is to restrict or suppress free competition between competing railroads engaged in commerce among the States? Does the act
of Congress prescribe, as a rule for interstate or international
commerce, that the operation of the natural laws of competition between those engaged in such commerce shall not be
restricted or interfered with by any contract, combination or

NORTHERN SlECUR1TIiS CO. v. UNITED STATES. 329
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

conspiracy? How far may Congress go in regulating the affairs or conduct of state corporations engaged as carriers in
commerce among the States or of state corporations which,
although not directly engaged themselves in such commerce,
yet have control of the business of interstate carriers? If state
corporations, or their stockholders, are found to be parties to
a combination, in the form of a trust or otherwise, which restrains interstate or international commerce, may they not be
compelled to respect any rule for such commerce that may be
lawfully prescribed by Congress?
These questions were earnestly discussed at the bar by able
counsel, and have received the full consideration which their
importance demands.
The first case in this court arising under the Anti-Trust Act
was United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1. The next
case was that of United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166 U. S. 290. That was followed by United States
v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 578, Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S.
604, Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211, and Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38. To these
may be added Pearsall v. Great Northern Railway, 161 U. S.
646, which, although not arising under the Anti-Trust Act, involved an agreement under which the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway companies should be consolidated
and by which competition between those companies was to
cease. In United States v. E. C. Knight Co., it was held that
the agreement or arrangement there involved had reference
only to the manufacture or production of sugar by those engaged in the alleged combination, but if it had directly embraced interstate or international commerce, it would then
have been covered by the Anti-Trust Act and would have been
illegal; in United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, that an agreement between certain railroad companies
providing for establishing and maintaining, for their mutual
protection, reasonable rates, rules and regulations in respect

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
ARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 IT.S.

of freight traffic, through and local, and by which free conipetition among those companies was restricted, was, by reason of such restriction, illegal under the Anti-Trust Act; in
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, that an arrangement between certain railroad companies in reference to railroad traffic among the States, by which the railroads involved
were not subject to competition among themselves, was also
forbidden by the act; in Hopkins v. United States and Anderson v. United States, that the act embraced only agreements
that had direct connection with interstate commerce, and that
such commerce comprehended intercourse for all the purposes
of trade, in any and all its forms, including the transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of commodities between citizens of different States, and the power to regulate it embraced
all the instrumentalities by which such commerce is conducted;
in Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, all the members
of the court concurring, that the act of Congress made illegal
an agreement between certain private companies or corporations engaged in different States in the manufacture, sale and
transportation of iron pipe, whereby competition among them
was avoided, was covered by the Anti-Trust Act; and in Montague v. Lowry, all the members of the court again concurring,
that a combination created by an agreement between certain
private manufacturers and dealers in tiles, grates and mantels, in different States, whereby they controlled or sought to
control the price of such articles in those States, was condemned by the act of Congress. In Pearsall v. Great Northern Railway, which, as already stated, involved the consolidation of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway
companies, the court said: "The consolidation of these two
great corporations will unavoidably result in giving to the defendant [the Great Northern] a monopoly of all traffic in the
northern half of the State of Minnesota, as well as of all transcontinental traffic north of the line of the Union Pacific, against
which public regulations will be but a feeble protection. The
acts of the Minnesota Legislature of 1874 and 1881 undoubtedly

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 331
193 U.' S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

reflected the general sentiment of the public, that their best
security is in competition."
We will not incumber this opinion by extended extracts from
the former opinions of this court. It is sufficient to say that
from the decisions in the above cases certain propositions are
plainly deducible and embrace the present case. Those propositions are:
That although the act of Congress known as the Anti-Trust
Act has no reference to the mere manufacture or production of
articles or commodities within the limits of the several States,
it does embrace and declare to be illegal every contract, combination or conspiracy, in whatever form, of whatever nature,
and whoever may be parties to it, which directly or necessarily
operates in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations;
That the act is not limited to restraints of interstate and international trade or commerce that are unreasonable in their
nature, but embraces all direct restraintsimposed by any combination, conspiracy or monopoly upon such trade or commerce:
That railroad carriers engaged in interstate or international
trade or commerce are embraced by the act;
That combinations even among private manufacturers or
dealers, whereby interstate or international commerce is restrained are equally embraced by the act;
That Congress has the power to establish rules by which interstate and internationalcommerce shall be governed, and, by
the Anti-Trust Act, has prescribed the rule of free competition
among those engaged in such commerce;
That every combination or conspiracy which would extinguish competition between otherwise competing railroads engaged in interstate trade or commerce, and which would in that
way restrain such trade or commerce, is made illegal by the act;
That the natural effect of competition is to increase commerce, and an agreement whose direct effect is to prevent this
play of competition restrains instead of promotes trade and
commerce;

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

That to vitiate a combination, such as the act of Congress
condemns, it need not be shown that the combination, in fact,
results or will result in a total suppression of trade or in a complete monopoly, but it is only essential to show that by its
necessary operation it tends to restrain interstate or international trade or commerce or tends to create a monopoly in
such trade or commerce and to deprive the public of the advantages that flow from free competition;
That the constitutional guarantee of liberty of contract does
not prevent Congress from prescribing the rule of free competition for those engaged in interstate and international commerce; and,
That under its power to regulate commerce among the several States and with foreign nations, Congress had authority
to enact the statute in question.
No one, we assume, will deny that these propositions were
distinctly announced in the former decisions of this court.
They cannot be ignored or their effect avoided by the intimation that the court indulged in obiter dicta. What was said in
those cases was within the limits of the issues made by the
parties. In our opinion, the recognition of the principles announced in former cases must, under the conceded facts, lead
to an affirmance of the decree below, unless the special objections, or some of them, which have been made to the application of the act of Congress to the present case are of a substantial character. We will now consider those objections.
Underlying the argument in behalf of the defendants is the
idea that as the Northern Securities Company is a state corporation, and as its acquisition of the stock of the Great
Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies is not inconsistent with the powers conferred by its charter, the enforcement of the act of Congress, as against those corporations,
will be an unauthorized interference by the national government with the internal commerce of the States creating those
corporations. This suggestion does not at all impress us.
There is no reason to suppose that Congress had any purpose

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v'. UNITED STATES. 333
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

to interfere with the internal affairs of the States, nor, in our
opinion, is there any ground whatever for the contention that
the Anti-Trust Act regulates their domestic commerce. By its
very terms the act regulates only commerce among the States
and with foreign states. Viewed in that light, the act, if
within the powers of Congress, must be respected; for, by the
explicit words of the Constitution, that instrument and the
laws enacted by Congress in pursuance of its provisions, are
the supreme law of the land, "anything in the constitution
or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding"supreme over the States, over the courts,, and even over the
people of the United States, the source of all power under our
governmental system in respect of the objects for which the
National Government was ordained. An act of Congress constitutionally passed under its power to regulate commerce
among the States and with foreign nations is binding upon all;
as much so as if it were embodied, in terms, in the Constitution itself. Every judicial officer, whether of a national or a
state court, is under the obligation of an oath so to regard a
lawful enactment of Congress. Not even a State, still less one
of its artificial creatures, can stand in the way of its enforcement. If it were otherwise, the Government and its laws
might be prostrated at the feet of local authority. Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 385, 414. These views have been
often expressed by this court.
It is said that whatever may be the power of a State over
such subjects Congress cannot forbid single individuals from
disposing of their stock in a state corporation, even if such
corporation be engaged in interstate and international commerce; that the holding or purchase by a state corporation,
or the purchase by individuals, of the stock of another corporation, for whatever purpose, are matters in respect of which
Congress has no authority under the Constitution; that, so
far as the power of Congress is concerned, citizens or state
corporations may dispose of their property and invest their
money in any way they choose; and that in regard to all

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN;, J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

such matters, citizens and state corporations are subject, if to
any authority, only to the lawful authority of the State in
which such citizens reside, or under whose laws such corporations are organized. It is unnecessary in this case to consider such abstract, general questions. The court need not
now concern itself with them. They are not here to be examined and determined, and may well be left for consideration
in some case necessarily involving their determination.
In this connection, it is suggested that the contention of the
Government is that the acquisition and ownership of stock in
a state railroad corporation is itself interstate commerce, if
that corporation be engaged in interstate commerce. This
suggestion is made in different ways, sometimes in express
words, at other times by implication. For instance, it is said
that the question here is whether the power of Congress over
interstate commerce extends to the regulation of the ownership of the stock in state railroad companies, by reason of
their being engaged in such commerce. Again, it is said that
the only issue in this case is whether the Northern Securities
Company can acquire and hold stock in other state corporations. Still further, is it asked, generally, whether the organization or ownership of railroads is not under the control of
the States under whose laws they came into existence? Such
statements as to the issues in this case are, we think, wholly
unwarranted and are very wide of the mark; it is the setting
up of mere men of straw to be easily stricken down. We (o
not understand that the Government makes any such contentions or takes any such positions as those statements imply.
It does not contend that Congress may control the mere acquisition or the mere ownership of stock in a state corporation engaged in interstate commerce. Nor does it contend
that Congress can control the organization of state corporations
authorized by their charters to engage in interstate and international commerce. But it does contend that Congress may
protect the freedom of interstate commerce by any means
that are appropriate and that are lawful and not prohibited

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 335
193 U. S.

HARL&N,

J., Affirming Decree.

by the Constitution. It does contend that no state corporation can stand in the way of the enforcement of the national
will, legally expressed. What the Government particularly
complains of, indeed, all that it complains of here, is the existence of a combination among the stockholders of competing
railroad companies which in violation of the act of Congress
restrains interstate and international commerce through the
agency of a common corporate trustee designated to act for
both companies in repressing free competition between them.
Independently of any question of the mere ownership of stock
or of the organization of a state corporation, can it in reason
be said that such a combination is not embraced by the very
terms of the Anti-Trust Act? May not Congress declare that
combination to be illegal? If Congress legislates for the protection of the public, may it not proceed on the ground that
wrongs when effected by a powerful combination are more
dangerous and require more stringent supervision than when
they are to be effected by a single person? Callan v. Wilson,
127 U. S. 540, 556. How far may the courts go in order to
give effect to the act of Congress, and remedy the evils it was
designed by that act to suppress? These are confessedly questions of great moment, and they will now be considered.
By the express words of the Constitution, Congress has power
to "regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes." In view of the
numerous decisions of this court there ought not, at this day,
to be any doubt as to the general scope of such power. In some
circumstances regulation may properly take the form and have
the effect of prohibition. In re Ralhrer, 140 U. S.545; Lottery
Case, 188 U. S. 321, 355, and authorities there cited. Again
and again this court has reaffirmed the doctrine announced in
the great judgment rendered by Chief Justice Marshall for the
court in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196, 197, that the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States and with
foreign nations is the power "to prescribe the rule by which
commerce is to be governed;" that such power "is complete

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
H MLANT, J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution;" that "if, as has always been understood, the sovereignty
of Congress, though limited to specified objects, is plenary as
to those objects, the power over commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, is vested in Congress as
absolutely as it would be in a single government haing in its
consitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the power as
are found in the Constitution of the United States;" that a
sound construction of the Constitution allows to Congress a
large discretion, "with respect to the means by which the
powers it confers are to be carried into execution, which enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in the
manner most beneficial to the people;" and that if the end to
be accomplished is within the scope of the Constitution, "all
means which are appropriate, which are plainly adaptcd to
that end and which are not prohibited, are constitutional."
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22
How. 227, 238; Henderson v. The Mayor, 92 U. S. 259; Railroad Company v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 472; County of Mobile
v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; M., K. & Texas Ry. Co. v. Habcr,
169 U. S. 613, 626; The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 348. In
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 413, this court said that, the
United States were for many important purposes "a single
nation," and that "in all commercial regulations we are one
and the same people;" and it has since frequently declared
that commerce among the several States was a unit, and subject to national control. Previously, in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, the court had said that the Government ordained and established by the Constitution w'as, within
the limits of the powers granted to it, "the Government of all;
its powers are delegated by all; it represents all, and acts for
all," and waqs "supreme within its sphere of action." As late
as the case of In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 582, this court, every
member of it concurring, said: "The entire strength of the
Nation may be used to enforce in any part of the land the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 337
193 U. S.

HARLAN, J., Affirming

Decree.

full and free exercise of all National powers and the security
of all rights entrusted by the Constitution to its care. The
strong arm of the National Government may be put forth to
brush away all obstructions to the freedom of interstate commerce or the transportation of the mails. If the emergency
arises, the army of the Nation, and all its militia, are at the
service of the Nation to compel obedience to its laws."
The means employed in respect of the combinations forbidden
by the Anti-Trust Act, and which Congress deemed germane
to the end to be accomplished, was to prescribe as a rule for interstate and international commerce, (not for domestic commerce,) that it should not be vexed by combinations, conspiracies or monopolies which restrain commerce by destroying or
restricting competition. We say that Congress has prescribed
such a rule, because in all the prior cases in this court the AntiTrust Act has been construed as forbidding any combination
which by its necessary operation destroys or restricts free competition among those engaged in interstate commerce; in other
words, that to destroy or restrict free competition in interstate
commerce was to restrain such commerce. Now, can this court
say that such a rule is prohibited by the Constitution or is not
one that Congress could appropriately prescribe when exerting its power under the commerce clause of the Constitution?
Whether the free operation of the normal laws of competition
is a wise and wholesome rule for trade and commerce is an
economic question which this court need not consider or determine. Undoubtedly, there are those who think that the
general business interests and prosperity of the country will
be best promoted if the rule of competition is not applied. But
there are others who believe that such a rule is more necessary
in these days of enormous wealth than it ever was in any
former period of our history. Be all this as it may, Congress
has, in effect, recognized the rule of free competition by declaring illegal every combination or conspiracy in restraint of
interstate and international commerce. As in the judgment
of Congress the public convenience and the general welfare
VOL. cxcin-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
H. uLA,', J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

will be best subserved when the natural laws of competition
are left undisturbed by those engaged in interstate comnerce,
and as Congress has embodied that rule in a statute, that
must be, for all, the end of the matter, if this is to remain a
government of laws, and not of men.
It is said that railroad corporations created under the laws
of a State can only be consolidated with the authority of the
State. Why that suggestion is made in this case we cannot
understand, for there is no pretense that the combination here
in question was under the authority of the States under whose
laws these railroad corporations were created. But even if
the State allowed consolidation it would not follow that the
stockholders of two or more state railroad corporations, having
competing lines and engaged in interstate commerce, could l'awfully combine and form a distinct corporation to hold the
stock of the constituent corporations, and, by destroying coipetition between them, in violation of the act of Congress,
restrain commerce among the States and with foreign nations.
The rule of competition, prescribed by Congress, was not
at all new in trade and commerce. And we cannot be in any
doubt as to the reason that moved Congress to the incorporation of that rule into a statute. That reason was thus stated
in United States v. Joint Traffic Association: "Ilas not 0ongress with regard to interstate commerce and in the course
of regulating it, in the case of railroad corporations, the power
to say that no contract or combination shall be legal which
shall restrain trade and commerce by shutting out the operation
of the general law of competition? We think it has.
It is the combination of these large and powerful corporations, covering vast sections of territory and influencing trade

throughout the whole extent thereof, and acting as one body
in all the matters over which the combination extends, that
constitutes the alleged evil, and in regard to which, so jar as the
combination operates upon and restrains interstate commerce,
Congress has power to legislate and to prohibit." (pp. 569,
571.) That such a rule was applied to interstate commerce

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 339
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

should not have surprised any one. Indeed, when Congress
declared contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint
of trade or commerce to be illegal, it did nothing more than
apply to interstate commerce a rule that had been long applied by the several States when dealing with combinations
that were in restraint of their domestic commerce. The decisions in state courts upon this general subject are not only numerous and instructive but they show the circumstances under
which the Anti-Trust Act was passed. It may well be assumed
that Congress, when enacting that statute, shared the general
apprehension that a few powerful corporations or combinations sought to obtain, and, unless restrained, would obtain
such absolute control of the entire trade and commerce of the
country as would be detrimental to the general welfare.
In Morris Run Coal Co. v. Barclay Coal Co., 68 Pa. St.
173, 186, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania dealt with a
combination of coal companies seeking the control within a
large territory of the entire market for bituminous coal. The
court, observing that the combination was wide in its scope,
general in its influence, and injurious in its 'effects, said:
"When competition is left free, individual error or folly will
generally find a correction in the conduct of others. But
here is a combination of all the companies operating in the
Blossburg and Barclay mining regions, and controlling their
entire productions. They have combined together to govern
the supply and the price of coal in all the markets from the
Hudson to the Mississippi rivers, and from Pennsylvania to
the Lakes. This combination has a power in its confederated
form which no individual action can confer. The public interest must succumb to it, for it has left no competition free
to correct its baleful influence. When the supply of coal is
suspended the demand for it becomes importunate, and prices
must rise. •Or if the supply goes forward, the prices fixed by
the confederates, must accompany it. The domestic hearth,
the furnaces of the iron master and the fires of the manufacturer all feel the restraint, while many dependent hands are

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

HARLAN, J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

paralyzed and hungry mouths are stinted. The influence of
a lack of supply or a rise in the price of an article of such
prime necessity cannot be measured. It permeates the entire
mass of the community, and leaves few of its members untouched by its withering blight. Such a combination is more
than a contract; it is an offense.
.
In all such combinations where the purpose is injurious or unlawful, the gist of
the offense is the conspiracy. Men can often do by the combination of many what severally no one could accomplish, and
even what when (lone by one would be innocent.
There is a potency in numbers when combined, which the law
cannot overlook, where injury is the consequence." The same
principles were applied in Arnot v. Pittston & Elmira Cool Co.,
68 N. Y. 558, 565, which was the case of a combination of
two coal companies, in order to give one of them a Inonopoly of coal in a particular region, the Court of Appeals of
New York holding that "a combination to effect such a purpose
is inimical to the interests of the public, and that all contracts
designed to effect such an end are contrary to public policy,
and therefore illegal." They were also applied by the Supreme Court of Ohio in Central Ohio Salt Co. v. Guthric, 35
Ohio St. 666, 672, which was the case of a combination among
manufacturers of salt in a large salt-producing territory, the
court saying: "It is no answer to say that competition in the
salt trade was not in fact destroyed, or that the price of the
commodity was not unreasonably advanced. Courts will not
stop to enquire as to the degree of injury inflicted upon the public;
it is enough to know that the inevitable tendency of such contracts
is injurious to the public."
So, in Craft v. McConoughy, 79 Illinois, 346, 350, which was
the case of a combination among grain dealers by which competition was stifled, the court saying: "So long as competition
was free, the interest of the public was safe. The laws of trade,
in connection with the rigor of competition, was all the guaranty the public required, but the secret combiwation created by
the contract destroyed all competition and created a monopoly

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v . UNITED STATES. 341
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

against which the public interest had no protection." Again,
in People v. Chicago Gas Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 268, 297, which
involved the validity of the organization of a gas corporation
which obtained a monopoly in the business of furnishing illuminating gas in the city of Chicago by buying the stock of four
other gas companies, it was said: "Of what avail is it that any
number of gas companies may be formed under the general
incorporation law, if a giant trust company can be clothed with
the power of buying up and holding the stock and property of
such companies, and, through the control thereby attained, can
direct all their operations and weld them into one huge combination?" To the same effect are cases almost too numerous to be cited. But among them we refer to Richardson
v. Buhl, 77 Michigan, 632, which was the case of the organization of a corporation in Connecticut to unite in one corporation all the match manufacturers in the United States,
and thus to obtain control of the business of manufacturing
matches; Santa Clara Mill & Lumber Co. v. Hayes, 76 California, 387, 390, which was the case of a combination among
manufacturers of lumber, by which it could control the business
in certain localities; and India Bagging Association v. Kock, 14
La. Ann. 168, which was the case of a combination among
various commercial firms to control the prices of bagging used
by cotton planters.
The cases, just cited, it is true, relate to the domestic commerce of the States. But they serve to show the authority
which the States possess to guard the public against combinations that repress individual enterprise and interfere with the
operation of the natural laws of competition among those
engaged in trade within their limits. They serve also to give
point to the declaration of this court in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 197-a principle never modified by any subsequent
decision-that, subject to the limitations imposed by the Constitution upon the exercise of the powers granted by that
instrument, "the power over commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States is vested in Congress as absolutely

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S,

as it would be in a single government having in its constitution
the same restrictions on the exercise of power as are found in
the Constitution of the United States." Is there, then, any
escape from the conclusion that, subject only to such restrictions, the power of Congress over interstate and international
commerce is as full and complete as is the power of any State
over its domestic commerce? If a State may strike down
combinations that restrain its domestic commerce by destroying
free competition among those engaged in such commerce, what
power, except that of Congress, is competent to protect the
freedom of interstate and international commerce when assailed
by a combination that restrains such commerce by stifling
competition among those engaged in it?
Now, the court is asked to adjudge that, if held to embrace
the case before us, the Anti-Trust Act is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States. In this view we are unable
to concur. The contention of the defendants could not be
sustained without, in effect, overruling the ptior decisions of
this court as to the scope and validity of the Anti-Trust Act.
If, as the court has held, Congress can strike down a combination between private persons or private corporations that
restrains trade among the States in iron pipe (as in Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States), or in tiles, grates and nmantels
(as in Montague v. Lowry), surely it ought not to be doubted
that Congress has power to declare illegal a combination that
restrains commerce among the States, and with foreign nations,
as carried on over the lines of competing railroad companies
exercising public franchises, and engaged in such commerce.
We cannot agree that Congress may strike down combinations
among manufacturers and dealers in iron pipe, tiles, grates and
mantels that testrain commerce among the States in such
articles, but may not strike down combinations among stockholders of competing railroad carriers, which restrain commerce as involved in the transportation of passengers and
property among the several States. If private parties may
not, by combination among themselves, restrain interstate

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 343
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

and international commerce in violation of an act of Congress,
much less can such restraint be tolerated when imposed or
attempted to be imposed upon commerce as carried -on over
public highways. Indeed, if the contentions of the defendants
are sound why may not all the railway companies in the United
States, that are engaged, under state charters, in interstate
and international commerce, enter into a combination such
as the one here in question, and by the device of a holding
corporation obtain the absolute control throughout the entire
country of rates for passengers and freight, beyond the power'
of Congress to protect the public against their exactions? The
argument in behalf of the defendants necessarily leads to such
results, and places Congress, although invested by the people
of the United States with full authority to regulate interstate
and international commerce, in a condition of utter helplessness,
so far as the protection of the public against such combinations
is concerned.
Will it be said that Congress can meet such emergencies by
prescribing the rates by which interstate carriers shall be
governed in the transportation of freight and passengers? If
Congress has the power to fix such rates-and upon that question we express no opinion-it does not choose to exercise its
power in that way or to that extent. It has, all will agree, a
large discretion as to the means to be employed in the exercise
of any power granted to it. For the present, it has determined
to go no farther than to protect the freedom of commerce
among the States and with foreign states by declaring illegal
all contracts, combinations, conspiracies or monopolies in restraint of such commerce, and make it a public offence to violate
the rule thus prescribed. How much further it may go, we do
not now say. We need only at this time considerw*hether it
has exceeded its powers in enacting the statute here in questi6n.
Assuming, without further discussion, that the 'cas6 before'
us is within the terms of the act, and that the act is not in excess
of the powers of Congress, we recur to the question, how far'
may the courts go in reaching and suppressing the combination'

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

described in the bill? All will agree that if the Anti-Trust Act
be constitutional, and if the combination in question be in
violation, of its provisions, the courts may enforce the provisions of the statute by such orders and decrees as are necessary or appropriate to that end and as may be consistent with
the fundamental rules of legal procedure. And all, we take it,
will agree, as established firmly by the decisions of this court,
that the power of Congress over commerce extends to all the
instrumentalities of such commerce, and to every device that
may be employed to interfere with the freedom of commerce
among the States and with foreign nations. Equally, we
assume, all will agree that the Constitution and the legal
enactments of Congress are, by express words of the Constitution, the supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution and laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.
Nevertheless, the defendants, strangely enough, invoke in their
behalf the Tenth Amendment of the Constitution which declares that "the powers not delegated to the United States by
the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the People;" and we
are confronted with the suggestion that any order or decree
of the Federal court which will prevent the Northern Securities Company from exercising the power it acquired in
becoming the holder of the stocks of the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway companies will be an invasion of
the rights of the State under which the Securities Company
was chartered, as well as of the rights of the States creating the
other companies. In other words, if the State of New Jersey
gives a charter to a corporation, and even if the obtaining of
such charter is in fact pursuant to a combination under which
it becomes the holder of the stocks of shareholders in two conipeting, parallel railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce in other States, whereby competition between the respective roads of those companies is to be destroyed and the
enormous commerce carried on over them restrained by suppressing competition, Congress must stay its hands and allow

NORTHERN SECURI'rES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 345
193 U. S.

HA

.uN,
J., Affirming Decree.

such restraint to continue to the detriment of the public
because, forsooth, the corporations concerned or some of them
are state corporations. We cannot conceive how it is possible
for any one to seriously contend for such a proposition. It
means nothing less than that Congress, in regulating interstate
commerce, must act in subordination to the will of the States
when exerting their power to create corporations. No such
view can be entertained for a moment.
It is proper to say in passing that nothing in the record
tends to show that the State of New Jersey had any reason to
suspect that those who took advantage of its liberal incorporation laws had in view, when organizing the Securities Company,
to destroy competition between two great railway carriers
engaged in interstate commerce in distant States of the Union.
The purpose of the combination was concealed under very
general words that gave no clue whatever to the real purposes
of those who brought about the organization of the Securities
Company. If the certificate of the incorporation of that company had expressly stated that the object of the company was
to destroy competition between competing, parallel lines of
interstate carriers, all would have seen, at the outset, that the
scheme was in hostility to the national authority, and that
there was a purpose to violate or evade the act of Congress.
We reject any such view of the relations of the National
Government and the States composing the Union, as that for
which the defendants contend. Such a view cannot be maintained without destroying the just authority of the United
States. It is inconsistent with all the decisions of this court
as to the powers of the National Government over matters
committed to it. No State can, by merely creating a corporation, or in any other mode, project its authority into other
States, and across the continent, so as to prevent Congress from
exerting the power it possesses under the Constitution over
interstate and international commerce, or so as to exempt its
corporation engaged in interstate commerce from obedience
to any rule lawfully established by Congress for such com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN, J., Affirming Decree.

]93 U. S

merce. It cannot be said that any State may give a corporation, created under its laws, authority to restrain interstate
or international commerce against the will of the nation as
lawfully expressed by Congress. Every corporation created
by a State is necessarily subject to the supreme law of the
land. And yet the suggestion is made that to restrain a state
corporation from interfering with the free course of trade and
commerce among the States, in violation of an act of Congress,
is hostile to the reserved rights of the States. The Federal
court may not have power to forfeit the charter of the Securities Company; it may not declare how its shares of stock
may be transferred on its books, nor prohibit it from acquiring
real estate, nor diminish or increase its capital stock. All
these and like matters are to be regulated by the State which
created the company. But to the end that effect be given to
the national will, lawfully expressed, Congress may prevent
that company, in its capacity as a holding corporation and
trustee, from carrying out the purposes of a combination
formed in restraint of interstate commerce. The Securities
Company is itself a part of the present combination; its head
and front; its trustee. It would be extraordinary if the court,
in executing the act of Congress, could not lay hands upon that
company and prevent it from doing that which, if done, will
defeat the act of Congress. Upon like grounds the court can,
by appropriate orders, prevent the two competing railroad
companies here involved from co6perating with the Securities
Company in restraining commerce among the States. In
short, the court may make any order necessary to bring about
the dissolution or suppression of an illegal combination that
restrains interstate commerce. All this can be done without
infringing in any degree upon the just authority of the States.
The affirmance of the judgment below will only mean that no
combination, however powerful, is stronger than the law or
will be permitted to avail itself of the pretext that to prevent
it doing that which, if done, would defeat a legal enactment
of Congress, is to attack the reserved rights of the States. It

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 347
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

would mean that the Government which represents all, can,
when acting within the limits of its powers, compel obedience
to its authority. It would mean that no device in evasion of
its provisions, however skillfully such device may have been
contrived, and no combination, by whomsoever formed, is
beyond the reach of the supreme law of the land, if such device
or combination by its operation directly restrains commerce
among the States or with foreign nations in violation of the
act of Congress.
The defendants rely, with some confidence, upon the case
of Railroad Company v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 473.
But nothing we have said is inconsistent with any principle
announced in that case. The court there recognized the
principle that a State has plenary powers "over its own territory, its highways, its franchises, and its corporations," and
observed that "we are bound to sustain the constitutional
powers and prerogatives of the States, as well as those of the
United States, whenever they are brought before us for adjudication, no matter what may be the consequences." Of
course, every State has, in a general sense, plenary power over
its corporations. But is it conceivable that a State, when
exerting power over a corporation of its creation, may prevent
or embarrass the exercise by Congress of any power with which
it is invested by the Constitution? In the case just referred
to the court does not say, and it is not to be supposed that it
will ever say, that any power exists in a State to prevent the
enforcement of a lawful enactment of Congress, or to invest
any of its corporations, in whatever business engaged, with
authority to disregard such enactment or defeat its legitimate
operation. On the contrary, the court has steadily held to
the doctrine, vital to the United States as well as to the States,
that a state enactment, even if passed in the exercise of its
acknowledged powers, must yield, in case of conflict, to the
supremacy of the Constitution of the United States and the
acts of Congress efiacted in pursuance of its provisions. This
results, the court has said, as well from the nature of the Gov-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

ernment as from the words of the Constitution.

193 U. S.

Gibbons v.

Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243;
In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway
v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 626, 627. In Texas v. White, 7 Wall.

700, 725, the court remarked "that 'the people of each State
compose a State, having its own government, and endowed

with all the functions essential to separate and independent
existence,' and that 'without the States in union, there could
be no such political body as the United States.' County of
Lane v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 76. Not only, therefore, can there
be no loss of separate and independent autonomy to the States,
through their union under the Constitution, but it may be not
unreasonably said that the preservation of the States, and the
maintenance of their governments, are as much within the
design and care of the Constitution as the preservation of the
Union and the maintenance of the National Government."
These doctrines are at the basis of our Constitutional Government, and cannot be disregarded with safety.
The defendants also rely on Louisville & Nashville Railroad
v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 702. In that case it was contended
by the railroad company that the assumption of the State to
forbid the consolidation of parallel and competing lines was
an interference with the power of Congress over interstate
commerce. The court observed that but little need be said
in answer to such a proposition, for "it has never been supposed
that the dominant power of Congress over interstate commerce took from the States the power of legislation with respect to the instruments of such commerce, so far as the legislation was within its ordinary police powers." But that case
distinctly recognized that there was a division of power between Congress and the States in respect to interstate railways,
and that Congress had the superior right to control that commerce and forbid interference therewith, while to the States
remained the power to create and to regulate the instruments
of such commerce, so far as necessary to the conservation of
the public interests. If there is anything in that case which

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 349
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

even intimates that a State or a state corporation may in any
way directly restrain interstate commerce, over which Congress has, by the Constitution, complete control, we have been
unable to find it.
The question of the relations of the General Government
with the States is again presented by the specific contention
of each defendant that Congress did not intend "to limit the
power of the several States to create corporations, define their
purposes, fix the amount of their capital, and determine who
may buy, own and sell their stock." All that is true, generally
speaking, but the contention falls far short of meeting the
controlling questions in this case. To meet this contention
we must repeat some things already said in this opinion. But
if what we have said be sound, repetition will do no harm.
So far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned,
a State may, indeed, create a corporation, define its powers,
prescribe the amount of its stock and the mode in which it
may be transferred. It may even authorize one of its corporations to engage in commerce of every kind; domestic, interstate and international. The regulation or control of purely
domestic commerce of a State is, of course, with the State, and
Congress has no direct power over it so long as what is done
by the State does not interfere with the operations of the
General Government, or any legal enactment of Congress. A
State, if it chooses so to do, may even submit to the existence
of combinations within its limits that restrain its internal
trade. But neither a state corporation nor its stockholders
can, by reason of the non-action of the State or by means of
any combination among such stockholders, interfere with the
complete enforcement of any rule lawfully devised by Congress for the conduct of commerce among the States or with
foreign nations; for, as we have seen, interstate and international commerce is by the Constitution under the control of
Congress, and it belongs to the legislative department of the
Government to prescribe rules for the conduct of that commerce. If it were otherwise, the declaration in the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARL,ix, J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

tion of its supremacy, and of the supremacy as well of the
laws made in pursuance of its provisions, was a waste of words.
Whilst every instrumentality of domestic commerce is subject
to state control, every instrumentality of interstate commerce
may be reached and controlled by national authority, so far
as to compel it to respect the rules for such commerce lawfully
established by Congress. No corporate person can excuse a
departure from or violation of that rule under the plea that
that which it has done or omitted to do is permitted or not
forbidden by the State under whose authority it came into
existence. We repeat that no State can endow any of its
corporations, or any combination of its citizens, with authority
to restrain interstate or international commerce, or to disobey
the national will as manifested in legal enactments of Congress.
So long as Congress keeps within the limits of its authority as
defined by the Constitution, infringing no rights recognized or
secured by that instrument, its regulations of interstate and
international commerce, whether founded in wisdom or not,
must be submitted to by all. Harm and only harm can come
from the failure of the courts to recognize this fundamental
principle of constitutional construction. To depart from it
because of the circumstances of special cases, or because the
rule, in its operation, may possibly affect the interests of busi,
ness, is to endanger the safety and integrity of our institutions
and make the Constitution mean not what it says but what
interested parties wish it to mean at a particular time and
under particular circumstances. The supremacy of the law
is the foundation rock upon which our institutions rest. The
law, this court said in United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 220,
is the only supreme power in our system of government.
And no higher duty rests upon this court than to enforce, by
its decrees, the will of the legislative department of the Government, as expressed in a statute, unless such statute be
plainly and unmistakably in violation of the Constitution.
If the statute is beyond the constitutional power of Congress,
the court would fail in the performance of a solemn duty if it

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 351
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

did not so declare. But if nothing more can be said than that
Congress has erred-and the court must not be understood as
saying that it has or has not erred-the remedy for the error
and the attendant mischief is the selection -of new Senators
and Representatives, who, by legislation, will make such
changes in existing statutes, or adopt such new statutes, as
may be demanded by their constituents and be consistent with
law.
Many suggestions were made in argument based upon the
thought that the Anti-Trust Act would in the end prove to be
mischievous in its consequences. Disaster to business and
wide-spread financial ruin, it has been intimated, will follow
the execution of its provisions. Such predictions were made
in all the cases heretofore arising under that act. But they
have not been verified. It is the history of monopolies in this
country and in England that predictions of ruin are habitually
made by them when it is attempted, by legislation, to restrain
their operations and to protect the public against their exactions. In this, as in former cases, they seek shelter behind
the reserved rights of the States and even behind the constitutional guarantee of liberty of contract. But this court has
heretofore adjudged that the act of Congress did not touch the
rights of the States, and that liberty of contract did not involve
a right to deprive the public of the advantages of free competition in trade and commerce. Liberty of contract does
not imply liberty in a corporation or individuals to defy the
national will, when legally expressed. Nor does the enforcement of a legal enactment of Congress infringe, in any proper
sense, the general inherent right of every one to acquire and
hold property. That right, like all other rights, must be
exercised in subordination to the law.
But even if the court shared the gloomy forebodings in which
the defendants indulge, it could not refuse to respect the action
of the legislative branch of the Government if what it has done
is within the limits of its constitutional power. The suggestions of disaster to business have, we apprehend, their origin

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

in the zeal of parties who are opposed to the policy underlying
the act of Congress or are interested in the result of this particular case; at any rate, the suggestions imply that the court
may and ought to refuse the enforcement of the provisions of
the act if, in its judgment, Congress was not wise in prescribing
as a rule by which the conduct of interstate and international
commerce is to be governed, that every combination, whatever
its form, in restraint of such commerce and the monopolizing
or attempting to monopolize such commerce shall be illegal.
These, plainly, are questions as to the policy of legislation
which belong to another department, and this court has no
function to supervise such legislation from the standpoint of
wisdom or policy. We need only say that Congress has authority to declare, and by the language of its act, as interpreted
in prior cases, has, in effect declared, that the freedom of
interstate and international commerce shall not be obstructed
or disturbed by any combination, conspiracy or monopoly that
will restrain such commerce, by preventing the free operation
of competition among interstate carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers and freight. This court cannot disregard that declaration unless Congress, in passing the statute
in question, be held to have transgressed the limits prescribed
for its action by the Constitution. But, as already indicated,
it cannot be so held consistently with the provisions of that
instrument.
The combination here in question may have been for the
pecuniary benefit of those who formed or caused it to be
formed. But the interests of private persons and corporations
cannot be made paramount to the interests of the general
public. Under the Articles of Confederation commerce among
the original States was subject to vexatious and local regulations that took no account of the general welfare. But it was
for the protection of the general interests, as involved in
interstate and international commerce, that Congress, representing the whole country, was given by the Constitution full
power to regulate commerce among the States and with foreign

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 353
193 U. S.

HARL"N,

J., Affirming Decree

nations. In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446, it was
said: "Those who felt the injury arising from this state of
things, and those who were capable of estimating the influence
of commerce on the prosperity of nations, perceived the necessity of giving the control over this important subject to a
single government. It may be doubted whether any of the
evils proceeding from the feebleness of the Federal Government
contributed more to that great revolution which introduced
the present system than the deep and general conviction that
commerce ought to be regulated by Congress." Railroad
companies, we said in the Trans-Missouri Freight Association
case, "are instruments of commerce, and their business is
commerce itself." And such companies, it must be remembered, operate "public highways, established primarily for the
convenience of the people, and therefore are subject to governmental control and regulation." Cherokee Nation v. Kansas
Railway Co., 135 U. S. 641, 657; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v.
Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S. 79, 90; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 475; United States v. TransMissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 332"; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 544; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285, 301. When such carriers, in the exercise of public
franchises, engage in the transportation of passengers and
freight among the States they become-even if they be state
corporations-subject to such rules as Congress may lawfully
establish for the conduct of interstate commerce.
It was said in argument that the circumstances under which
the Northern Securities Company obtained the stock of the
constituent companies imported simply an investment in the
stock of other corporations, a purchase of that stock; which
investment or purchase, it is contended, was not forbidden
by the charter of the company and could not be made illegal
by any act of Congress. This view is wholly fallacious, and
does not comport with the actual transaction. There was no
actual investment, in any substantial sense, by the Northern
Securities Company in the stock of the two constituent comVOL. Oxciin-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HALAN, J., Affirming Decree.

193 IT. S.

panies. If it was, in form, such a transaction, it was not, in
fact, one of that kind. However that company may have

acquired for itself any stock in the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, no matter how it obtained the
means to do so, all the stock it held or acquired in the constituent companies was acquired and held to be used in suppressing competition between those companies. It came into
existence only for that purpose. If any one had full knowledge of what was designed to be accomplished, and as to what
was actually accomplished, by the combination in question,
it was the defendant Morgan. In his testimony he was asked,
"Why put the stocks of both these [constituent companies]
into one holding company?" He frankly answered: "In the
first place, this holding company was simply a. question of
custodian, because it had no other alliances." That disclosed
the actual nature of the transaction, which was only to organize
the Northern Securities Company as a holding company, in
whose hands, not as a real purchaser or absolute owner, but
simply as custodian, were to be placed the stocks of the constituent companies-such custodian to represent the combination formed between the shareholders of the constituent
companies, the direct and necessary effect of such combination
being, as already indicated, to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce by suppressing or (to use the words of this
court in United States v. Joint Traffic Association) "smothering"
competition between the lines of two railway carriers.
We will now inquire as to the nature and extent of the relief
granted to the Government by the decree below.
By the decree in the Circuit Court it was found and adjudged
that the defendants had entered into a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, such as the act of Congress denounced as illegal; and
that all of the stocks of the Northern Pacific Railway Company
and all the stock of the Great Northern Railway Company,
claimed to be owned and held by the Northern Securities Company, was acquired, and is by it held, in virtue of such com-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. c. UNITED STATES. 355
193 U. S.

HARL&N, J., Affirming Decree.

bination or conspiracy, in restraint of trade and commerce
among the several States. It was therefore decreed as follows:
"That the Northern Securities Company, its officers, agents,
servants and employ6s, be and they are hereby enjoined from
acquiring, or attempting to acquire, further stock of either of
the aforesaid railway companies; that the Northern Securities
Company be enjoined from voting the aforesaid stock which
it now holds or may acquire, and from attempting to vote it,
at any meeting of the stockholders of either of the aforesaid
railway companies and from exercising or attempting to exercise any control, direction, supervision or influence whatsoever
over the acts and doings of said railway companies, or either
of them, by virtue of its holding such stock therein; that the
Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Great Northern
Railway Company, their officers, directors, servants and agents,
be and they are hereby respectively and collectively enjoined
from permitting the stock aforesaid to be voted by the Northern Securities Company, or in its behalf, by its attorneys or
agents, at any corporate election for directors or officers of
either of the aforesaid railway companies; that they, together
with their officers, directors, servants and agents, be likewise
enjoined and respectively restrained from paying any dividends
to the Northern Securities Company on account of stock in
either of the aforesaid railway companies which it now claims
to own and hold; and that the aforesaid railway companies,
their officers, directors, servants and agents, be enjoined from
permitting or suffering the Northern Securities Company or
any of its officers or agents, as such officers or agents, to exercise any control whatsoever over the corporate acts of either
of the aforesaid railway companies. But nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Northern Securities Company from returning and transferring to the 'Northern
Pacific Railway Company and the Great Northern Railway
Company, respectively, any and all shares of stock in either
of said railway companies which said, The Northern SecuritiesCompany, may have heretofore received from such stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HALAN, J., Affirming Decree.

193 U S.

holders in exchange for its own stock; and nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Northern Securities
Company from making such transfer and assignments of the
stock aforesaid to such person or persons as may now be the
holders and owners of its own stock originally issued in exchange or in payment for the stock claimed to have been
acquired by it in the aforesaid railway companies."
Subsequently, and before the appeal to this court was perfected, an order was made in the Circuit Court to this effect:
"That upon the giving of an approved bond to the United
States by or on behalf of the defendants in the sum of fifty
thousand dollars conditioned to prosecute their appeal with
effect and to pay all damages which may result to the United
States from this order, that portion of the injunction contained
in the final decree herein which forbids the Northern Pacific
Railway Company and the Great Northern Railway Company,
their officers, directors, servants and agents, from paying
dividends to the Northern Securities Company on account of
stock in either of the railway companies which the Securities
Company claims to own and hold, is suspended during the
pendency of the appeal allowed herein this day. All other
portions of the decree and of the injunction it contains remain
in force and are unaffected by this order."
No valid objection can be made to the decree below, in form
or in substance. If there was a combination or conspiracy in
violation of the act of Congress, between the stockholders of
the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway companies, whereby the Northern Securities Company was formed
as a holding corporation, and whereby interstate commerce
over the lines of the constituent companies was restrained, it
must follow that the court, in execution of that act, and to
defeat the efforts to evade it, could prohibit the parties to the
combination from doing the specific things which being done
would affect the result denounced by the act. To say that the
court could not go so far is to say that it is powerless to enforce
the act or to suppress the illegal combination, and powerless

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 357
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

to protect the rights of the public as against that combination.
It is here suggested that the alleged combination had accomplished its object before the commencement of this suit,
in that the Securities Company had then organized, and had
actually received a majority of the stock of the two constituent
companies; therefore, it is argued, no effective relief can now
be granted to the Government. This same view was pressed
upon the Circuit Court, and was rejected. It was completely
answered by that court when it said: "Concerning the second
contention, we observe that it would be a novel, not to say
absurd, interpretation of the Anti-Trust Act to hold that after
an unlawful combination is formed and has acquired the
power which it had no right to acquire, namely, to restrain
commerce by suppressing competition, and is proceeding to
use it and execute the purpose for which the combination was
formed, it must be left in possession of the power that it has
acquired, with full freedom to exercise it. Obviously the act,
when fairly interpreted, will bear no such construction. Congress aimed to destroy the power to place any direct restraint
on interstate trade or commerce, when by any combination
or conspiracy, formed by either natural or artificial persons,
such a power had been acquired; and the Government may
intervene and demand relief as well after the combination is
fully organized as while it is in process of formation. In this
instance, as we have already said, the Securities Company
made itself a party to a combination in restraint of interstate
commerce that antedated its organization, as soon as it came
into existence, doing so, of course, under the direction of the
very individuals who promoted it." The Circuit Court has
done only what the actual situation demanded. Its decree
has done nothing more than to meet the requirements of the
statute. It could not have done less without declaring its
impotency in dealing with those who have violated the law.
The decree, if executed, will destroy, not the property interests
of the original stockholders of the constituent companies, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

193 U. S.

the power of the holding corporation as the instrument of an
illegal combination of which it was the master spirit, to do
that which, if done, would restrain interstate and international
commerce. The exercise of that power being restrained, the
object of Congress will be accomplished; left undisturbed,
the act in question will be valueless for any practical purpose.
It is said that this statute contains criminal provisions and
must therefore be strictly construed. The rule upon that subject is a very ancient and salutary one. It means only that
we must not bring cases within the provisions of such a statute
that are not clearly embraced by it, nor by narrow, technical
or forced construction of words, exclude cases from it that are
obviously within its provisions. What must be sought for
always is the intention of the legislature, and the duty of the
court is to give effect to that intention as disclosed by the
words used.
As early as the case of King v. Inhabitants of Hodnett, 1 T. 11.
96, 101, Mr. Justice Buller said: "It is not true that the courts
in the exposition of penal statutes are to narrow the construction." In United States v. Wiltbergqer, 5 Wheat. 76, 95, Chief
Justice Marshall, delivering the judgment of this court and
referring to the rule that penal statutes are to be construed
strictly, said: "It is a modification of the ancient maxim, and
amounts to this, that though penal laws are to be construed
strictly, they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat
the obvious intention of the legislature. The maxim is not
to be so applied as to narrow the words of the statute to the
exclusion of cases which those words, in their ordinary acceptation, or in that sense in which the legislature has obviously
used them, would comprehend. The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the words they employ. Where
there is no ambiguity in the words, there is no room for construction." In United States v. Morris, 14 Pet. 464, 475, this
court, speaking by Chief Justice Taney, said: "In expounding
a penal statute the court certainly will not extend it beyond

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 359
193 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., Affirming Decree.

the plain meaning of its words; for it has been long and well
settled that such statutes must be construed strictly. Yet
the evident intention of the legislature ought not to be defeated
by a forced and overstrict construction. 5 Wheat. 95." So,
in The Schooner Industry, 1 Gall. 114, 117, Mr. Justice Story
said: "We are undoubtedly bound to construe penal statutes
strictly; and not to extend them beyond their obvious meaning
by strained inferences. On the other hand, we are bound to
interpret them according to the manifest import of the words,
and to hold all cases which are within the words and the mischiefs to be within the remedial influence of the statute." In
another case the same eminent jurist said: "I agree to that
rule in its true and sober sense; and that is, that penal statutes
are not to be enlarged by implication or extended to cases not
obviously within their words and purport. . . . In short,
it appears to me that the proper course in all these cases is to
search out and follow the true intent of the legislature, and to
adopt that sense of the words which harmonizes the best with
the context, and promotes in the fullest manner the apparent
policy and objects of the legislature." United States v. Winn,
3 Sumner, 209, 211, 212. In People v. Bartow, 6 Cowen, 290,
the highest court of New York said: "Although a penal statute
is to be construed strictly, the court are not to disregard the
plain intent of the legislature. Among other things, it is well
settled that a statute which is made for the good of the public,
ought, although it be penal, to receive an equitable construction." So, in Commonwealth v. Martin,17 Massachusetts, 359,
362, the highest court of Massachusetts said: "If a statute,
creating or increasing a penalty, be capable of two constructions, undoubtedly that construction which operates in favor
of life or liberty is to be adopted; but it is not justifiable in
this, any more than in any other case, to imagine ambiguities,
merely that a lenient construction may be adopted. If such
were the privilege of a court, it would be easy to obstruct
the public will in almost every statute enacted; for it rarely
happens that one is so precise and exact in its terms, as to

OCTOBER TERT, 1903.
I[..JUSTICE BREWER, concurring.

193 U. S.

preclude the exercise of ingenuity in raising doubts about its
construction." There are cases almost without number in
this country and in England to the same effect.
Guided by these long-established rules of construction, it is
manifest that if the Anti-Trust Act is held not to embrace a
case such as is nox; before us, the plain intention of the legislative branch of the Government will be defeated. If Congress
has not, by the words used in the act, described this and like
cases, it would, we apprehend, be impossible to find words that
would describe them. This, it must be remembered, is a suit
in equity, instituted by authority of Congress "to prevent and
restrain violations of the act," § 4; and the court, in virtue of
a well settled rule governing proceedings in equity, may mould
its decree so as to accomplish practical results-such results
as law and justice demand. The defendants have no just
cause to complain of the decree, in matter of law, and it should
be affirmed.
The judgment of the court is that the (lecree below be and
hereby is affirmed, with liberty to the Circuit Court to proceed
in the execution of its decree as the circumstances may require.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BRwEwn, concurring.

I cannot assent to all that is said in the opinion just announced, and believe that the importance of the case and the
questions involved justify a brief statement of my views.
First, let me say that while I was with the majority of the
court in the decision in United States v. Freight Association,
166 U. S. 290, followed by the cases of United States v. Joint
Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, Addyston Pipe & Steel Company v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, and Montague & Co. v.
Louj, 193 U. S. 38, decided at the present term, and while
a further examination (which has been induced by the able and
exhaustive arguments of counsel in the present case) has not
disturbed the conviction that those cases were rightly decided,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 361
193

U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BR~wER,

-concurring.

I think that in some respects the reasons given for the judgments cannot be sustained. Instead of holding that the AntiTrust Act included all contracts, reasonable or unreasonable,
in restraint of interstate trade, the ruling should have been that
the coiftracts there presented were unreasonable restraints of
interstate trade, and as such within the scope of the act. That
act, as appears from its title, was leveled at only "unlawful
restraints and monopolies." Congress did not intend to reach
and destroy those minor contracts in partial restraint of trade
which the long course of decisions at common law had affirmed
were reasonable and ought to be upheld. The purpose rather
was to place a statutory prohibition with prescribed penalties
and remedies upon those contracts which were in direct restraint of trade, unreasonable and against public policy.
Whenever a departure from common law rules and definitions
is claimed, the purpose to make the departure should be clearly
shown. Such a purpose does not appear and such a departure
was not intended.
Further, the general language of the act is also limited by the
power which each individual has to manage his own property
and determine the place and manner of its investment. Freedom of action in these respects is among the inalienable rights
of every citizen. If, applying this thought to the present case,
it appeared that Mr. Hill was the owner of a. majority of the
stock in the Great Northern Railway Company he could not
by any act of Congress be deprived of the right of investing
his surplus means in the purchase of stock of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, although such purchase might tend
to vest in him through that ownership a control over both
companies. In other words, the right, which all other citizens
had, of purchasing Northern Pacific stock could not be denied
to him by Congress because of his ownership of stock in the
Great Northern Company. Such was the ruling in Pearsall
v. Great Northern Railway, 161 U. S. 646, in which this court
said (p..671), in reference to the right of the stockholders of
the Great Northern Company to purchase the stock of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
MR. JUSTICE BRnWER, concurring.

193 U. S.

Northern Pacific Railway Company: "Doubtless these stockholders could lawfully acquire by individual purchases a majority, or even the whole of the stock of the reorganized company, and thus possibly obtain its ultimate control; but the
companies would still remain separate corporations with no
interests, as such, in common."
But no such investment by a single individual of his means
is here presented. There was a combination by several individuals separately owning stock in two competing railroad
companies to place the control of both in a single corporation.
The purpose to combine and by combination destroy competition existed before the organization of the corporation, the
Securities Company. That corporation, though nominally
having a capital stock of $400,000,000, had no means of its
own; $30,000 in cash was put into its treasury, but simply
for the expenses of organization. The organizers might just
as well have made the nominal stock a thousand millions as
four hundred, and the corporation would have been no richer
or poorer. A corporation, while by fiction of law recognized
for some purposes as a person and for purposes of jurisdiction
as a citizen, is not endowed with the inalienable rights of a
natural person. It is an artificial person, created and existing
only for the convenient transaction of business. In this case
it was a mere instrumentality by which separate railroad properties were combined under one control. That combination
is as direct a restraint of trade by destroying competition as
the appointment of a committee to regulate rates. The prohibition of such a combination is not at all inconsistent with
the right of an individual to purchase stock. The transfer of
stock to the Securities Company was a mere incident, the
manner in which the combination to destroy competition and
thus unlawfully restrain trade was carried out.
If the parties interested in these two railroad companies can,
through the instrumentality of a holding corporation, place
both under one control, then in like manner, as was conceded
on the argument by one of the counsel for the appellants, could

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 363
193 U. S.

Ma.

JUSTICE BREWER, concurring.

the control of all the railroad companies in the country be
placed in a single corporation. Nor need this arrangement
for control stop with what has already been done. The holders
of $201,000,000 of stock in the Northern Securities Company
might organize another corporation to hold their stock in that
company, and the new corporation holding the majority of the
stock in the Northern Securities Company and acting in obedience to the wishes of a majority of its stockholders would
control the action of the Securities Company and through it
the action of the two railroad companies, and this process
might be extended until a single corporation whose stock was
owned by three or four parties would be in practical control
of both roads, or, having before us the possibilities of combination, the control of the whole transportation system of the
country. I cannot believe that to be a reasonable or lawful
restraint of trade.
Again, there is by this suit no interference with state control.
It is a recognition rather than. a disregard of its action. This
merging of control and destruction of competition was not
authorized, but specifically prohibited by the State which
created one of the railroad companies, and within whose
boundaries the lines of both were largely located and much
of their business transacted. The purpose and policy of the
State are therefore enforced by the decree. So far as the work
of the two railroad companies was interstate commerce, it was
subject to the control of Congress, and its purpose and policy
were expressed in the act under which this suit was brought.
It must also be remembered that under present conditions
a single railroad is, if not a legal, largely a practical, monopoly,
and the arrangement by which the control of these two competing roads was merged in a single corporation broadens and
extends such monopoly. I cannot look upon it as other than
an unreasonable combination in restraint of interstate commerce-one in conflict with state law and within the letter and
spirit of the statute and the power of Congress. Therefore I
concur in the judgment of affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PeoKEAM-,

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

I have felt constrained to make these observations for fear
that the broad and sweeping language of the opinion of the
court might tend to unsettle legitimate business enterprises,
stifle or retard wholesome business activities, encourage improper disregard of reasonable contracts and invite unnecessary
litigation.
MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE,

with whom concurred MR. CiinF

JUSTICE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

and

MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES, dissenting.

The Northern Securities Company is a New Jersey corporation; the Great Northern Railway Company, a Minnesota
one; and the Northern Pacific Railway Company, a Wisconsin
corporation. Whilst in the argument at bar the Government referred to the subject, nevertheless it expressly disclaimed predicating any claim for relief upon the fact thalt ihe
predecessor in title of the Northern Pacific Railway Company
was a corporation created by act of Congress. That fact,
therefore, may be eliminated.
The facts essential to be borne in mind to understand my
point of view, without going into details, are as follows: The
lines of the Northern Pacific and the Great Northern Railway
companies are both transcontinental, that is, trunk lines to
the Pacific Ocean, and in some aspects are conceded to be
competing. Mr. Morgan and Mr. Hill and a few personis immediately associated with them separately acquired and owned
capital stock of the Northern Pacific Railway Company, aggregating a majority thereof. Mr. Hill and others associated with him owned, in the same manner, about one-third of
the capital stock of the Great Northern Railway Company,
the balance of the stock being distributed among about eighteen hundred stockholders. Uthough Mr. Hill and his immediate associates owned only one-third of the stock, the confidence reposed in Mr. Hill was such that, through proxies,
his influence was dominant in the affairs of that company.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 365
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CampF JUSTICE, PECKHAm, HOLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

Under these circumstances Mr. Morgan and Mr. Hill organized
under the laws of New Jersey the Northern Securities Company. The purpose was that the company should become the
holder of the stock of the two railroads. This was to be effected by having the Northern Securities Company give its
stock in exchange for that of the two railroad companies.
Whilst the purpose of the promoters was mainly to exchange
the stock held by them in the two railroads for the Northern
Securities Company stock, nevertheless the right of stockholders generally in the two railroads to make a similar exchange or to sell their stock to the Securities Company was
provided for. Under the arrangement the Northern Securities Company came to be the registered holder of a majority
of the stock of both the railroads. It is not denied that the
charter, and the acts done under it, of the Northern Securities
Company, were authorized by the laws of New Jersey, and,
therefore, in so far as those laws were competent to sanction
the transaction, the corporation held the stock in the two railroads secured by the law of the State of its domicil.
The government by its bill challenges the right of the Northern Securities Company to hold and own the stock in the two
railroads. The grounds upon which the relief sought was
based were, generally speaking, as follows: That as the two
railroads were competing lines engaged in part in interstate
commerce, the creation of the Northern Securities Company
and the acquisition by it of a majority of the stock of both
roads was contrary to the act of Congress known as the AntiTrust Act. 26 Stat. 209. The clauses of the act which it
was charged were violated were the first section, declaring
illegal "every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States, or with foreign nations;" and the
provisions of the second section making it a misdemeanor for
any person to "monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other persoi or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PICKmum,

HOL3IES,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

States or with foreign nations." The court below sustained
the contentions of the government. It, therefore, enjoined
the two railroad companies from allowing the Northern Socurities Company to vote the stock standing in its name or to
pay to that company any dividends upon the stock by it held.
On the giving, however, of a bond fixed by the court below
the decree relating to the payment of dividends was suspended pending the appeal to this court.
The court recognized, however, the right of the Northern
Securities Company to retransfer the stock in both railroads
to the persons from whom it had been acquired. The correctness of the decree below is the question presented for decision.
Two questions arise. Does the Anti-Trust Act, when rightly
interpreted, apply to the acquisition and ownership by the
Northern Securities Company of the stock in the two railroads,
and, second, if it does, had Congress the power to regulate or
control such acquisition and ownership? As the question of
power lies at the root of the case, I come at once to consider
that subject. Before doing so, however, in order to avoid
being misled by false or irrelevant issues, it is essential to
briefly consider two questions of fact. It is said, first, that
the mere exchange by the Northern Securities Company of
its stock for stock in the railroads did not make the Northern
Securities Company the real owner of the stock in the railroads, since the effect of the transaction was to cause the Securities Company to become merely the custodian or trustee
of the stock in the railroads; second, that as the two railro'ld ,
were both over-capitalized, stock in them furnished no sufficient consideration for the issue of the stock of the Northern
Securities Company. It would suffice to point out, a, that
the proof shows that nearly nine million dollars were paid by
the Securities Company for a portion of the stock acquired
by it, and that, moreover, nearly thirty-five million dollars were
expended by the Securities Company in the purchase of bonds
of the Northern Pacific Company, which have been converted
by the Securities Company into the stock of that railroad,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM,

367

HOLtES, JJ., dissenting.

which the Securities Company now holds; and, b, that the
market value of the railroad stocks is, moreover, indisputably
shown by the proof to have been equal to the value fixed on
them for the purpose of the exchange or purchase of such
stock by the Northern Securities Company. Be this as it
may, it is manifest that these considerations can have no
possible influence on the question of the power of Congress in
the premises; and therefore the suggestions can serve only to
obscure the controversy. If the power was in Congress to
legislate on the subject it becomes wholly immaterial what
was the nature of the consideration paid by the company for
the stock by it acquired and held if such acquisition and ownership, even if real, violated the act of Congress. If on the contrary the authority of Congress could not embrace the right
of the Northern Securities Company to acquire and own the
stock, the question of what consideration the Northern Securities Company paid for the stock or the method by which
it was transferred must necessarily be beyond the scope of the
act of Congress.
In testing the power of Congress I shall proceed upon the
assumption that the act of Congress forbids the acquisition of
a majority of the stock of two competing railroads engaged in
part in interstate commerce by a corporation or any combination of persons.

The authority of Congress, it is conceded by all, must rest
upon the power delegated by the eighth section of the first
article of the Constitution, "to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States and with the
Indian tribes." The proposition upon which the case for
the government depends then is that the ownership of stock
in railroad corporations created by a State is interstate
commerce, wherever the railroads engage in interstate commerce.
At the outset, the absolute correctness is admitted of the
declaration of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden,
that the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

States and with foreign nations "is complete in itself and may
be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no ]iuitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution;" and that if
the end to be accomplished is within the scope of the ('onstitution, "all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end and which are not prohibited, are constitutional."
The plenary authority of Congress over interstate commerce,
its right to regulate it to the fullest extent, to fix the rates to
be charged for the movement of interstate commerce, to legislate concerning the ways and vehicles actually engaged in such
traffic, and to exert any and every other power over such
commerce which flows from the authority conferred by the
Constitution, is thus conceded. But the concessions thus
made do not concern the question in this case, which is not
the scope of the power of Congress to regulate commerce, but
whether the power extends to regulate the ownership of stock
in railroads, which is not commerce at all. The confusion
which results from failing to observe this distinction will
appear from an accurate analysis of Gibbons v. Ogden, for in
that case the great Chief Justice was careful to define the
commerce, the power to regulate which was conferred upon
Congress, and in the passages which I have previously quoted,
simply pointed out the rule by which it was to be determined
in any case whether Congress, in acting upon the subject, had
gone beyond the limits of the power to regulate commerce as
it was defined in the opinion. Accepting the test announced
in Gibbons v. Ogden for determining whether a given exercise
of the power to regulate commerce has in effect transcended
the limits of regulation, it is essential to accept also the luminous definition of commerce announced in that case andapproved so many times since, and hence to test the question for
decision by that definition. The definition is this: "Commerce
undoubtedly is traffic, but it is something more, it is intercourse. It describes the commercial intercourse between nations and parts of nations in all its branches, and is regulated

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. r. UNITED STATES. 369
193 U. S. WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

PECKHAM,

HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse." (Italics
mine.)
Does the delegation of authority to Congress to regulate
commerce among the States embrace the power to regulate
the ownership of stock in state corporations, because such
corporations may be in part engaged in interstate commerce?
Certainly not, if such question is to be governed by the definition of commerce just quoted from Gibbons v. Ogden. Let me
analyze the definition. "Commerce undoubtedly is traffic,
but it is something more, it is intercourse;" that is, traffic
between the States and intercourse between the States. I
think the ownership of stock in a state corporation cannot be
said to be in any sense traffic between the States or intercourse
between them. The definition continues: "It describes the
commercial intercourse between nations and parts of nations."
Can the ownership of stock in a state corporation, by the most
latitudinarian construction, be embraced by the words "commercial intercourse between nations and parts of nations?"
And to remove all doubt, the definition points out the meaning
of the delegation of power to regulate, since it says that it is
to be "regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse." Can it in reason be maintained that to prescribe
rules governing the ownership of stock within a State in a
corporation created by it is within the power to prescribe
rules for the regulation of intercourse between citizens of
different States?
But if the question be looked at with reference to the powers
of the Federal and state governments, the general nature of
the one and the local character of the other, which it was the
purpose of the Constitution to create and perpetuate, it seems
to me evident that the contention that the authority of the
National Government under the commerce clause gives the
right to Congress to regulate the ownership of stock in railroads
chartered by state authority, is absolutely destructive of the
Tenth Amendment to the Constitution, which provides that
"the powers not delegated to the United States by the ConstiSVOL.
cxCIIm-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The CHIEF

JUSTICE, PECKHA.%,

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

tution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively or to the people." This must follow, since
the authority of Congress to regulate on the subject, can in
reason alone rest upon the proposition that its power over
commerce embraces the right to control the ownership of railroads doing in part an interstate commerce business. But.
power to control the ownership of all such railroads would
necessarily embrace their organization. Hence it would result
that it would be in the power of Congress to abrogate every
such railroad charter granted by the States from the beginning
if Congress deemed that the rights conferred by such state
charters tended to restrain commerce between the States or
to create a monopoly concerning the same.
Besides, if the principle be acceded to, it must in reason be
held to embrace every consolidation of state railroads which
may do in part an interstate commerce business, even although
such consolidation may have been expressly authorized by the
laws of the States creating the corporations.
It would likewise overthrow every state law forbidding such
consolidations, for if the ownership of stock in state corporations be within the regulating power of Congress under the
commerce clause and can be prohibited by Congress, it would
be within the power of that body to permit that which it had
the right to prohibit.
But the principle that the ownership of property is embraced
within the power of Congress to regulate commerce, whenever
that body deems that a particular character of ownership, if
allowed to continue, may restrain commerce between the States
or create a monopoly thereof, is in my opinion in conflict with
the most elementary conceptions of rights of property. For
it would follow if Congress deemed that the acquisition by
one or more individuals engaged in interstate commerce of
more than a certain amount of property would be prejudicial
to interstate commerce, the amount of property held or the
amount which could be employed in interstate commerce
could be regulated.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 371
193 U. S.

WHITE,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

In the argument at bar many of the consequences above

indicated as necessarily resulting from the contention made
were frankly admitted, since it was conceded that, even although the holding of the stock in the two railroads by the
Northern Securities Company which is here assailed, was
expressly authorized by the laws of both the States by which
the railroad corporations were created, as it was by the law
of the State of New Jersey, nevertheless as such authority, if
exerted by the States, would be a regulation of interstate commerce, it would be repugnant to the Constitution as an attempt
on the part of the States to interfere with the paramount authority of Congress on that subject. True, this assertion, made
in the oral argument, in the printed argument is qualified by
an intimation that the rule would not apply to state action
taken before the adoption of the Anti-Trust Act, since up to
that time, in consequence of the inaction of Congress on the
subject, the States were free to legislate as they pleased regarding the matter. But this suggestion is without foundation
to rest on. It has long since beon determined by this court
that where a particular subject matter is national in its character and requires uniform regulation, the absence of legislation
by Congress on the subject indicates the will of Congress that
the subject should be free from state control. County of
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing
District, 120 U. S. 489, 493; United States v. E. C. Knight Company, 156 U. S. 1.
It is said, moreover, that the decision of this case does not
involve the consequences above pointed out, since the only
issue in this case is the right of the Northern Securities Company to acquire and own the stock. The right of that company
to do so, it is argued, is one thing; the power of individuals or
corporations, when not merely organized to hold stock, an
entirely different thing. My mind fails to seize the distinction.
The only premise by which the power of Congress can be extended to the subject matter of the right of the Securities
Company to own the stock miust be the proposition that sueh

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WmT, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKEAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

ownership is within the legislative power of Congress, -nd if
that proposition be admitted it is not perceived by what
process of reasoning the power of Congress over the subject
matter of ownership is to be limited to ownership by particular
classes of corporations or persons. If the power emlraces
ownership, then the authority of Congress over all ownership
which in its judgment may affect interstate commerce necessarily exists. In other words, the logical result of the asserted
distinction amounts to one of two things. Either that nothing
is decided or that a decree is to be entered having no foundation
upon which to rest. This is said because if the control of the
ownership of stock in competing roads by one and the same
corporation is within the power of Congress, and creates a
restraint of trade or monopoly forbidden by Congress, it is not
conceivable to me how exactly similar ownership by one or
more individuals would not create the same restraint or monopoly, and be equally within the prohibition which it is decided
Congress has imposed. Besides the incongruity of the conclusion resulting from the alleged distinction, to admit it would
do violence to both the letter and spirit of the Constitution,
since it would in effect hold that, although a particular act was
a burden upon interstate commerce or a monopoly thereof,
individuals could lawfully do the act, provided only they
did not use the instrumentality of a corporation. But this
court long since declared that the power to regulate commerce,
conferred upon Congress, was "general and includes alike
commerce by individuals, partnerships, associations and corporations." Pau v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 183.
Indeed, the natural reluctance of the mind to follow an
erroneous principle to its necessary conclusion, and thus to
give effect to a grievous wrong arising from the erroneous
principle, is an admonition that the principle itself is wrong.
That admonition, I submit, is conclusively afforded by the
decree which is now affirmed. Without stopping to point out
what seems to me to be the confusion, contradiction and denial
of rights of property which the decree exemplifies, let me see

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 373
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAm, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

if in effect it is not at war with itself and in conflict with the
principle upon which it is assumed to be based.
Fundamentally considered, the evil sought to be remedied
is the restraint of interstate commerce and the monopoly
thereof, alleged to have been brought about, through the
acquisition by Mr. Morgan and.Mr. Hill and their friends and
associates, of a controlling interest in the stock of both the
roads. And yet the decree, whilst forbidding the use of the
stock by the Northern Securities Company, authorizes its
return to the alleged conspirators, and does not restrain them
from exercising the control resulting from the ownership. If
the conspiracy and combination existed and was illegal, my
mind fails to perceive why it should be left to produce its full
force and effect in the hands of the individuals by whom it was
charged the conspiracy was entered into.
It may, however, be said that even if the results which I
have indicated be held necessarily to arise from the principles
contended for by the government, it does not follow that such
power would ever be exerted by Congress, or, if exerted, would
be enforced to the detriment of charters granted by the States
to railroads or consolidations thereof, effected under state
authority, or the ownership of stock in such railroads by individials, or the rights of individuals to acquire property by
purchase, lease or otherwise, and to make any and all contracts
concerning property which may thereafter become the subject
matter of interstate commerce. The first suggestion is at
once met by the consideration that it has been decided by
this court that, as the Anti-Trust Act forbids any restraint,
it therefore embraces even reasonable contracts or agreements.
If, then, the ownership of the stock of the two railroads by the
Northern Securities Company is repugnant to the act it follows
that ownership, whether by the individual or another corporation, would be equally within the prohibitions of the act.
As to the second, true it is that by the terms of the Anti-Trust
Act the power to put its provisions in motion is, as to many
particulars, confided to the highest law officer of the govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKiLAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

ment, and if that officer did not invoke the aid of the courts
to restrain the rights of the railroads previously chartered by
the States to enjoy the benefits conferred upon them by state
legislation, or to prevent individuals from exercising their
right of ownership and contract, the law in these respects
would remain a dead letter. But to indulge in this assumption
would be but to say that the law would not be enforced by the
highest law officer of the government, a conclusion which, of
course, could not be indulged in for a moment. In any view,
such suggestion but involves the proposition that vast rights
of property, instead of resting upon constitutional and legal
sanction, must alone depend upon whether an executive officer
might elect to enforce the law-a conclusion repugnant to
every principle of liberty and justice.
Having thus by the light of reason sought to show the unsoundness of the proposition that the power of Congress to
regulate commerce extends to controlling the acquisition anld
ownership of stock in state corporations, railroad or otherwise,
because they may be doing an interstate commerce business,
or to the consolidation of such companies under the sanction
of state legislation, or to the right of the citizen to enjoy his
freedom of contract and ownership, let me now endeavor to
show, by a review of the practices of the governments; both
state and national, from the beginning and the adjudications
of this court, how wanting in merit is the proposition contended for. It may not be doubted that from the foundation
of the government, at all events to the time of the adoption
of the Anti-Trust Act of 1890, there was an entire absence of
any legislation by Congress even suggesting that it was deemed
by any one that power was possessed by Congress to control
the ownership of stock in railroad or other corporations, b)e-

cause such corporations engaged in interstate commerce. On
the contrary, when Congress came to exert its authority to
regulate interstate commerce as carried on by railroads, nmnifested by the adoption of the interstate commerce act, 24 Star.
379, it sedulously confined the provisions of that act to the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 375
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

PECKHAM, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

carrying on of interstate commerce itself, including the reasonableness of the rates to be charged for carrying on such commerce and other matters undeniably concerning the fact of
interstate commerce. The same conception was manifested
subsequently in legislation concerning safety appliances to be
used by railroads, since the provisions of the act were confined
to such appliances when actually employed in the business of
interstate commerce. 27 Stat. 531. It also may not be
doubted that from the beginning the various States of the
Union have treated the incorporation and organization of
railroad companies and the ownership of stock therein as
matters within their exclusive authority. Under this conception of power in the States, universally prevailing and
always acted upon, the entire railroad system of the United
States has been built up. Charters, leases and consolidations
under the sanction of state laws lie at the basis of that enormous sum of property and those vast interests represented
by the railroads of the United States. Extracts from the
reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission and from a
standard authority on the subject, which were received in
evidence, demonstrate that in effect nearly every great railroad
system in the United States is the result of the consolidation
and unification of various roads, often competitive, such consolidation or unification of management having been brought
about in every conceivable form, sometimes by lease under
state authority, sometimes by such leases made where there
was no prohibition against them, and by stock acquisitions
made by persons or corporations in order to acquire a controlling interest in both roads. Without stopping to recite
details on the subject, I content myself with merely mentioning
a few of the instances where great systems of railroad have been
formed by the unification of the management of competitive
roads, by consolidation or otherwise, often by statutory authority. These instances embrace the Boston and Maine
system, the New York, New Haven and Hartford, the New
York Central, the Reading, and the Pennsylvania systems.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CiEF JUSTICE, PecrLur, HOLmES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

One of the illustrations-as to the New York Central system
-is the case of the Hudson River Railroad on one side of the
Hudson River and the West Shore Railroad on the other, both
parallel roads and directly competitive, and both united in
one management b.y authority of a legislative act. It is indeed
remarkable, if the whole subject was within the paramount
power of Congress and not within the authority of the States,
that there should have been a universal understanding to the
contrary from the beginning. When it is borne in mind that
such universal action related to interests of the most vital
character, involving property of enormous amount concerning
the welfare of the whole people, it is impossible in reason to
deny the soundness of the assumption that it was the universal
conviction that the States, and not Congress, had control of
the subject matter of the organization and ownership of railroads created by the States. -Andthe same inference is applicable to the condition of things which has existed since the
adoption of the Anti-Trust Act in 1890. Who can deny that
from that date to this consolidations and unification of management, by means of leases, stock ownership by individuals
or corporations, have been carried on, when not prohibited by
state laws, to a vast extent, and that during all this time,
despite the energy of the government in invoking the AntiTrust Law, that no assertion of power in Congress under that
act to control the ownership of stock was ever knowingly made
until first asserted in this cause. Quite recently Congress has
amended the interstate commerce act by provisions deemed
essential to make its prohibitions more practically operative,
and yet no one of such provisions lends itself even to the
inference that it was deemed by any one that the power of
Congress extended to the control of stock ownership. Certainly the States have not so considered it. As a matter of
public history it is to be observed that not long since, by
authority of the legislature of the State of Massachusetts, a
controlling interest by lease of the Boston and Albany road
passed to the New York Central system.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 377
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JusTICE, PEcKH,&m,

HoLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

The decisions of this court to my mind leave no room for

doubt on the subject. As I have already shown, the very
definition of the power to regulate commerce, as announced
in Gibbons v. Ogden, excludes the conception that it extends
to stock ownership. I shall not stop to review a multitude
of decisions of this court concerning interstate commerce,
which, whilst upholding the paramount authority of Congress
over that subject, at the same time treated it as elementary,
that the effect of the power over commerce between the States
was not to deprive the States of their right to legislate concerning the ownership of property of every character or to
create railroad corporations and to endow them with such
powers as were deemed appropriate, or to deprive the individual of his freedom to acquire, own and enjoy property by
descent, contract or otherwise, because railroads or other
property might become the subject of interstate commerce.
In Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, the question was as to the
power of the State of Virginia to license a foreign insurance
company, and one of the contentions considered was whether
the contract of insurance, since it was related to commerce,
was within the regulating power of Congress and not of the
State of Virginia. The proposition was disposed of in the
following language (p. 183):
"Issuing a policy of insurance is not a transaction of commerce. The policies are simply contracts of indemnity against
loss by fire, entered into between the corporations and the
assured, for a consideration paid by the latter. These contracts are not articles of commerce in any proper meaning of
the word. They are not subjects of trade and barter offered
in the market as something having an existence and value
independent of the parties to them. They are not commodities to be shipped or forwarded from one State to another, and
then put up for sale. They are like other personal contracts
between parties which are completed by their signature and
the transfer of the consideration. Such contracts are not
interstate transactions, though the parties may be domiciled

OCTOBER TEP31, 1903.
WmiTE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PEciHAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

in different States. The policies do not take effect-are not
executed contracts-until delivered by the agent in Virginia.
They are, then, local transactions, and are governed by the
local law. They do not constitute a part of the commerce
between the States any more than a contract for the purchase
and sale of goods in Virginia by a citizen of New York whilst
in Virginia would constitute a portion of such commerce."
In other words, the court plainly pointed out the distinction
between interstate commerce as such and the contracts concerning, or the ownership of property which might become the
subjects of interstate commerce. And the authority of Paul
v. Virginia has been repeatedly approved in subsequent cases,
whioh are so familiar as not to require citation.
In Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, the question was
this: The State of Mlaryland had chartered the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company, and in the charter had imposed upon
it the duty of paying to the State a certain proportion of all its
receipts from freight, which applied as well to interstate as
domestic freight. The argument was that these provisions
were repugnant to the commerce clause, because they necessarily increased the sum which the railroad would have to
charge, and thereby constituted a regulation of commerce.
The court held the law not to be repugnant to the Constitution,
and in the course of the opinion said (p. 473):
"In view, however, of the very plenary powers which a
State has always been conceded to have over its own territory,
its highways, its franchises and its corporations, we cannot
regard the stipulation in question as amounting to either of
these unconstitutional acts."
True it is that some of the expressions used in the opinion
in the case just cited, giving rise to the inference that there
was power in the State to regulate the rates of freight on interstate commerce, may be considered as having been overruled
by Wabash Railroad Company v. Illinois, 118 IT.S. 557. But
that case also in the fullest manner pointed out the fact that
the power to regulate commerce, conferred on Congress by the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 379
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHrEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM,

HoLmms, JJ., dissenting.

Constitution, related not to the mere ownership of property
or to contracts concerning property, because such property
might subsequently be used in interstate commerce or become
the subject of it. For instance, the definition given of interstate commerce in Gibbons v. Ogden, previously referred to,
was reiterated and in addition the definition expounded in
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, was approvingly
quoted. That definition was as follows (p. 574):
" 'Commerce with foreign countries and among the States,
strictly construed, consists in intercourse and traffic, including
in these terms navigation and the transportation and transit
of persons and property, as well as the purchase, sale and
exchange of commodities. For the regulation of commerce
as thus defined there can be only one system of rules, applicable
alike to the whole country; and the authority which can act for
the whole country can alone adopt such a system. Action
upon it by separate States is not, therefore, permissible. Language affirming the exclusiveness of the grant of power over
commerce as thus defined may not be inaccurate, when it would
be so if applied to legislation upon subjects which are merely
auxiliary to conmerce.' "
In Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436, this was the question:
The property of various railroad corporations operating in the
States of Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri had
been sold under decrees of foreclosure. The purchasers of the
respective lines availed themselves of the Ohio statutes, and
consolidated all the corporations into one so as to form a single
system, the Wabash. On presenting the articles of consolidation to the Secretary of State of Ohio, that officer demanded
a fee imposed by the Oiio statutes, predicated upon the sum
total of the capital stock of the consolidated company. This
was refused on the ground that the State of Ohio had no right
to make the charge, and that its doing so was repugfhant to the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States and
to the Fourteenth Amendment. This court decided against
this contention. It held that, as the right to consolidate could

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, Pmc1tHmM, HOLmES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

alone arise from the Ohio law, the corporation could not avail
of that law and avoid the condition which the law imposed.
Speaking of the consolidation, the court said (p. 440):
"The rights thus sought could only be acquired by the grant
of the State of Ohio, and depended for their existence upon the
provisions of its laws. Without that State's consent they could
not have been procured."
And, after a copious review of the authorities concerning the
power of the State over the consolidation, the case was summed
up by the court in the following passage (p. 446):
"Considering, as we do, that the payment of the charge was
a condition imposed by the State of Ohio upon the taking of
corporate being or the exercise of corporate franchises, the
right to which depended solely on the will of that State," (italics
mine,) "and hence that liability for the charge was entirely
optional, we conclude that the exaction constituted no tax
upon interstate commerce, or the right to carry on the same,
or the instruments thereof, and that its enforcement involved
no attempt on the part of the State to extend its taxing power
beyond its territorial limits."
How a right which was thus decided to depend solely upon
the authority of the States can now be said to depend solely
upon the will of Congress, I do not perceive.
In United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1,the facts and
the relief based on them were thus stated by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, delivering the opinion of the court (p. 9):
"By the purchase of the stock of the four Philadelphia
refineries, with shares of its own stock, the American Sugar
Refining Company acquired nearly complete control of the
manufacture of refined sugar within the United States. The
bill charged that the contracts under which these purchases
were made constituted combinations in restraint of trade, and
that in entering into them the defendants combined and conspired to restrain the trade and commerce in refined sugar
among the several States and with foreign nations, contrary
to the act of Congress of July 2, 1890."

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 381
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

PEcKHA

i,

HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

After referring, in a general way, to what constituted a
monopoly or restraint of trade at common law, the question for
decision was thus stated (p. 11):
"The fundamental question is, whether conceding that the
existence of a monopoly in manufacture is established by the
evidence, that monopoly can be directly suppressed under the
act of Congress in the mode attempted by this bill."
Examining this question as to the power of Congress, it was
observed (p. 11):
"It cannot be denied that the power of a State to protect
the lives, health and property of its citizens, and to preserve
good order and the public morals, 'the power to govern men
and things within the limits of its dominion,' is a power originally and always belonging to the States, not surrendered by
them to the general government, nor directly restrained by
the Constitution of the United States, and essentially exclusive."
Next, pointing out that the power of Congress over interstate
commerce and the fact that its failure to legislate over subjects
requiring uniform legislation expressed the will of Congress
that the State should be without power to act on that subject,
the court came to consider whether the power of Congress to
regulate commerce embraced the authority to regulate and
control the ownership of stock in the state sugar refining companies, because the products of such companies when manufactured might become the subject of interstate commerce.
Elaborately passing upon that question and reaffirming the
definition of Chief Justice Marshall of commerce, in the constitutional sense, it was held that, whilst the power of Congress
extended to commerce as thus defined, it did not embrace the
ownership of stock in state corporations, because the products
of such manufacture might subsequently become the subject
of interstate commerce.
The parallel between the two cases is complete. The one
corporation acquired the stock of other and competing corporations by exchange for its own, It was conceded, for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAI, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

purposes of the case, that in doing so monopoly had been
brought about in the refining of sugar, that the sugar to be
produced was likely to become the subject of interstate commerce, and indeed that part of it would certainly become so.
But the power of Congress was decided not to extend to the
subject, because the ownership of the stock in the corporations
was not itself commerce.
In Pearsall v. The Great Northern Railway Company, 161
U. S. 646, the question was whether the acquisition by the
Great Northern road of a controlling interest in the stock of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company was a violation of a
Minnesota statute prohibiting the consolidation of competing
lines. It is at once evident that if the subject of consolidation
was within the authority of Congress, as Congress had not
expressed its will upon the subject, the act of the legislature
of Minnesota was void because repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States. But the possibility of such a contention
was not thought of by either party to the cause or by the court
itself. Treating the power of the State as undoubted, the court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Brown, decided that the Minnesota, law should be enforced. It was pointed out in the
opinion that, as the charter was one granted by the State, the
railroad company and the ownership of stock therein was subject to the state law, and this was made the basis of the decision.
Whilst, however, resting its conclusion upon the power of tile
State over the corporation by it created, the court was careful
to recognize that the authority in the State was so complete,
as the company was a state corporation, that the State had
the right, if it chose to do so, to authorize the consolidation, even
although the lines were competing.
In Louisville & Nashiille Railroad v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.
677, the power of the State to pass a law forbidding the consolidation of competing state railroad corporations doing in
part an interstate commerce business was again considered, and
a state statute in which the power was exercised was upheld.
!Jere, again, it is to be observed that if the consolidation of

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 383
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

PECKHAM, HOLmEs,

JJ., dissenting.

state railroad corporations, because they did in part an interstate commerce business, was within the paramount authority
of Congress, that authority was exclusive and the state regulation which the court upheld was void. And this question,
vital to the consideration of the case, and without passing
upon which it could not have been decided did not escape
observation, since it was explicitly pressed upon the court and
was directly determined. The court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Brown, said (pp. 701, 702):
"But little need be said in answer to the final contention of
the plaintiff in error, that the assumption of a right to forbid
the consolidation of parallel and competing lines is an interference with the power of Congress over interstate commerce.
The same remark may be made with respect to all police regulations of interstate railways.
"It has never been supposed that the dominant power of
Congress over interstate commerce took from the States the
power of legislation with respect to the instruments of such
commerce, so far as the legislation was within its ordinary
police powers. Nearly all the railways in the country have
been constructed under state authority, and it cannot be
supposed that they intended to abandon their power over them
as soon as they were finished. The power to construct them
involves necessarily the power to impose such regulations
upon their operation as a sound regard for the interests of the
public may seem to render desirable. In the division of authority with respect to interstate railways Congress reserves
to itself the superior right to control their commerce and forbid
interference therewith; while to the States remains the power
to create and to regulate the instruments of such commerce,
so far as necessary to the conservation of the public interests."

How one case could be more completely decisive of another
than the ruling in the case just quoted is of this, I am un,%bl
to perceive,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHaM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

The subject was considered at circuit in In re Greene, 52
Fed. Rep. 104. The case was this: A person was indicted in
one State for creating a monopoly in violation of the AntiTrust Act of Congress and was held in another State for extradition. The writ of habeas corpus was invoked, upon the
contention that the face of the indictment did not state an
offense against the United States, since the matters charged
did not involve interstate commerce. The case is referred to,
although it arose at circuit and was determined before the
decisions of this court in the Pearsalland Louisville and Nashville cases, because it was decided by Mr. Justice Jackson, then
a Circuit Judge, who subsequently, became a member of this
court. The opinion manifests that the case was considered
by Judge Jackson with that care which was his conceded
characteristic and was stated by him with that lucidity which
was his wont. In discharging the accused on the grounds
stated in the application for the writ, Judge Jackson said
(p. 112):
"Congress may place restrictions and limitations upon the
right of corporations created and organized under its authority
to acquire, use and dispose of property. It may also impose
such restrictions and limitations upon the citizen in respect to
the exercise of a public privilege or franchise conferred by the
United States. But Congress certainly has not the power or
authority under the commerce clause, or any other provision
of the Constitution, to limit and restrict the right of corporations created by the States, or the citizens of the States, in the
acquisition, control and disposition of property. Neither can
Congress regulate or prescribe the price or prices at which such
property, or products thereof, shall be sold by the owner or
owners, whether corporations or individuals. It is equally
clear that Congress has no jurisdiction over, and cannot make
criminal, the aims, purposes and intentions of persons in the
acquisition and control of property, which the States of their
residence or creation sanction and permit. It is not material
that such property, or the products thereof, may become the

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 385
193 U. S. WmHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM,

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

subject of trade or commerce among the several States or with
foreign nations. Commerce among the States, within the
exclusive regulating power of Congress, 'consists of intercourse
and traffic between their citizens, and includes the transportation of persons and property, as well as the purchase, sale and
exchange of commodities.' County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 691, 702; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
203. In the application of this comprehensive definition, it
is settled by the decision of the Supreme Court that such
commerce includes, not only the actual transportation of commodities and persons between the States, but also the instrumentalities and processes of such transportation.
"That neither the production or manufacture of articles or
commodities which constitute subjects of commerce, and which
are intended for trade and traffic with citizens of other States,
nor the preparation for their transportation from the State
where produced or manufactured, prior to the commencement
of the actual transfer, or transmission thereof to another State,
constitutes that interstate commerce which comes within the
regulating power of Congress; and, further, that after the termination of the transportation of commodities or articles of
traffic from one State to another, and the mingling or merging
thereof in the general mass of property in the State of destination, the sale, distribution and consumption thereof in the.
latter State forms no part of interstate commerce."
If this opinion had been written in the case now considered
it could not more completely than its reasoning does have disposed of the contention that the ownership of stock by a corporation in competing railroads was commerce.
United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, was this:
A large number of railway companies, who were made defendants in the cause, had formed themselves into an association,
known as the Trans-Missouri Freight Association, and the
companies had bound themselves by the provisions contained
in the articles of agreement. Many stipulations relating to
VOL. CXCIii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECrIm, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 193 IT. S.

the carrying on of interstate commerce over the roads which
were parties to the agreement were contained in it, and section 3
provided as follows:
"A committee shall be appointed to establish rates, rules
and regulations on the traffic subject to this association, and
to consider changes therein, and make rules for meeting the
competition of outside lines. Their conclusions, when unaimous, shall be made effective when they so order, but if they
differ the question at issue shall be referred to the managers
of the lines parties hereto; and if they disagree it shall be
arbitrated in the manner provided in article VII."
The government sought to dissolve the association on the
ground that the agreement restrained commerce between the
States, and therefore was in violation of the Anti-Trust Act..
On the hearing in this court, as the agreement directly related
in many particulars to interstate transportation and the charge,
to be made therefor, it was conceded on all hands that it embraced subjects which came within the power of Congress to
regulate commerce. The contentions on behalf of the association were these: First. That the movement of interstate
commerce by railroads was not within the Anti-Trust Act,
since Congress had regulated that subject by the interstate
commerce act, and did not intend to amplify its provisions in
any respect by the subsequent enactment of the Anti-Trust
Law. Second. That even if this were not the case, and the
movement of interstate commerce by railroads was affected
by the Anti-Trust Statute, the particular agreement in question
did not violate the act, because the agreement did not unreasonably restrain interstate commerce. Both these contentions were decided against the association, the court holding
that the Anti-Trust Act did embrace interstate carriage by
railroad corporations, and as that act prohibited any contract
in restraint of interstate commerce, it hence embraced all
contracts of that character, whether they were reasonable or
unreasonable.
The same subject was considered in a subsequent case,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 387
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. In
that case also there was no question that the agreement between the railroads related to the movement of interstate commerce, but it was insisted that the particular agreement there
involved did not seek to fix rates, but only to secure the continuation of just rates which had already been fixed, and hence
was not within the Anti-Trust Law. If this were held not to
be true, a reconsideration of the questions decided in the
Freight Association case was invoked. The court reviewed
and reiterated the rulings made in the FreiihtAssociation case
and held that the particular agreement in question came within
them.
I mention these two last cases not because they are apposite
to the case in hand, for they are not, since the contracts which
were involved in them confessedly concerned interstate commerce, whilst in this case the sole question is whether the
ownership of stock in competing railroads does involve interstate commerce. The cases are referred to in connection with
the decisions previously cited, because, taken together, they
illustrate the distinction which this court has always maintained between the power of Congress over interstate commerce and its want of authority to regulate subjects not embraced within that grant. The same distinction is aptly shown
in subsequent cases.
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, involved whether a
particular agreement entered into between persons carrying
on the business of selling cattle on commission, exclusively at
the Kansas City stock yards was valid. At those yards cattle
were received in vast numbers through the channels of interstate commerce, and from thence were distributed through
such channels. For these reasons the business of those engaged
exclusively in the sale of cattle on the stock yards was asserted
to be interstate commerce and within the power of Congress to
regulate. In the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice
Peckham, it was at the outset said (p. 586):
"The relief sought in this case is based exclusively on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM, HoLMEs,

JJ., dissenting. 193 11.8$

act of Congress approved July 2, 1890, c. 647, entitled 'An act
to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies,' commonly spoken of as the Anti-Trust Act. 26
Stat. 209.
"The act has reference only to that trade or commerce which
exists, or may exist, among the several States or with foreign
nations, and has no application whatever to any other trade
or commerce.
"The question meeting us at the threshold, therefore, in this
case is, what is th6 nature of the business of the defendants,
and are the by-laws, or any subdivision of them above referred
to, in their direct effect in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States or with foreign nations; or does the
case made by the bill and answer show that any one of the
above defendants has monopolized, or attempted to monopolize, or combined or conspired with other persons to monopolize,
any part of the trade or commerce among the several States
or with foreign nations?"
Proceeding, then, to consider the agreement, it was pointed
out that the contention that the sale of cattle on the stock yards
constituted interstate commerce was without merit. The distinction between interstate commerce as such and the power
to make contracts and to buy and sell property was clearly
stated, and because of that distinction the agreement was held
not to be within the act of Congress, because that act could
and did only relate to interstate commerce.
And on the day the decision just referred to was announced
another case under the Anti-Trust Act was decided. Anderson
v. United States, 171 U. S. 604. The difference between that
case and the Hopkins case was thus stated by Mr. Justice
Peckham, in delivering the opinion of the court (p. 612):
"This case differs from that of Hopkins v. United States,
supra, in the fact that these defendants are themselves purchasers of cattle on the market, while the defendants in the
Hopkins case were only commission merchants who sold the
cattle upon commission as a compensation for their services.

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 389
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The

CHIEP JUSTICE, PECEHAM, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

"Counsel for the Government assert that any agreement
or combination among buyers of cattle coming from other
States, of the nature of the by-laws in question, is an agreement or combination in restraint of interstate trade or commerce."
The court, however, said it did not deem it necessary to
decide whether the fact that the merchants who entered into
the agreement bought cattle in other States and shipped them
to other States, caused their business to be interstate commerce, because in any event the court was of opinion that the
agreement which was assailed, even if it involved interstate
commerce, was not in violation of any of the provisions of
the Anti-Trust Act.
The Anderson case was followed by Addyston Pipe & Steel
Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211. The case involved deciding
whether a particular combination of pipe manufacturers, looking to the control of the sale and transportation of such pipe
over a large territory, embracing many States and a division
of the territory between the members of the combination, was
within the prohibitions of the Anti-Trust Act. Coming to consider the subject, the court, through Mr. Justice Peckham,
analyzed the contract and pointed out its monopolistic features.
In answer to the argument that the matter complained of was
not commerce, because it related only to a sale of pipe, and
therefore was within the rule announced in the Knight and
Hopkins cases, the Knight case was approvingly reviewed,
and its doctrine in effect was reaffirmed, the court observing
(p. 240):
"The direct purpose of the combination in the Knight case
was the control of the manufacture of sugar. There was no
combination or agreement, in terms, regarding the future
disposition of the manufactured articles; nothing looking to a
transaction in the nature of interstate commerce.
"We think the case now before us involves contracts of the
nature last before mentioned, not incidentally or collaterally,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Wm'TE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHANM, HOLIMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

but as a direct and immediate result of the combination engaged in by defendants.

.

.

The defendants by reason

of this combination and agreement could only send their goods
out of the State in which they were manufactured for sale and
delivery in another State, upon the terms and pursuant to the
provisions of such combination. As pertinently asked by the
court below, was not this a direct restraint upon interstate
commerce in those goods?" (Italics mine.)
Having thus found that the agreement concerned interstate
commerce, because it directly purported to control the movement of goods from one State to the other, and besides sought
to prohibit that movement or restrict the same to particular
individuals, it was held that the contract was, for these reasons,
within the prohibitions of the act of Congress, and was therefore void. I do not pause to consider the case of Montague &
Co.v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, decided at this term, since on the face
of the opinion it is patent that the contract directly concerned
the shipment of goods from one State to another, and this
was the sole and exclusive basis of the decision.
Now, it is submitted, that the decided cases just reviewed
demonstrate that the acquisition and ownership of stock in
competing railroads, organized under state law, by several
persons or by corporations, is not interstate commerce, and,
therefore, not subject to the control of Congress. It is, indeed,
suggested that the cases establish a contrary doctrine. This
is sought to be demonstrated by quoting passages from the
opinions separated from their context apart from the questions
which the cases involved. But as the issues which were decided in the Knight, in the Pearsall,in the Louisville and Nashville case and in the Hopkins case directly exclude the significance attributed to the passages from the opinions in those
cases relied upon, it must follow that if such passages could,
when separated from their context, have the meaning attributed
to them the-expressions would be mere obiter. And this consideration renders it unnecessary for me to analyze the passages
to show that when they are read in connection with their con-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 391
193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

PECKHAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

text they have not the meaning now sought to be attached to

them. But other considerations equally render it unnecessary
to particularly review the sentences relied upon. There can
be no doubt that it was expressly decided in the Knight case
that the acquisition of stock by one corporation in other corporations so as to control them all was not interstate commerce, although the goods of the manufacturing companies whose
stock was acquiredmight become the subject of interstate commerce.
If then the passage from the Knight case could be given the
meaning sought to be affixed to it, the result would be but to
say that that case overruled itself. And this would be the
result in the Pearsallcase, since in that case it was decided that
the States had the power to forbid the consolidation of competing railroads, even by means of the acquisition of stock.
Besides, as in the Louisville and Nashville case, immediately
following the Pearsall,it was expressly decided that the interstate commerce power of Congress did not embrace such consolidation, and Congress, therefore, could not restrain a State
from either forbidding or permitting it to take place, it would
follow that if the sentevces in the Pearsallcase had the import
now applied to them, that that case not only overruled itself,
but was besides overruled by the Louisville and Nashville case,
and this although the two cases were decided on the same day,
the opinions in both cases having been delivered by the same
Justice.
The same confusion and contradiction arises from separating
from their context and citing as applicable to this case passages
from the opinions in the Freight Association and Joint Traffic
cases. Those cases, as I have previously stated, related exclusively to a contract admittedly involving interstate commerce, and it was decided that any restraint of such commerce
was forbidden by the Anti-Trust Act. Now in the Hopkins
case, decided subsequent to the Freight Association and Joint
Traffic cases, the contract considered unquestionably involved
a restraint, but, as such restraint did not concern interstate
commerce, it was held not to come within the power of Congress.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PEOCEAM , HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S

It would follow then, if the sentences quoted from the opinions

in the Freight Association and Joint Traffic cases, which cases
concerned only that which was completely interstate commerce, applied to that which was not such commerce, that the
Hopkins case overruled both these cases, although the opinions
in all of the cases were delivered by the same Justice, and no
intimation was suggested of such overruling. It would also
result that, after having overruled those cases in the Hopkins
case, the court, in expressing its opinion through the same
Justice, proceeded in the Addyston Pipe case, which related
only to interstate commerce, to overrule the Hopkins case and
reaffirm the prior cases.
Of course, in my opinion, there is no ground for holding that
the decided cases embody such extreme contradictions or
produce such utter confusion. The cases are all consistent,
if only the elementary distinction upon which they )roceedced
be not obscured, that is, the difference which arises from the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce on the one
hand, and its want of authority on the other, to regulate that
which is not interstate commerce. Indeed, the confounding
and treating as one, things which are wholly different, is the
error permeating all the contentions for the Government.
What has been previously said suffices to show the reasons
which control my judgment, and I might well say nothing
more. There were, however, three propositions so earnestly
pressed by the Government at bar upon the theory that they
demonstrate that common ownership of a majority of the
stock of competing railroads is subject to the regulating power
of Congress that I propose to briefly give the reasons which
cause me to conclude that the contentions relied upon are
without merit.
1. This court, it is urged, has frequently declared that the
power of Congress over interstate commerce includes the
authority to regulate the instrumentalities of such commerce,
and the following cases are cited: Railroad Co. v. Fuller, 17
Wall. 560; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Pensacola Telc-

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 393
193 U. S.

WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

PECKHAM, HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

graph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1; Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196. To these cases might
be added many others, including some of those which have
been previously referred to by me. The argument now made
is, as the power extends to instrumentalities, and railroads are
such instrumentalities, therefore the acquisition and ownership
of railroads, by persons or corporations, is commerce and subject to the power of Congress to regulate. But this involves a
non sequitur, and a confusion of thought arising from again
confounding as one, things which are wholly different. True,
the instrumentalities of interstate commerce are subject to the
power to regulate commerce, and therefore such instrumentalities when employed in interstate commerce may be regulated by Congress as to their use in such commerce. But this
is entirely distinct from the power to regulate the acquisition
and ownership of such instrumentalities, and the many forms
of contracts from which such ownership may arise. The same
distinction exists between the two which obtains between the
power of Congress to regulate the movement of property in the
channels of interstate commerce and its want of authority to
regulate the acquisition and ownership of the same property.
This difference was pointed out in the cases which have beefi
referred to, and the distinction between the two has been from
the beginning the dividing line, demarking the power of the
national government on the one hand and of the States on the
other. All the rights of ownership in railroads belonging to
corporations organized under state law, the power to acquire
the same, to mortgage, to foreclose mortgages, to lease, and the
contract relations concerning them, have from the foundation
had their sanction in the legislation of the several States.
One may search in vain in the acts of Congress for any legislation even suggesting that the power over these subjects was
deemed to be in Congress. On the contrary, the legislation
of Congress concerning the instrumentalities of railroads under
the interstate commerce power clearly refutes the contention,
since that legislation relates only to such instrumentalities

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PEc=A-m,

HOLIES,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

during their actual use in interstate commerce and not otherwise. How, consistently with the proposition, can the great
number of cases be explained which in both the Federal and
state courts have dealt with the ownership of railroads and
their instrumentalities by foreclosure and otherwise, under
the assumption that the rights of the parties were controlled
by state laws governing the subject? And here again it would
follow, if the proposition was adopted, that all the vast body
of state legislation on the subject would be void from the
beginning and the enormous sum of property rights depending
upon such legislation would be impaired and lost, since if the
subject were within the power of Congress it was one requiring
a uniform regulation, and therefore the inaction of Congress
would signify an entire want of power in the States over the
subjects.
2. The court, it is urged, has in a number of cases declared
that the several States were without power to directly burden
interstate commerce. The acquiring and ownership by one
person or corporation of a majority of the stock in competing
railroads engaged in interstate commerce, it is argued, being
a direct burden, therefore power to regulate the subject is in
Congress and not in the States. Undoubtedly not only in the
decisions referred to but in many others, including most of
those which have been by me quoted, the absolute want of
power in the States to legislate concerning interstate commerce
or to burden it directly has been declared, and the doctrine in
its fullest scope is too elementary to require citation of authority. But to decide this case upon the assumption that the
acquisition and ownership of stock in competing railroads
engaged in interstate commerce is a regulation of commerce,
or, what is the same thing, a direct burden on it, would be but
to assume the question arising for decision.
Where an authority is exerted by a State which is within its
power, and that authority as exercised does not touch interstate
commerce or its instrumentalities, and can only have an effect
upon such commerce by reason of the reflex and remote results

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 395
193 U. S.

WHiTE,

J., The CHiEF JusTIcE,

PECKHAM, HOLmES,

JJ., dissenting.

of the exertion of the lawful power, it cannot be said, without
a contradiction in terms, that the power exercised is a regulation, because a direct burden upon commerce. To say to the
contrary would be to declare that no power on any subject, however
local in its character, could be exercised by the States if it was
deemed by Congress or the courts that there would be produced
some effect upon interstate commerce. The question whether a
burden is direct and therefore constitutes a regulation of interstate commerce is to be determined by ascertaining whether
the power exerted is lawful, generally speaking, and then by
finding whether its exercise in the particular case was such as
to cause it to be illegal, because directly burdening interstate
commerce. If in a given case the power be lawful and the
mode in which it is exercised be not such as to directly burden,
there is no regulation of commerce, although as an indirect
result of the exertion of the lawful power some effect may be
produced upon commerce. In other words, where the power
is lawful but it is asserted that it has been so exerted as to
amount to a direct burden, there must be, so to speak, a privity
between the manifestation of the power and the resulting burden.
The distinction is well illustrated by the cases which have
been referred to, and was very lucidly pointed out by Judge
Jackson in the Greene case. Take the Knight case. There as
the contract merely concerned the purchase of stock in the
refineries, and contained no condition relating to the movement
in interstate commerce of the goods to be manufactured by the
refining companies, the court held as the right to acquire was
not within the commerce clause, the fact that the owners of
the manufactured product might thereafter so act concerning
the product as to burden commerce, there was no direct burden
resulting from the mere acquisition and ownership. On the
contrary, in the Addyston Pipe case, after stating in the fullest
way the paramount authority of Congress concerning commerce, the court approached the terms of the contract in order
to determine whether it related to interstate commerce, and if
it did, whether it created a direct burden. In doing so, as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WmTE, J., The CH F JsuSTcE, PECKHAM , HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. I93 U. S.

found that the contract both related to interstate commerce
and directly burdened the same, the contract was held to be
void. This case comes within the Knight case. It concerns
the acquisition and ownership of stock. No contract is in
question made by the owners of the stock controlling the railroads in the performance of their duties as carriers of interstate
commerce. The sole contention is that as the result of the
ownership of the stock there may arise, in the operation of the
roads, a burden on interstate commerce. That is, that such
burden may indirectly result from the acquisition and ownership. To maintain the contention, therefore, it must be
decided that because ownership of property if acquired may
be so used as to burden commerce, therefore to acquire and
own is to burden. This, however, would be but to declare that
that which was in its very nature and essence indirect is direct.
3. But, it is said, it may not be denied that the common
ownership of stock in competing railroads endows the holders
of the majority of the stock with a common interest in both
railroads and with the authority, if they choose to exert it, to
so unify the management of the roads as to suppress competition between them. This power, it is insisted, is within the
regulating authority of Congress over interstate commerce.
In other words, the contention broadly is that Congress has not
only the authority to regulate the exercise of interstate commerce, but under that power has the right to regulate the
ownership and possession of property, if the enjoyment of such
rights would enable those who possessed them if they engaged
in interstate commerce to exert a power over the same. But
this proposition only asserts in another form that the right to

acquire the stock was interstate commerce, and therefore was
within the authority of Congress, and is refuted by the reasons
and authorities already advanced. That the proposition, if
adopted, would extend the power of Congress to all subjects
essentially local, as already stated in considering the previous
proposition, is to my mind manifest. So clearly is this the
result of the particular proposition now being considered, that,

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

'.

UNITED STATES. 397

193 U. S. WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHAM, HOLM ES, JJ., dissenting.

at the risk of repetition, I again illustrate the subject. Under
this doctrine the sum of property to be acquired by individuals
or by corporations, the contracts which they may make, would
be within the regulating power of Congress. If it were judged
by Congress that the farmer in sowing his crops should be
limited to a certain production because overproduction would
give power to affect commerce, Congress could regulate that
subject. If the acquisition of a large amount of property by
an individual was deemed by Congress to confer upon him
the power to affect interstate commerce if he engaged in it,
Congress could regulate that subject. If the wage-earner
organized to better his condition and Congress believed that
the existence of such organization would give power, if it were
exerted, to affect interstate commerce, Congress could forbid
the organization of all labor associations. Indeed, the doctrine
must in reason lead to a concession of the right in Congress to
regulate concerning the aptitude, the character and capacity.
of persons. If individuals were deemed by Congress to be
possessed of such ability that participation in the management
of two great competing, railroad enterprises would endow them
with the power to injuriously affect interstate commerce, Congress could forbid such participation. If the principle were
adopted, and the power which would arise from so doing were
exercised, the result would be not only to destroy the state and
Federal governments, but by the implication of authority, from
which the destruction would be brought about, there would be
erected upon the ruins of both a government endowed with the
arbitrary power to disregard the great guaranty of life, liberty
and property and every other safeguard upon which organized
civil society depends. I say the guaranty, because in my
opinion the three are indissolubly united, and one cannot be
destroyed without the other. Of course, to push propositions
to the extreme to which they naturally lead is often an unsafe
guide. But at the same time the conviction cannot be escaped
by me that principles and conduct bear a relation one to the
other, especially in matters of public concern. The fathers

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
WHITE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKIIAM, HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S

founded our government upon an enduring basis of right,
principle and of limitation of power. Destroy the principles
and the limitations which they impose, and I am unable to
say that conduct may not, when unrestrained, give rise to
action doing violence to the great truths which the destroyed
principles embodied.
The fallacy of all the contentions of the Government is, to
my mind, illustrated by the summing up of the case for the
Government made in the argument at bar. The right to acquire and own the stock of competing railroads involves, says
that summing up, the power of an individual "to do" (italics
mine) absolutely as he pleases with his own, whilst the claim
of the Government is that the right of the owner of property "to do" (italics mine) as he pleases with his own may
be controlled in the public interest by legitimate legislation.
But the case involves the right to acquire and own, not the
right "to do" (italics mine). Confusing the two gives rise to
the errors which it has been my endeavor to point out. Undoubtedly the States possess power over corporations, created
by them, to permit or forbid consolidation, whether accomplished by stock ownership or otherwise, to forbid one corporation from holding stock in another, and to impose on this or
other subjects such regulations as may be deemed best. Generally speaking, however, the right to do these things springs
alone from the fact that the corporation is created by the
States, and holds its rights subject to the conditions attached
to the grant, or to such regulations as the creator, the State,
may lawfully impose upon its creature, the corporation. Moreover, irrespective of the relation of creator and creature, it is,
of course, true in a general sense that government possesses
the authority to regulate, within certain just limits, what an
owner may do with his property. But the first power which
arises from the authority of a grantor to exact conditions in
making a grant or to regulate the conduct of the grantee
gives no sanction to the proposition that a government, irrespective of its power to grant, has the general authority to

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 399
193 U. S. WHrrE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, PEC-AM, Houms, JJ., dissenting.

limit the character and quantity of property which may be acquired and owned. And the second power, the general governmental one, to reasonably control the use of property,
affords io foundation for the proposition that there exists in
government a power to limit the quantity and character of
property which may be acquired and owned. The difference
between the two is that which exists between a free and constitutional government restrained by law and an absolute
government unrestrained by any of the principles which are
necessary for the perpetuation of society and the protection
of life, liberty and property.
It cannot be denied that the sum of all just governmental
power was enjoyed by the States and the people before the
Constitution of the United States was formed. None of that
power was abridged by that instrument except as restrained
by constitutional safeguards, and hence none was lost by the
adoption of the Constitution. The Constitution, whilst distributing the preexisting authority, preserved it all. With
the full power of the States over corporations created by
them and with their authority in respect to local legislation,
and with power in Congress over interstate commerce carried
to its fullest degree, I cannot conceive that if these powers,
admittedly possessed by both, be fully exerted a remedy cannot be provided fully adequate to suppress evils which may
arise from combinations deemed to be injurious. This must be
true unless it be concluded that by the effect of the mere distribution of power made by the Constitution partial impotency of governmental authority has resulted. But if this be
conceded, arguendo, the Constitution itself has pointed out
the method by which, if changes are needed, they may be
brought about. No remedy, in my opinion, for any supposed
or real infirmity can be afforded by disregarding the Constitution, by destroying the lines which separate state and Federal
authority, and by implying the existence of a power which is
repugnant to all those fundamental rights of life, liberty and
property, upon which just government must rest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HOLMES, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

If, however, the question of the power of Congress be conceded, and the assumption as to the meaning of the Anti-Trnst
Act which has been indulged in for the purpose of considering that power be put out of view, it would yet remain to be
determined whether the Anti-Trust Act embraced the acquisition and ownership of the stock in question by the Northern
Securities Company. It is unnecessary for me, however, to
state the reasons which have led me to the conclusion that the
act, when properly interpreted, does not embrace the acquisition and ownership of such stock, since that subject is considered in an opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes, which exJ)lains
the true interpretation of the statute, as it is understood by
me, more clearly that I would be able to do.
Being of the opinion, for the reasons heretofore given, that
Congress was without power to regulate the acquisition and
ownership of the stock in question by the Northern Securities
Company, and because I think even if there were such power
in Congress, it has not been exercised by the Anti-Trust Act,
as is shown in the opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes, I dissent.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
PEcKmaii and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, concur in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, with whom concurred'the CHIEF JusTICE, M. JUSTICE WHITE, and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAMI, (is-

senting.
I am unable to agree with the judgment of the majority of
the court, and although I think it useless and undesirable, as
a rule, to express dissent, I feel bound to do so in this case and
to give my reasons for it.
Great cases like hard cases make bad law. For great cases
are called great, not by reason of their real importance in
shaping the law of the future, but because of some accident of
immediate overwhelming interest which appeals to the feelings and distorts the judgment. These immediate interests

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 401
HOLMES, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE, PECKHA.f, J.,

dissenting. 193 U. S.

exercise a kind of hydraulic pressure which makes' what previously was clear seem doubtful, and before which even well
settled principles of law will bend. What we have to do in
this case is to find the meaning of some not very difficult
words. We must try, I have tried, to do it with the same
freedom of natural and spontaneous interpretation that one
would be sure of if the same question arose upon an indictment for a similar act which excited no public attention, and
was of importance only to a prisoner before the court. Furthermore, while at times judges need for their work the training of economists or statesmen, and must act in view of their
foresight of consequences, yet when their task is to interpret
and apply the words of a statute, their function is merely academic to begin with-to read English intelligently-and a consideration of consequences comes into play, if at all, only when
the meaning of the words used is open to reasonable doubt.
The question to be decided is whether, under the act of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, it is unlawful, at any stage
of the process, if several men unite to form a corporation for
the purpose of buying more than half the stock of each of two
competing interstate railroad companies, if they form the corporation, and the corporation buys the stock. I will suppose
further that every step is taken, from the beginning, with the
single intent of ending competition between the companies.
I make this addition not because it may not be and is not disputed but because, as I shall try to show, it is totally unimportant under any part of the statute with which we have to
deal.
The statute of which we have to find the meaning is a criminal statute. The two sections on which the Government relies both make certain acts crimes. That is their immediate
purpose and that is what they say. It is vain to insist that
this is not a criminal proceeding. The words cannot bie read
one way in a suit which is to end in fine and imprisonment
and another way in one which seeks an injunction. The construction which is adopted in this case must'be adopted in one
VOL. OxciIi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HomIEs, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

WHITE, PECKEAM,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

of the other sort. I am no friend of artificial interpretations
because a statute is of one kind rather than another, but all
agree that before a statute is to be taken to punish that which
always has been lawful it must express its intent in clear
words. So I say we must read the words before us as if the
question were whether two small exporting grocers should go
to jail.
Again the statute is of a very sweeping and general character. It hits "every" contract or combination of the prohibited sort, great or small, and "every" person who shall
monopolize or attempt to monopolize, in the sense of the act,
"any part" of the trade or commerce among the several States.
There is a natural inclination to assume that it was directed
against certain great combinations and to read it in that
light. It does not say so. On the contrary, it says "every,"
and "any part." Still less was it directed specially against
railroads. There even was a reasonable doubt whether it ineluded railroads until the point was decided by this court.
Finally, the statute must be construed in such a way as not
merely to save its constitutionality but, so far as is consistent
with a fair interpretation, not to raise grave doubts on that
score. I assume, for the purposes of discussion, although it
would be a great and serious step to take, that in some case
that seemed to it to need heroic measures, Congress might
regulate not only commerce, but instruments of commerce or
contracts the bearing of which upon commerce would be only
indirect. But it is clear that the mere fact of an indirect effect
upon commerce not shown to be certain and very great,
would not justify such a law. The point decided in United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 17, was that "the fact
that trade or commerce might be indirectly affected was
not enough to entitle complainants to a decree." Commerce
depends upon population, but Congress could not, on that
ground, undertake to regulate marriage and divorce. If the
act before us is to be carried out according to what seems to
me the logic of the argument for the Government, which I do

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 403
193 U. S. HoLmEs, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE, PECKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

not believe that it will be, I can see no part of the conduct of
life with which on similar principles Congress might not interfere.
This act is construed by the Government to affect the purchasers of shares in two railroad companies because of the
effect it may have, or, if you like, is certain to have, upon the
competition of these roads. If such a remote result of the
exercise of an ordinary incident of property and personal freedom is enough to make that exercise unlawful, there is hardly
any transaction concerning commerce between the States
that may not be made a crime by the finding of a jury or
a court. The personal ascendency of one man may be such
that it would give to his advice the effect of a command, if he
owned but a single share in each road. The tendency of his
presence in the stockholders' meetings might be certain to
prevent competition, and thus his advice, if not his mere existence, become a crime.
I state these general considerations as matters which I should
have to take into account before I could agree to affirm the decree appealed from, but I do not need them for my own opinion, because when I read the act I cannot feel sufficient doubt
as to the meaning of the words to need to fortify my conclusion by any generalities. Their meaning seems to me plain on
their face.
The first section makes "Every contract, combination in the
form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade
or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations" a misdemeanor, punishable by fine, imprisonment or
both. Much trouble is made by substituting other phrases assumed to be equivalent, which then are reasoned from as if
they were in the act. The court below argued as if maintaining competition were the expressed object of the act. The
act says nothing about competition. I stick to the exact
words used. The words hit two classes of cases, and only
two-Contracts in restraint of trade and combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade, and we have to consider what

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HoLuEs, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

WHITE, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

these respectively are. Contracts in restraint of trade are
dealt with and defined by the common law. They are contracts with a stranger to the contractor's business, (although
in some cases carrying on a similar one,) which wholly or partially restrict the freedom of the contractor in carrying on
that business as otherwise he would. The objection of the
common law to them was primarily on the contractor's own
account. The notion of monopoly did not come in unless the
contract covered the whole of England. Ml'itchel v. Rcynolds,
1 P. Wms. 181. Of course this objection did not apply to
partnerships or other forms, if there were any, of substituting
a community of interest where there had been competition.
There was no objection to such combinations merely as in restraint of trade, or otherwise unless they amounted to a
monopoly. Contracts in restraint of trade, I repeat, were
contracts with strangers to the contractor's business, and the
trade restrained was the contractor's own.
Combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade, on the
other hand, were combinations to keep strangers to the agreement out of the business. The objection to them was not an
objection to their effect upon the parties makig the contract,
the members of the combination or firm, but an objection to
their intended effect upon strangers to the firm and their supposed consequent effect upon the public at large. In other
words, they were regarded as contrary to public policy because
they monopolized or attempted to monopolize sonic portion of
the trade or commerce of the realm. See United States v. E. C.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1. All that is added to the first section by
§ 2 is that like penalties are imposed upon every single person
who, without combination, monopolizes or attempts to monopolize commerce among the States; and that the liability is extended to attempting to monopolize any part of such trade or
commerce. It is more important as an aid to the construction
of § 1 than it is on its own account. It shows that whatever is
criminal when done by way of combination is equally criminal
if done by a single man. That I am right in my interpretation

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 405
193 U. S. HOLmES, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE,

PECKHAt,

JJ., dissenting.

of the words of § I is shown by the words "in the form of trust
or otherwise." The prohibition was suggested by the trusts,
the objection to which, as every one knows, was not the union
of former competitors, but the sinister power exercised or supposed to be exercised by the combination in keeping rivals out
of the business and ruining those who already were in. It
was the ferocious extreme of competition with others, not the
cessation of competition among the partners, that was the evil
feared. Further proof is to be found in § 7, giving an action
to any person injured in his business or property by the forbidden conduct. This cannot refer to the parties to the agreement and plainly means that outsiders who are injured in their
attempt 'to compete with a trust or other similar combination
may recover for it. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S.
38. How effective the section may be or how far it goes, is
not material to my point. My general summary of the two
classes of cases which the act affects is confirmed by the title,
which is "An Act to protect Trade and Commerce against
unlawful Restraints and Monopolies."
What I now ask is under which of the foregoing classes this
case is supposed to come, and that question must be answered
as definitely and precisely as if we were dealing with the indictments which logically ought to follow this decision. The
provision of the statute against contracts in restraint of
trade has been held to apply to contracts between railroads,
otherwise remaining independent, by which they restricted
their respective freedom as to rates. This restriction by contract with a stranger to the contractor's business is the ground
of the decision in United States v. Joint Traffic Association,
171 U. S. 505, following and affirming United States v. TransMissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290. I accept those
decisions absolutely, not only as binding upon me, but as decisions which I have no desire to criticise or abridge. But
the provision has not been decided, and, it seems to me, could
not be decided without perversion of plain language, to apply
to an arrangement by which competition is ended through com-

OCTOBRI TERM, 1903.
HOLMES,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

WHITE, PECKHAm,

JJ., dissenting. 193 V. S.

munity of interest-an arrangement which leaves the parties
without external restriction. That provision, taken alone,
does not require that all existing competitions shall be maintained. It does not look primarily, if at all, to competition.
It simply requires that a party's freedom in trade between the
States shall not be cut down by contract with a stranger. So
far as that phrase goes, it is lawful to abolish competition by
any form of union. It would seem to me impossible to say
that the words "every contract in restraint of trade is a crime
punishable with imprisonment," would send the members of a
partnership between, or a consolidation of, two trading corporations to prison-still more impossible to say that it forbade
one man or corporation to purchase as much stock as he liked
in both. Yet those words would have that effect if this clause
of § 1 applies to the defendants here. For it cannot be too
carefully remembered that that clause applies to "every"
contract of the forbidden kind-a consideration which was the
turning point of the Trans-Missouri Freight Association's
case.

If the statute applies to this case it must be because the
parties, or some of them, have formed, or because the Northern
Securities Company is, a combination in restraint of trade
among the States, or, what comes to the same thing in my
opinion, because the defendants, or some or one of them, are
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize some part of the
commerce between the States. But the mere reading of those
words shows that they are used in a limited and accurate
sense. According to popular speech, every concern nonopolizes whatever business it does, and if that business is trade
between two States it monopolizes a part of the trade among
the States. Of course the statute does not forbid that. It
does not mean that all business must cease. A single railroad
down a narrow valley or through a mountain gorge monopolizes all the railroad transportation through that valley or
gorge. Indeed every railroad monopolizes, in a popular sense,
the trade of some area. Yet I suppose no one would say that

NORf FARm
193 U. S.

HOLMES,

SECURITIES CO. 6). U IT1 DI STATES. 40?
J.) The

CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE, PECKHEA,

JJ., dissenting.

the statute forbids a combination of men into a corporation to
build and run such a railroad between the States.
I assume that the Minnesota charter of the Great Northern

and the Wisconsin charter of the Northern Pacific both are
valid. Suppose that, before either road was built, Minnesota,
as part of a system of transportation between the States, had
created a railroad company authorized singly to build all the
lines in the States now actually built, owned or controlled by
either of the two existing companies. I take it that that
charter would have been just as good as the present one, even
if the statutes which we are considering had been in force. In
whatever sense it would have created a monopoly the present
charter does. It would have been a large one, but the act of
Congress makes no discrimination according to size. Size has
nothing to do with the matter. A monopoly of "any- part"
of commerce among the States is unlawful. The supposed
company would have owned lines that might have been competing-probably the present one does. But the act of Congress will not be construed to mean the universal disintegration of society into single men,'each at war with all the rest,
or even the prevention of all further combinations for a common end.
There is a natural feeling that somehow or other the statute
meant to strike at combinations great enough to cause just
anxiety on the part of those who love their country more than
money, while it viewed such little ones as I have supposed
with just indifference. This notion, it may be said,.somehow
breathes from the pores of the act, although it seems to be contradicted in every way by the words in detail. And it has occurred to me that it might be that when a combination reached
a certain size it might have attributed to it more of the character of a monopoly merely by virtue of its size than would be
attributed to a smaller one. I am quite clear that it is only in
connection with monopolies that size could play any part. But
my answer has been indicated already. In the first place size in
the case of railroads is an inevitable incident and if it were an

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HOLMES, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE, PECKIAMf, JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

objection under the act, the Great Northern and the Northern
Pacific already were too great and encountered the law. In
the next place in the case of railroads it is evident that the
size of the combination is reached for other ends than those
which would make them monopolies. The combinations are
not formed for the purpose of excluding others from the field.
Finally, even a small railroad will have the same tendency to
exclude others from its narrow area that great ones have to
exclude others from a greater one, and the statute attacks the
small monopolies as well as the great. The very words of the
act make such a distinction impossible in this case and it has
not been attempted in express terms.
If the charter which I have imagined above would have
been good notwithstanding the monopoly, in a popular sense,
which it created, one next is led to ask whether and why a
combination or consolidation of existing roads, although in actual competition, into one company of exactly the same powers
and extent, would be any more obnoxious to the law. Although it was decided in Lo'i.ille & Nashville Railroad Co. v.
Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 701, that since the statute, as before,
the States have the power to regulate the matter, it was said,
in the argument, that such a consolidation would be unlawful,
and it seems to me that the Attorney General was compelled
to say so in order to maintain his case. But I think that logic
would not let him stop there, or short of lenying the power
of a State at the present time to authorize one company to construct and own two parallel lines that might compete. The
monopoly would be the same as if the roads were consolidated
after they had begun t6 compete-and it is on the footing of
monopoly that I now am supposing the objection made. But
to meet the objection to the prevention of competition at the
same time, I will suppose that three parties apply to a State
for charters; one for each of two new and possibly competing
lines respectively, and one for both of these lines, and that the
charter is granted to the last. I think that charter would be
good, and I think the whole argument to the contrary rests

NORTHERN SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED STATES. 409
193 U. S. HOLnES, J., The Crim

JusTIcE, WHITE,

PECKHAW, JJ., dissenting.

on a popular instead of an accurate and legal conception of
what the word "monopolize" in the statute means. I repeat,
that in my opinion there is no attempt to monopolize, and
what, as I have said, in my judgment amounts to the same
thing, that there is no combination in restraint of trade, until
something is done with the intent to exclude strangers to the
combination from competing with it in some part of the business which it carries on.
Unless I am entirely wrong in my understanding of what a
"combination in restraint of trade" means, then the same
monopoly may be attempted and effected by an individual,
and is made equally illegal in that case by § 2. But I do not
expect to hear it maintained that Mr. Morgan could be sent
to prison for buying as many shares as he liked of the Great
Northern and the Northern Pacific, even if he bought them
both at the same time and got more than half the stock of
each road.
There is much that was mentioned in argument which I
pass by. But in view of the great importance attached by
both sides to the supposed attempt to suppress competition, I
must say a word more abolit that. I said at the outset that I
should assume, and I do assume, that one purpose of the purchase was to suppress competition between the two roads. I
appreciate the force of the argument that there are independent stockholders in each; that it cannot be presumed that the
respective boards of directors will propose any illegal act;
that if they should they could be restrained, and that all that
has been done as yet is too remote from the illegal result to
be classed even as an attempt. Not every act done in furtherance of an unlawful end is in attempt or contrary to the law.
There must be a certain nearness to the result. It is a question
of proximity and decree. Commonwealth v. Peaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272. So, as I have said, is the amenability of acts
in furtherance of interference with commerce among the States
to legislation by Congress. So, according. to the intimation of
this court, is the question of liability under the present stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HoLvcEs, J., The CHIEF JUsTICE,

WIuTE, PECKUIAM,

JJ., dissenting. 193 V. 9.

ute. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v.
United States, 171 U. S. 604. But I assume further, for the
purposes of discussion, that what has been done is near enough
to the result to fall under the law, if the law prohibits that
result, although that assumption very nearly if not quite contradicts the decision in United States v. B. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1. But I say that the law does not prohibit the result..
If it does it must be because there is some further meaning
than I have yet discovered in the words "combinations in restraint of trade." I think that, I have exhausted the meaning
of those words in what I already have said. But they certainly do not require all existing competitions to be kept on
foot, and, on the principle of the Trans-Missouri Freight Association's case, invalidate the continuance of old contracts by
which former competitors united in the past.
A partnership is not a contract or combination in restraint
of trade between the partners unless the well known words are
to be given a new meaning invented for the purposes of this act.
It is true that the suppression of competition was referred to in
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166 UT. S.
290, but, as I have said, that was in connection with a contract
with a stranger to the defendant's business-a true contract
in restraint of trade. To suppress competition in that way is
one thing, to suppress it by fusion is another. The law, I repeat, says nothing about competition, and only prevents its
suppression by contracts or combinations in restraint of trade,
and such contracts or combinations derive their character as
restraining trade from other features than the suppression of
competition alone. To see whether I am wrong, the illustrations put in the argument are of use. If I am, then a partnership between two stage drivers who had been competitors in
driving across a state line, or two merchants once engaged in
rival commerce among the States whether made after or before the act, if now continued, is a crime. For, again I repeat.,
if the restraint on the freedom of the members of a combination caused by their entering into partnership is a restraint of

