OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

193 U. S.

court. Louisville Trust Conpany v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225;
Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501.
Tested by this rule our jurisdiction fails, and the appeal must
be
Dismissed.

YAPLE v. DAIIL-MILLIKAN GROCERY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 131.

Submitted March 15, 1904.-Decided April 4,1904.

Where a creditor has a claim for a balance due against an insolvent debtor
afterwards adjudicated a bankrupt, upon an open account for goods sold
and delivered four months before the adjudication in bankruptcy, and
during said period makes a number of sales of merchandise on credit to
the insolvent debtor, which becomes a part of the debtor's estate, and
during the same period receives payments of sums on account, from time
to time, which payments are received in good faith without knowledge
of the debtor's insolvency on the part of the creditor, the sales exceeding
in amount during said period the payments made during the same time,
he has not received a preference which he is obliged to surrender before
his claim shall be allowed. Jaquith v. Alden, 189 U. S. 78.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. W. T. McClintick for appellant, cited Pirie v. Trust Co.,
182 U. S. 443; 5 Am. Bk. Rep. 814; McKey v. Lee, 105 Fed.
Rep. 923; 45 C. C. A. 127; 5 Am. Bk. Rep. 271; Morey Mcr.
Co. v. Schiffer, 7 Am. Bk. Rep. 670; Cans v. Ellison, 8 Am.
Bk. Rep. 153; Kahn v. Exp. & Commission Co., 8 Am. Bk.
Rep. 157; Re Tilliam Bothwell, 8 Am. Bk. Rep. 213. The
date of payment of a check is when it is paid by the bank and
not when it is given out by the bankiupt. Re Amasa Lyon,
7 Am. Bk. Rep. 412.
There was no appearance or brief for the appellee.

YAPLE v. DAHL-MILLIKAN GROCERY CO.
193 U. S.

527

Opinion of the Court.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: Two questions are propounded by this

certificate, namely:
"1. Where a creditor has a claim for a balance due against an
insolvent debtor afterwards adjudicated a bankrupt, upon an
open account for goods sold and delivered four months before
the adjudication in bankruptcy, and during said period makes
a number of sales of merchandise on credit to the insolvent
debtor, which becomes a part of the debtor's estate, and during
the same period receives payments of sums on account, from
time to time, which payments are received in good faith without knowledge of the debtor's insolvency on the part of the
creditor, the sales exceeding in amount during said period the
payments made during the same time, has the creditor under
such circumstances received a preference which he is obliged
to surrender before his claim shall be allowed under the bankrupt act?
"2. If each of such payments is a preference under the act
is it to be set off under section 60c of the act by deducting
subsequent sales therefrom, carrying forward to the next payment any excess of preferences, but not of sales, treating any
excess of preferences as thus ascertained as a sum to be surrendered before the allowance of the creditor's claim?"
The first question is answered in the negative on the authority of Jaquith v. Alden, 189 U. S. 78; and the second need not
be answered.
Certified accordingly.

