THE CHICKASANY FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. THE CHOCTAW NATION AND

THE CHICKASAW INATION.
THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN v. THE CHOCTAW
NATION AND THE CHICKASAW NATION.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 322, 323. Argued January 26,27, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.
The provisions of the treaty of July 10, 1866, between the United States
and the Chickasaw and Choctaw Indians in regard to the Chickasaw freedmen were not complied with, either by the Indians who did not confer
any rights on the freedmen, or by the United States which did not remove
any of the freedmen from the territory of the Indians.
The freedmen were never adopted into the Chickasaw nation, or acquired any
rights dependent on such adoption, and are not entitled to allotments in
Choctaw and Chickasaw lands as members thereof; and not having removed
from the territory are not entitled to any beneficial interest in the $300,000
fund referred to in the treaty, which in case they were not adopted into
the Chickasaw nation was to be held in trust for such of the freedmen, and
only such, as removed from the territory.
Under the subsequent agreement of 1902, and not independently thereof,
the freedmen became entitled to land equal to forty acres of the average
land of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the Indians to be compensated
therefor by the United States, Congress having by the agreement of 1902
provided for them in this manner in case it should be, as it is, determined
in this case that they are not entitled otherwise to allotments in the
Choctaw and Chickasaw lands.
THESE are cross appeals from a decree of the Court of Claims,
entered in a suit brought under an agreement between the
United States and the Choctaw and the Chickasaw Indians,
made March 21, 1902, and ratified and affirmed by the act of
July 1, 1902. 32 Stat. 64:1, 649.
The controversy is as to the relations of the Chickasaw
freedmen to the Chickasaw Nation, and the rights of such
freedmen, independent of such agreement, in the lands of the
said Indian nations under the third article of the treaty of
1866, between the United States and the said nations, and un-

OCTOBE R TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

der any and all laws subsequently enacted by the Chickasaw
legislature or by Congress.
There is no dispute about the facts. They are substantially
as follows: By treaty of October 20, 1832, the Chickasaw Indians ceded to the United States, for the purpose of sale, their
land east of the Mfississippi River, and later were permitted
to migrate west of that river. By the treaty between the
Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of June 17, 1837, the Chickasaw
tribe was permitted to occupy, with the Choctaw tribe, certain territory within the United States, the United States confirming the treaty, and such occupation by a treaty with the
tribes June 22, 1855. By this treaty the lands were guaranteed "to the members of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes,
their heirs and successors, to be held in common ; so that each
and every member of either tribe shall have an equal undivided interest in the whole." By said treaty the said tribes
leased to the United States "all that portion of their common
territory west of the ninety-eighth degree of west longitude"
for the settlement of the Wichita and other tribes of Indians.
The leased territory was also to be opened to the settlement
by Choctaws and Chickasaws. This is the "leased district"
hereinafter referred to. The Choctaws and Chickasaws are
separate nations. Upon the breaking out of the civil war
they entered into relations with the Southern confederacy, and
took up arms against the United States. On January 1, 1863,
the President of the United States, in pursuance of the proclamation of September 22, 1862, issued a proclamation abolishing slavery.
The appellants in No. 323 are the survivors or descendants
of the slaves held by the Chickasaw Nation and number about
9,066. The Creeks, Cherokees and Seminoles also rebelled
against the United States, and on the tenth of September, 1865,
a treaty was entered into at Fort Smith, Arkansas, between
them, said Choctaws and Chickasaws and the United States, by
which they and the said Choctaws and Chickasaws renewed their
allegiance to the United States, and acknowledged themselves
to be under the protection of the United States, and covenanted
and agreed that thereafter they would in all things recognize the

THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

government of the United States, which should exercise exclusive jurisdiction over them. The United States on its part
promised to afford ample protection for the security of the
persons and property of the respective nations or tribes. The
treaty was ratified by the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation.
A treaty was concluded between the United States and the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians, and proclaimed July 10,
1866. It provided, among other things, as follows:
" ARTICLE IL The Choctaws and Chickasaws hereby covenant and agree that henceforth neither slavery nor involuntary
servitude, otherwise than in punishment of crime, whereof
the parties shall have been duly convicted, in accordance with
laws applicable to all members of the particular nation, shall
ever exist in said nations.
" ARTICLE III. The Choctaws and Chickasaws, in consideration of the sum of three hundred thousand dollars, hereby
cede to the United States the territory west of 980 west longitude, known as the leased district, provided that the said sum
shall beinvested and held by the United States, at an interest not
less than five per cent, in trust for the said nations, until the legislatures of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, respectively,
shall have made such laws, rules and regulations as may be
necessary to give all the persons of African descent, resident
in the said nations at the date of the treaty of Fort Smith, and
their descendants, heretofore held in slavery among said nations, all the rights, privileges and immunities, including the
right of suffrage, of citizens of said nations, except in the annuities, moneys and public domain claimed by or belonging
to said nations, respectively ; and also to give such persons
who were residents, as aforesaid, and their descendants, forty
acres each of the land of said nations on the same terms as the
Choctaws and Chickasaws, to be selected on the survey of
said land, after the Choctaws and Chickasaws and Kansas
Indians have made their selections as herein provided; and
immediately upon the enactment of such laws, rules and regulations the said sum of three hundred thousand dollars shall be
paid to the said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations in the pro-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

portion of three-fourths to the former and one-fourth to the
latter, less such sum, at the rate of one hundred dollars per
capita, as shall be sufficient to pay such persons of African (lescent before referred to as within ninety days after the passage
of such laws, rules and regulations shall elect to remove and
actually remove from said nations, respectively. And should
said laws, rules and regulations not be made by the legislatures of said nations, respectively, within two years from
the ratification of this treaty, then the said sum of three hundred thousand dollars shall cease to be held in trust for the
said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and be held for the
use and benefit of such said persons of African descent as the
United States shall remove from the said Territory in such
manner as the United States shall deem proper, the United
States agreeing, within ninety days from the expiration of the
said two years, to remove from said nations all such persons
of African descent as may be willing to remove; those remaining or returning after having been removed from said nations
to have no benefit of said sum of three hundred thousand (1,1lars, or any part thereof, but shall be upon thesame footingas
other citizens of the United States in the said nations."
The legislature of the Chickasaw Nation has taken action at
various times in regard to the said Chickasaw freedman, as
follows :
On November 9, 1866, the Chickasaw legislature passed an
act declaring it to be the unanimous desire of the legislature
that the United States hold the share of the Chickasaw Nation
in the $300,000, stipulated for the cession of the "leased
district," for the benefit of the Chickasaw freedmen and remove them beyond the limits of the Chickasaw Nation, according to the third article of the treaty of 1866.
In 1868 similar action was taken by the Chickasaw legislature, asking for the removal, by the United States, of the
Chickasaw freedmen from the Chickasaw country.
January 10, 1873, the Chickasaw legislature passed an act
by which the freedmen were declared to be adopted in conformity with the third article of the treaty of 1S66. Certain
conditions were expressed, and it was provided that the act

THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

should " be in full force and effect from and after its approval
by the proper authority of the United States."
That act was transmitted by the governor of the Chickasaw
Nation, by letter of the same date, to the President of the
United States, and was submitted by the Secretary of the
Interior to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on
February 10, 1873, with recommendation for appropriate
legislation for extending the time for the execution of the
third article of the treaty. The papers were referred to the
Committee on Freedmen Affairs, but no action thereon was
had at that time.
In October, 1876 or 187r, another act was passed, section 3
of which was as follows:
"SEc. 3. Be it further enacted, that the provisions contained
in article 3 of the said treaty, giving the Chickasaw legislature
the choice of receiving and appropriating the three hundred
thousand dollars therein named for the use and benefit, or
passing such laws, rules and regulations as will give all persons
of African descent certain rights and privileges, be, and it is
hereby, declared to be the unanimous consent of the Chickasaw
legislature.that the United States shall keep and hold said sum
of three hundred thousand dollars for the benefit of the said
negroes, and'the governor of the Chickasaw Nation is hereby
requested to notify the government of the United States that
it is the wish of the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation that
the govermnent of the United States remove the said negroes
beyond the limits of the Chickasaw Nation, according to the
requirements of the third article of the treaty of April 28,
1866."
An act passed October 22, 1885, provided, inter alia, as
follows:
" SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the Chickasaw
Nation, That the Chickasaw people hereby refuse to accept or
adopt the freedmen as citizens of the Cherokee Nation upon
any terms or conditions whatever, and respectfully request
the governor of our nation to notify the department at Washington of the action of the legislature in the premises.
"SE . 2. Be it further enacted, That the governor is hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

authorized and directed to appoint two competent and discreet
men of good judgment and business qualifications to visit
Washington city, D. C., during the next session of Congress
and memorialize that body to provide a means of removal of
the freedmen from the Chickasaw Nation to the country
known as Ok la ho ma, in the Indian Territory, or to make
some suitable disposition of the freedmen question, so that
they be not forced upon us as equal citizens of the Chickasaw
Nation."
Congress took no action until August 15, 184, when it.
passed an act, section 18 of which providedThat the approval of Conoress is hereby given to ' An act
to adopt the negroes of the Chickasaw Nation,' and so forth,
passed by the legislature of the C'hickasaw Nation and approved by the governor thereof January tenth, eighteen hun
dred and seventy-three, particularly as set forth in a letter
from the Secretary of the Interior transmitting to Congress a
copy of the aforesaid Act contained in House Executive Document numbered two hundred and seven, Forty-second Congress, third session." 2- Stat. 2ME3, 336.
Subsequently, April 23, 1897, an agreement was entered
into between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, which was ratified and confirmed by an act.
passed June 28, 1898, section 29 of which (30 Stat. 495, 505),
provided as follows:
"That all the lands within the Indian Territory belonging
to the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians shall be allotted to the
members of said tribes, so as to give to each member of these
t.ribes, so far as possible, a fair and equal share thereof, considering the character and fertility of the soil and the location and
value of the lands. . . .
"The lands allotted to the Choctaw and Chickasaw freedmen are to be deducted from the portion to be allotted under
this agreement to the members of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
tribe so as to reduce the allotment to the Choctaws and
Chickasaws by the value of the same.
"That the said Choctaw and Chickasaw freedmen who may
be entitled to allotments of forty acres each shall be entitled

THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

each to land equal in value to forty acres of the average land
of the two nations."
These provisions relative to the freedmen are previously
qualified as to their holdings of such lands by this clause in
the statute, "to be selected, held and used by them until their
rights under said treaty shall be determined, in such manner
as shall hereafter be provided by act of Congress."
Then caine the agreement of 1902. It provides for the
allotment of land to each member of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of three hundred and twenty acres and to each freedman "land equal in value to forty acres of the average allottable land of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations."
The agreement provides also as follows:
"36. Authority is hereby conferred upon the Court of Claims
to determine the existing controversy respecting the relations
of the Chickasaw freedmen to the Chickasaw iNation and the
rights of such freedmen in the lands of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations under the third article of the treaty of eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, between the United States and the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and under any and all laws
subsequently enacted by the Chickasaw legislature or by Congress.
"37. To that end the Attorney General of the United States
is hereby directed, on behalf of the United States, to file in
said Court of Claims, within sixty days after this agreement
becomes effective, a bill of interpleader against the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Nations and the Chickasaw freedmen, setting
forth the existing controversy between the Chickasaw Nation
and the Chickasaw freedmen and praying that the defendants
thereto be required to interplead and settle their respective
rights in such suit."
"40. In the meantime the commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes shall make a roll of the Chickasaw freedmen and their
descendants, as provided in the Atoka agreement, and shall
make allotments to them as provided in this agreement, which
said allotments shall be held by the said Chickasaw freedmen,
not as temporary allotments, but as final allotments, and in
the event that it shall be finally determined in said suit that

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

the Chickasaw freedmen are not, independently of this agreement, entitled to allotments in the Choctaw and Chickasaw
lands, the Court of Claims shall render a decree in favor of
the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations according to their respective interests, and against the United States, for the value
of the lands so allotted to the Chickasaw freedmen as ascertained by the appraisal thereof made by the commission to the
Five Civilized Tribes for the purpose of allotment, which decree shall take the place of the said lands and shall be in full
satisfaction of all claims by the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations against the United States or the said freedmen on account of the taking of the said lands for allotment to said
freedmen: Provided, That nothing contained in this paragraph
shall be construed to affect or change the existing status or
rights of the two tribes as between themselves respecting the
lands taken for allotment to freedmen, or the money, if any,
recovered as compensation therefor, as aforesaid."
The agreement was ratified by the Choctaws and Chickasaws by elections September 25, 1902, and became effective on
that date. The Court of Claims found the averments in the
bill to be true, and found that the third article of the treaty
of 1866 remained unaffected by any and all laws subsequently
thereto enacted by the said Indian nations or by Congress independently of the agreement of March 2, 1902, and confirmed
by act of Congress of July 1, 1902 ; that the Chickasaw Nation
had not conferred the rights upon their freedmen as provided
in said treaty or given to them forty acres of land as provided.
And further found that none of the said freedmen elected to
remove or were willing to remove from said nation, but they
did and now do remain therein; that the United States only
agreed to remove them if they were willing to be removed.
And further, the freedmen, by not electing to remove from
the nation and remaining therein, forfeited all benefit to the
money mentioned in the treaty, "became in said nation upon
the same footing as other citizens of the United States in said
nation, and were entitled only to the rights and privileges of
such citizens, and were not entitled to the forty acres of land
mentioned and described" in said treaty. It was therefore

THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

adjudged that, independently of said agreement, the relations
of the freedmen to said nation were only those "of citizens of
the United States residing in the said nation," and that the
said freedmen, independently of said agreement and the aforesaid act of 1902, "have no rights in the lands of the Chickasaw Nation, nor are they, or any of them, under said article
entitled to allotments in the lands of the said Chickasaw Nation. The decree concluded as follows:
"And it is further ordered that upon the coming in of the
roll and appraisal to be made by the Dawes Commission, as
referred to in the said statute, the defendants, the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Nations, have leave to apply for an additional
decree to be entered at the foot of this decree determining the
amount which shall be paid and allowed by the United States
to the said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, as directed by
said statutes; and that the complainant, the United States,
be at the same time heard in regard to such amount for which
judgment shall be rendered against the United States."
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Chickasaw Freedmen.
Mr. George A. Mansfield and Mr. A. A Hoehling, Jr., for
the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for the United States.
Mv:R. JUSTICE MOIcENNA, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

Full quotations have necessarily been made from the statutes and agreements relied on and from the treaty of 1866,
but the questions presented are, nevertheless, not complex.
The main, if not crucial, question is, were the freedmen
adopted by the Chickasaw Nation as provided in the treaty ?
They were declared adopted by the act of 1873 upon certain
conditions, but the act was only to have force and effect" from
and after the approval by the proper authority of the United
States." The United States did not approve until 1894. In
the meantime, as early as 1876, the Chickasaws passed an act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

by which it was "declared to be the unanimous consent of the
Chickasaw legislature" that the United States exercise the
right given to it for the benefit of the freedmen by the treaty
of 1866. Against the effect of this act several contentions
are presented.
It is urged that the negroes became free by the emancipation proclamation and the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and acquired thereby all the
rights of freemen. That may be granted, but what is its consequence? Certainly not to invest the freedmen with any
rights in the property or to participate in the affairs of their
former owners. For such rights we must look to the treaty
and subsequent legislation and, to a certain extent, to the act
which gave jurisdiction of this suit to the Court of Claims.
We get no aid from the emancipation proclamation or the
Thirteenth Amendment. Prominent, of course, in the inquiry
is the act of adoption passed by the Chickasaw legislature in
1873. It responded, in the main, to the treaty of 1s66, and if
it had force in 1894, when it was approved by Congress, the
adoption of the freedmen was made complete. Appellants so
contend. They say the act of adoption " was complete in
itself and a full exercise of the power possessed by that ((hickasaw) legislature." And, further, if the act were subject to
repeal, it was not repealed. The act, it is contended, expressed a wish only and not a purpose, and left to the United
States to "follow either of two courses." Counsel say: "It
(the United States) could approve the act of adoption of 1s73,
but it could refuse to approve that act and remove the freedmen as requested by the act of 1876. The power of determining which course should be adopted rested wholly and exclusively with the United States." The argument is plausible,
but we cannot assent to it. Besides, the act of 1876 does not
stand alone. In 1885-nine years before Congress actedanother act was passed. Its terms were unmistakable. Its
declaration was "that the Chickasaw people hereby refuse to
accept or adopt the freedmen as citizens of the Cherokee
Nation upon any terms or conditions whatever." The governor was requested to notify the department at Washington

THE CHICKASAW FREEDMEN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the action of the legislature, and was also directed to appoint two competent men to visit Washington and to memorialize Congress " to provide the means of the removal of the
freedmen from the Chickasaw Nation to the country known
as Oklahoma in the Indian Territory." These two acts must
be construed to work a repeal of the act of adoption if it could
be repealed by the Chickasaw Nation. The latter is denied,
and we are brought to the last contention of appellants in regard to the question of adoption. The contention is that
" Congress, by the act approved August 15, 1894, gave life
and vitality to the Chickasaw act of January 10, 1873," that
is, as we understand the contention, by mere power and disregarding whatever of convention there was in the treaty of
1866, and whatever of volition was given to the Indians, the
United States peremptorily determined the rights of the freedmen in the lands and affairs of the Indians. Granting,
without deciding, that Congress possessed such power, we are
forced to believe its exercise, if intended, would have been
explicit and direct, not left to be inferred by the approval of
the act of 1873. That approval is, of course, an element in the
controversy, but to give it the effect which appellants do is to
make it practically the sole element, and reduces the case to
the inquiry what Congress had willed, not what Congress
had agreed to. The act of 1902 certainly contemplated and
provided for a different inquiry, one that depended upon the
agreements of the United States, not upon its power. And this
view is supported by the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior expressed August 9, 1898, and which was presumably
known to Congress when it passed the act of 1902. The
opinion reviewed the treaty of 1866 and subsequent legislation, and interpreted section 18 of the act of 1894, which approved the act of adoption of 1873, as follows:
" The language of this provision is not such as would be
appropriate to the enactment of original legislation, such as
an adoption of the freedmen into the Chickasaw tribe by Congressional enactment, against the consent of the tribe. The
terms employed harmonize better with a purpose to merely
assent to, or sanction, an act of the tribal legislature supposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

to be awaiting assent, or sanction, by Congress. The words
used are those of approval and acquiescence, and not those of
creation or command."
The conclusion was deduced "that the Chickasaw freedmen
are not members of that tribe, within the meaning of the provision of the agreement submitting the amended agreement to
a vote of the male members of the tribe qualified to vote under
tribal laws."
'Itfollows from these views that the freedmen were not
adopted into the Chickasaw tribe and necessarily did not acquire the rights dependent upon adoption. They make, however, a specific claim to be beneficiaries of the $300,000.
By the treaty, as we have seen, the United States was to
hold that sum in trust for the Indians, to be paid to them upon their conferring certain rights upon the freedmen, and by
giving the latter forty acres of land. If such rights were not
conferred within two 'years from the ratification of the treaty
the said sum should then be held in trust for said freedmen, and
be held and used by the United States for the benefit of such
freedmen as should remove from the territory, and the United
States agreed to remove within ninety days from the expiration of said two years all such freedmen who should be willing to remove; those who remained or who should return
after having been removed to have no benefit of said sum or
any part thereof but should be upon the same footing as other
citizens of the United States.
The treaty is clear. The Indian nations were to receive the
$300,000 if they conferred upon the freedmen the rights expressed in the treaty. Failing to confer those rights, thatsunm
was to be held in trust for all such freedmen, and only such
freedmen, as should remove from the territory. The treaty
was not complied with either by the Indians or the United
States. No rights were conferred upon the freedmen; no
freedmen were removed, and the statutes were enacted and
the agreements were made that we have described. But those
statutes and agreements gave no rights to the freedmen. The
only explicit provision for the freedmen was the allotment of
forty acres of land to each of them. They claim to be

