OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

193 U. S.

the provisions of particular state laws were so unequal in their
operation upon the rights of parties as to engender the inequality prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment. None of the
cases, therefore, lends support to the proposition upon which
this case depends; that is, that although there has been no denial of the equal protection of the laws, nevertheless such denial must be held to exist only because the State has seen fit
to direct under particular conditions a trial of a cause in one
forum instead of in another, when in both forums equal laws
are applicable and an equal administration of justice obtained.
.Affi?'med.

MONTAGUE & COMPANY v. LOWRY.
ERROR TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIROUIT.
No. 46. Submitted October 27, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

An association was formed in California by manufacturers of, and dealers
in, tiles, mantels and grates; the dealers agreed not to purchase materials
from manufacturers who were not members and not to sell unset tiles to
any one other than members for less than list prices which were fifty
per cent higher than the prices to members; the manufacturers, who
were residents of States other than California agreed not to sell to any
one other than members; violations of the agreement rendered the mem)ber subject to forfeiture of membership. Membership in the association
was prescribed by rules and dependent on conditions, one of which was
the carrying of at least $3,000 worth of stock, and whether applicants were
admitted was a matter for the arbitrary decision of the association.
In an action by a firm of dealers in tiles, mantels and grates, in San
Francisco, whose members had never been asked to join the association
and who had never applied for admission therein, and which did not
always carry $3,000 worth of stock, to recover damages under ยง 7 of
the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890Held that although the sales of unset tiles were within the State of California
and although such sales constituted a very small portion of the trade
involved, agreement of manufacturers without the State not to sell to
any one but members was part of a scheme which included the enhancement of the price of unset tiles by the dealers within the State and that the
whole thing was so bound together that the transactions within the State
were inseparable and became a part of a purpose which when carried out
amounted to, and was, a combination in restraint of interstate trade and

MONTAGUE & CO. v. LOWRY.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

commerce. Addystor Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211,
followed; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604, distinguished.
Held that the association constituted and amounted to an agreement
or combination in restraint of trade within the meaning of the act of
July 2, 1890, and that the parties aggrieved were entitled to recover
threefold the damages found by the jury.
Held that the amount of attorney's fees allowed as costs under the act is
within the discretion of the trial court and as such discretion is reasonably exercised this court will not disturb the amount awarded.

THis action was brought under section I of the act of July 2,
1890, 26 Stat. 209 ; 3 Comp. Stat. 3202, commonly called the
Anti-Trust Act. The section reads as follows:
"SEc. 1. Any person who shall be injured in his business or
property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act, may
sue therefor in any Circuit Court of the United States in the
district in which the defendant resides or is found, without
respect to the amount in controversy, and shall recover threefold the damages by him sustained, and the costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee."
Plaintiffs in error (defendants below) seek to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, 115 Fed. IRep. 27, affirming a judgment for plaintiffs,
entered in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of California, upon a verdict of a jury. 106 Fed. Rep. 38.
It appeared in evidence on the trial in the United States
Circuit Court that the plaintiffs for many years prior to the
commencement of this action had been copartners, doing business as such in the city of San Francisco in the State of California, and dealing in tiles, mantels and grates, and that The
Tile, Mantel and Grate Association of California, and the officers and members thereof, had since, on or about the-day
of January, 1898, constituted under that name an unincorporated organization composed of wholesale dealers in tiles,
mantels and grates, who were citizens and residents of the city
and county of San Francisco, or the city of Sacramento, or the
city of San Jos6 in the State of California, and such organization was also composed of the manufacturers of tiles, mantels

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

and grates, who were residents of other States, and engaged
in the sale of their manufactured articles (among others) to
the various other defendants in the State of California. There
were no manufacturers of tiles within the State of California,
and all the defendants who were residents of that State and
who were also dealers in tiles, in the prosecution of their 1)usiness, procured the tiles from outside the State of California
and from among those manufacturers who were made defendants herein. The manufacturers and dealers were thus engaged
in the prosecution of a business which, with reference to the
sales of tiles, amounted to commerce between the States.
Under these circumstances the dealers in tiles, living in San
Franciso, or within a radius of 200 miles thereof, and being
someof the defendants in this action, together with the Eastern
manufacturers of tiles, who are named as defendants herein,
formed an association called The Tile, Mantel and Grate Association of California. The objects of the association, as
stated in the constitution thereof, were to unite all acceptable
dealers in tiles, fireplace fixtures and mantels in San Francisco
and vicinity, (within a radius or 200 miles,) and all American
manufacturers of tiles, and by frequent interchange of ideas
advance the interests and promote the mutual welfare of its
members.
By its constitution, article I, section 1, it was provided that
any individual, corporation or firm engaged in or contenplating engaging in the tile, mantel or grate business in San Francisco, or within a radius of 200 miles thereof, (not manufacturers,) having an established business and carrying not less
than $3,000 worth of stock, and having been proposed by a

member in good standing and elected, should, after having
signed the constitution and by-laws governing the association,
and upon the payment of an entrance fee as provided, enjoy
all the privileges of membership. It was provided in the second section of the same article that all associated and individual manufacturers of tiles and fireplace fixtures throughout
the United States might become non-resident members of the
association upon the payment of an entrance fee as provided,
and after having signed the constitution and by-laws govern-

MIONTAGUE & CO. v. LOWRY.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ing the association. The initiation fee was, for active members,
$25, and for non-resident members $10, and each active memher of the association was to pay $10 per year as dues, but no
dues were charged against non-residents.
An executive committee was to be appointed, whose duty
it was to examine all applications for membership in the association and report on the same to the association. It does
not appear what vote was necessary to elect a member, but it
is alleged in the complaint that it required the unanimous consent of the association to become a member thereof, and it
was further alleged that by reason of certain business difficulties there were members of the association who were antagonistic to plaintiffs, and who would not have permitted
them to join, if they had applied, and that plaintiffs were not
eligible to join the association for the further reason that they
did not carry at all times stock of the value of $3,000.
The by-laws, after providing for the settlement of disputes
between the members and their customers, by reason of liens,
foreclosure proceedings, etc., enacted as follows, in article
III :
"SEc. '7. No dealer and active member of this association
shall purchase, directly or indirectly, any tile or fireplace fixtures from any manufacturer or resident or traveling agent of
any manufacturer not a member of this association, neither
shall they sell or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any unset
tile for less than list prices to any person or persons not a inember of this association, under penalty of expulsion from the
association.
" SEc. 8. Manufacturers of tile or fireplace fixtures or resident or traveling agents or manufacturers selling or disposing,
directly or indirectly, their products or wares to any person
or persons not members of the Tile, Mantel and Grate Association of California, shall forfeit their membership in the association."
The term "list prices," referred to in the seventh section,
was a list of prices adopted by the association, and when what
are called " unset" tiles were sold by a member to any one not
a member, they were sold at the list prices so adopted, which

OCTOBER TElRM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

193 U. S.

were more than fifty per cent higher than when sold to a member of the association.
The plaintiffs had established a profitable business and were
competing with all the defendants, who were dealers and engaged in the business of purchasing and selling tiles, grates
and mantels in San Francisco prior to the formation of this
association. The plaintiffs had also before that time been
accustomed to purchase all their tiles from tile manufacturers
in Eastern States, (who were also named as parties defendants
in this action,) and all of those manufacturers subsequently
joined the association. The plaintiffs were not members of
the association and had never been, and had never applied for
membership therein and had never been invited to join the same.
The proof shows that by reason of the formation of this
association the plaintiffs have been injured in their business,
because they were unable to procure tiles from the manufacturers at any price, or from the dealers in San Francisco, at
less than the price set forth in the price list mentioned in the
seventh section of the by-laws, supra, which was more than
fifty per cent over the price at which members of the association could purchase the same. Before the formation of the association the plaintiffs could and did procure their tiles from the
manufacturers at much less cost than it was possible for them
to do from the dealers in San Francisco after its formation.
There was proof on the part of the defendants below that
the condition of carrVinIg $3,00 worth of stock, as mentioned
in the constitution, had not always been enforced, but there
was no averment or proof that the article of the constitution
on that subject had ever been altered or repealed.
The jury rendered a verdict for $500 for the plaintiffs, and,
pursuant to the provisions of the seventh section of the act,
judgment for treble that sum, together with what the trial
court decided to be a reasonable attorney's fee, was entered
for the plaintiffs.
Xllr. William Ml. Pierson for plaintiffs in error:
The association is not obnoxious to the provisions of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act.

MONTAGUE & CO. v. LOWRY.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

This case can be distinguished from the Trans-Missouri
Case, 166 U. S. 290, and the Joint Traffic Case, 171 U. S. 505.
So far as the transactions between the dealers and the manufacturers are concerned, the association fixes no tariff or
prices whatever; and it must be observed generally that the
association itself does no business. It is lawful for a man
to decline to work for another man or class of men, or to do
business with another man or class of men, as he sees fit;
and what is lawful for one man to do in this regard, several men may agree to act jointly in doing, and may make
express and simultaneous declaration of their purpose. The
lawfulness of a provision as between dealers and manufacturers, such as is contained in the constitution and by-laws of the
plaintiffs in error, is impliedly recognized in the Hopkins
Case, 171 U. S. 578, and is aptly recognized and approved in
the Anderson, Case, 171 U. S. 604. See also U. S. v. Greenhut, 51 Fed. Rep. 205; In 9'e Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104;
U. S. v. Nelson, 52 Fed. Rep. 646; Dueber -Mfg. Co. v. Hfoward Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 851; S. C., 14 C. C. A. 14; Gibbs v.
Mc.M ealy, 102 Fed. Rep. 594; Steamship Co. v.
ecGregor,
L. R. 23 Q. B. 598; Bo/hn v. Iollis, 54 Minnesota, 223.
Within these authorities and on a view of the constitution
and by-laws of the association in question, it will appear that
the provisions touching transactions between dealers and
manufacturers are not obnoxious to the act of Congress, and
it will appear further that the association in question has
none of the elements of a monopoly. Indeed, the object of the
association is said to be to unite all acceptable dealers and
all American manufacturers.
An association cannot be in restraint of trade when its
doors are open to all in the trade, and it fixes no prices
whatever. The only limitation was to have established homes
with $3,000 worth of stock.
The transactions in unset tiles at list prices are local transactions, intra-state transactions, in no respect taking on the
quality of interstate commerce and being purely local, are
not within the purview of the act. Addyston' Pipe & Steel
Co. v. U. S., 175 U. S. 211. Assuming, however, for argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

ment, the transactions in unset tiles to be along the line of
interstate commerce,-they are so trifling, incidental and
remote in their bearing upon interstate trade and commerce
as to be what mathematicians call negligible quantities which
may be left out of consideration without impairing the general
result. Trans-.Missoui'i case, the Joint Trafio case, and H}okins case, supra.
The attorney fee allowed was excessive. Plaintiffs below
asked for $10,000 damages and were only allowed $500 and
the fee is out of proportion.
Xr. J. C. Campbell for defendant in error:
The Tile, Mantel and Grate Association of California is a
combination declared to be illegal by the act of July 2, 1890,
for it is in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, and was formed to and does monopolize such trade or
commerce. United States v. Freiglt Association, 166 U. S.
290, 323; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U.
S. 211, 2-1, 244; TUvted States v. E. C. nigligt Co., 156
U. S. 1, 16; United States v. Coal Dealers Association, 85
Fed. Rep. 252; hfolp)kins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, and see
p. 597; Anderson v. UnitedStates, 171 U. S. 604, distinguished.
The counsel fee was fair and reasonable.
MR. JUSTIEn

PEcKrrAm,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The question raised by the plaintiffs in error in this case is,
whether this association, described in the foregoing statement
of facts, constituted or amounted to an agreement or combination in restraint of trade within the meaning of the so-called
Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890 ?
The result of the agreement when carried out was to prevent the dealer in tiles in San Francisco, who was not a
member of the association, from purchasing or procuring the
same upon any terms from any of the manufacturers who were
such members, and all of those manufacturers who had been
accustomed to sell to the plaintiffs were members. The non-

MONTAGUE & CO. v. LOWRY.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

member dealer was also prevented by the agreement from
buying tiles of a dealer in San Francisco who was a member,
excepting at a greatly enhanced price over what he would
have paid to the manufacturers or to any San Francisco dealer
who was a member, if he, the purchaser, were also a meniber
of the association. The agreement, therefore, restrained trade,
for it narrowed the market for the sale of tiles in California
from the manufacturers and dealers therein in other States, so
that they could only be sold to the members of the association, and it enhanced prices to the non-member as already
stated.
The plaintiffs endeavored in vain to procure tiles for the
purposes of their business from these tile manufacturers, but
the latter refused to deal with them because plaintiffs were
not members of the association. It is not the simple case of
manufacturers of an article of commerce between the several
States refusing to sell to certain other persons. The agreement is between manufacturers and dealers belonging to an
association in which the dealers agree not to purchase from
manufacturers not members of the association, and not to sell
unset tiles to any one not a member of the association for less
than list prices, which are more than fifty per cent higher
than the prices would be to those who were members, while
the manufacturers who became members agreed not to sell to
any one not a member, and in case of a violation of the agreement they were subject to forfeiting their membership. By
reason of this agreement, therefore, the market for tiles is, as
we have said, not only narrowed but the prices charged by
the San Francisco dealers for the unset tiles to those not
members of the association are more than doubled. It is
urged that the sale of unset tiles, provided for in the seventh
section of the by-laws, is a transaction wholly within the State
of California and is not in any event a violation of the act of
Congress which applies only to commerce between the States.
The provision as to this sale is but a part of the agreement,
and it is so united with the rest as to be incapable of separation without at the same time altering the general purpose of
the agreement. The whole agreement is to be construed as

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

one piece, in which the manufacturers are parties as well as

the San Francisco dealers, and the refusal to sell on the part
of the manufacturers is connected with and a part of the
scheme which includes the enhancement of the price of the
unset tiles by the San Francisco dealers. The whole thing is
so bound together that when looked at as a whole the sale of
unset tiles ceases to be a mere transaction in the State of California, and becomes part of a purpose which, when carried
out, amounts to and is a contract or combination in restraint
of interstate trade or commerce.
Again, it is contended the sale of unset tiles is so small in
San Francisco as to be a negligible quantity ; that it does not
amount to one per cent of the business of the dealers in tiles in
that city. The amount of trade in the coinmoditly is not very
material, but even though such dealing heretofore has been
small, it would probably largely increase when those who
formerly purchased tiles from the manufacturers are shut out
by reason of the association and their non-membership therein from purchasing their tiles from those manufacturers, and
are compelled to purchase them from the San Francisco dealers. Either the extent of the trade in unset tiles would increase between the members of the association and outsiders,
or else the latter would have to go out of business, because
unable to longer compete with their rivals who were members. In either event, the combination, if carried out, directly effects a restraint of interstate commerce.

It is also contended that, as the expressed object of the association was to unite therein all the dealers in San Francisco
and vicinity, the plaintiffs had nothing more to do than join
the association, pay their fees and dues and become like one
of the other members. It was not., however, a matter of
course to permit any dealer to join. The constitution only
provided for "all acceptable dealers" joining the association. As plaintiffs were not invited to be among its founders,

it would look as if they were not regarded as acceptable.
However that may be, they never subsequently to its forma-

tion applied for admission.

It is plain that the question of

their admission, if they had so applied, was one to be arbi-

MONTAGUE & CO. v. LOWRY.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trarily determined by the association. The constitution provided for the appointment of an executive committee, whose
-duty it was to examine all applications for membership in
and to report on the same to the association, after which it
was to decide whether the applicants should be admitted or
not. If they were not acceptable the applicants would not
be admitted, and whether they were or not, was a matter for
the arbitrary decision of the association. Its decision that
they were not acceptable was sufficient to bar their entrance.
Again, it appears that plaintiffs were not eligible under the
constitution, because they did not always carry stock worth
$3,000, which by section 1 of article I, was made a condition
of eligibility to membership. True, it was stated in evidence
that this provision had not been enforced, but there was no
averment or proof that it had been repealed, and there was
nothing to prevent its enforcement at any time that an application was made by any one who would not come up to the condition. The case stands, therefore, that the plaintiffs had not
been asked to join the association at its formation ; that they
did not fill the condition provided for in its constitution as to
eligibility, and that if they had applied their application was
subject to arbitrary rejection.
The plaintiffs, however, could not, by virtue of any agreement contained in such association, be legally put under obligation to become members in order to enable them to transact
their business as they had theretofore done, and to purchase
tiles as they had been accustomed to do before the association was formed.
The consequences of non-membership were grave, if not
disastrous, to the plaintiffs. It has already been shown how
the prices of tiles were enhanced so far as plaintiffs were concerned, and how by means of this combination interstate commerce was affected.
The purchase and sale of tiles between the manufacturers in
one State and dealers therein in California was interstate commerce within the Addyston. Pipe case, 175 U. S. 211. It was
not a combination or monopoly among manufacturers simply,
but one between them and dealers in the manufactured article,

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

which was an article of commerce between the States. (Tv ited
States v. E C. Knight Company, 156 U. S. 1, (lid not therefore
cover it. It is not brought within either Ihpkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 578, or Anderson v. United States, 171 U.
S. 604. In the first case it was held that the occupation of
the members of the association was not interstate commerce,
and in the other that the subject matter of the agreement did
not directly relate to, embrace or act upon interstate commerce, for the reasons which are therein stated at length.
Upon examination we think it is entirely clear that the facts
in the case at bar bear no resemblance to the facts set forth
in either of the above cases and are not within the reasoning
of either. The agreement directly affected and restrained
interstate commerce.
The case we regard as a plain one and it is unnecessary to
further enlarge upon it.
There is one other question which, although of secondary
importance, is raised by the plaintiffs in error. After the
rendition of the verdict the plaintiffs below claimed a reasonable attorney's fee under the seventh section of the act, and
made proof of what would be a reasonable sum therefor, from
which it appeared that it would be from $750 to $l,0OO.
The
trial court awarded to the plaintiffs $750. The verdict being
only for $500, the plaintiffs in error claimed that the allowance
was an improper and unreasonable one. The trial took sonic
five days. The judgment in effect pronounced the association
illegal. The amount of the attorney's fee was within the discretion of the trial court, reasonably exercised, and we do not.
think that in this case such discretion was abused.
The judgment is
Affitr med.

