OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

193 V. S.

grossest which can be inflicted upon the husband, and the
person who perpetrates it knows it is an offense of the most
aggravated character; that it is a wrong for which no adequate
compensation can be made, and hence personal and particular
malice towards the husband as an individual need not be
shown, for the law implies that there must be malice in the
very act itself, and we think Congress did not intend to permit
such an injury to be released by a discharge in bankruptcy.
An action to redress a wrong of this character should not
be taken out of the exception on any narrow and technical
construction of the language of such exception.
For the reasons stated, we think the order of the Court of
Appeals of New York must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, MR. JUSTICE WHITE and M . JUSTICE

HOLMES, dissent.

FARGO v. HART.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 154. Argued February 24,25, 1904.-Decided March 21, 1904.
While a State can tax property permanently within its jurisdiction although
belonging to persons domiciled elsewhere and used in commerce between
the States, it cannot tax the privilege of carrying on such commerce, nor
can it tax property outside of its jurisdiction belonging to persons doiniciled elsewhere.
A state assessment upon an express company of another State proportioned
to mileage is bad when it appears that the total valuation is made up
principally from real and personal property, not necessarily used in the actual business of the company, and which is permanently located in the
State where the company is incorporated.

kiARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The transmission of such an assessment by a state board to the auditors of
the several counties may be enjoined.
Where the assessment is void as made, and a question is raised in the bill
whether any assessment can be levied, an offer to give security to the satisfaction of the court for the payment of any sum ultimately found due is
sufficient without a tender of any sum.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Lewis Cass Ledyard for appellant:
The constitutionality of the state law has been sustained
but this suit involves whether in the practical administration
of the law the taxing authorities are not depriving express
companies of rights secured by the Constitution. The system
of taxation is that which has become known as the "unit system." Adopted by the States, and sustained by this court as
a method of taxing railroad property (Maine v. Grand Trunk
Railway, .142 U. S. 217; Pittsburgh &c. Railway v. Backus, 154
U. S. 421), and sleeping car companies (Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18) it has been extended to the
property of telegraph companies (Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Taggart, 163 U. S. 1), and by the decisions above referred to
was sustained in its application to express companies. Its
principal features are the valuation of the entire property of
the company, wherever located, as a unit profit-producing
plant, the aggregate market value of all the stock and bonds of
the company being taken to establish the value of its entire
property, and it was held that a fair proportion of this value,
so ascertained, might be imputed to the property of the company within the taxing State, and that such fair proportion
might be determined upon a mileage basis, thus imputing to
the property within the State a proportion of the value of the
total property equal to the proportion between the number
of miles operated in such State and the total number of miles
everywhere operated by the company which has a fixed and
permanent situs.
The business in which they are engaged is in its nature not
the operation of a plant, but the rendering of services. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

193 U. S.

have no means of transportation of their own, but employ the
facilities of railroad companies and other carriers for the forwarding of goods. The only property which they have in
actual use in the business itself consists of horses, wagons,
safes and office furniture, and these instrumentalities have, in
fact, a definite and ascertainable value, as property, which is
the same as that which may be attributed to similar horses,
wagons, safes and office furniture owned by other people, and
it was therefore claimed that to impute to them an enormously
enhanced value based upon the value at which the business of
the company and all its assets could be sold, as evidenced by
the market value of its securities, would be, in substance and
in fact, to import into the taxing State values not within its
jurisdiction, and that an assessment upon property within the
State at such enormously enhanced values would be, in substance and in fact, a taxation of property situated without the
State.
No State can tax tangible property owned by a non-resident,
and having an actual situs without the State. Such taxation
is a taking of property without due process of law. Lou isille,
etc., Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Adams Exp. Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; Adams Exp. Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171;
Adams Exp. Co. v. Ohio, 166 17. S. 185; Pittsburgh, etc., Ry. Co.
v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Cleveland, etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154
U. S. 439. It matters not whether legislative authority exists
for the illegal act, or whether it is done in pretended pursuance
of such authority, or whether it is confessedly a barefaced
exercise of arbitrary power. It is the thing itself which may
not be done. Reagan v. Farmer'sL. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362,
390; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Yick lVo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
The court below erred in holding that no fraud was proved
on the part of the State Board, and that its determination,
either as to the value of the company's property or the coinpany's right to include its ocean mileage, could not be impeached except for fraud. Hart v. Smith, 159 Indiana, 182,

FARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and cases cited on p. 196; State v. London &c. Co., 80 Minnesota, 277, 284.
As to the bonds, stocks, securities, to say nothing of real
estate and chattels, they are tangible property, capable of
having an actual situs where they exist. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189.
As to jurisdiction, in a suit of this nature, one may sue for
all and the citizenship of the parties to the record alone will
be considered. Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S. 61; Hotel Co.
v. Wade, 97 U. S. 13; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425; Society of
Shakers v. Watson, 68 Fed. Rep. 736; Smith v. Swormstedt, 16
How. 302; President & Trustees of Bowdoin College v. Merritt,
54 Fed. Rep. 62. But diversity of citizenship is not the only
ground of jurisdiction. Federal questions are involved, and
the complainant had a right to resort to the Federal Courts
upon that ground alone.
Mr. Cassius C. Hadley, with whom Mr. Charles W. Miller,
Attorney General of the State of Indiana, Mr. L. G. Rothschild
and Mr. William C. Geake were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
There is no authority for a court of equity to enjoin any
clerical officer from extending assessments for taxation upon
the duplicates. There is no authority in the rules of equity
whatever for enjoining either the auditor of State or the auditor
of a county from performing what the law enjoins upon him.
The auditor of State simply certifies down the assessments
made by the state board of tax commissioners to the auditors
of the counties, and the auditor of the county places such assessment upon the tax duplicates that are to be placed in the
hands of the collecting officers. Smith v. Smith, 159 Indiana,
388, and cases cited on p. 389.
To enjoin the collection of a tax it is necessary for the complainant to pay, or make an unconditional tender of such part of
the taxes as is undisputed, or what can be seen to be due from the
face of the bill, or shown to be due by affidavits. State Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

road Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 616; National Bank v. Kimball,
103 U. S. 732; Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S. 535,
552; Albuquerque Bank v. Perea, 147 U. S. 87, 90; Northern
Pac. R. Co. v. Clark, 153 U. S. 252, 272; City Council v. Sayre,
65 Alabama, 564, 566; County of Los Angeles v. Ballerino, 99
California, 593; Bundy v. Summerland, 142 Indiana, 92; Morrison v. Jacoby, 114 Indiana, 84, 93; Studabaker v. Studabaker,
152 Indiana, 89, 97; Lewis v. Boguechitto, 76 Mississippi, 356;
Palmer v. Township, 16 Michigan, 176, 178; County Conmirs.
v. Union Mining Co., 61 Maryland, 545, 556; Ottawa Glass Co.
v. McCaleb, 81 Illinois, 556; Northern Pac. R. Co. v. Patterson,
10 Montana, 90, 103; Welch v. City of Astoria, 26 Oregon, 89;
Union Pac. R. Co. v. Ryan, 2 Wyoming, 408; Huntigton v.
Palmer, 8 Fed. Rep. 449; People's Nat. Bank v. Marye, 191
U. S. 272; Copper Co. v. Scherr, 50 W. Va. 533, 540; Covington
v. Town of Rockingham, 93 N. Car. 134, 140; High on In-

junctions (3d ed.), ยง 497; 2 Beach on Injunctions, ยง 1208; 1
Spelling Inj. and Extra. Ren. (2d ed.) ยง 662; 2 Cooley on
Taxation (3d ed.), 1424-1426; State ex rel. v. West. Union Tel.
Co., 165 Missouri, 502, 517; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Gottlieb,
190 U. S. 412, 426.
It is not sufficient to say in the bill that they are ready and
willing to pay whatever may be found due. They must pay
what is conceded to be due or what can be seen would be due
on the face of the bill or be shown by affidavits whether conceded or not, before the preliminary injunction should be
granted. Cases cited supra and see also Hagarnan v. Commissioners, 19 Kansas, 394; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Board,
67 Fed. Rep. 413.
The state board of tax commissioners, having fixed the
valuation and assessed the property, their action in this behalf is final, and cannot be avoided or set aside, except for
fraud on the part of the state board of tax commissioners,
which would render the assessment void. State v. Adams
Exp. Co., 144 Indiana, 549.
This plan of taxation is fair and just. If such a plan were

FARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

followed in all the taxing jurisdictions in which appellant has
lines and routes, appellant would not be subject to excessive
or double taxation.
Under these provisions of the statute the state board is
given jurisdiction over the subject matter, to value and assess
the mileage of the express companies having lines and routes
within the State and acting thereunder they made such assessment and rendered their finding, which, in its nature, is that
of a judgment, and is final. This is especially true as against
a collateral attack. Cleveland, Cin. &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus,
133 Indiana, 513, and cases cited on p. 541; P. C. I. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Backus, 133 Indiana, 625, 652; S. C., 154 U. S. 421,
434; Youngstown Bridge Co. v. Kentucky &c. Bridge Co., 64
Fed' Rep. 441, and cases cited; McLeod v. Receveur, 71 Fed.
Rep. 455, 458; Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535, 550;
Adams Exp. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 229; Marsh v. Arizona,
164 U. S. 599, 610; Van Nort's Appeal, 121 Pa. St. 118, 129.
The evidence wholly fails to sustain the contention of appellant respecting the ownership, situs and use of the stocks
and bonds owned by appellant.
As to burden of proof in regard to stocks and bonds not
being used in business being on the company, see Adams Exp.
Case, 166 U. S. 185, 222; Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141
U. S. 18, and cases cited pp. 22, 23; Marye v. B. & 0. R. R.,
127 U. S. 117; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 141 Indiana, 281,
300; S. C., 163 U. S. 1, 29.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the United States District
Court dismissing the plaintiff's bill and supplemental bills.
The bill was brought by the president of the American Express
Company, a joint stock company of New York, on behalf of
himself and the other members of the company, to enjoin the
auditor of the State of Indiana from certifying an assessment
for 1898 to the auditors of the several counties of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Supplemental bills sought the like remedy in respect of the
assessments for the following years through 1901. The ground
of relief is that the assessments will result in unconstitutional
interferences with commerce among the States and also are
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The plaintiff's case
may be stated in a few words. The American Express Company is engaged in commerce among the States, including
Indiana. It has real estate of a market value of nearly two
million dollars, which is outside of Indiana and which it says
is not used in its business, and fifteen million and a half dollars'
worth of personal property in New York as to which it says
the same; over three million dollars' worth of real estate used
in connection with the business and about a million and a half
dollars' worth of personal property used in the business, of
which there was less than eight thousand dollars' worth in
Indiana. It has paid the local taxes on this last. The total
value of the property for 1898 was $22,059,055.35. The
market value of what for brevity we may call its stock was
$21,600,000. The state board of tax commissioners has undertaken to tax the property of the company under the law which
was upheld in American Express Co. v. Indiana, 165 IT.S. 255;
Adams Express Company v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 194;
S. C., 166 U. S. 185; Adams Express Company v. Kentucky, 166
U. S. 171, by treating the whole business as a unit and assessing
the company on a proportion of the total value of its properly
determined by the ratio of the mileage in Indiana to the total
mileage of the company, excluding its ocean mileage for foreign
express business, which the company says should have been
included. The company relies on the fact that it made a
return to the board setting forth in detail what its property
was, where it was situated and how used, and that the value
and nature -of the property was not disputed; and it contends
that when these facts appeared the board was not at liberty
to spread the whole value .over the whole line equally and tax
by mileage. The auditor in his answer sets up that the t add
sum of fifteen and a half million dollars in securities is used by

FARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the company as a part of the necessary capital of its business
and denies that the board assesses personal property not used
in connection with its business. Thus he admits by implication that the above sum did enter into the assessment made,
and this would be obvious unless we should assume the intended tax to be wholly arbitrary, as the assessment was at the
rate of four hundred and fifty dollars a mile for seventeen
hundred and ninety-eight and a fraction miles, amounting to
$809,253, as against less than eight thousand dollars' worth
of tangible property in the State. There are some differences
of detail between the State and the company as to the precise
value of the stock, etc. But the foregoing facts present the
general question.
The contention of the company in its extreme form is that
the State had no right to tax it anything for the years when its
stock was of less market value than its property, because that
ratio showed that the whole value of the company was in its
tangible assets, and that the intangible property spoken of in
the Adams Express Company case was nothing. It says that
in any year that property was so small as to warrant only a
nominal tax. We lay this contention on one side. It was
admitted at the hearing before the board of tax commissioners
that an appreciable sum properly might be assessed on the
mileage basis, and therefore the board was warranted in assuming the fact. It was admitted at the argument before this
court that the low market value of the stock was due in part
to the ignorance of the public as to the assets of the company.
On this concession the market value of the stock was not a
test of the value of the business. The statement is confirmed
by the continued rise in the stock since, up to $225 in April,
1902. And apart from these admissions the board well might
have hesitated to believe that the company was carrying on
a business, which it gave no signs of intending to stop, at a loss,
and was paying its regular dividends out of investments alone.
We lay on one side also the question of ocean mileage. Without dwelling on the sudden change in the returns which added
VOL, Oxciii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

nearly one hundred and thirty thousand miles in 1898, with
comparatively slight explanation, of the admitted differences
between the ocean and land carriage, we cannot say that the
tribunal having the duty and sole jurisdiction to find the facts
exceeded its powers in not allowing the item.
We come, then, to the real question of the case: whether, the
tax provided for by the statute being a tax on property, it
sufficiently appears that the board took into account property,
which it had no right to take into account in fixing the assessment at the large sum which we have mentioned. We already
have stated reasons for assuming that the personal property
in New York did enter into the valuation. We may add that
it appears by a stipulation as to facts, that "the minutes of
said state board of tax commissioners" are in evidence. This
means the complete minutes. It must be assumed that the
minutes show all that took place in the proceedings, and therefore that we have before us all the evidence that was put in
as well as a report of what was said. There was no indication
of dispute concerning the amount, value and place of the company's personal property. The protests of the company alleged that there was no dispute as to the facts. If the company
had been mistaken common fairness required that it should
be informed and allowed to give further evidence of the undoubted truth. The ground taken before the board, and insisted on in argument before us, was that the property ought
to enter into the valuation, because wherever situated it was
used in the business; if not otherwise, at least as giving the
credit necessary for carrying the business on. We shall assume
that the question before us is narrowed to whether that ground
can be maintained. The pleadings and proceedings leave no
alternative open, and no other could be pressed consistently
with the candor to be expected from the officers of a State,
in face of a constitutional question and dealing with great
affairs. For present purposes it does not matter whether the
sum taken for division on a mileage proportion was reached
by taking the value of the stock or the value of the tangible

FARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assets of the company. For if the former was the starting
point it appears from what we have said that the tangible
assets gave the stock its value. The use of the value either
of total stock or total assets is only as a means of getting at
the true cash value of property within the State. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 26, 27; Pullman's
Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 25.
The general principles to be applied are settled. A State
cannot tax the privilege of carrying on commerce among the
States. Neither can it tax property outside of its jurisdiction
belonging to persons domiciled elsewhere. On the other hand,
it can tax property permanently within its jurisdiction although
belonging to persons domiciled elsewhere and used in commerce among the States. And when that property is part
of a system and has its actual uses only in connection with other
parts of the system, that fact may be considered by the State
in taxing, even though the other parts of the system are outside of the State. The sleepers and rails of a railroad, or the
posts and wires of a telegraph company, are worth more than
the prepared wood and the bars of steel or coils of wire, from
their organic connection with other rails or wires and the rest
of the apparatus of a working whole. This being clear, it is
held reasonable and constitutional to get at the worth of such
a line in the absence of anything more special, by a mileage
proportion. The tax is a tax on property, not on the privilege
of doing the business, but it is intended to reach the intangible
value due to what we have called the organic relation of the
property in the State to the whole system. Western Union
Telegraph Company v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 21, 22. And this
principle, established by many cases, has been extended by
the cases first cited above to the lines of express companies,
although those lines are not material lines upon the face of the
earth. There is the same organic connection as in the other
cases.
It is obvious however that this notion of organic unity may
be made a means of unlawfully taxing the privilege, or prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

erty outside the State, under the name of enhanced value or
good will, if it is not closely confined to its true meaning. So
long as it fairly may be assumed that the different parts of a
line are about equal in value a division by mileage is justifial le.
But it is recognized in the cases that if for instance a railroad
company had terminals in one State equal in value to all the
rest of the line through another, the latter State could not,
make use of the unity of the road to equalize the value of
every mile. That would be taxing property outside of the
State under a pretense. Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago & St.
Louis Ry. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 431; Western Union Telcgraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 23. The same principle
applies to personal property which the State would not have
the right to tax directly. Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State
Auditor, 165 U. S. 194, 227; S. C., 166 U. S. 185, 222, 223. In
Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. v. Backus there
was reason to suspect an infraction of constitutional rights,
but the Secretary of State testified that there was no assessment of property outside the State, 154 U. S. 434, and therefore the court could not say that there was more than a possible
overvaluation by the board. Of course if the board did not
go beyond its jurisdiction its decision was final. But the court,
recognized that if the facts charged had appeared the case
would have been different. In the Express Companies' cases
previously decided, it was pointed out that there was nothing
to show that the line might not fairly be assumed to be of
substantially the same value throughout. But it was intimated on the pages just cited that if the companies should
prove the fact to be otherwise a different rule would apply, and
the statutes were construed not to prevent such a difference
from being taken into account.
We come back to the question whether the taking of personal
property outside the State into the assessment can be justified
on the ground that it gives credit necessary for the business
in the State. The testimony was that the property was not
necessary for that purpose, and in fact was not used. We may

PARGO v. H1ART.

193 tU. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

assume that the board was of a different opinion, so far as that
was concerned, and still we may hold its action unjustified.
It will be seen that we are dealing with much more attenuated
relations than when there is a physical line of rails or wires to
be valued, every mile of which is a necessary condition of the
use of the rest of the lines beyond, and therefore a reflex condition of the value of the line behind it. The case is stronger
even than one of terminals having a large value as real estate
independent of their use to the road. The express business
added nothing to the value of the bonds in New York. Conversely, the utmost extent to which those bonds entered into
the value of property in Indiana was in so far as they helped
to make the public believe that the express company could be
trusted and therefore increased its good will. That they made
a part of the public more willing to buy interests in the company because they were an assurance against personal liability
was no concern of Indiana. But it is obvious that merely from
the point of view that the express company could be trusted
by the public with the carriage of goods or money the good
will could not be measured by the assets. In the first place
the public knew nothing of the amount. This appears as to
even the more-instructed portion of the public which bought
interests in the concern, and a fortiori as to the general run of
shippers. - For if even the buyers of the stock of the company
would pay only in the neighborhood of the value of the tangible
assets it is apparent either that they did not know what the
assets were, as was stated by the appellant's counsel, or else
that the good will taxed was worth nothing, and either view
is equally fatal to the grounds for the tax.
But again, suppose that the state of the assets of the company had been published in every newspaper in Indiana, can
it be imagined that it would have had an appreciable effect
upon the company's business? Certainly it is absurd to say
that the business of such companies will bear an exact or any
proportion to the stocks and- bonds which they may own.
Unless we are much mistaken, most people who want to send

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

things by express employ a company simply because it is there,
and they see its sign is out. The only effect that lnowledge
of the capital of the company could have would be to produce
the conviction that the company was safe to employ. Assume
that something is to be added to the good will of a company
because it is safe, and that the good will, or a part of it, of the
express business in Indiana may be considered in assessing its
property there, this is very different from measuring the good
will by the capital, when the facts appear as they do in this
case. The difference is not a mere difference in valuation, it
is a difference in principle, and in our opinion the principle
adopted by the board was wrong. It involved an attempt to
tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, and to throw
an unconstitutional burden on commerce among the States.
The result has been that, taking the value of the stock as stated
by the defendant to have been 125 for 1898, the State of
Indiana assessed the company for nearly twice the total good
will of its business, measuring that good will by the difference
between the tangible assets and the total value of the stock.
The injustice grew less flagrant as the stock rose, but in the
year 1901 the assessment still was nearly double what the
State had a right to assess, assuming that, without transcending its constitutional power, it had a right to assess its proportion by mileage of the total good will.
We have explained why in our opinion this cannot fairly be
treated as a mere case of overvaluation, but is an assessment
made upon unconstitutional 1rinciples. Under such circumstances it was impossible for the company to tender any sum,
because it was impossible for it to say what, if anything, it
ought to pay. It denied that under the Constitution it ought
to pay anything, and it is plain that for the year 1898 at least
it properly could have been assessed but a comparatively trifling
sum. The contention of the company was serious and plausible. It made the only offer it could, which was to give security
for the payment of whatever amount should be adjudged to be
due. "If there was no right to assess the particular thing at

FARGO v. HART.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an assessment under such circumstances would
all, . .
be void, and, of course, no payment or tender of any amount
would be necessary before seeking an injunction." People's
National Bank v. Marye, 191 U. S. 272, 281. See also Santa
Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 118 U. S. 394;
California v. Central Pacific Railroad, 127 U. S. 1; Central
Pacific Railroad v. California, 162 U. S. 91, 112.
The assessment being bad, for the reasons which we have
stated, the board of tax commissioners acted without jurisdiction, according to the decision of the Supreme Court of
Indiana. Hart v. Smith, 159 Indiana, 182. We do not abate
at all from the strictness of the rule that in general an injunction will not be granted against the collection of taxes. State
Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575. But it was recognized in
the passage just quoted from The P~ople's National Bank v.
Marye, that under the present circumstances a resort to equity
may be proper. The course adopted is the same that was
taken without criticism from the court in Adams Express Co.
v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 194. It avoids the necessity
of suits against the officers of each of the counties of the State,
and we are of opinion that the bill may be maintained. Union
Pacific Ry. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516; Pittsburg, Cincinnati,
Chicago & St. Louis Ry. v. Board of Public Works, 172 U. S.32.
Decree reversed.

The
DAY,

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

and MR.

JUSTICE

