OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

] 93 U. S.

SLOAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 453. Argued M[arch 16, 17, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

Where a suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to effect or construction of the Constitution and laws of the
United States upon the determination whereof the result, depends, it is
not a suit under such Constitution and laws within the meaning of the
fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 827, and the jurisdiction
of this court cannot be maintained of a direct appeal from the Circuit
Court.
Actions brought against the United States in the Circuit Court under the
act of August 7,1882, 22 Stat. 342, for allotments of land in which both
the complainants and the United States rely upon the construction
of the act of 1882, and the construction of various treaties between the
United States and Indian tribes is not substantially or in any other
than a merely incidental or remote manner drawn in question, do not
involve the construction of such treaties within the meaning of section 5
of the act of 1891, and direct appeals to this court will be dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thomas L. Sloan, with whom Mr. Charles E. Clapp and
Mr. H. C. Brown were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. John L. Webster, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt
and Mr. W. S. Summers were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals by the complainants below directly to this
court from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska. They were taken under the provisions of
the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, 1 U. S. Comp.
Stat. 549; 26 Stat. 827, on the ground that the construction of
a treaty or treaties of the United States with the Omaha

SLOAN v,. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Indians is drawn in question. The actions were brought some
time in April, 1901, under the authority of the acts of Congress approved respectively August 15, 1894, and February 6,
1901, permitting persons, in whole or in part of Indian blood
and claiming to be entitled to an allotment of land under any
act of Congress, to commence an action in the proper Circuit
Court of the United States for the purpose of maintaining
their right to such allotment. 28 Stat. 286, 305; amended,
31 Stat. 760.
Under the authority of these statutes the complainants have
brought these actions to obtain allotments in the reservation
of the Omaha Indians. Their right thereto is based upon the
act of Congress, chapter 434, approved August 7, 1882, 22
Stat. 341, the fifth section of which is set forth in the margin.'
1 AcT OF 1882.

SEc. 5. That with the consent of said Indians as aforesaid the Secretary
of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized, either through the agent of
said tribe or such other person as he may designate, to allot the lands lying
east of the right of way granted to the Sioux City and Nebraska Railroad
Company, under the agreement of April nineteenth, eighteen hundred and
eighty, approved by the Acting Secretary of the Interior July twentyseventh, eighteen hundred and eighty, in severalty to the Indians of said
tribes in quantity as follows: To each head of a family, one-quarter of a
section; to each single person over eighteen years of age, one-eighth of a
section; to each orphan child under eighteen years of age, one-eighth of a
section; and to each other person under eighteen years of age, one-sixteenth
of a section; which allotments shall be deemed and held to be in lieu of the
allotments or assignments provided for in the fourth article of the treaty
with the Omahas, concluded March sixth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five,
and for which, for the most part, certificates in the names of individual
Indians to whom tracts have been assigned, have been issued by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as in said article provided: Proided,That any
Indian to whom a tract of land has been assigned and certificate issued, or
who was entitled to receive the same, under the provisions of said fourth
article, and who has made valuable improvements thereon, and any Indian
who being entitled to an assignment and certificate under said article, has
settled and made valuable improvements upon a tract assigned to any
Indian who has never occupied or improved such tract, shall have a preference right to select the tract upon which his improvements are situated, for
allotment under the provisions of this section: Provided further, That all
allotments made under the provisions of this section shall be selected by the

OCOBEII TERRI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

By the act approved March 3, 1893, chapter 209, 27 Stat.
pp. 612, 630, the act was amended so as to enlarge somewhat
the right to allotments with the consent of the Indians, but the
material portion of the act is the original section 5, above
quoted.
All of the complainants are of mixed blood, and in their
various bills of complaint they insist that they are entitled to
allotments under and by virtue of the correct construction of
the above act of 1882 and its amendments, and they set up
the facts upon which they base their contentions, which included references to the treaties above mentioned. After
having stated them, the complainants aver that the defendant, the United States, had theretofore contended that the
fourth article of the treaty of March 6, 1865, between the
United States and the Indians, confined the right of allotment
to the members of the tribe, including their half-breed and
mixed blood relatives who were residing with them at the
time of the ratification of the treaty, and that neither the
complainants nor their ancestors were residing on the reservation at the time, and were therefore not entitled to the land.
Complainants further stated that the United States had also
contended that some of the complainants or their ancestors
had received allotments of land under and by virtue of the
treaty of July 15, 1830, article 10 thereof, and that by the
acceptance of such allotments the complainants were not entitled under the statute of 1882 to a second allotment or further
participation in the tribal rights of the Omaha tribe of Indians.
To these matters of defence the complainants then set up
certain facts which they insisted were answers thereto, and
that the complainants were therefore entitled under the statute to the allotments claimed by them.
The United States in its answer did make reference to certain
Indians, heads of families selecting for their minor children, and the agent,
shall select for each orphan child; after which the certificates issued by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs as aforesaid shall be deemed and held to be
null and void.

SLOAN v. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

treaties it had made with the Omaha Indians. The reference
was for the purpose of founding an argument for the construction of the act of 1882, in the manner contended for by it. It
urged that the complainants were not entitled to allotments
because, among other reasons, they did not reside with the
Omaha Indians on their reservation at the time of the ratification of the treaty of 1865; and also that those who had received, or whose ancestors had received, allotments under the
treaty of 1830 were not entitled to any further allotment under
the act of 1882. The treaties referred to in the answer are the
treaty of 1830, 7 Stat. 328, 330, art. 10, and the treaty of 1865,
14 Stat. 667, art. 4. The tenth article of the treaty of 1830 is
set forth in the margin.'
So much of article 4 of the treaty of 1865 as is material upon
the question now under consideration is also set forth in the
margin.2
'TREATY

OF

1830.

ARTICLE X. The Omahas, Ioways and Ottoes, for themselves, and in behalf of the Yanckton and Santie bands of Sioux, having earnestly requested
that they might be permitted to make some provision for their half-breeds,
and particularly that they might bestow upon them the tract of country
within the following limits, to wit: Beginning at the mouth of the Little
Ne-mohaw River, and running up the main channel of said river to a point
which will be ten miles from its mouth in a direct line; from thence in a
direct line to strike the Grand Ne-mohaw ten miles above its mouth, in a
direct line (the distance between the two Ne-mohaws being about twenty
miles); thence down said river to its mouth; thence up, and with the meanders of the Missouri River to the point of beginning, it is agreed that the
half-breeds of said tribes and bands may be suffered to occupy said tract
of land; holding it in the same manner and by the same title that other
Indian titles are held: but the President of the United States may hereafter
assign to any of the said half-breeds, to be held by him or them in fee simple,
any portion of said tract not exceeding a section, of six hundred and forty
acres to each individual. And this provision shall extend to the cession
made by the Sioux in the preceding article.
2

TREATY OF 1865.
ARTICLE IV. The Omaha Indians being desirous of promoting settled
habits of industry and enterprise amonest themselves by abolishing the
tenure in common by which they now hold their lands, and by assigning

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

It will be observed that this article of the treaty of 1865
provides for assigning the lands therein mentioned, in severalty,
to the members of the tribe, including their half or mixed blood
relatives, now residing with thenm. That is, at the date of the
treaty.
There is another treaty, that of 1854, between the United
States and the Omaha Indians, which it is not necessary to
refer to at length. In it the Indians cede to the United States
certain lands therein described, and they reserve certain other
lands to themselves. The sixth article permits the President
to assign at his discretion the whole or such portion of the
lands reserved to the Indians as he may think proper, to be
surveyed into lots, and to be assigned by the President to such
Indians as were willing to avail themselves of the privilege an(l
would locate on the same as a permanent home, subject to the
conditions named in the article. The treaty is not material
upon the question of the right to appeal directly to this court,
hereinafter discussed.
Stipulations in regard to the facts in each case were entered
into between the parties and testimony also was given upon the
various issues between them. The trial court held that the
act of 1882 took the place of all previous acts and treaties
providing for allotments of land to the Omaha tribe of Indians,
including the half or mixed breeds; that the fundamental
question was Arho, under the terms of the act of 1882, were
entitled to allotments; that the rights of the complainants
limited quantities thereof in severalty to the members of the tribe, including
their half or mixed blood relatives now residing with them, to be cultivated
and improved for their own individual use and benefit, it is hereby agreed
and stipulated that the remaining portion of their present reservation shall
be set apart for said purposes; and that out. of the same there shal be assigned to each head of a family not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres,
and to each male person, eighteen years of age and upwards, without family,.
not exceeding forty acres of land-to include in every case, as far as practicable, a reasonable proportion of timber; six hundred and forty acres of
said lands, embracing and surrounding the present agency improvements,
shall also be set apart and appropriated to the occupancy and use of the
agency for said Indians. .

SLOAN v. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must be adjudged according to the intent of the act of 1882,
and that if a person had a right within the terms of that act
to an allotment, it could not be denied him simply because he
could not be brought within the terms of the treaty of 1865;
that the act of 1882 did not restrict the persons to whom allotments were to be made under its provisions to those who
resided on the reservation in 1865, but it included all who were
in fact members of the tribe, whether of mixed blood or not,
residing on the reservation in the tribal relation when the act
of 1882 was passed, but such right was not possessed by the
mixed bloods, who were not living on the reservation as members of the tribe in 1882; that those of mixed blood who had
received allotments under the treaty of 1830 were not entitled
to any allotments under the provisions of the act of 1882.
118 Fed. Rep. 283; 95 Fed. Rep. 193.
The bills were dismissed on the merits in twenty-three out
of the twenty-five actions brought in the court below, while the
complainants in two of them recovered judgment for an allotment to each. They were Thomas L. Sloan and Garry P.
Myers. Sloan was held entitled to an allotment in his own
right as an Indian of mixed blood, living on the Omaha reservation at the time of the passage of the act of 1882, although
his grandmother, a daughter of a full blood Indian mother,
had received an allotment of three hundred and twenty acres
in the Nemaha reservation in 1857, under the treaty of 1830.
Myers was held entitled as an Indian of mixed blood and a
resident of the Omaha reservation in 1882, the contested
question being as to the amount of his allotment, whether it
should be eighty or one hundred and sixty acres, and he was
held entitled to the latter quantity.
The appellee has made a motion to dismiss these appeals on
the ground that the court has no jurisdiction to hear them, as
they do not fall within any of the provisions of section 5 of the
act of March 3, 1891, and because the respective complainants
neither assert nor claim any right to an allotment under or by
virtue of any treaty, and the validity or construction of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

treaty is not drawn in question in these cases. We think the
motion should be granted.
The actions do not, in our judgment, involve the construetion of any treaty within the meaning of section 5 of the
statute of 1891. The complainants in their several bills have
based their claims to an allotment upon the act of 1882 and
upon the proper construction to be given to its language, which
construction, they aver, would recognize their rights to an
allotment under the treaties referred to. The United States,
in defending against the claims made by the complainants, also
relies entirely upon the proper construction of the act of 1882.
The construction of a treaty is used only as an argument upon
the issue directly in question, viz., the construction of the
statute. The alleged right to an allotment being based upon
the act of 1882, and the defence being also based upon the
proper construction of that act, we cannot but regard the case
as one simply resting on such act. The construction of these
various treaties was not substantially or in any other than a
merely incidental or remote manner drawn in question, and
therefore a direct appeal to this court cannot be sustained.
We think the appeals come within the principle of Muse v.
Arlington Hotel Company, 168 U. S. 430; Western Union Telgraph Company v. Ann Arbor Railway Company, 178 U. S. 239,
and Lampasas v. Bell, 180 IT. S. 276, which hold that where
the suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or
controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution
or laws of the United States, upon the determination of which
the result depends, it is not a suit under the Constitution or
laws, and that jurisdiction cannot under such circumstances
be maintained of a direct appeal to this court from the Circuit
Court.
In Mlse v. Arlington Hotel Company, it was held that sonie
right, title, privilege or immunity dependent upon a treaty
must be so set up or claimed as to require the Circuit Court to
pass upon the question of the validity or construction of the
treaty in disposing of the right asserted. In order to come

