OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

COSMOPOLITAN MINING COMPANY v. WALSH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 134. Argued January 20, 21,1904.-Decided. March 21,1904.
If a case does not really involve the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States in the sense in which that phrase is employed in the Judiciary Act of 1891, this court is precluded from examining the merits on writ of error.
Whether the case should go-to the Circuit Court of Appeals or be brought
directly to this court must be determined from the record and there is
no authority for the trial judge making a certificate that the application
and construction of the Constitution of the United States were involved
in the action.
The contention that under the laws of a State it was essential to the legality
of service upon an alleged agent of a corporation that the corporation
should have been doing business within the State and the agent residing
within the county named as his place of residence in the appointnent
does not require the construction of the Constitution of the United States
but simply calls for the construction of the constitution and laws of the
State or the application of the principles of general law.

THE Cosmopolitan Mining Company was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Maine in June, 1884, for the purposes
of "buying, selling, leasing, working, developing and improving
gold, silver, copper or other mines, and purchasing and holding
such other property as may be necessary or convenient." Soon
after such incorporation the mining company-as we shall
hereafter call the plaintiff in error-became the owner of mining claims, consisting of lodes and millsites, situated in the
county of Ouray, Colorado.
The constitution of Colorado (art. XV, sec. 10) provided that
"no foreign corporation shall do any business in this State
without having one or more known places of business and an
authorized agent or agents in the same. upon whom process
may be served." The statutes of the State required that before

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v. WALSH.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

a foreign corporation should be permitted to do any business
in Colorado it should make a certificate, signed by its president
and secretary, duly acknowledged, and file the same with the
Secretary of State and in the office of the recorder of deeds in
each county in which business was to be carried on, designating
the principal place where the business of such corporation was
to be conducted in the State, and also naming an authorized
agent or agents in the State, residing in the principal place of
business of the corporation, upon whom process might be
served. Mills' Ann. Stat. sec. 499. In compliance with the
foregoing requirements the mining company filed on February 10, 1886, a certificate in the offic6 of the Secretary of State
of Colorado and in the office of each of the recorders of Ouray
and Cumberland Counties, designating the county of Ouray
as the principal place where the business of the corporation
was to be carried on, and naming J. M. Jardine as the agent
upon whom process might be served.
In the months of April and May, 1895, actions were brought
in the county court of Ouray County by the A. W. Begole
Mercantile Company, John Ashenfelter, P. H. Fennell and
William C. Fulton, to recover from the mining company sums
aggregating about $1,250, alleged to be due for labor performed and merchandise furnished to the mining company in
the State of Colorado in the years 1893 and 1894. In each
complaint it was alleged that the mining company was a corporation "duly incorporated and organized under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Maine, with its principal
office in the State of Colorado, in the city of Ouray, in said
Ouray County." The Begole action was first instituted, and
an attachment was issued and levied upon the real property
of the mining company in Ouray County, being the mining
claims heretofore referred to. In the complaints in the
Ashenfelter and Fennell actions the fact of the levy of an
attachment in the Begole case was recited, and the court was
asked to make Ashenfelter and Fennell parties plaintiff in that
action, and to give them like remedies against the mining

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

company "as the law gives to the original plaintiff in said
action." Writs of attachment were also issued in the Ashenfelter and Fennell actions, and were levied in the same manner
as was the writ of attachment in the Begole case. In each of
the three actions last referred to a copy of the writ of attachment and of the summons and complaint were served in San
Miguel County, Colorado, upon J. M. Jardine, described in the
return of the sheriff as the "duly authorized agent for the
within-named company" (the Cosmopolitan Mining Company).
The complaint in the Fulton case contained no reference to
the levy of an attachment in the Begole action, and the plaintiff did not ask to be made a party to the action. Although a
writ of attachment was issued in the Fulton case, it was not
shown to have been levied. A copy, however, of the writ as
also of the summons and complaint, was served upon Jardine,
described as in the returns in the other cases.
Judgments were entered in each of these county court actions, and in each judgment there was embodied an order
"that the attachment herein be sustained, and a special execution issue." On the files, in the Begole action, was placed
what was termed a "pro rating oidcr," entitled in the Begole
action, and therein was recited the recovery of judgments in
the Ashenfelter, Fennell and Fulton actions, and that it appeared to the court that property belonging to the defendant
company "was attached for the purpose of satisfying such
judgments as might be obtained by the several plaintiffs
against the said company." There was also contained therein
direction to the sheriff of Ouray County "to sell the above
described property or so much thereof as shall be necessary
to satisfy said several judgments, together with the costs and
interest thereon." Special writs of execution were issued, and
the attached property was sold to one J. C. Marsh, as trustee
for the several judgment creditors. In each case it was stated
on the return on the writ of execution that the particular judgment had been fully satisfied.
Marsh received a certificate of purchase, and afterwards

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v. WALSH.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

assigned the same to Stephen A. Osborn, and on May 25, 1896,
the period of redemption having expired, a sheriff's deed was
executed and delivered to Osborn. On June 16, 1896, Osborn
conveyed the property to Walsh, the defendant in error herein.
On March 1, 1897, Walsh brought an action against the
mining company and Jardine in the District Court of Ouray
County, Colorado, to quiet his title to the property thus acquired. It was alleged that the mining company was a corporation of the State of Maine, organized for the purpose,
among others, of carrying on the mining business in the county
of Ouray and State of Colorado, and that by certificate, dated
December 16, 1885, and recorded January 21, 1886, Jardine
had been "duly appointed as the authorized agent of the defendant company, upon whom process might be served." The
proceedings in the Begole, Ashenfelter and Fennell actions
were set forth, as also the acquisition by Walsh under the same
title of the property in question. It was averred that the
defendants claimed an interest in the property and it was
prayed that they might be required to set up such claims, and
that it might be adjudged that the defendants did not have
any interest in the property. Return was made of service of
the summons and complaint on Jardine individually, and on
the mining company, "by delivering to John M. Jardine, the
duly authorized agent of the defendant company, and designated by it as the person upon whom service would be served."
Jardine filed a disclaimer of interest, and judgment was entered
against the mining company by default. In that judgment it
was recited that entry of the default of the mining company
had been made "for the failure of the said defendant to plead
as required by law, after due service of summons upon it in
manner and form as by law provided;" that the plaintiff had
been sworn as a witness in the case; and that the court had
heard the testimony given by the plaintiff and inspected the
records, deeds and documents offered in evidence. After next
finding the facts to be as they were averred in the complaint
of Walsh, the court decreed as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

"It is, therefore, considered, adjudged and decreed by the
court that the said defendants have not, nor have either of
them, any right, title, interest, claim or demand in or to any
part of the premises above described, and that the pretended
claim of the defendant, The Cosmopolitan Mining Company,
in and to said premises is wholly without right or justification
in law. That the plaintiff is the owner and in the possession
of the premises and mining claims above described and entitled
to the quiet and peaceable possession of said mining claims
and each of them."
The present action was brought on November 3, 1900, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado
by the mining company, to recover possession of the real
property purported to have been sold under the judgments
in the county court actions. Diversity of citizenship of the
parties was alleged in the complaint, and the property in controversy was averred to exceed $2,000 in value. It was
further charged that the plaintiff had been ousted of the possession of the property claimed by it on May 25, 1896, the date
of the sheriff's deed under the sales on execution. The answer
contained a general denial, and special defences, one of which
set out the various proceedings in the county court actions
brought by Begole et al. and the other proceedings by which
'title to the property in dispute was claimed to be vested in
Walsh. The judgment rendered in the action to quiet title
was also specially pleaded, and there were averments of facts
alleged to constitute estoppel. A replication and amended
replication were filed to this answer. It was alleged in substance that prior to the service made upon Jardine, in the
actions referred to in the answer of Walsh, the mining company
was not doing business in the State of Colorado, and that in
those actions no service of process had been made upon it.,
hence the Colorado courts acted without jurisdiction, and
consequently "the plaintiff has been and is being deprived of
its property, viz: The property sought to be recovered in this
action without notice, hearing, opportunity to be heard, or due

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v. WALSH.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

process of law, and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States."
The action was tried to a jury. The case in chief for the
mining company consisted of documentary evidence, exhibiting title in the mining company to the property in controversy
at the date of the alleged ouster. The evidence for the defendant consisted of a certified copy of the statutory designation
of Jardine as agent of the mining company, the judgment
records in the various actions relied upon, tax deeds covering
two of the millsites enumerated in the complaint, and oral
testimony. Objection was made to the admission in evidence
of the judgment records substantially upon the following
grounds: 1. That the records of the judgments in the county
court actions did not on their face show the appointment of
Jardine as the agent of the mining company, and therefore
there was nothing in the records to show that service had been
made upon a proper agent of the corporation. 2. That even
if the fact of the statutory designation by the corporation of
Jardine as its agent could be incorporated into the records and
considered, as it was not shown that at the time of the service
the corporation was doing business in the State, jurisdiction
over the company was not acquired by the service upon Jardine.
3. That in any event, as the service of process in the county
court actions had been had upon Jardine in another county
than the one mentioned in the statutory appointment as the
place of residence of Jardine, the service was void. 4. That as
there was then no evidence of personal service on the corporation through its agent, the mere levy of a writ of attachment
was insufficient to confer jurisdiction and to authorize the court
to enter judgment and direct a sale of the attached property.
,These objections, it was insisted, established that the judgments recovered against the corporation were rendered without
due process of law and in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. The offer of the judgment record in the action
to quiet title was also objected to because it was not shown
that the company was doing business in Colorado at the time
VOL. CXCI-I30

OCTOBER TERMA,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

of service of Jardine, and therefore the service on him was void,
and further because the court in its judgment or decree did not
purport to direct a conveyance but simply attempted by such
judgment or decree to establish title. Treating the actions
in the county court as being in personam and not in remn, the
objections were finally overruled by the trial judge, and all the
judgment records were admitted in evidence except the record
in the Fulton case. The judgment records in the county court
actions were admitted on the ground that it sufficiently appeared from the records that the mining corporation at the
time the actions were brought was doing business in the State of
Colorado. The record in the Fulton case was excluded because
of a deficiency in this particular. The court admitted the records in the action to quiet title because it appeared that the
mining company was alleged in the complaint not only to have
been authorized to carry on business in the State of Colorado,
but to have been formed for that purpose, and its appointment
of a statutory agent was a consent to be served through such
agent.
Following the introduction of these records and in support of
the defence of estoppel, evidence was offered on behalf of the
defendant tending to show the expenditure made by him in
connection with the property subsequent to his acquisition of
title, but the court held the same to be inadmissible.
In rebuttal, the plaintiff offered in evidence from the record
in the Begole action a writing signed by Jardine, in effect,
notifying the court that he did not reside in Ouray County,
and disclaiming being an agent of the mining company, and
also asking the court to quash the service made on him of the
summons and writ of attachment. The paper was not admitted in evidence and an exception was taken to its exclusion.
Two witnesses were next examined on behalf of the mining
company for the purpose of establishing that the company
maintained no office and was not doing business in the county
of Ouray at the time of the service of process in the actions
referred to in the answer. No attempt, however, was made to

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v. WALSH.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

prove that there had been an express revocation of the statutory designation of Jardine as agent to receive service of process.
The testimony of the two witnesses above referred to tended
to show that the mining company had never any established
office in Ouray other than that of its statutory agent, while he
resided in Ouray; that the mines of the company were situated
some six or seven miles from Ouray, and had been worked up
to a short time before the bringing of the actions which resulted
in a sale of the property. But one witness-the sheriff of the
county-testified concerning the operation of the mines, and
he was not shown to possess definite knowledge as to when
operations ceased. No testimony was introduced to show
whether the suspension of operations, if entire, was intended
to be permanent or was merely temporary. The court overruled a motion on behalf of the defendant to strike out the
testimony of these witnesses, but in doing so observed that
it would instruct in view of the testimony.
Thereupon counsel for the plaintiff asked the court to direct
the jury to find for the plaintiff except as to two millsites which
were covered by tax deeds to Walsh, and to the overruling of
this motion the mining company excepted. The court then
of its own motion instructed the jury as follows:
"Gentlemen of the Jury: In the view the court takes of this
case, it becomes a question of law, and the court will instruct
you to find a verdict in favor of the defendant and that the
defendant is entitled to possession of the demanded premises."
On the verdict, and after overruling a motion for a new trial,
judgment was entered. A writ of error from this court was
thereupon allowed by the trial judge, who made and signed a
certificate reciting "that in the pleadings in this action as well
as in the rulings of this court in admitting and refusing to admit
evidence, and in giving and refusing to give instructions to the
jury as set forth in the assignment of errors hereto annexed,
there were involved the application and construction of the
Constitution of the United States, viz., of the part of the Four-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

teenth Amendment to the same which provides for due process
of law."
Air. Carlton l. Bliss, with whom Mir. TWilliam H. Moody,
Mr.John A. Perry and Air. George C. Preston were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
3ir. Charles S. Thomas and AMr. Charles J. Hughes, Jr.,
with whom Mr. Gerald Hughes, Mr. William H. Bryant and
Alr. Harry H. Lee were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We are asked in this case to review directly the judgment of
a Circuit Court of the United States, and our right to do so, if
at all, depends on that clause of section 5 of the Judiciary Act
of 1891, which authorizes the taking of appeals or writs of
error from District or Circuit Courts direct to this court "in
any case that involves the construction or application of the
Constitution of the United States." Of course, if the case at
bar does not really involve the construction or al)plication of
the Constitution of the United States, in the sense in which
that phrase is employed in the Judiciary Act of 1891, we are
precluded from examining the merits upon this writ of error.
In order to determine whether the case is one which should
have gone to the Circuit Court of Appeals and not have been
brought directly to this court, we must look into the record,
without regard to the certificate given by the trial judge.
Indeed, we know of no authority for the making of such certificate.
Before coming to the record, however, we shall briefly advert
to the legal principles which must control.
In Carey v. Houston & Texas Central Ry., 150 U. S.170, the
record exhibited the following controversy: Stockholders of the
railway company filed a bill in equity in a Circuit Court of the

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v. WALSH.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States, praying, among other relief, the setting aside
of a certain decree of foreclosure and sale, basing the claim
upon the grounds of collusion and fraud and want of jurisdiction in the court which had entered the decree. A final decree
was entered in the cause dismissing the bill and appeals were
allowed both to the Circuit Court of Appeals and to this court.
The appeal to this court was based upon the contention that
the cause involved not only the question of the jurisdiction of
the court below, but also the question of the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States. The
appeal was dismissed, and in the course of the opinion, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, it was said (pp. 179, 181):
"The Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, in distributing the
appellate jurisdiction of the national judicial system between
the Supreme Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals therein
established, designated the classes of cases in respect of which
each of these courts was to have final jurisdiction, (the judgments of the latter being subject to the supervisory power of
this court through the writ of certiorari as provided,) and the
act has uniformly been so construed and applied as to promote
its general and manifest purpose of lessening the burden of
litigation in this court.
"It is argued that the record shows that complainants had
been deprived of their property without due process of law,
by means of the decree attacked, but because the bill alleged
irregularities, errors and jurisdictional defects in the foreclosure
proceedings, and fraud in respect thereof and in the subsequent
transactions, which might have enabled the railroad company
upon a direct appeal to have avoided the decree of sale, or
which, if sustained on this bill, might have justified the Circuit
Court in setting aside that decree, it does not follow that the
construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States was involved in the case in the sense of the statute. In
passing upon the validity of that decree the Circuit Court decided no question of the construction or the application of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Constitution, and, as we have said, no such question was raised
for its consideration. Our conclusion is that the motion to
dismiss the appeal must be sustained."
In In re Lennon, decided at the same term, 150 U. S. 393, the
construction given in the Carey case to the provisions of section 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891 was reiterated. In that
case an appeal had been taken directly to this court from an
order of the Circuit Court of the United States denying an
application for a writ of habeas corpus sued out to obtain relief
from an imprisonment upon a conviction for contempt. The
jurisdiction of the committing court over the cause in which
the order of commitment had been made, as well as over the
person of the party sentenced for contempt, was assailed. The
direct appeal to this court, however, was dismissed for want.
of jurisdiction. After pointing out that, the objection for want
of jurisdiction in the court below was without any foundation,
the court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, said
(p. 400):
"Nor can the attempt be successfully made to bring the case
within the class of cases in which the construction or applieation of the Constitution is involved in the sense of the statute,
on the contention that the petitioner was deprived of his
liberty without due process of law. The petition does not
proceed on any such- theory, but entirely on the ground of
want of jurisdiction in the prior case over the subject matter
and over the person of petitioner, in respect of inquiry into
which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was sought. If,
in the opinion of that court, the restraining order had been
absolutely void, or the petitioner were not bound by it., he
would have been discharged, not because he would otherwise
be deprived of due process, but because of the invalidity of the
proceedings for want of jurisdiction. The opinion of the Circuit Court was that jurisdiction in the prior suit and proceedings existed, and the discharge was refused, but an appeal from
that judgment directly to this court would not, therefore, lie
on the ground that the application of the Constitution was

COSMOPOLITAN MINING CO. v, WALSh.
i3 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

involved as a consequence of an alleged erroneous determination of the questions actually put in issue by the petitioner,"
It is obvious, under the construction of the Judiciary Act
of 1891, announced in the cases just referred to, that this cause
does not involve the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore was not entitled
to be brought directly to this court from the Circuit Court of
the United States. When the proceedings at the trial are taken
into view it is clear that the contentions which were urged did
not require the construction of the Constitution of the United
States, but simply called for the construction of the constitution and laws of the State of Colorado or the application of the
principles of general law. The real contention of the mining
company was that under the laws of Colorado it was essential
to the legality of the service upon its alleged agent that the
corporation when the service was made should have been
doing business within the State, and that the agent should
have been resident within the county named in the appointment as his place of residence. It was not disputed that, as
authorized by its charter, the mining company had bought
mines within the State of Colorado; that it had thereafter
appointed, as required by the laws of Colorado, an agent
within the State upon whom service of process might be made,
and that there had been no direct revocation of such agency.
Moreover, it was not disputed that the mining company had
worked the mines in question up to a short time before the
bringing of the actions in the county court of Ouray County,
and that the liabilities enforced in those actions were contracted
in Colorado. and grew out of the operation of the mines in
question. No evidence was introduced tending to show that
the company had permanently ceased the operation of its mines
in Colorado and withdrawn from that State; and the undisputed fact was that when the county court actions were brought
it still owned the property which it had acquired as authorized
by its charter.
No claim was made that the sale of the property under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

executions in the county court actions was void under the
Constitution of the United States because wanting in due
process of law, if the service on the agent was valid under the
law of Colorado or the principles of general law applicable to
the facts disclosed at the trial. The primary and fundamental
contention of the mining company was therefore this and
nothing more: that under the circumstances disclosed the
service upon the statutory agent was unauthorized either by
the law of Colorado or the principles of general law; and hence
that it had not lost its title to the property. The claim asserted under the Constitution of the United Sta'tes was, therefore, merely conjectural and amounted to this only, that if
under the law of Colorado or under the general law the service
on the alleged agent was void, that it would be a violation of
the Constitution of the United States to give effect to judgments based on such service. Not only the statement we have
made from the record, but the argument at bar, makes this a
demonstration. Thus, in the discussion at bar, it was stated
that it was not claimed that the State of Colorado could not
without a violation of the Constitution of the United States
have exacted that the authority conferred by a foreign corporation upon an agent to receive service of process should continue for the purpose of the enforcement of obligations contracted by the corporation, although the corporation had
ceased to do business within the State, but that as the Colorado
law when properly construed (lid not so provide, therefore the
service was invalid, and the sale of the property of the mining
company based on such service was void. This, however, as
we have already shown, amounts but to the concession that the
substantial controversy which the case presented involved the
mere determination of what was the law of Colorado on the
subject. The rulings of the court below as to the admissibility
of evidence and its final direction of a verdict involved necessarily deciding that the service upon the agent was valid by
the law of Colorado, or the principles of general law applicable
thereto, and its action in so doing in nowise involved the con-

