OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

193 U. S.

BOERING v. CHESAPEAIE BEACH RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
-No.174. Argued M[arch 4, 1904.-Decided M[arch 21, 1904.

Where in an action for personal injuries the trial court submits to the jury
the question whether a person riding on a pass is or is not a free passenger,
and there is a general verdict for the defendant, that question of fact i
settled in favor of the defendant.
A person may not through the intermediary of an agent obtain a privilege
-a mere license-and then plead ignorance of the conditions upon which
it was granted.
The duty of ascertaining the conditions on which a free pass is given and
accepted when the same are plainly printed on the pas, re.ts upon the
person accepting and availing of the pass, and the carrier is not bulid
at its peril to see that the conditions are made known.

THE facts in this case involved the right of the plaintiffs who
were husband and wife to recover for injuries sustained by the

wife while riding upon a pass which contained a stipulation
relieving the carrier from responsibility for injuries whether
caused by negligence of company's agents or otherwise, and
are stated at length in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles F. Carusiand Mr. Charles H. Merillal for plaintiffs in error:
A public carrier may not limit its common law liability for
negligence to passengers by special agreement. This ruh,
founded on public policy, operates no less for the protection of
gratuitous passengers than for passengers for hire. It, is conceded for the purposes of argument, that the plaintiff held a
free pass. This court in Phila. & Reading R. R. v. Derby, 14
How. 485, said that a pass is not free or gratuitous in the sense
in which these words were used by the learned court below if
the consideration therefor be " pecuniary or otherwise," which
distinguishes this case from Duncan v. Maine Central R. I?.
Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 508.

BOERING w. CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. CO.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

In the United States the law of passenger carriers, with the
exception of the precise point at bar, has been perfectly well
settled by this court, in which it has been held:
I. That passenger carriers are liable for the consequences
of negligent acts to all passengers, gratuitous or otherwise.
Steamboat New World v. King, 16 How. 469; Phila. & Reading
R. R. Co. v. Derby, 14 How. 485.
II. That this liability cannot be evaded by private agreements, all such agreements being per se unreasonable in character and void as against public policy. Lockwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 363.
In the only cases where this court was called on to pass on
the validity or reasonableness of such agreements in the case
of passengers other than those for hire, the court inevitably
discovered some consideration, "pecuniary or otherwise,"
which made it unnecessary to pass on the precise point presented by this appeal. B. & 0. &c. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176
U. S. 498, 505.
By the great weight of authority in this country stipulations
against liability of common carriers for negligence are void
even in the case of gratuitous passengers. Bryan v. Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co., 32 Mo. App. 228; Jacobus v. Railway Co., 20 Minnesota, 125; F. & P. Al. Ry. Co. v. Weir, 37 Michigan, 122; G. C.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. McGown, 65 Texas, 643; Mob. & Ohio v.
Hopkins, 41 Alabama, 486; Ala. Gt. S. Ry. Co. v. Little, 71
Alabama, 614; Rose v. D. M. V. Ry. Co., 39 Iowa, 246; Ill. &
Ont. Ry. Co. v. Reed, 37 Illinois, 484; Fol. W. & W. Ry. Co. v.
Beggs, 85 Illinois, 80; Annas v. M. N. Ry. Co., 67 Wisconsin,
46; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Henderson, 51 Pa. St. 351 (drovers'
pass case, but followed up to full extent in Penna. R. R. Co. v.
Butler, 57 Pa. St. 335); B. P. & TV. v. O'Hara, 9 Am. & Eng.
R. R. Cases, 317, Pa., 1881; Camden & Atl. Ry. v. Bausch, 7
Atl. Rep. 731; Burnett v. Railway Co., 176 Pa. St. 45; Vette v.
Harmon, 102 Fed. Rep. 17; Roesner v. Herman, 8 Fed. Rep.
782; Flinn v. P. W. & B. Ry. Co., 1 Houston (Del.), 471
(drover's pass case, but well considered and shows court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

193 U. S.

same opinion as to purely gratuitous passenger); 0. & ill. Ry.
Co. v. Selby, 47 Indiana, 471, 487; Ind. Central R. R. Co. v.
Mlundy, 21 Indiana, 48; L. M. & A. &c. R. R. Co. v. Faylor,
126 Indiana, 126; Welsh v. Railroad. Co., 10 Ohio St. 76;
Curranv. Railroad Co., 19 Ohio, 1; Knowlton v. Erie R. R. Co.,
19 Ohio, 261.
This last case was decided against the passenger, as the
contract was made in New York, but decided (p. 263) that
the Ohio law is otherwise. The text-writers are almost, unanimous in opposition to the carriers' right to limit liability on
a free pass. Redfield on Carriers, 268; Thompson's Law of
Carriers, p. 200, §§ 4, 7, 9; Sherman's Redfield on Negligence,
§ 268, et seq.; Cooley on Torts, 686; Wharton on Negligence,
589, 592, 641; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 771, note; Sehouler on
Bailments and Carriers, 2d ed. § 656.
The contrary decisions are: Wells v. Railroad Co., 24 N. Y.
181; Perkins v. Railroad Co., 24 N. Y. 196; Bissell v. Railway
Co., 25 N. Y. 443; Kinney v. Railway Co., 32 N. J. L. 407; Quimby
v. B. & M. Ry. Co., 150 Massachusetts, 365; Muldoon v. N. C.
Ry. Co., 35 Pac. Rep. 422; Ghriswold v. AT. Y. & N. E. Ry. co.,
53 Connecticut, 371 (a quasi-employ6 case); Payne v. Terre
Haute R. R. Co., 157 Indiana, 617.
Of the foregoing the one New Jersey and all three of the
New York decisions were by divided courts. Moreover, in
the New York cases and the Massachusetts case distinctions
were sought to be made between ordinary negligence and
gross negligence, and between the negligence of the corporation itself and that of its agents.
It is not contended that a public carrier necessarily has its
duties to the public increased in proportion to the special
benefits derived from the public in a charter of incorporation,
but its charter does place certain duties and obligations on it.
Gaet v. Express Co., McArthur & M. 138; Oscanyan v. Arms
Co., 103 U, S. 261; C. M. & St. Paul R. R. Co. v. Solan, 109
U. S. 135.
Even those States which permit a common carrier to limit

BOERING v. CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. CO.
193 U. S.

445

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

its liability to gratuitous passengers require an express contract to that effect by the passenger and the party setting it
up must prove its execution by proof conforming to the ordinary rules of evidence. Amerian TransportationCo. v. Moore,
5 Michigan, 368; Cooper v. Berry, 21 Georgia, 526; Roberts v.
Riley, 15 La. Ann. 103.
Plaintiff in error had a right to assume the ticket had been
There is no presumption that she knew it was
paid for.
gratuitous. Schouler on Bailments and Carriers, § 468, p.
497, and cases cited. And this notwithstanding the face of
the ticket or document refers the reader to the back. Malone
v. Boston & W. R., 12 Gray, 388; Railroad Co. v. Mfg. Co.,
16 Wall. 318.
Plaintiff's right of action sounds in tort, but the defendant's
exemption from liability is wholly contractual. The burden
was on defendant who has failed wholly to show any contract.
If a carrier claims that by contract his common law liability
has been limited, the burden is on him clearly to show it, and
all such contracts will be interpreted most strictly against the
carrier. Assent will not be presumed from facts and circumstances which do not clearly show an assent to such conditions
in the contract on which the action is founded. In the absence
of satisfactory proof showing that the shipper by assent and
acquiescence has agreed to limit the liability of the carrier, the
presumption is that he intended to insist on his common law
rights. Neither usage nor custom, though known to the
shipper, which he has not clearly assented to as a condition
of the contract of shipment can be set up to absolve the carrier
from his common law liability. P. C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Barrett, 36 Ohio St. 448; Rosenfeld v. Peoria R. R., 103 Indiana,
121; Jennings v. Grand Trunk, 127 N. Y. 438; Amn. T. Co. v.
Moore, 5 Michigan, 368; Edsall's Case, 50 N. Y. 661; Louisville
Ry. Co. v. Nicholai, 4 Ind. App. 119; New Jersey Steam Nay.
Co. v. Merchants Bank, 6 How. 344; Mich. Cent. R. Co. v. Hale,
6 Michigan, 243; Missouri Pacific v. Ivy, 17 Texas, 409; Seyboldt v. N. Y. &c. Ry. Co., 95 N. Y. 562; Brewer v, NVY. C,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

Ry. Co., 124 N. Y. 59; Coppock v. Long Island R. Co., 89 Hun,
186.
So strong is this principle that in Mauritz v. Railroad Co.,
23 Fed. Rep. 765, it was held that a passenger unable to read
the language in which a ticket is printed and to whom no
explanation is made by the agent is not bound by special terms
and conditions, as it was not, per se, negligence in him not, to
know them. Blossom v. Dobb's Express, 43 N. Y. 269; Cam.
& A. R. Co. v. Baldauj, 16 Pa. St. 67; Perkins v. N. Y. Central,
43 N. Y. 269; Boylan v. Hot Springs, 132 U. S. 146, do not
apply.
In this case the evidence established that the plaintiff, while
she knew she was traveling on "transportation" procured in
conjunction with an advertising contract, never had hald the
transportation in her possession, and did not know there was
any stipulation on the back thereof, did not assent to same,
and authorized no one to do so for her.
This takes the case out of the principles laid down in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440.
The circumstances under which the passes were issued and
the testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Boering are conclusive on the
points that plaintiff did not authorize her husband to procure
any transportation whatever for her, and he was in no sense
her agent and she had no notice of the stipulation on the back
of the pass issued to her husband in her name, but retained by
him.
It would appear, therefore, that, even if the stipulation were
not void on the ground of public policy, the trial court erred
in admitting it in evidence. Am. & Eng. Ency. 2d ed. under
Agency; McLaren v. Hall, 26 Iowa, 297.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John Spalding
Flannery was on the brief, for defendant in error:
There is nothing to distinguish this case from Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440.
Whether the female plaintiff had actual knowledge of the

BOERING v. CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. CO.

193 U. S.

447

Argument for Defendant in Error.

conditions in the pass and their effect was immaterial. Muldoon v. Seattle Railway Co., 10 Washington, 310. For even
though the conditions by their terms require that the party
using the pass should sign the same, if he does not in fact sign
the same, yet uses the pass, he will be estopped to deny that
he made the agreement specified thereon. Quimby v. Boston
& Mliaine R. R. Co., 150 Massachusetts, 365; Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. Read, 37 Illinois, 486.
If the cause of action in this case for a breach of a contract to carry is that of the wife alone, as held by the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia in Rockwell v. Traction Company, 17 App. D. C. 369, 380, then it logically follows that the right to contract for such carriage was her own
individual right, and that her husband, in attending to her
"transportation," was acting as her agent, and bound her by
accepting for her a complimentary pass containing the condition of exemption.
The power of a husband to act as the agent of his wife in
relation to her separate or individual personal or property
rights is well settled. Voorhees v. Bonesteel & Wife, 16 Wall.
16; Aldridge v. Muirhead, 101 U. S. 397; Weisbrod v. Chicago,
etc., Ry. Co., 18 Wisconsin, 35, and other cases cited in 1 A.
& E. Ency. Law, 2d ed. 947.
If, on the other hand, the conclusion of the same court in
the case of Howard v. C. & 0. Railway Co., 11 App. D. C. 300,
337, holding that the right of action for personal injuries sustained by the wife is not the statutory property of the wife,
be, as we think it is, a correct statement of the law of this
district on that subject, then, at the time this cause of action
arose and suit thereon was instituted, the common law rule
prevailed in this district and the female plaintiff could not
have sued without joining her husband in such action, as she
did do. Any damages recovered or reduced to possession as a
result of such joint action during the coverture would have
been the property of the husband alone. This right to the
proceeds of the litigation carries with it the right of the hus-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

band to release the entire right of action for damages, whether
after judgment or before suit brought. Anderson v. Anderson, 11 Bush (Ky.), 327; Ballard v. Russell, 33 Maine, 196;
S. C., 54 Am. Dec. 620; Southu'orth v. Packard,7 Massachusetts,
95; Beach v. Beach, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 260; 8. C., 38 Am. Dec. 584;
Long v. Morrison, 14 Indiana, 597, and other cases cited in
15 A. & E. Ency. Law, 2d ed. 859; 24 A. & E. Ency. Law,
2d ed. 297.
If the husband could release the wife's right of action for
damages before or after suit brought it is difficult to see why
he could not, by a pre-release in the form of a condition upon
a free pass containing an exemption from liability, waive or
bar her right to recover for personal injuries sustained while
traveling on such pass.
The validity of a pre-release of an action for personal injuries was considered and sustained by this court in B. & 0.
&c. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498.
Mn. JusTIcE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia to recover damages for personal injurie s
sustained by Mrs. Boering while riding in one of the coaches of
the defendant, and caused, as alleged, by the negligence of the
company. Her husband was joined with her as plaintiff, but
no personal injury to him was alleged. The defence was that
she was riding upon a free pass, which contained the following
stipulation: "The person accepting and using this pass thereby
assumes all risk of accident and damage to person and property,
whether caused by negligence of the company's agents or otherwise." A trial before the court and a jury resulted in a verdict
and judgment for the defendant, which was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of the District, 20 D. C. App. 500, and thereupon the case was brought here on error.
The contention of the plaintiffs is that the company was
liable in any event for injuries caused by its negligence to one

BOERING v. CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. CO.
193 U. S.

449

Opinion of the Court.

riding on its trains; and further, that if it were not liable for
such negligence to one accepting a free pass containing the
stipulation quoted, it was liable to Mrs. Boering, because it
did not appear that she knew or assented to the stipulation.
The trial court submitted to the jury the question whether
she was, in fact, a free passenger, and as the verdict was in
favor of the defendant, that question of fact was settled in
favor of the company. Under those circumstances the recent
decision of this court in Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
Adams, 192 U. S. 440, disposes of the first contention.
With reference to the second contention, the testimony of
the two plaintiffs showed that the husband had attended to
securing transportation; that he obtained passes for himself
and wife, and that they had traveled on these passes before;
that she knew the difference between passes (she called them
"cards") and tickets, for on that day her husband had purchased a ticket for a friend who was traveling with them, and
she had seen him use both ticket and passes. They further
testified that she had not had either pass in her possession, and
that her attention had not been called to the stipulation.
Now, it is insisted that the exemption from liability for negligence results only from a contract therefor; that there can be
no contract without knowledge of the terms thereof and assent
thereto, and that she had neither knowledge of the stipulation
nor assented to its terms; that therefore there was no contract
between her and the company exempting it from liability for
negligence. Counsel refer to several cases in which it has been
held that stipulations in contracts for carriage of persons or
things are not binding unless notice of those stipulations is
brought home to such passenger or shipper. We do not propose in any manner to qualify or limit the decisions of this
court in respect to those matters. They are not pertinent to
this case. They apply when a contract for carriage and shipment is shown. When that appears it is fitting that any
claim of limitation of the ordinary liabilities arising from such
a contract should not be recognized unless both parties to the
VOL. OXCIII-29

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

contract assent, and that assent is not to be presumed, but
must be proved. Here there was no contract of carriage, and
that fact was known to Mrs. Boering. She was simply given
permission to ride in the coaches of the defendant. Accepting
this privilege, she was bound to know the conditions thereof.
She may not, through the intermediary of an agent, obtain a
privilege-a mere license-and then plead that she did not
know upon what conditions it was granted. A carrier is not
bound, any more than any other owner of property who grants
a privilege, to hunt the party to whom the privilege is given,
and see that all the conditions attached to it are made known.
The duty rests rather upon the one receiving the privilege to
ascertain those conditions. In Quimby v. Boston & Maine
Railroad, 150 Massachusetts, 365, a case of one traveling on a
free pass, and in which the question of the assent of the holder
of the pass was presented, the court said (p. 367):
"Having accepted the pass, he must have done so on the
conditions fully expressed therein, whether he actually read
them or not. Squire v. New York Central Railroad, 98 Massachusetts, 239; Hill v. Boston, Hoosac Tunnel & Western Railroad, 144 Massachusetts, 284; Boston & Maine Railroad v.
Chipman, 146 Massachusetts, 107."
So inMuldoon v. Seattle City Railway Company, 10 Washington, 311, 313:
"We think it may be fairly held that a person receiving a
ticket for free transportation is bound to see and know all of
the conditions printed thereon which the carrier sees fit to
lawfully impose. This is an entirely different case from that
where a carrier attempts to impose conditions upon a passenger
for hire, which must, if unusual, be brought to his notice. In
these cases of free passage, the carrier has a right to impose
any conditions it sees fit as to time, trains, baggage, connections, and, as we have held, damages for negligence; and the
recipient of such favors ought at least to take the trouble to
look on both sides of the paper before he attempts to use them."
See also Griswold v. New York &c.Railroad Company, 53

