OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

fore, it was error for the District Court to refuse to give an
instruction which presented that contention.
We have given the testimony in general outline, but
enough to show that what conflict there was in it was for
the jury to judge of and what deductions there were to be
made from it were for the jury to make. And the District
Court, being of this view, refused to charge the jury, as
we have seen, that McGovern had assumed the risk of the
situation. We cannot say that as a matter
of law the
court was mistaken. We see no error, therefore, in its
ruling.
Plaintiff in error contends that the District Court should
not have ordered a new trial because she offered to waive
her rights to a trial by jury. This was not error.
Judgment reversed and cause remandedfor new trial.

DETROIT AND MACKINAC RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 209. Argued December 2, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.
As the constitution of Michigan separates legislative, executive and
judicial powers and plainly forbids giving the judicial department
legislative powers, this court will not, in the absence of a decision to
that effect by the state court, believe that the legislature, in establishing a railroad commission and granting power of review to the
courts, intended to clothe them with power to act in a legislative
capacity. Atlantic Coast Line v. Prentis,211U. S. 210, distinguished.
Under the Michigan Railroad Commission Act, as construed in the
light of the provisions of the constitution of that State, the function
of the Supreme Court of the State in reviewing an order of the Commission fixing rates is judicial and not legislative; and its final order
or decree sustaining a rate established by the Commission as not con-

DET. & MACKINAC RY. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
235 U. S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

fiscatory is res judicataand can be so pleaded in another action in the
Federal court to prevent the Commission from enforcing such rates.
Where the state court, in construing a statute of the State, has held
that the establishment of rules regulating public utility corporations
is a legislative function, this court, in the absence of a clear decision
of the state court to the contrary, assumes that the same principle
applies also to rates. Michigan Telephone Co. v. St. Joseph, 121
Michigan, 502, followed.
In any ordinary, even though judicial, proceeding a party is bound to
present his whole case to the court. Calaf v. Calaf, 232 U. S. 371.
Whether the railroad commission of Michigan did or did not exceed
its jurisdiction in making orders establishing rates, the 'Supreme
Court of the State had jurisdiction, and one seeking to review the
orders is bound by the decree of that court.
203 Fed. Rep. 864, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Michigan Railroad Commission Act and the effect of a decree
of the Supreme Court of the State sustaining orders of
the Commission, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred A. Baker, with whom Mr. James McNamara
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edward S. Clark, with whom Mr. Grant Fellows,
Attorney General of the State of Michigan, was on the
brief, for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE HoumEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill brought by the appellant, alleging its railroad to be wholly within the State of Michigan and subject to the jurisdiction of the Michigan Railroad Commission, to Prevent the enforcement of two orders of the
Commission, respectively reducing certain rates and fixing
minimum rates for the transportation of logs. The contention is that the orders take the appellant's property
without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Amendment. The bill alleges that after the passing of
the orders the'appellant brought a bill in the state court
upon the same ground among others; that the testimony
before the Commission was introduced with other additional evidence; that, as provided, by the Michigan
statutes, this further evidence was transmitted to the
Commission, which did not modify its orders, and that
thereafter the orders were sustained and the bill dismissed
by the state Circuit Court, and on appeal by the Supreme
Court of Michigan. 171 Michigan, 335. An application
for a preliminary injunction in the ,present cause was
heard by three Judges, as required by the Judicial Code
of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, ยง 266, and-on their
denying the writ an appeal was taken to this court. The
decision below is reported in 203 Fed. Rep. 864.
The ground of the decision below was that the petitioner
was concluded by the judgment of the Michigan court;
and, of course, if the matter properly can be said to be
res judicata, there is an end of the case. The argument
against its being so is drawn from Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 211 U.'S. 210;. but the applicability of that
decision depends upon whether the state courts, in the
hearings before them, were acting in a legislative capacity
or simply were fulfilling their ordinary function as courts.
In Virginia the state constitution itself provided for an
appeal from an order by the Commission to the Supreme
Court of Appeals and gave that body power to substitute
..such order as in its opinion the Commission shotild have
made. 211 U. S. 224. It is with~regard to an order upon
such a preliminary appeal that it is said that even though
issuing from a court it would not -be a judicial act or
effect an adjudication, conclusive if questioned later in a
suit. 211 U. S. 226, 227. But the constitution of Michigan, Art. II, separates legislative, executive and judicial
powers, and so plainly forbids conferring those given by
the Virginia constitution to the Virginia Supreme Court of

DET. & MACKINAC RY. v. MICH. R. R. COMM.
235 U. S.

405

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals, that in the absence of a clear decision by the
state court we should not believe that the, legislature
attempted to grant or could grant such powers to the
courts of Michigan.
The Michigan Statutes though they may not have a
perfectly clear vision of the distinctions developed, in
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, do not attempt to transgress
the limits that the Constitution lays down. The important
provisions are that any common carrier or other, party in
interest dissatisfied with the orders of the Commission
may bring a suit in the state Circuit Court in Chancery
to set aside the order on the ground that the rates fixed
are unreasonable, and the court is given power "to affirm,
vacate or set aside the order . . . in whole or in
part, and to make such other order or decree as the courts
shall decide to be in accordance with the facts and the
law." If different or -additional evidence is introduced,
the court before judgment is to transmit a copy of it to the
Commission and the Commission may alter or rescind its
order and is to report its action to the court, and the
judgment is to be rendered as though the last action of
the Commission had been taken at first. Public Acts,
1909, No. 300, ยง 26. Taking the two'provisions together
it seems plain that the words 'such other order or decree'
in the first do not embrace a change in the rates fixed but
only such other orders. or decrees as are incident to an
equity cause. If the order of the Commission is 'to be
modified by fixing a new rate that is to be done upon the
new evidence by the Commission. This interpretation not
only is the natural one upon the face of the statute but
avoids the difficulty that otherwise would arise under the
constitution of the State. It is true that the Supreme
Court in the case cited said that 'the duty of the courts in
the premises is not essentially different from that of the
Commission,' 171 Michigan, 346, but we agree with the
District Court of three Judges that this must be taken to

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

mean only that it is the same in respect of the inquiry
whether the rate is confiscatory or not. That the establishment of rules is a legislative function is recognized in Michigan Telephone Co. v. St. Joseph, 121 Michigan, 502, 506,
and in the absence of a clear decision to the contrary we
shall assume that the principle applies to rates.
The distinction between the judicial function of declaring a rate unreasonable and the legislative one of establishing a rate as reasonable is developed in Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298; San Diego Land &
Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 440; Janvrin,Petitioner,
174 Massachusetts, 514. And in Bacon v. Rutland R. R.
Co., 232 U. S. 134, it was held that statutory provisions
very like those of Michigan, under a constitution that
in like manner separated legislative, executive and judicial
powers, gave only the last to the courts. Of course, when
once it is established that the bill in the state court was an
ordinary though statutory judicial proceeding, we must
assume that the plaintiff was bound to present its whole
case. Calaf v. Calaf, 232 U. S. 371, 374. Whether the
Commission exceeded its jurisdiction or not, as it purported to make orders the Michigan court had jurisdiction and the appellant is bound by its decree.
Decree affirmed.

