TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. ROSBOROUGH.
235 U. S.

429

Syllabus.

claimed, took the fee simple or only a life estate, but as the
judgment against the father was amply sustained in either
event that question need not be considered.
The allegations and admissions in one part of the defendant's answer were held to overcome the denials in
another and complaint is made of this, but, as it appears
that nothing more than a question of local pleading and
practice was involved, the ruling is not open to review in
this court.
Judgment affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
ROSBOROUGH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 357. Argued November 30, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.
Where the cause was removed from the state court to the District Court
and comes here solely because plaintiff in error is incorporated under
an act of Congress, this court goes no further than to inquire Whether
there is plain error.
Where defendant on the trial insisted that sparks or cinders from only
three identified locomotives which were properly equipped with spark
consumers could have caused the fire which destroyed plaintiff's
-goods, but introduced evidence tending to show that all its locomotives were properly equipped, which fact it had pleaded, it was not
error to admit evidence in rebuttal to the effect that locomotives
were seen within a few days after the accident near the scene of
the fire which were emitting large cinders.
The trial court having properly instructed in respect to contributory
negligence, it was not error to refuse to instruct that a railway company was not liable for damage by fire caused by its own negligence
because it had not consented to storage of the damaged cotton on its

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

platform, it appearing that there had been a long continued custom
for such storage.
209 Fed. Rep. 205, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
against a railroad company for damages by fire caused by
sparks from one of its locomotives, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. F. H. Prendergast,with whom Mr. W. L. Hall was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Jones, with whom Mr. William Thompson and
Mr. J. S. Patterson were on the brief, for defendants in
error.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,
by direction of the court.
This cause was removed from the state court to the
District Court and 'comes, here solely because plaintiff in
error is incorporated under an act of Congress. We go no
further than to inquire whether there is plain error.
Chicago Junction Ry. v. King, 222 U. S. 222, 224; Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Howell, 224 U. S. 577, 582.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of
the District Court, rendered upon a verdict, against the
Railway Company for the value of cotton destroyed by
fire alleged to have started from sparks and cinders
negligently permitted to escape from some passing locomotive. The answer of the Company denied all negligence,
and expressly set up: (1) That it exercised ordinary care to
procure and use upon all of its engines proper spark arresters, and that these were in good repair when the
accident occurred. (2) That, without its consent, the
cotton was stored on the part of an open platform which

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY' v. ROSBOROUGH.
235 U. S.

431

Opinion of the Court.

extended over its right of way, and was thus voluntarily
exposed near tracks along which twenty engines were
operated every day.
While insisting that sparks or cinders from only three
identified engines could have caused the fire, the Railway
Company nevertheless introduced some evidence tending
to show that all locomotives were properly equipped. In
rebuttal, and over objection, a witness was permitted to
testify that within a few days after the accident he saw
engines while passing near the scene emit large cinders; and
the admission of such evidence constitutes the principal'
subject of complaint here. In view of the pleadings and
the statements of preceding witnesses this action was not
improper. Texas & Pacific Railway v. Watson, 190 U. S.
287, 289; Goodman v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 78 N. J. L. 317,
325, 326.
The court was requested, but refused, to charge that if
the railway had not assented to the storage of the cotton
over its right of way, and if in fact the fire started there,
then it would not be liable. This refusal is said to constitute plain and material error; but we think otherwise
in view of the long continued use of the platform, and the
,plear instruction in respect of contributory negligence.
The mere presence of the cotton on the right of way without affirmative permission would not suffice to relieve the
Company from the consequence of its own negligence.
Grand Trunk Railroad v. Richardson, 91 U. S. 454, 471.
The other assignments of error are not much relied upon
and are without substantial merit.
Judgment affirmed.

