OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

SKELTON v. DILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 56.

Submitted November 5,..1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

Restrictions upon alienation of allotments to Creek Indians made under
the act of March 1, 1901, c. 676; 31 Stat. 861, supplemented by the
act of June 30, 1902, c.1323, 32 Stat. 500, apply only to allotments
made to living citizens in their own. right and do not apply to those
made on behalf of deceased uiembers of the tribe. Mullen v. United
States, 224 U. S.448.
Quxrre, who are the true heirs uuder the above statutes of a Creek
Indian child of mixed parentage who was born prior.to May 28, 1901,
and died before receiving his allotment.
30 Oklahoma, 278, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of the Creek

Indian allotment statutes and the effect of the provisions
regarding restrictions on alienation of allotments and their
applicability to allotments made to deceased members of
the tribe, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles J. Kappler and Mr. Charles H. Merillat for
plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Whether an allotment of lands in the Creek Nation
which was made on behalf of Archie Hamby, a Creek child
then deceased, passed the lands to his heirs free from restrictions upon alienation is the Federal question in this
case. The facts out of which the question arises are these:
Archie Hamby was born in February, 1900, and died in

SKELTON v. DILL.
235 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

July, 1901, being survived by his parents and by at least
one sister. His mother was a Creek woman, duly enrolled
as such in 1895, and his father was a white man not entitled to enrollment. Two or three years after the child's
death his name was regularly placed upon the roll of Creek
citizens by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes,
and the lands in question were duly embraced in an allotment made on his behalf. A deed for them was also issued
in his name, and this by operation of law' vested the title
in his heirs. In September, 1905, after the allotment was
made, his parents, acting through an attorney in fact appointed a few days before, executed. and delivered to L. S.
Skelton a warranty deed for the lands, and in July, 1906,
the parents, apparently ignoring the deed to Skelton, executed and delivered to S. M. Wilson a similar deed.
Whatever rights Wilson acquired under his deed subsequently passed to William H. Dill.
The action in the court of first instance was in ejectment, and was brought by Dill against Skelton, who had
gone into possession under his deed. Dill prevailed and
the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State, which held that when the deed to Skeltor was made
the lands were subject to restrictions. upon alienation
'which rendered the deed void, and that at the time of the
deed to Wilson, under which Dill was claiming, the restrictions had been removed, thereby rendering that deed
valid. 30 Oklahoma, 278.
• The allotment was made under the act of March
1, 1901,
c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, as modified and supplemented by the
act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500. These acts
embodied and adopted a plan for allotting and distributing the lands and funds of the Creek Nation in severalty
among its citizens, and to that end required that an enrollment be made by the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes of all citizens who were entitled to participate in the
allotment and distribution. It being necessary to fix a date

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

as of which the enrollment should be made, the original
act provided, in § 28, that the enrollment should embrace
all qualified citizens who were living on April 1, 1899, and
all children born to such citizens up to and including
July 1, 1900, and living on that date. The supplemental
act changed the latter date by declaring, in §§ 7 and 8,
that the enrollment should include all children born up to
and including May 25, 1901. E -Adently anticipating that
participation in the allotment and distribution might in
some instances be cut off by death, Congress made provision for such a contingency. Thus the original act declared, in § 28: "And if any such citizen has died since
that time (April 1, 1899), or may hereafter die, before
receiving his allotment of lands and distributive share
of all the funds of the tribe, the lands and money to
which he would be entitled, if living, shall descend to his
heirs . .
and be allotted and distributed to them
accordingly."
And the supplemental act provided, in
§§ 7 and 8: " And if any such child has died since May 25,
1901, or may hereafter die before receiving his allotment
of 'lands and distributive share of the funds of the tribe,
the lands and moneys to which he would be entitled if
living shall descend to his heirs as herein provided and
be allotted and distributed to them accordingly."
Both parties are claiming under deeds from the father
and mother, so we pass the question of who were the true
heirs of the deceased child, observing only that under § 6
of the supplemental act, in the circumstances before stated,
the mother was and the father was not a lawful heir.
In ilmnediate connection with the provisions respecting
allotments to living citizens in their own right, the original
act contained a provision (§ 7) imposing various restrictions upon the alienation of the allotted lands. But aside
from its relation to other parts of the act that provision
need not be noticed, for it was superseded by § 16 of the
supplemental act, which reads as follows:

SKELTON v. DILL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Lands allotted to citizens shall not in any manner
whatever or at any time be encumbered, taken, or sold
to secure or satisfy any debt or obligation nor be alienated
by the allottee or his heirs before the expiration of five'
years from the date of the approval of this supplemental
agreement, except with the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior. Each citizen shall select from his allotment
forty acres of land, or a quarter of a quarter section, as a
homestead, which shall be and remain nontaxable, inalienable; and free from any incumbrance whatever for
twenty-one years from the date of the deed therefor, and
a separate deed shall be issued to each allottee for his
homestead, in which this condition shall appear. Selections of homesteads for minors, prisoners, convicts, incompetents and aged and infirm persons, who cannot
select for themselves, may be made in-the nanner provided for the selection of their allotments, and if for any
reason such selection be not made for any citizen it shall
be the duty of said Commission to make selection for him.
The homestead of each citizen shall remain, after the death
of the allottee, for the use and support of children born to
him after May 25, 1901, but if he have no such issue then
he may dispose of his homestead by will, free from the
limitation herein imposed, and if this be not done the
land embraced in his homestead shall descend to his heirs,
free from such limitation, according to the laws of descent
herein otherwise prescribed. Any agreement or conveyance of any kind or character violative of any of the provisions of this paragraph shall be absolutely void and not
susceptible of ratification in any manner, and no rule of
estoppel shall ever prevent the assertion of its invalidity."
Whether these restrictions were intended to apply only
to allotments made to living citizens in their own right
or to apply as well to allotments made on behalf of deceased members is the question for decision. The Supreme Court of the State when passing upon this case held
VOL. ccxxxv-14

OCTOBER, TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

them applicable to both classes of allotments, but in the
later case of Rentie v. McCoy, 35 Oklahoma, 77, reached
the other conclusion, as did also the District Court for
the Eastern District of Oklahoma in Reed v. Welty, 197
Fed. Rep. 419. We think the better reasoning lies with
the view that the restrictions apply only to allotments
made to living citizens in their own right. Not only do
the provisions of § 16 of the supplemental act lend themselves to that view, but in those sections of both acts
which deal with allotments on behalf of deceased persons
there is no suggestion of a restriction upon alienation.
This difference in legislative treatment doubtless was
deliberate and reflects a corresponding difference in purpose. In Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448, a like
question arose under the original and supplemental acts
relating to the Choctaw and Chickasaw lands, and we
held that the restrictionsupon alienation imposed by those
acts were applicable to allotments to living members in
their own right but not to allotments on behalf of members
then deceased. We do not perceive anything in the acts
relating to the Creek lands which calls for a different conclusion.
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

