LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

Court for the Southern District of New York has jurisdiction to hear and determine between these residents
and citizens of different States.
Decrees reversed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. FINN AND OTHERS AS RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 546.

Argued December 11, 14, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Where the jurisdiction of a Federal court is invoked because of questions raised under the Federal Constitution it extends to the determination of all questions presented, irrespective of the disposition
that may be made of the Federal questions or whether it is necessary
to decide them at all. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576.
While the rule applicable to the Interstate Commerce Commission
that an order made indisputably contrary to the evidence, or without any evidence, is arbitrary and subject to be set aside, may also
be applicable to orders of the Kentucky Railroad Commission, in this
case held, 'that there was substantial evidence to support the order establishing rates and the Commission had jurisdiction under the MeChord Act to make the order reestablishing a former rate.
Where the evidence shows that special rates on a particular commodity
were voluntarily established and were maintained for many years
after the avowed reason for introducing them had ceased to exist, and
the carrier's reason for an advance was not because they were inadequate but because they gave rise to discrimination, there is a reasonable inference that the advanced rates are unreasonably high which
is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Kentucky Railroad Commission under the MeChord Act to make an order regstablishing the
original rates and to support the conclusion that such rates were remunerative and should be reestablished.
Where, in a proceeding before a state Railroad Commission, complaining shippers specified the amount of extortionate charges for which

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

reparation was prhyed and the carrier admitted the rates had been
charged and denied liability for reparation solely on the ground that
the rates were reasonable, and there was evidence to support the
charges that the rates were extortionate, and the record does not
show that the carriers were denied an opportunity to introduce evidence, this court will not declare that an order of reparation was
contrary to the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment,
either because of lack of evidence on which to base the amounts ordered to be paid or because, under the statutory procedure, there
was no formal issue, or because the statute does not provide for compulsory production of evidence either before the Commission or in
any subsequent trial before the court.
This court does not pass upon mootiuestions, and one seeking to strike
down a state statute as unconstitutional must show that he is within
the class with respect to whom it is unconstitutional, and that he has
been injured by the unconstitutional feature.
Where the record does not show that the party complaining suffered for
lack of compulsory process or that he will be prevented in a subsequent trial from producing evidence, he cannot be heard to object to
a statute as unconstitutional because it does not provide for compulsory process or contains restrictions on admission of evidence.
214 Fed. Rep. 465, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of orders of the
Kentucky Railroad Commission establishing rates and
awarding reparation and the constitutionality of the statute under which the orders were made, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Jouett and Mr. William A. Colston, with
whom Mr. Henry L. Stone was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edward W. Hines, with whom Mr. J. V. Norman,
Mr. James Garnett, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, and Mr. Charles C. McChord were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was here on a former occasion (Louisville &
Nashville R. R. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298), when an order

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the' Court.

denying a motion for an interlocutory injunction was
affirmed. 'The suit was brought by the Railroad Company
to enjoin the enforcement of two orders made August 10,
1910, by the Railroad Commission of Kentucky, one of
which prescribed maximum rates of freight upon certain
intrastate traffic, and the other awarded, specified amounts
in reparation for payments previously exacted by the
carrier for freight transportation in excess of the rates
thus established by the Commission as reasonable. One
of the grounds of attack upon the rate order was that the
Commission had acted arbitrarily, in that there was no
evidence before it tending to establish that the rates which
the company had maintained were unreasonable. Upon
the former appeal we held that since it appeared that
there had been a hearing before the Commission with
evidence adduced on each side, and since this was not
produced before the court, the general allegations of the
bill respecting the effect of the evidence, and the statements contained in the affidavits submitted upon the
application for injunction, were insufficient to justify
the court in enjoining the rates upon the ground that the
Commission either had denied the hearing which the
statute contemplated, or by its arbitrary action had been
guilfy of an abuse of power. With respect to the reparation order we sustained the action of the court below in
declining to determine its validity, upon the ground that
the persons in whose favor the award was made had not
been brought in as parties.
After our decision, appellant filed an amended and
supplemental bill bringing in as defendants the parties
in whose favor reparation was awarded, stating with more
particularity the grounds upon which that order was
attacked, and, with respect to the rate order, setting out
as an exhibit a transcript of the evidence introduced before
the Commission. Upon this amended and supplemental
bill appellant again moved for an interlocutory injunction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The motion was heard before three-judges, under §266,
Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1162, c. 231), the application for
injunction was denied (214 Fed. Rep. 465), and the case
comes here by direct appeal taken pursuant to the provisions of the same section.
The jurisdiction of the Federal court was invoked because of questions raised under the Constitution of the
United States, and not because of diversity of citizenship;
but it extends, of course, to the determination of all questions presented, irrespective of the disposition that may
be made of the Federal questions, or whether it is necessary to decide them at all. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S.
576, 587, and cases cited.
The action of the Commission was based upon Kentucky
Statutes (Carroll): § 816, defining what shall be deemed
extortion by a railroad corporation in charging toll or
compensation for intra-state transportation; § 820a (the
"McChord Act"), authorizing the Commission, upon
complaint made against a railroad company for charging
extortionate freight or passenger rates, to hear the matter
and, if it determines that the company has been guilty
of extortion, then to establish a just and reasonable rate
for services thereafter to be rendered; and § 829, authorizing the Commission to hear and determine complaints
under § 816 and to render such award as may' be
proper.
It appears that for many years prior to March 25, 1910,
the railroad company had voluntarily maintained special
rates for the transportation of corn, rye, barley, and malt,
and empty barrels, boxes, etc., from three points of origin
upon the Ohio River-Louisville, Covington, and Newport-to points of destination in the interior of the State;
these rates being allowed only to owners of distilleries,
when the commodities in question were used as raw
materials or supplies. On the date mentioned, the carrier
withdrew these special rates and substituted what are

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

described as the "standard rates," being the same that
had been theretofore charged to others than distillers.
Thereupon numerous distillery companies complained
to the Commission, insisting that the new rates were
exorbitant and that the former rates were just and reasonable. After a hearing the Commission sustained the contention of the petitioners and established the maximum
rates now in question, these being the same as the special
rates, which, prior to March 25, 1910, the carrier had given
to the distillery companies; but by the Commission's
order they were made to apply to the commodities mentioned, without regard to the use that was to be made of
them.
The McChord Act, under which the rate order was
made, is set forth in Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.,
213 U. S. 175, 178. It provides for notice to the carrier,
stating the nature of the complaint or matter to be investigated, and the time and place of hearing it, and requires the Commission to hear such statements, argument,
or evidence offered by the parties as the Commission
may deem relevant. Section 829 likewise requires notice
of the hearing to be given to the company; the evidence
is to be reduced to writing together with the award, and
they are to be filed in the office of the clerk of a designated
court, and a summons is to be issued requiring the company to appear and show cause why the award should
not be satisfied. If the parties fail to appear, judgment
is rendered by default; but if trial is demanded, the case
is to be tried 'as ordinary cases are, except that no evidence
shall be introduced by either party other than that heard
by the Commission or such as the court shall be satisfied
could not have been produced before the Commission by
the exercise of reasonable diligence. The judgment and
proceedings thereon are to be the same as in ordinary
cases. Since the case was here before, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in Illinois Central R. R. v. Paducah

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Brewery Co., 157 Kentucky, 357, has passed upon § 829,
upholding its validity under the state and Federal constitutions, and construing it as authorizing the Commission to award reparation in money.
The contentions now made by appellants are reducible
to two; first, that the rate order is invalid because not
supported by substantial evidence; and, second, that the
reparation order is invalid for the same reason, and also
because the statute pursuant to which it was made violates the "due process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
To deal first with the rate order. In cases arising under
the Interstate Commerce Act, the provisions of which
contemplate an investigation or inquiry conducted with
some formality, followed by a written report and decision
as the basis of the orders, it has been repeatedly held by
this court that. an administrative order made indisputably
contrary to the evidence, or without any evidence, must
be deemed to be arbitrary, and therefore subject to be
set aside. Int. Com. Comm. v. Union. Pacific R. R., 222
U. S. 541, 547; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R.,
227 U. S. 88, 91, 92. It is contended that the "due process" provision of the Fourteenth Amendment imposes
a like rule of procedure upon the States with respect to
their exercise of the legislative power of rate-making.
We find it unncessaFy to pass upon this question. The
McChord Act, like the Interstate Commerce Act, contemplates that the Commission bases its determination
upon the eyidence adduced before it; and it may at least
be assumed that the rate order must be held invalid unless
it was founded upon substantial evidence. But we agree
with the court below that there was substantial evidence
to support the order. At the hearing, a Mr. Goodwyn
was produced by the company, and made a statement of
the facts in its behalf-not under oath, but it was received as evidence in behalf of the company-in substance

LOUIS. & NASH. R. It. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the special rates maintained prior to March 25, 1910,
had been introduced more than thirty years before in
order to encourage the distillery business along the line
of the railroad; that the rates were not raised when the
business of the distilleries became prosperous, but were
continued as long as the railroad company could continue
them with justice to itself, that is to say, to the point
w here prosecution was threatened by the Interstate Commerce Commission for alleged discrimination, and that
in order to remove the discrimination the company had
raised the rates charged on grain for distillery purposes
in order to make them correspond with those charged on
grain used for other purposes. These grain rates were the
chief bone of contention. There was some other evidence,
but not very much, that bore directly upon the question
of the reasonableness of the rates; but it should be, said
that full opportunity was afforded to the railroad company to adduce such evidence as it desired. And since
it appeared that the company, long prior to March 25,
1910, had voluntarily established the comparatively low
rates upon a substantial part of their traffic, had maintained them for many years after the reason assigned for
originally introducing them had ceased to exist, and had
then withdrawn them, not upon the ground that they
were inadequate, but because they gave rise to discrimination, and in so doing had introduced rates very much
greater, it seems to us that the conduct of the carrier, in
the absence of some explanation more conclusive than
any that was made, was sufficient .basis for a reasonable
inference that the special rates in force prior, to March 25
upon the distillery supplies were reasonable and adequate
compensation for that and other similar traffic, and that
the rates thereafter charged were unreasonably high to
the extent of being extortionate. Interstate Com. Comm.
v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 99. This was sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Commission under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

McChord Act, and to support the conclusion that it
reached.
As to the reparation order, it is further. insisted (a) that
there was no evidence before the Commission to show that
the several parties to whom reparation was awarded had
paid freights based upon the rates complained of, or to
show the amounts of their payments, or to-show that the
difference in the freight payments represented damages to
which they were entitled; and (b) that so much of the
statute (§829) as undertakes to provide the procedure for
recovering reparation is contrary to the "due process"
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, because in the
proceeding before the Commission there is no formal issue
and no method of requiring the production of evidence,
while in the subsequent trial before the court based upon
the Commission's award there is no right to adduce
evidence other than such as was presented to the Commission, unless the court shall first be satisfied that the
evidence is such as could not have been produced before
the Commission with the exercise of reasonable diligence.
From the record, however, it appears that in the petition filed by the distillers and distillery companies before
the Commission it was alleged that since March 25, 1910
each of the petitioners had been subjected to extortionate
charges collected from them by the railroad company,
and for which an award of reparation was prayed; the
respective amounts thus claimed being particularly specified. The answer of the company admitted that the rates
mentioned had been charged, collected, and received by
it, but denied that they were extortionate, unjust, or
unreasonable, and upon this ground, and no other, denied
,iability to make reparation. The transcript of the
'testimony taken before the Commission shows that the
several reparation claims were presented, and the. following colloquy occurred respecting them: "Mr. McChord
(counsel for petitioners): 'Is there any question made as to

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the amount of those claims?' Mr. Goodwyn: 'We never
checked them.' Mr. Dearing (counsel for the railroad
company): 'Myidea i that the Commission can easily
check them, and you and I can check them if we come to
the position that they are entitled to the reparation.'
Mr. McChord: 'You deny it all?' .Mr. Dearing: 'Yes.'
Mr. McChord: 'I will put all these claims in as exhibits.
Some of these have not been made up by the complainants, 'nd we will want to fill them in later.' Mr. Dearing:
'That will be all right.' Mr. McChord: 'Shall I put them
in now?' Mr. Siler: 'Yes, or at any time."' In short, the
record shows that the only question made respecting the
reparation claims was the general contention that the
rates charged by the company were in fact not unreasonable or extortionate; and that it was in effect conceded
that the particular amounts claimed were proper to be
awarded as reparation, if the rates charged were determined to be unreasonable and extortionate.
We have already seen that there was evidence to support
the Commission's affirmative finding upon the latter
point. And this leaves no basis, as we think, for appellant's present attack upon § 829 as repugnant to the
due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the proceeding before the Commission there were
pleadings sufficiently fcrmal, and appellant was permitted to raise such issues and introduce such evidence
as it desired. There is nothing to show that it suffered for
lack of compulsory process against witnesses. As to its
right to adduce evidence before the court in the action to
enforce payment of the award, its complaint in this regard
seems to us at least premature. There is nothing to show
that it has or could have any defence to the payment of
the reparation that it has not already either interposed or
waived in the proceeding before the Commission, or to
show that it has any evidence to be adduced before the
court that it would be prevented from introducing by the
VOL. ccxxxv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

effect of the restriction contained in § 829. This court does
nbt sit to pass upon moot questions; and, as has been often
,pointed out, it is incumbent upon one who seeks an
adjudication that a state statute is repugnant to the
Federal Constitution to show that he is within the class
with respect to whom it is unconstitutional, and that the
alleged unconstitutional feature injures him, and so
operates as to deprive him of rights protected by the
Constitution. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 161;
Southern Railway v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Standard
Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550; Plymouth

Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 531, 544.
The order of the District Court should be, and it is

Affirmed.

HENDRICK v. STATE OF MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY,
STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 77.

Argued November 11, 12, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Only those whose rights are directly affected can properly question the
constitutionality of a state statute and invoke the jurisdiction of this
court in respect thereto.
Where a state statute provides as a prerequisite to the use of the highways of a State without cost by residents of other States compliance
with the highway laws of their respective States, one who does not
show such compliance cannot set up a claim for discrimination in this
particular.
Quere, and not now decided, whethei the Motor Vehicle Law of Maryland so discriminates against residents of the District of Columbia
as to be an unconstitutional denial of equal protection of the laws in
that respect. This court will assume, in the absence of a definite
and authoritative ruling of the courts of a State to the contrary, that

