WADLEY SOU T HERN R'. v, GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

covered 2500 or more drills, the profits were substantial,
and the damages, if rightly measured, were evidently
more than nominal. The hearings. before the masters
were had prior to the decision in Westinghouse Co. v.
Wagner Co., supra, at a time when the decisions bearing
upon the apportionment of. profits, as also upon the admeasurement of damages, were not harmonious; and this
resulted in the evidence being so imperfectly presented as
not to afford the data requisite to a final adjustment of
the matters in controversy according to their merits.
The decrees are accordingly reversed, without costs,
with directions to recommit the cases to a master in order
that the questions involved in the original reference may
be heard anew upon the evidence heretofore taken and
such further evidence as may be submitted, and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion. •
Decrees reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS did not participate in the
consideration or decision of these cases.

WADLEY SOUTEERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 27.

Argued January 30, "1914.-Decided January 11, 1915.

The general common-law rule that a carrier has the option of demanding freight in advance or on delivery applies not only to the shipper
but also to the connecting carrier; but qucere how far this rule may
* be or has been modified by statutes prohibiting discrimination.
This court, being bound by the construftion given by the highest
state court to a statute of the State, holds that the statute of Georgia
involved in this case gives power to the State Railroad Commission
to require a railroad to treat all connecting carriers alike in regard to
payment of freight in advance or on delivery, and the only question

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

here is whether an order requiring a railroad company to cease demanding payment in advance from one carrier and not from another
violates the due process provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Although the particular section which authorizes an order of a state
railroad commission may not provide for a hearing, if the state court
has construed that section as part of the law establishing the commission and which does require hearings, that section is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as denying an opportunity
to be heard; and so hel4 as to the Georgia Railroad Commission Law.
An order of the Georgia State Railroad Commission, requiring a
railroad to desist from demanding freight in advance on merchandise received from one carrier whilM it accepts merchandise 9f the
same character at the same point from another carrier without such
prepayment, being otherwise legal, is not so arbitrary and unreasonable as to be violative of the due process clause pf the Fourteenth
Amendment.
A State has power to impose penalties sufficiently heavy to secure
obedience to orders of public utility commissions after they have been
found lawful or after the parties affected have had ample opportunity
to test the validity of administrative orders and failed so to do.
A party affected by a statute passed without his having an opportunity
to be heard is entitled to a safe and adequate judicial review of the
legality thereof. It ig a denial of'due process of law if such review
can be effected by appeal to the courts only at the risk of having
to pay penalties so great that it is better to yield to orders of uncertain legality than to ask the protection of the law. Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123.
Where, after reasonable notice of the making of an administrative
order, a carrier fails to resort to the safe, adequate and available
remedy of testing its validity in the courts and makes an unsuccessful
defense by attacking such validity when sued for the penalty, it is
subject to the penalty.
137 Georgia, 497, affirmed.
ADRIAN, Georgia, a station on the Wadley Southern
Railway, is 10 miles from Rockledge, where the road
connects with the Macon & Dublin R. R., and 27 miles
from Wadley, where it connects with the Central of
Georgia Railway. In consequence of this connection' with
both roads, goods could be shipped from Macon to Adrian,
over either route. It was, however, to the interest of the

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY, v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Wadley Southern to have such freight routed via the
Central, because it thereby secured the haul of 27 miles
from Wadley to Adrian instead of the 10-mile haul when
goods were routed via Rockledge. In addition to this,
the Central owned all of the stock in the Wadley Southern
and allowed it 'more than a mileage proportion in the
division of the through 'rate. For these reasons, the Wadley made the Central its preferred connection and received from it goods for Adrian without. requiring the
prepayment of freight, while refusing at Rockledge, to
receive goods shipped from Macon over the Macon &
Dublin R. R. unless the charges to Adrian were prepaid.
Merchants shipping via Rockledge contended that this
was an unjust discrimination and made complaint to the
Railroad Commission, which, after "hearing evidence and
argument of counsel," passed an order, dated March 12,
1910, requiring "the Wadley Southern to desist from such
discrimination, and on and after the receipt of the order, to afford shippers via Rockledge, the same facilities
for the interchange of freight that was afforded shippers
over the line of the Central, via Wadley." On March 14,
1910, a copy of this order was received by the Wadley
Southern, which however did not institute any proceeding
to test its validity in the courts of Fulton County having
jurisdiction of "suits against the Commission or its orders"
(Ga. Code, § 2625). Instead, the company, on April 4,
1910, notified the Commission that it would decline to
comply with the order on the ground that it was void.
Accordingly, on May 26, 1910,-more than two months
after the order was served,-a penalty suit was brought
against the carrier by the State, in which it was alleged
that, on divers days, the Wadley Southern had violated
the order of the Commission and asking that a single
penalty "not to exceed $5,000" should be imposed under
the terms of the act of August 26, 1907 (Laws, 1907, p. 72).
That statute provides (§ 12, p. 79) that all corporations

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Plaintiff in, Error.

235 U. S.

and persons subject to the public utility law "shall comply
with every order made by the Commission under authority
of law," and any corporation or person which neglects to
comply with such order shall "forfeit to the State of
Georgia not more than five thousand dollars for each and
every offense, the amount to be fixed by the presiding
judge. Every violation . . . of any such order shall
be a separate and distinct offense" and, "in case of the
continued violation, every day the violation thereof takes
place shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense."
In its answer to this penalty suit the Wadley Southern
denied that it had been guilty of any unjust discrimination
and contended that the order of the Commission, and the
statute, on which it was based, in violation of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, took property
without due process of law, and also that the penalty
statute operated to deny the carrier the equal protection
of the law. In the trial before a jury there was testimony
on the question as to whether there had been any discrimination and whether any difference in treatment was
not justified by the difference in conditions. There was
also evidence tending to show that the business of some
shippers, through Rockledge, had suffered in consequence
of the delay and expense incident to the requirement that
freight on goods consigned to Adrian should be prepaid
at Wadley. The jury returned a verdict in favor of the
State and the judge imposed a fine of $1,000 on the defendant. The case was then taken to the Supreme Court of
Georgia, where the judgment was affirmed (137 Georgia,
497), and the case is here on a writ of error, which raises
the question as to whether the order and the statute under
which it was made violate the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., with whom Mr. A. R.
Lawton was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The statutes of the State of Georgia which impose the
penalties and punishments for violation of an order of the
Railroad Commission are contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment, as denial of due process of law and equal
protection of the law. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19.
The constitutionality of a statute is to be determined
not according to the grace or favor of the officials who
act under it, but according to terms of the statute itself.
Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323; Georgia
Railway v. Wright, 207 U. S.127, 138; Roller v. Holly, 176
U. S. 409.
The order of the Railroad Commission is contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that it is an arbitrary and
unreasonable exercise of the police power of the State and
beyond the same, and in substance and effect deprives
the plaintiff in error of its property without due process
of law and denies it the equal protection of law. Oregon
Ry. & N. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S.510, 528; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611.
The case is not one of unjust discrimination. GambleRobinson Co. v. C. & N. W. Ry., 168 Fed. Rep. 161; Little
Rock & M. R. Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry., 59 Fed.
Rep. 400; S. C., aff'd, 63 Fed. Rep. 775; Gulf, C. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Miami S. S. Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 407; Randall
v. Richmond & D. R. Co., 108 N. Car. 612, 13 S.E. Rep.
137; Oregon Short Line V. Northern Pac., 51 Fed. Rep. 465;
S. C., aff'd, 61 Fed. Rep. 158; Coles v. Central R. R., 86
Georgia, 251, 255; Stale of Georgia v. W. & T. R. R., 104
Georgia, 437. And see Central R. R. v. Augusta Brokerage
Co., 122 Georgia, 646, 650.
There are constitutional limits to what can be required
of the owners of railroads under the police power. Requiring the expenditure of money takes property whatever
may be the ultimate return for the outlay. Missouri Pac.
Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Oregon Ry. & N. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; Missouri Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska,
164 U. S. 403; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Central Stock
Yards, 212 U. S. 132. See also Central Stock Yards v.
L. & N. R. R., 192 U. S. 568.
The denial of due process of law and the taking of prop-,
erty in this case consists of compelling the plaintiff in error
to act in a fiduciary capacity and as a collecting agent for
the other roads and compels its clerks, which it pays, to
work in the interest of its own and against the interest of
other roads; or, if the charges are advanced, it takes money
out of the pocket of the plaintiff in error to pay the other
road freight charges. This is a direct and substantial
taking of property.
The order of the Railroad Commission cannot be justified under the guise of the police power. It subserves
no real public interest.
Mr. 'James K. Hines, with whom Mr. T. S. Felder,
Attorney General of the State of Georgia, was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

1. As a general rule, the carrier has the option to demand payment of freight in advance or on delivery. And,
as there is a lien on the goods to secure the payment of
charges, it is often a matter of indifference whether the
freight is collected at the beginning or at the end of the
transportation. The law has therefore always recognized
that the company could exercise the one option or the
other according to the convenience of the parties, the
course of trade, the sufficiency of the goods to pay the
accruing charges, and other like considerations.
2. What was true between carrier and shipper wa5

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

likewise true between carrier and its connections. But
there is a conflict in the authorities as to how far this
common-law right has been modified by those statutes,
which, while not requiring absolute uniformity, do prohibit unjust discrimination. On the one hand, it is argued
that the carrier has the right to make connections, establish joint routes and through rates for the purpose of
facilitating and increasing its business. As an incident of
this right it is said that the carrier may enforce the
common-law rule and accept goods with or without the
prepayment of freight, its decision being determined by
the relation between the two companies, the amount of
business interchanged, the solvency of the carrier against
which the balance generally exists, the latter's promptness
in settlement, and other like matters which, while aiding
some of the carriers, do not increase the rates charged to
the shipper in whose interest the laws against discrimination have been passed. Among the cases which hold that
such difference in treatment is not an unjust discrimination, prohibited by statute, is Gulf, Col. &c. Ry. v. Miami
Steamship Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 407. There the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held that, under the
Interstate Commerce Law, a common carrier might demand
prepayment from one connection and not from another.
Cf. Atchison &c. R. R. v. Denver &c. R. R., 110 U. S. 667.
A different view of the question has been taken by other
courts (Adams Express Co. v. State, 161 Indiana, 328),
including the Supreme Court of Georgia, which, in the
present case, held that the statute, requiring railroads to
furnish customary facilities for the interchange of freight
empowering the Commission to prevent unjust discrimination, authorized that body to pass an order directing the
Wadley Southern Railroad to discontinue the practice of
requiring the Macon & Dublin Railroad to prepay freight
to Adrian, while making no such demand from the Central
Railway. This construction of the state statute is binding
VOL. ccxxxv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

here and leaves for consideration the question as to
whether such an order violated the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
3. On that branch of the case the Wadley Southern has
made many assignments of error. It contends, in effect,
that without due process of law the order deprives it of
the liberty of contract; takes from it a valuable right of
property and deprives it of the profit it could have made
in the exercise of the long-recognized common-law rigti
to demand prepayment of freight from one connection
without being compelled to make a similar demand from
all other connections.
The section of the Code under which the order was
made did not expressly provide for notice and an opportunity to be heard; but the Supreme Court of Georgia
held that it must be construed in connection with other
parts of the Railroad Commission law which did contain
such provisions. As said in Louis. & Nash. R. R. v.
Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 313, "It may be assumed that the
statute of Kentucky forbade arbitrary action; it required a
hearing, the consideration of the relevant statements,
evidence and arguments submitted, and a determination
by the Commission" as to whether the discrimination
complained of was unjust. "But, on these conditions
being fulfilled . . . the appropriate questions for the
courts would be whether the Commission acted within the
authority duly conferred by the Legislature . .
whether the Commission went beyond the domain of the
State's legislative power and violated the constitutional
rights of property by imposing confiscatory requirements." The Georgia court has likewise held that where
the statute gave the Commission jurisdiction of the subject, its orders are binding unless shown to have been
unreasonable, or to have violated some statutory or
constitutional right. Railroad Commission v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R., 140 Georgia, 817 (6a), 836.

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in this case the Commission dealt with a practice found
to be unjustly discriminatory, but the order did not, as
claimed, interfere with the carrier's legitimate right of
management nor deprive it of any right of contract. It
did not require the Wadley road, either at Rockledge or at
Wadley, to receive, without prepayment of freight, goods
whose value was insufficient to pay charges if the consignee
should decline to accept them on arrival. Neither did it
deprive the Wadley Southern of the right to solicit and
encourage shipments via the Central. The order only
prohibited a practice which had proved so preferential to
some shippers and communities and so harmful to others
as to amount to. unjust discrimination. And while the
Wadley Southern had the right to increase its earnings by
encouraging shipments over the Central Railway so as to
secure the longer haul and greater than mileage proportion
of the joint rate, yet that right had to be exercised in
subordination to the command of the statute prohibiting
unjust discrimination. The Supreme-Court of Georgia
has ruled that the order was made in compliance with the
requirements of the statute and was not unreasonable or
arbitrary. That decision is controlling so far as the state
law is concerned, and, there is, of course, nothing in the
provisions of the Federal Constitution which prevents the
States from prohibiting and punishing unjust discrimination of its patrons by a public carrier.
4. The Wadley Southern insists, however, that even if
the Commission had the power to make the order, the
judgment imposing a fine of $1,000 for its violation should
nevertheless be set aside for the reason that the statuteauthorizing so enormous a penalty as $5,000 a day for
violating lawful orders of the Commission-operated to
prevent an appeal to the courts by the carrier for the
purpose of determining whether the order was lawful
and, therefore, binding; or arbitrary and unreasonable,
and therefore invalid. In support of this contention it

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

cites Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 163; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53.
It is, however, contended that those cases related to
penalties for charging rates higher than those which had
been established by the legislature without any hearing
having been given to the carriers as to what were reasonable rates and are not applicable to a case like this, where
the order was made after a full hearing had been given by
the Commission to the Wadley Southern.
This contention would have been well founded if this
and other hearings of a like nature before the Commission
had resulted in orders which had the characteristics of a
final judgment. But this was not so, for they were not
conclusive. Chicago &c. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418, 458. Their lawfulness was treated by the Georgia
court in the present case as open to %inquiry,when the
Company was sued for the penalty. The question of
their validity was also open to inquiry, in equity proceedings, in the state court, where they would have been
set aside if found to be arbitrary and unreasonable, or to
have violated some statutory or constitutional right.
RailroadCommission v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 140 Georgia,
817 (6a), 836; State of Georgiav. Western & Atlantic R. R.,
138 Georgia, 835; Southern Ry. v. Atlanta Sand Co., 135
Georgia, 35, 50. Such orders were also subject to attack
in the Federal courts on the ground that the party affected
had been unconstitutionally deprived of property. Louis.
& Nash. R. R. v. Garrett,231 U. S. 298, 313 and cases cited.
And this right tor a judicial determination exists whether
the deprivation is by a rate statute-passed without a
hearing (as in the Young and Consolidated Gas Cases); or
by administrative orders of a Commission made after a
hearing (as in the GarrettCase, supra). For rates made by
the General Assembly or administrative orders made by a
Commission are both legislative in their nature (Garrett
Case, supra; Grand Trunk R. R.. v. Indiana Railroad Corn-

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mission, 221 U. S. 400, 403) and any party affected by
such legislAtive action is entitled, by the due process
clause, to a judicial review of the question as to whether
he has been thereby deprived of a right protected by the
Constitution. Chicago &c. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418,
458; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 174;
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Missouri
Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196, 207; Oregon R. R. &
Nay. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; San Jodquin Co. v.
Stanislaus County, 233 U. S. 459; Bacon v. Rutland R. R.,
232 U. S. 134; Detroit &c. R. R. v. Michigan R. R. Com.,
235 U. S. 402.
The methods by which this right to a judicial review are
secured vary in different jurisdictions. In somfe States
there is a provision that within a designated time the
order may be reviewed by the courts on the evidenge
submitted to the Commission. Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co. v.,
Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; State ex rel. Railroad Commission
v. Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co., 68 Washington, 160, 167;
Seward v. Denver & R. G. R. R., 17 New Mex. 557; 131
Pac. Rep. 980. Cf. Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co. v. Campbell,
173 Fed. Rep. 957, 989. In others by proceedings in
equity. In the Federal courts the method of procedure,
when administrative orders are attacked as unconstitutional, is now regulated by § 266 of the Judicial Code as
amended (March 4,1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013, 1014). But
in whatever method enforced, the right to a judicial
review must be substantial, adequate and safely available-but that right is merely nominal and illusory if the
party to be affected -can appeal to the courts only at the
risk of having to pay penalties so great that it is better to
yield to orders of uncertain legality rather than to ask for
the protection of the law.
5. As statutes establishing Railroad Commissions and
providing penalties for violations of legislative orders
are of recent origin the cases discussing the subject are

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

comparatively few. See Mercantile Trust Co. v. Tex. &
Pacif. Ry., 51 Fed. Rep. 529 (4), 549 (14-15) (1892);
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. McChord, 103 Fed. Rep. 216, 225
(1900); Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S.
79, 101 (1901); Consolidated Gas Co. v. Mayer, 146 Fed.
Rep. 150, 154 (1906); Ex parte Wood, 155 Fed. Rep. 190
(1907); Consolidated Gas Co. v. New York, 157 Fed. Rep.
849 (1907); Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123 (1908); Wilcox
v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53 (1909); Missouri
Pacific Ry. V. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196, 207 (1910) (building
spur tracks); Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Tucker, 230 U. S.
340, 349 (1913); Bonnett v. Vallier, 136 Wisconsin, 193
(15, 16); Coal & Coke Ry. v. Conley, 67 West Va. 129,
132, and the present case of Wadley Southern Ry. v. State of
Georgia, 137 Georgia, 497.
These cases do not proceed upon the idea that there is
any want of power to prescribe penalties heavy enough to
compel obedience to administrative orders, but they are
all based upon the fundamental proposition That under
the Constitution penalties cannot be collected if they
operate to deter an interested party from testing the
validity of legislative rates or orders legislative in their
nature. Their legality is not apparent on the face of such
orders but depends upon a showing of extrinsic facts.
A statute therefore which imposes heavy penalties for
violation of commands of an unascertained quality, is in
its nature, somewhat akin to an ex post facto law since it
punishes for an act done when the legality of the command
has not been authoritatively determined. Liability to a
penalty for violation of such orders, before their validity
has been determined, would put the party affected in a
position where he himself must at his own risk pass upon
the question. He must either obey what may finally be
held to be a void order, or disobey what may ultimately be
held to be a lawful order. If a statute could constitutionally impose heavy pehalties for violation of commands

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of such disputable and uncertain legality the result inevitably would be that the carrier would yield to void
orders, rather than risk the enormous cumulative or confiscatory punishment that might be imposed if they:
should thereafter be declared to be valid.
The first case which deals with the question, is Mercarntile Trust Co. v. Tex. & Pac. Ry., 51 Fed. Rep. 529 (4), oaiv
(14-15), decided in 1892. There statutory provisions
imposing penalties tending to embarrass a party in appealing for protection against taking property without due
process of law were held to be void. In Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79, 101 (1901), it was
pointed out that an act which opened the doors of the
courts but placed upon the litigant a penalty for failure
to make good his defence, which was so great as to deter
him from asserting that which he believed to be his
right, was tantamount to a denial of the equal protection
of the law.
Later the matter was elaborately discussed, most carefully considered and finally decided in Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123, where a statute fixed rates and, though it
afforded no opportunity for a judicial hearing to determine
whether the rates were confiscatory, yet imposed heavy
and cumulative penalties for collecting other than those
statutory rates-Those rates had not been established in
pursuance of a plenary power of the legislature, but in view
of constitutional limitations, the rates were valid only if
they were found to be reasonable. Whether they were
reasonable or not was not apparent on the face of the
statute, but was dependent upon the proof of extrinsic
facts. How doubtful and uncertain that then was, is
illustrated by the fact that in the Minnesota Rate Cases
(230 U. S. 352, 472, 473), these legislative rates were
subsequently held to be confiscatory as to some carriers
and as to others not confiscatory.
It was in the light of the fact that the penalty was im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

posed for charging other than those statutory rates, whose
reasonableness was a matter of doubt and uncertainty,
that this court in the Young Case, speaking through Mr.
Justice Peckham, pointed out that a law which in terms
or by the operation of deterrent penalties made statutes or
orders of a Commission conclusive as to the sufficiency
of rates would be unconstitutional. He summed up the
discussion as follows (209 U. S. p. 147): "It may therefore
be said that when the penalties for disobedience are by
fines so enormous and imprisonment so severe as to intimidate the Company and its officers from resorting to
the courts to test the validity of the legislation, the result
is the same as if the law in terms prohibited the. Company
from seeking judicial construction' of laws which deeply
affect its rights." Like views were expressed as to the
invalidity of the heavy penalties involved in Willcox v.
Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, .53. But the penalty
provisions were separable and their invalidity did not
defeat the balance of the statute (54).
The Young and Consolidated Gas Cases both related to
rate statutes while in Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska,
217 U. S. 196, 207, the statute imposed a fine for the carrier's failure, on demand, to construct spur tracks to
elevators. After showing that if the absolute requirement
of the statute to build, was to be construed as being
applicable only when the demand: was reasonable, this
court said that even on that construction the railroads
must refrain from paying "at the peril of a fine, if they
turn out wrong in their guess that in the particular case
the court will hold the demand not authorized by the act.
If the statute makes the mere demand conclusive, it
plainly cannot be upheld. If it requires a side track only
when the demand is reasonable, the railroad ought, at
least, to be allowed a hearing in advance to decide whether
the demand is within the act."
In Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 349; the

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question 'was presented in still a different aspect. The
statutory rate on the shipment of oil involved in that case
was $12 a barrel. The act provided that if the carrier
charged in excess of such rates it should be liable to any
person injured in the sum of. $500 as liquidated damages, to
be recovered by an action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The carrier instead of charging the statutory rate
of $12 charged the old rate of $15.02 and the shipper sued
to recover $500 as damages for collecting $3.02 too much.
The act made no provision for a hearing in advance to
determine whether the statutory rate of $12 was reasonable. The state court, however, held that as the statute
did not forbid such judicial investigation the carrier had
the right, when sued for a penalty, to defend by showing
that the statutory rates were unreasonable. But, as was
pointed out in the decision of this court, the right to a
hearing by way of defense after the $15.02 had been collected, failed to recognize "the real plight of the carrier"
(349). -For, when the oil wag tendered for shipment it had
to be accepted at the rate of $12-and thus be illegally
deprived of $3.02 if the statutory rate of $12 was confiscatory; or else, the carrier had to charge its existing rate
of $15 and run the risk of having to pay more than a
hundred times the amount of the overcharge if the hew
$12-rate was ultimately sustained. Of course the right
to make a defense, at the risk of having to pay such an
enormous penalty, was merely illusory. For, if such penal
statutes were indeed constitutional, the carrier, in every
instance, would submit to the deprivation of some of its
property, under a rate of doubtful validity, rather than
run the risk of paying out all of its property by way of
penalties imposed in the event the rate should ultimately
be sustained.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin in Bonnet v. Vallier,
136 Wisconsin, 193 (15, 16), for the same reason, held a
penalty statute void which imposed cumulative fines for

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

failing to comply with indefinite and uncertain regulations
as to the construction of tenement houses.
The question also was carefully considered in Coal &
Coke Ry. v. Conley, 67 W. Va. 129, 132, where it was held
that enormous and accruing penalties could not be imposed for charging more than statutory rates of uncertain
reasonableness.
6. In the light of this unbroken line of authorities,
therefore, a statute like the one here involved (under which
penalties of $5,000 a day could be imposed for violating
orders of the Commission) would be void if access to the
courts to test the constitutional validity of the requirement
was denied; or, if the right of review actually given was one
of which the carrier could not safely avail itself.
In considering that question in the present case, the
constitutionality of the act involved, is not to be decided
by the conduct of the plaintiff in error, nor by the fact
that the State only asked a penalty for one day's disobedience instead of many. Neither can the statute be
construed as a single legislative act. It must be treated
as part of a system of laws creating the Railroad Commission, defining its powers and subjecting it to suit.
This point is brought out in the statement of the Brief
of the Attorney General and counsel for the State, wherein
it is said that "the safeguards thrown around persons and
corporations. affected by this [penalty statute] are such
as to rob itof the charge of imposing such enormous and
grossly excessive penalties as to render it unconstitutional.
In the first place, such persons and corporations are entitled to a hearing before the Commission [a contention
already discussed]. And, in the second place, provision
is made for the institution of suits against the Railroad
Commission of Georgia when its acts are illegal or unconstitutional (Civil Code of Georgia, 1911, § 2625)."
From an examination of that section of the Code it is
quite clear that it recognizes the right to a judicial review

WADLEY SOUTHERN RY. v. GEORGIA.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of administrative orders. Until it has been given a contrary construction by the state court, it must be here
construed in such a way as to leave it valid and as conferring that sort of right which furnishes the adequate and
available remedy which meets the requirement of the
Constitution. Any other construction would not only
impute to the legislature an intent to deny the equal protection of the law and to permit the carrier to be deprived
of property without due process of law, but it would operate to nullify the penalty section as a whole. Giving
then § 2625 that construction which makes it constitutional and it appears that the laws of Georgia gave to the
Wadley Southern R. R. Co. the right to a judicial review
of the order of March 12, 1910, by a suit against the
Commission.
7. The only question then left for determination is
whether in view of such right, the penalty can be collected
for the violation of an order not known to be valid at the
date of the disobedience sought to be punished. On that
question, little can be found in the books. But on principle, and on the authority of all that has been said on the
subject, there is no room to doubt the power of the State
to impose a punishment heavy enough to secure obedience
to such orders after they have been found to be lawful;
nor to impose a penalty for acts of disobedience, committed
after the carrier had ample opportunity to test the validity
of administrative orders and failed so to do.
In Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79,
Justice Brewer first pointed out that there might be a
distinction between punishing for acts done before and for
those done after the validity of the rate statute had been
settled, saying (p. 102):
" It is doubtless true that the State may impose penalties
such as will tend to compel obedience to its mandates
by all, individuals or corporations, and if extreme and
cumulative penalties are imposed only after there has

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

been a final determination of the validity of the statute,
the question would be very different from that here
presented."
Another case dealing more directly with the question is
that of Railroad Commission of Oregon v. Oregon R. R. &
Nay. Co., 68 Washington, 160. The act there under
consideration imposed a punishment for violating orders
of the Commission but gave the carrier adequate and
available remedy by conferring upon it the right to a
hearing in court as to their legality, otherwise it was to be
treated as conclusive. Oregon R. R. & Nav.- Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510. In a suit for the recovery of the
statutory penalty for failing to build a station, as required
by the Commission, the court said "the railroad company
having failed to review the order as it was permitted to do
under the act, the order became, in the language of the
statute, 'final and conclusive.'
Coal & Coke Ry. v. Conley, 67 W. Va. 129, 132, contains
a very full discussion of the subject. In that case the
statute imposed a penalty for charging rates other than
those prescribed in a legislative act, which, however, was
altogether silent upon the subject of a judicial review as to
the reasonableness of the rates. The court recognized that
if that silence was to be construed into a denial of the
right to a hearing in court the penalty provision would be
void. It held however that the failure of the penalty
statute to say anything about the right of review could not
be construed into a denial of that right. That conclusion,
and the further holding that penalties could not accrue
while the question of the validity of the rates was being
determined in appropriate judicial proceedings instituted
in a Court of Equity for that purpose, is specially applicable here. For the Georgia Code, instead of being silent on
the subject, contains a section which punishes a violation
of "lawful orders," and another provision, in the same
Chapter, which expressly contemplates that proceedings

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

669

Syllabus.

may be brought against the Commission to test the validity of its orders.
If the Wadley Southern Railroad Company had availed
itself of that right and-with reasonable promptness-had
applied to the courts for a judicial review of the order, and
if, on such hearing, it had been found to be void, no
penalties could have been imposed for past or future
violations. If in that proceeding, the order had been
found to be valid, the carrier would thereafter have been
subject to penalties. for any subsequent violations of what
had thus been judicially established to be a lawful order-though not so in respect of violations prior -to such adjudicationBut, where, as here, after reasonable notice of the making of the order, the carrier failed to resort to the safe,
adequate and available remedy by which it could test in
the courts its validity, and preferred to make its defense
by attacking the validity of the order when sued for the
penalty, it is subject to the penalty when that defense, as
here, proved to be unsuccessful.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 347.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided January 11, 1915.

Where an action under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 was pending in an inferior territorial court of Arizona prior to statehood, such
action being one of which the Federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction, the voluntary appearance of defendant in the Federal

