JEFFREY MFG. CO. v. BLAGG.
235 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

We find no error in the conclusion of the District Court
upon the question of jurisdiction, and its judgment is
therefore

A firmed.
JEFFREY MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
BLAGG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 511.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

The negligence of a fellow servant is more likely to be a cause of injury
in larger establishments than in smaller ones and assumption of risk
is different in the former than in the latter. Classifications based
on number of employ6s in a state statute abolishing the fellow servant and assumption of risk defenses under specified conditions are
not so arbitrary as to amount to a denial of equal protection of the
laws.
This court only hears objections to the constitutionality of a statute
from -nose who are themselves affected by its alleged unconstitutionality in the feature complained of. Where the employer raises
the question of denial of equal protection of the laws, arguments
based on alleged discriminations against employ6s cannot be decisive.
The Fourteenth Amendment only takes from the State the right and
power to classify subjects of legislation when the attempted classification is so arbitrary and unreasonable that the court can declare
it beyond legislative authority. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S.61.
In a general Workmen's Compensation Act, establishing a state plan
that all employers having five or more employ6s may enter on equal
terms, a provision, abolishing the defense of contributory negligence
as to such employers who do not come into the plan, is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the laws as to
them because the defense is not abolished as to those having
less than five employ6s; the classification is not arbitrary and unreasonable, and so held as to such provision in the Workmen's Compensation Law of Ohio.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Amendment of certain provisions of the Workmen's
Compensation Act of Ohio, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. B. Arnold, with whom Mr. W. Wilson Carlile
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Fred C. Rector and Mr. James I. Boulger, with
whom Mr. Timothy S. Hogan, Attorney General of the
State of Ohio, and Mr. F. M. McSweeney were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Court of Common Pleas
of Franklin County, Ohio, to recover for injuries. received
by Harry 0. Blagg, while in the service of The Jeffrey
Manufacturing Company, a corporation engaged in manufacturing at Columbus, Ohio. The allegation was that
the injury happened to the plaintiff because of the standing of certain freight cars upon a switch, with an opening
left between them for the use of employ~s; that the plaintiff was directed by the defendant to assist in removing
certain lumber from a point on the north side of the switch,
and, in so doing, it was necessary for the plaintiff to pass,
as directed and instructed by the defendant, through the
opening between the fourth and fifth cars on the switch;
that whilst he was so doing, defendant caused to run
against the car standing on the east end of the switch a
long cut of cars pushed by an engine, with the result that
the cars on the switch were jammed and pushed together,
and the plaintiff was caught and seriously injured. The
negligence charged was (1) in causing said cut of cars to be
pushed upon and against the car standing upon said
switch while plaintiff was between said cars, (2) in failing
to warn or notify the plaintiff of the intention of the
defendant to push said cars into or upon said switch or

JEFFREY MFG. CO. v. BLAGG.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against the car on the east end thereof, and (3) in having
an insufficient number of men or employ6s engaged in the
handling and switching of said cut of cars. A recovery
was had in the Court of Common Pleas, and the judgment
was affirmed in the Court of Appeals, and in the Supreme
Court of the State, and the case was brought here by writ
of error.
The constitutionality of the Act of the General Assembly of the State of Ohio known as the Workmen's Compensation Law is brought in question because of the fact
that manufacturing companies, employing five or more,
who do not take advantage of its provisions, and the plaintiff in error did not, are deprived in negligence cases of
certain defenses otherwise available: (1) negligence of
fellow-servants, (2) defense of assumed risk, and (3)
defense of contributory negligence.
The constitutionality of the act was sustained against
many objections after full consideration by the Supreme
Court of Ohio in State ex rel. Yaple v. Creamer, 85 Oh. St.
349. The validity of tle act in a single feature is here
brought in question. To decide it renders necessary some
examination of its provisions, as outlined in §§ 1465, et
seq., of Vol. 1, Page & Adams' annotated General Code of
Ohio. The act is intended to create a state insurance
fund for the benefit of injured, and the dependents of
killed, employ~s. The general scheme of the law is to
prqvide compensation by means of procedure before a
board, for injuries not wilfully self-inflicted, received by
employ~s in the course of their employment. The employer who complies with the law is relieved from liability for injury or death of an employ6 who has complied
with the terms of the act, except the injury arise from the
wilful act of the employer, his officer or agent, or from
failure to comply with laws enacted for protection of the
employ6, in which event the injured may sue for damages
or recover under the act. It is one of the laws which has

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

become more or less common in the States, and aims to
substitute a method of compensation by means of investigation and hearing before a board, for what was regarded as an unfair and inadequate system, based upon
statutes or the common law. The purpose of the act, as
appears from its title, is to provide a fund out of which
reparation in such cases shall be made. For that purpose
the employments are classified by the State Liability
Board of Awards, with reference to their degree of hazard
and risk, and rates of premiums fixed, based upon the
total payroll and number of employ~s in each of the classes
of employments, the purpose being to establish a fund
adequate to provide for the compensation required in the
,act, and to create a surplus sufficiently large to guarantee
a state insurance fund from year to year. (Section 146553, General Code.) Every employer who employs five
workmen or more regularly in the same business or in
the same establishment, who pays into the fund in accordance with the requirements of the act, is not liable to
respond in damages at common law or by statute, save
as in the act provided, for injuries or deaths of any such
employ6s, provided the employ6s remain in the service
with notice that the employer has paid into the state
insurance fund the premiums required by the act. (Section 1465-57 General Code.) Section 1465-60 provides
that "all employers who employ five or more workmen
or operatives regularly in the same business, or in or
about the same establishment who shall not pay into
the state insurance fund the premiums provided by. this
act, shall be liable to their employ6s for damages suffered by reason of personal injuries sustained in the
course of employment caused by the wrongful act, neglect or default of the employer, or any of the employer's officers, agents or employ~s, and also to the personal
representatives of such employ~s where death results
from such injuries and in such action the defendant

JEFFREY MFG. CO. v. BLAGG.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall not avail himself or itself of the following common law defenses: The defense of the fellow-servant rule,
the defense of the assumption of risk, or the defense
of contributory negligence." There are provisions of the
act concerning other features not necessary now to consider.
As the plaintiff in error, employing a large number of
men, did not pay into the state insurance fund the premiums provided by the law, it was held not entitled to the
defenses of the fellow-servant rule, the assumption of
risk, or of contributory negligence. "The sole question
presented," says the counsel for the plaintiff in error,
"is whether the Ohio. Workmen's Compensation Act
contravenes the provisions of Section 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
in that the classification of employers and employ6s
created by the act is arbitrary and unreasonable." This
is said to result from the fact that in denying the defenses
industries ar6 classified by the number of employs,those employing four or less are still privileged to make
either or all of these defenses, while if the employer has
five or more employ6s, and has not paid into the state
insurance fund the premiums provided by the act, he is
deprived of the benefit of such defenses. In other words,
the legislature has selected for the application of this
act only establishments employing five or.more, and which
comply with the terms of the act by paying the assessments required, and the law does not apply to establishments having less than five employ6s.
The fact that the negligence of a fellow servant is more
likely to be a cause of injury in the large establishments,
employing many in their service, and that assumed risk
may be different in such establishments than in smaller
ones, is conceded in argument, and, is, we think, so obvious, that the state legislature cannot be deemed guilty
of arbitrary classification in making one rule for large

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

and another for small establishments as to these defenses.
The stress of the present argument, in the brief and at
the bar, is upon the feature of the law which takes away
the defense of contributory negligence from establishments employing five or more and still permits it to those
concerns which employ less than five. Much of the argument is based upon the supposed wrongs to the employ6,
and the alleged injustice and arbitrary character of the
legislation here involved as it concerns him alone, contrasting an employ6 in a shop with five employ6s with
those having less. No employ6 is complaining of this act
in this case. The argument based upon such discrimination, so far as it affects employ6s by themselves considered,
cannot be decisive; for it is the well-settled rule of this
court that it only hears objections to the constitutionality
of laws from those who are themselves affected by its
alleged unconstitutionality in the feature complained of.
Southern Railway v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Engel v.
O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128, 135; Standard Stock Food Co. v.
Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley
R. R. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217, 219; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271; Darnell v. Indiana,
226 U. S. 390, 398; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,232
U. S. 531, 544; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Cade,
233 U. S. 642, 648.
The question now is: Are employers who fail to come
into the plan of the statute by complying with its requirements, who employ five-men or more, arbitrarily
discriminated against, because of the provisions of the
act which deprive them of the benefit of the defense of
contributory negligence of the employ6, while the smaller
employers, employing four or less, may still find such
defense available?
This court has many times affirmed the general proposition that it is not the purpose of the Fourteenth Amend-

JEFFREY MFG. CO. v. BLAGG.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment in the equal protection clause to take from the
States the right and power to classify the subjects of
legislation. It is only when such attempted classification
is arbitrary and unreasonable that the court can declare
it beyond the legislative authority. Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78, and previous cases in
this court cited on page 79. That a law may work hardship and inequality is not enough. Many valid laws from
the generality of their application necessarily do that, and
the legislature must be allowed a wide field of choice in determining the subject-matter of its laws, what shall come
within them, and what shall be excluded. Classifications
of industries with reference to police regulations, based
upon the number of employs, have been sustained in this
court. St. Louis Consolidated Coal Co. v. Illinois, .185
U. S. 203. In that case,-an inspection law of the State
was sustained, which was applicable only to mines employing five men or more at any one time. This case was
cited with approval, and its doctrine applied, in McLean
v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, where a law regulating the
payment of wages in coal mines in Arkansas was sustained though made applicable only where not less than
ten miners were employed.
Certainly in the present case there has been no attempt
at unjust and discriminatory regulations. The legislature
was formulating a plan which should provide more adequate compensation to the beneficiaries of those killed
and to the injured in such establishments, by regulating
concerns having five or more employ~s. It included,, as
we have said, all of that class of institutions in the
State.
No employer is obliged to go into this plan. He may
stay out of it altogether if he will. Not opening the door
Pf the statute to those employing less than five, still
leaving them to the obligations and rules of the common
and existing statute law, the legislature may have believed
voL. ccxxxv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

that, having regard to local conditions, of which they must
be presumed to have better knowledge than we can have,
such regulation covered practically the whole field which
needed it and embraced all the establishments of the State
of any size, and that those so small as to employ only four
or less might be regarded as a negligible quantity and need
not be assessed to make up the guaranty fund or covered
by the methods of compensation which are provided by
this legislation. This is not a.statute which simply declares that the defense of contributory negligence shall be
available to employers having less than five workmen, and
unavailable to employers with five and more in their
service. This provision is part of a general plan to raise
funds to pay death and injury losses by assessing those
establishments which employ five and more persons and
which voluntarily take advantage of the law. Those remaining out and who might come in because of the number
employed are deprived of certain defenses which the law
might abolish as to all if it was seen fit to do so. If a line
is to be drawn in making such laws by the number employed, it may be that those very near the dividing line
will be acting under practically the same conditions as
those on the other side of it, but if the State has the right
tb pass police regulations based upon such differences,and this court has held that it has,-we must look to general results and practical divisions between those so large
as to need regulation and those so small as not to require it in the legislative judgment. It is that judgment
which, fairly and reasonably exercised, makes the law; not
ours.
We are not prepared to say that this act of the legislature, in bringing within its terms all establishments
having five or more employ6s, including the deprivation
of the defense of contributory negligence where such establishments neglect to take the benefit of the law, and
leaving the employers of less than five out of the act was

MERCELIS v. WILSON.
235 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

classification of that arbitrary and unreasonable nature
which justifies, a court in declaring this legislation unconstitutional.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of Ohio is
Affirmed.

MERCELIS v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 68.

Submitted November 6, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

While parties cannot give jurisdiction and may sometimes except to
an erroneous ruling in their favor, in this case held that as the court
had jurisdiction both of parties and subject-matter, the party invoking a ruling to change a bill for injunction to one to quiet title,
cannot ask a reversal on the ground that the court had no power to
grant such a motion.
As this case involved the fixing of a line, when that question was settled
it was proper to quiet the title of each party as against the other;
and as the findings support a decree in accord with the character
of the proceedings asked for by appellant and which prevented a
multiplicity of suits, such a decree was properly entered.
5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 492, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of a decree quieting title to property in Porto Rico, are stated in the
THE

opinion.

Mr. Hector H. Scoville and Mr. Joseph Anderson, Jr., for
appellants.
Mr. Felix Frankfurter, Mr. S

T. Ansell and Mr. Wolcott

H. Pitkin, Jr., Attorney General of Porto Rico, for appellees.

