SOUTH COVINGTON RY. v. COVINGTON.
235 U. S.

537

Syllabus.

gument nor the perusal of the voluminous brief for the
plaintiffs in error shows that they suffered any injustice
or that there was any error requiring the judgment tb
be reversed.
Judgment affirmed.

SOUTH COVINGTON & CINCINNATI STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 28. Argued October 30, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.
Whether given commerce is of an interstate character or not is to be
determined by what is actually done, and if really and in fact between States mere arrangements of billing and plurality of carriers
do not enter into the conclusion.
An uninterrupted transportation of passengers between States, on the
same cars, under practically the same management and for a single
fare, constitutes interstate commerce although the track in each
State is owned by a separate corporation. Missouri Pacific R. R. v.
Kentucky, 216 U. S. 262, distinguished.
Although the State may not directly regulate or burden interstate
commerce, it may, in the exercise of its police power, in the interest
of public health and safety, and in the absence of legislation by Congress, enact regulations which incidentally or indirectly affect interstate commerce. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
A municipal ordinance regulating the number of passengers to be carried in, temperature and method of loading and unloading, and other
details regarding, cars used in interstate transportation, may be valid
as to those regulations which are within the scope of the police power
of the State and only incidentally or indirectly affect interstate
commerce as to matters in regard to which Congress has not legislated, and invalid as to those regulations which directly affect, and
are a burden on, interstate commerce.
Regulations in the ordinance involved in this case as to passengers

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

235 U. S.

riding on platforms of motor cars and in regard to fumigation,
ventilation and cleanliness, are, in the absence of legislation by Congress, within the scope of the police power of the State, and, as they
only incidentally affect interstate commerce, are not void under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
Regulations in the ordinance involved in this case as to number of cars
to be run and the number of passengers allowed in each car, between
interstate points, directly affect and are a burden on interstate commerce and void under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
A regulation in a municipal ordinance requiring the temperature in
motor cars never to be below 500 Fahrenheit, held, in this case, to be
impracticable and unreasonable and void.
The various provisions in the ordinance of South Covington, Kentucky,
in regard to motor cars running between that place and Cincinnati,
Ohio, held to be separable; and the ordinance held to be a valid exercise of the police power as to those provisions which are reasonable
and only incidentally affect interstate commerce, and void as to
those which directly affect interstate commerce and those which are
unreasonable.
146 Kentucky, 592, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce and due process clauses of the Federal
Constitution of a municipal ordinance of Covington, Kentucky, regulating street cars running between that city
and Cincinnati, Ohio, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alfred C. Cassatt,with whom Mr. Richard P. Ernst
and Mr. Frank W. Cottle were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The ordinance is an unlawful interference with and
regulation of interstate commerce.
It deprives plaintiff of its property without due process
of law.
It is an impairment of the obligation of the contract
between plaintiff and defendant.
Injunction is the proper remedy.
In support of these contentions see: Adams Express Co.

SOUTH COVINGTON RY v. COVINGTON.
235 U. S.

539

Argument for Defendant in Error.

v. New York, 232 U. S. 14; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 328; Centrdl of Georgia Ry. v. Murphy, 196 U. S.
194; Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165; C., N. 0.
& T. P. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184; C., C., C. &
St. L. R. R. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Cleveland v. City
Ry., 194 U. S. 517; Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky,
154 U. S. 204; Detroit v. Detroit Street Ry., 184 U. S. 368;
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; Herndon v. hi.,
R. I. & Pac. Ry., 218 U. S. 135; Houston & Tex. Cent.
R. R. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Int. Com. Comm. v. Detrit &
Grand Haven Ry., 167 U. S. 633; Louisiana v. Tex. & Pac.
Ry.,' 229 U. S. 336; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Commonwealth,
99 Kentucky, 132; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Eubank, 184
U. S. 27; McNeill v. Southern Ry., 202 U. S. 543; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Mississippi v. Ill. Cent.
R. R., 203 U. S. 335; Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Tucker, 230 U. S.
340; Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Norfolk &
West. R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Omaha St. Ry.
v. Int. Com. Comm., 230 U. S. 324; Oregon Nay. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. v. Wynne, 224
U. S. 354; St. L., S. F. & T. R. R. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156;
So. Pac. R. R. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601; Southern Ry. v.
Commonwealth, 107 Virginia, 771; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Tex.
& N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Tram. Co., 227 U. S. 111; Tozer v.
United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Yazoo & Miss. R. R. v. Greenwood
Co., 227 U. S. 1.
Mr. Frederick W. Schmitz for defendant in error:
The provision in the contract whereby the Street Railway Company agreed to run its Cincinnati cars at specified intervals did not constitute a contract which deprived the city of the right, under its police power, to
provide for reasonable accommodation of the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Arguaent for Defendant in Error.

235 U. S.

by requiring the cars to be run at shorter intervals. Gas,
Light Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 653; Tacoma v.
Boutelle, 61 Washington, 434; Minneapolis Ry. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Chicago Electric R. R. v. Illinois, 200
U. S. 561; C., B. & Q. R. R. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 699; Georgia
R. R. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Mugler v. Kansas, .123
U. S. 638; Crescent City v. L. S. L. & L. H., 111 U. S. 746;
S. C. & C. H. Ry. v. Berry, 98 Kentucky, 43; Lexington
Turnpike Co. v. Croztan, 98 Kentucky, 739; Kaw Valley
v. Kansas City T. R., 87 Kansas, 272; Mo. Pac. R. R. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 261; Atlantic Coast Line Co. v. North
Carolina, 206 U. S. 1.
Even if the performance of the duty upon the street
railway company of furnishing adequate facilities or accommodation to the public within the corporate limits of
Covington required the company, as an alternative measure, to accord like treatment to its interstate passengers,
it does not necessarily result that thereby a direct burden
on interstate commerce would be imposed. Mo. Pac. R. R.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 261; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 328; New York, N. H. & H. R. v. New York,
165 U. S. 628; Lake Shore & M. S. R. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285.
It was the duty of the Street Car Company, as a common carrier, to furnish sufficient cars for the reasonable
accommodation of the public, and it could not be said as
a matter of law, that such duty was performed by a
service resulting in a daily occurrence of overcrowded
cars, so as to make a regulation by the municipality,
limiting the number of passengers to be carried within a
car to one-third as many more as its seating capacity,
and requiring the operation of sufficient cars to reasonably
accommodate the public, subject to such limitation, so
arbitrary and unreasonable as to deprive of rights protected by the Constitution of the United States. Mo.

SOUTH COVINGTON RY. v. COVINGTON.
235 U.S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

Pac. R. R. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; People v. St. Louis
A. & T. H. R., 176 U. S. 512.
An ordinance of a city regulating a common carrier
to perform its duty of furnishing sufficient cars for the
reasonable accommodation of the public is not unreasonable because of difficulties within the control of the
carrier. Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Kansas 216 U. S. 261; North
Jersei R. R. v. Jersey City, 75 N. J. L. 349; Minneapolis
Street Ry. v. Minneapolis, 189 Fed. Rep. 445; Tacoma
v. Boutelle, 61 Washington, 434; Mayor v. T. T. E. B.
Electric Co., 133 N. Y. 108; Chicago, R. I. & P. R. v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; 1 Nellis on Street Railways,
2d ed., § 143.
A provision of an ordinance, leaving it to the court or
jury to determine what is reasonable, does not make the
enactment invalid. Waters-Pierce Oil' Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S.85; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.1.
A penalty of $5.00 to $100 for violating the, provisions of an ordinance requiring reasonable accommodation and equipment from a street car company, is not so
arbitrary and oppressive as to deprive the company of its
property without due process of law. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123; Mo. Pac.R. R. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Mayor
v. T. T. E. B. Co., 133 N. Y. 108.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originated- in a petition filed by the South
Covington & Cincinnati Street Railway Company, a
corporation of the State of Kentucky, having for its purpose to enjoin the City of Covington from enforcing a
certain ordinance regulating the operation of the street
cars of the company. The features of the ordinance essential to be considered here are found in its first seven
sections, which are:
"Section 1. That it shall, be unlawful for any person,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

corporation or company owning or operating street cars
for the carriage of passengers for hire in or through or
over the public streets of the City of Covington, to permit
more than one-third greater in number of passengers to
ride or to be transported within such cars over and above
the number for which seats are provided in the same, provided that this section shall not apply to or be enforced
on the days celebrated as Fourth of July, Decoration Day
,or Labor Day.
"Section 2. No such person, company or corporation
shall suffer or permit any passenger or person to ride upon
the rear platform of any such car unless the same be provided with a suitable rail or barrier so arranged as to
provide an open space reasonably sufficient for egress
and ingress of passengers to and from such car, and no
one shall be permitted to stand in such place so provided
for such ingress and egress but the same shall at all times
be kept clear, free and open. Any person refusing to
vacate such open space. provided for egress and ingress
upon request of the conductor in charge of said car shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of
not less than five dollars nor more than fifty dollars, recoverable in the Police Court of said City.
"Section 3. No such person, company or corporation
shall suffer or permit any person or passenger to ride
upon the front platform of any such car unless a rail or
barrier be provided, separating the motorman from the
balance of said front platform; said space allowed for the
motorman shall in all cases be sufficient to permit him
to properly and conveniently operate the mechanism controlling said car without interfering or crowding from the
other person upon said platform, if any, and no person
or passengers shall be ever permitted to stand by or remain within the enclosure thus provided for the motorman.
"Section 4. It shall be the duty of every such person,

SOUTH COVINGTON RY. v. COVINGTON.
235 U. S.

543

Opinion of the Court.

company or corporation to at all times keep its cars thoroughly cleaned and ventilated, and shall at least once a
week fumigate the inside of said cars with efficient disinfectant and the Board of Health of the City of Covington
shall have power and authority to prescribe reasonable
rules providing for the cleanliness, ventilation and fumigation of such cars, and all such persons, companies or
corporations shall comply with such reasonable rules.
"Section 5. The temperature of such cars shall never
be permitted to be below 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
"Section 6. It is hereby made the duty of every company, person or corporation, operating street cars and
the street car lines within the corporate limits of the City
of Covington to run and operate cars insufficient numbers
at all times to reasonably accommodate the public within
the limits of this ordinance as to the number of passengers
permitted to be carried, and the General Council of the
City of Covington, may by resolution at any time direct
that the number of cars operated upon any line or route
be increased to a sufficient number to so accommodate
the public, if there is failure in that respect. Any such
person, company or corporation failing or refusing to
run or operate sufficient cars as by this section provided
shall be subject to the penalties provided by Section 2
hereof.
"Section 7. Any person, company or corporation violating either of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished
by a fine of not less than fifty nor more than one hundred
dollars for each offense, recoverable in the Police Court
of the City of Covington and each car operated in violation of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense
for each day it is so operated, and it is hereby made the
duty of all police officers of such city and others exercising police power, to see to the enforcement of this ordinance, and to arrest or to cause the arrest of all persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

guilty of its infraction. And the Chief of Police is hereby
directed to assign at least one Police Officer to the special
enforcement of this ordinance. It shall be the duty of
such officer to examine and observe street cars in operation and to make arrests and cause proper prosecutions
to be started against offenders violating this ordinance."
The Circuit Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, refused the injunction and dismissed the petition, and this
decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky (146 Kentucky, 592), and the case is brought here.
It was set up in the petition and amended petition that
the ordinance is an unlawful interference with interstate
commerce, in violation of the Federal Constitution,
Art. I, § 8, giving exclusive authority to Congress over
that subject; that it deprives plaintiff of its property
without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that it impairs the obligation of
a certain contract previously entered into between the
plaintiff and the City of Covington, in violation of art. I,
§ 10 of the Constitution.
The ..testimony shows that the plaintiff is a Kentucky
corporation, and its principal occupation is the carrying
of passengers in connection with an Ohio corporation
which operates on the. other side of the Ohio River, upon
continuous and connecting tracks, and across a bridge
from Covington to Cincinnati, which this court has held
to be an instrument of interstate commerce (Covington
&c. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204). This traffic
is conducted by means of continuous trips and for a single
fare' between points on the lines of the railway in Covington and Fourth Street or Fountain Square in the City of
Cincinnati, or from any point between Fourth Street or
Fountain Square in the City of Cincinnati to points in
the City of Covington. Practically every car -is thus
engaged in going to or coming from Cincinnati, and from
sleventy-five to eighty per cent. of the passengers carried

SOUTH COVINGTON RY. v. COVINGTON.
235 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

in the City of Covington are being transported from Coyington to Cincinnati, or from Cincinnati to Covington
or farther in Kentucky. The cars operate without change
of motormen or conductors, and under the direction of
the same officers.
This court has repeatedly held that whether given commerce is of an interstate character or not is to be determined by what is actually done, and if the transportation
is really and in fact between States, the mere arrangements of billing or plurality of carriers do not enter into
the conclusion. Here is an uninterrupted transportation
of passengers between States, on the same cars, and under
practically the same management, and for a single fare.
We have no doubt that this course of business constitutes
interstate commerce. Texas & New Orleans R. R. v.
Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; St. Louis, S. F. & T. R. R.
v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; Railroad Commission of Ohio v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Omaha & Council Bluffs Street
Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 230 U. S. 324, 336.
A contrary conclusion was reached in this case by the Kentucky Court of Appeals upon the authority of Missouri
Pacific R. R. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, but that case concerns an order under authority of the State of Kansas, requiring the running of a passenger train wholly within the
State. It was pointed out in the course of the opinion that
the order did not deal with an interstate train or put a
burden upon such train, but simply required the operation
within the State of a local train, the duty of operating such
train arising from the charter obligation of the company.
Reaching the conclusion that the traffic here regulated
is of an interstate character, and therefore within the
control of the Federal Congress, the further question is
presented: Does the case come within that class wherein
the State may regulate the matter legislated upon until
Congress has acted by virtue of the supreme authority
given it by virtue of the commerce clause of the ConstituVOL.

ccxxxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

tion? In numerous instances this court has sustained local
enactments, passed in the exercise of the police power of
the State, in the interest of the public health and safety,
notwithstanding the regulation may incidentally or indirectly affect interstate commerce. The subject was
given much consideration in the Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352, and the previous cases dealing with this
subject are therein collected and reviewed. In the light
of these cases, and upon principle, the conclusion is
reached that it is competent for the State to provide for
local improvements or facilities, or to adopt reasonable
measures in the interest of the health, safety and welfare
of the people, notwithstanding such regulations might incidentally and indirectly involve interstate commerce.
Summing up the matter, it is there stated (p. 402):
"Our system of government is a practical adjustment
by which the National authority as conferred by the Constitution is maintained in its full scope without unnecessary loss of local efficiency. Where the subject is peculiarly
one of local concern, and from its nature belongs to the
class with which the State appropriately deals in making
reasonable provision for local needs, it cannot be regarded
as left to.the unrestrained will of individuals because Congress has not acted, although it may have such a relation
to interstate commerce as to be within the reach of the
Federal power. In such case, Congress must be the judge
of the necessity of Federal action. Its paramount authority always enables it to intervene at its discretion for the
complete and effective government of that which has been
committed to its care, and, for this purpose and to this
extent, in response to a conviction of national need, to displace local laws by substituting laws of its own. The
successful working of our constitutional system has thus
been made possible."
In the light of the principles settled and declared, the
various provisions of this ordinance must be examined.

SOUTH COVINGTON RY. v. COVINGTON.
235 U. S.

547

Opinion of the Court.

That embodied in §§ 1 and 6 makes it unlawful for the
Company to permit more than one-third greater in number of the passengers to ride or be transported within its
cars over and above the number for which seats are provided therein, except this provision shall not apply or be
enforced on the Fourth of July, Decoration Day or Labor
Day, and by § 6 it is made the duty of the Company
operating the cars within the City of Covington to run
and operate the same in sufficient numbers at all times
to reasonably accommodate the public, within the limits
of the ordinance as to the number of passengers permitted
tQ be carried, and the council is authorized to direct the
number of cars to be increased sufficiently to accommodate
the public if there is a failure in this respect. To comply
with these regulations, the testimony shows, would require
about one-half more than the present number of cars
operated by the Company, and more cars than can be
operated in Cincinnati within the present franchise rights
and privileges, held by the Company, or controlled by it,
in that City. Whether, in view of this situation this
regulation would be so unreasonable as to be void, we
need not now inquire. These facts, together with the
other details of operation of the cars of this Company,
are to be taken into view in determining the nature of the
regulation here attempted, and whether it so directly
burdens interstate commerce as to be beyond the power
of the State. We think the necessary effect of these regulations is not only to determine the manner of carrying
passengers in Covington and the number of cars that are
to be run in connection with the business there, but necessarily directs the number of cars to be run in Cincinnati,
and the manner of loading them when there, where the
traffic is much impeded and other lines of street railway
and many hindrances have to be taken into consideration
in regulating the traffic. If Covington can regulate these
matters, certainly Cincinnati can, and interstate business

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

might be impeded by conflicting and varying regulations
in this respect, with which it might be impossible to comply. On one side of the river one set of regulations might
be enforced, and on the other .side quite a different set,
and both seeking to control a practically continuous
movement of cars. As was said in Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S.
485, 489, "commerce cannot flourish in the midst of such
embarrassments."
We need not stop to consider whether Congress has
undertaken to regulate such interstate transportation as
this, for it is clearly within its power to do so, and absence
of Federal regulation does not give the power to the State
to make rules which so necessarily control the conduct of
interstate commerce as do those just considered.
There are other parts of the ordinance which we are of
opinion are within the authority of the State, and proper
subject-matter for its regulation, at least until the Federal
authority is 'exerted. These are the provisions with
reference to passengers riding on the rear platform unless
the same be provided with a suitable rail or barrier, etc.,
and as to persons riding upon the front platform unless
a rail or barrier be provided, separating the motorman
from the balance of the front platform, as well as those
provisions with reference to the requirement to keep the
cars clean and ventilated, and fumigated. We think these
regulations come within that class in which this court has
sustained the right of the local authorities to safeguard the
travelling public, and to promote their comfort and convenience, only incidentally affecting the interstate business
and not subjecting the same to unreasonable demands.
New York, N. H. & H. R. R. v. New York, 165 U. R. 628;
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285; Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 291,
292. As to the regulation affecting the temperature of
the cars, and providing that they shall never be permitted
to be below 50' Fahrenheit, the undisputed testimony

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. SOHMER.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

shows that it is impossible in the operation of the cars
to keep them uniformly up to this temperature, owing to
the opening and closing of doors, and other interferences
that make it impracticable. We therefore think, upon
this showing, this feature of the ordinance is unreasonable and cannot be sustained.
Our conclusion is that the Court of Appeals of Kentucky erred in refusing the injunction as against the
provisions of the ordinance regulating the number of
passengers to be carried in a car and the number of cars
to be provided, and the requirement as to heating in
view of the testimony as heretofore stated. In these
respects its decision should be reversed. We think the
other provisions of the ordinance separable and concerning them the plaintiff in error was not entitled to an injunction in the state court.
Judgment is reversed, in part, and the case remanded
to the state court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ON THE
RELATION OF CORNELL STEAMBOAT COMPANY v. SOHMER, AS COMPTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 62.

Argued November 5, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915

A state tax on transmission and transportation corporations of the
State imposing the tax for the privilege of carrying on such business
in a corporate capacity within the State, based on the gross earnings
on transportation originating and terminating within the State, and

