LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
236 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

LANKFORD AND OTHERS, COMPOSING THE
STATE BANKING BOARD OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA, v. PLATTE IRON WORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA

No. 381.

Argued October 14, 15, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

The decision of state tribunals in regard thereto is an important element to be considered in determining the interest which the State
has in a fund administered by a state board.
The state courts of Oklahoma having held that the statute creating the
State Banking Board intended to give the State a definite title to
the Depositors' Guaranty Fund, the fact that the fund is to be used
to satisfy claims of beneficiaries does not take its administration
from the officers of the State or subject them to judicial control.
This court will not assume that the fund will not be faithfully managed and applied. Murray v. Wilson DistillingCo., 213 U. S. 151.
A suit by a depositor in a bank in Oklahoma against members of the
State Banking Board and the Bank Commissioner of Oklahoma to
compel payments from, distribution of, and assessments for, the
Depositors' Guaranty Fund, is a suit against the State, and, under
the Eleventh Amendment, cannot be maintained in the Federal court.
THE facts, which involve the application of the Eleventh
Amendment to suits brought in the Federal courts against

the members of the State Banking Board of Oklahoma
to compel payments from, and distribution of, the Depositors' Guaranty Fund of that State, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for appellants:
The action is against the State of Oklahoma. Defendants are sued in their-official capacity. The relief sought
is such as could only be granted against them as officials
of the State. They have no personal interest in the litiga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

235 U. S.

tion. Were they not officers of the State they could not
in any way comply with the decree rendered. The bill
seeks payment of the plaintiff's claim out of the Depositors' Guaranty Fund or if the cash available be insufficient to issue Depositors' Guaranty Fund Warrants
in payment of same.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma held, that the Depositors' Guaranty Fund is a fund of the State, and that
the. State had a first lien on the failed bank's assets to
discharge whatever the State should advance for it. State
v. Cockrell, 27 Oklahoma, 630; Lankford v. Oklahoma
Engraving Co., 130 Pac. Rep. 278.
The object of the law is to serve public not private
rights. Whether or not the Oklahoma Act served a
private or a public purpose was the basis of the decision
of this court in Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.
104; S.C., 219 U. S. 575.
The, essence of the law is not to establish a private
right but to conserve piblic welfare; and, as such, no
justiciable rights in the depositors are to be presumed to
arise; the law was not primarily enacted to return to the
depositor his money, but more properly to prevent the
public inijury by bank panics. Nowhere is there language
used showing an intent to give to a depositor the right
to sue. See § 1, ch. 22, Sess. Laws, 1913; § 6, ch. 22,
Sess. Laws, 1913.
With the exercise of a high, executive discretion, the
courts will not interfere. Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497.
An action to compel state officers to pay a claim from
a state fund in their charge, which they, in the exercise
of an executive discretion, refused to pay, is an action
against the State. Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Pet.
110, 123; Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S.436.
An action to compel payment by the Treasurer of the
State of a sum unlawfully collected as taxes is one to
compel the State to pay out money from its funds and

LANKFORD i. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Counsel for Appellee.

therefore one against the State. See Re Ayers, 123 U. S.
443; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 10; Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick Ry., 109 U. S. 446.
Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 150, is conclusive of the issue here. The State has placed the management of a state fund in the hands of a board of state
officers; and, as in thatcase, the purpose of the fund is to
pay certain claimants; the State has selected that board,
and no other tribunal to determine what claims shall be
paid. The courts have no jurisdiction.
The case is not one in which it is sought to move the
officer through the State but on the contrary the State
is sought to be moved through its officers. Of this, the
court has no jurisdiction, as it is in violation of the
Eleventh Amendment.
The action is for mandamus, not ancillary to a prior
judgment. Farmers Nat. Bank v. Jones, 105 Fed. Rep.
459. Not being ancillary to any judgment previously
obtained, the Federal District Court had no jurisdiction
thereof. Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. Hager, 203 U. S. 109;
Knapp v. Lake Shore Ry., 197 U. S. 540; Fuller v. Aylesworth, 75 Fed. Rep. 694. See also Jabine v. Oats, 115
Fed. Rep. 861; Wiemer v. Louisville Water Co., 130 Fed.
Rep. 246; Large v. Consul, 137 Fed. Rep. 168; Pensacola
v. Lehman, 57 Fed. Rep. 324; Denton v. Barber, 79 Fed.
Rep. 189; Burnham v. Fields, 157 Fed. Rep. 248; Gares v.
Northwest Bldg. Assn., 55 Fed. Rep. 210; Indiana v.
Lake Erie &c. Ry., 85 Fed. Rep. 3.
This rule applies to district courts as well as circuit
courts. In re Forsyth, 78 Fed. Rep. 301.
The petition sets forth no cause of action.
Mr. CharlesA. Loomis and Mr. Allen McReynolds, with
whom Mr. Howard Gray and Mr' John W. Halliburton,
were on the brief, for appellee:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

235 U. B.

A proceeding to obtain a judgment against officials in
a representative capacity, payable out of a specific fund
in their charge and control, is a proceeding to obtain a
judgment for money not otherwise secured, within the
meaning of the Federal Judiciary Act and confers jurisdiction upon the United States court. And this is true
although it may be necessary to resort to mandamus to
enforce collection of the judgment when obtained. Jordan
v. Cass Co., 3 Dill. 185; Cass Co. v. Johnston, 95 U. S.
360; Davenport v. Dodge Co., 105 U. S. 237; and see also
Aylesworth v. Gratiott, 43 Fed. Rep. 340; S. C., aff'd, 159
U. S. 40; Fuller v. Aylesworth, 75 Fed. Rep. 694; Heidekoper v. Hadley, 177 Fed. Rep. 1.
This is not a suit against the State. An action against
a state officer to compel him to perform duties prescribed
by law, is not an action against the State. An officer
who refuses to obey the law does not stand for the State,
within, the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
A sovereign State must be presumed to be willing that
its laws shall be obeyed. Through its laws it speaks to
its servants, and cohunands them to do something. This
suit therefore, instead of being against the State, is against
its servants to compel the performance of duties, which
by their acceptance of the office, they obligated themselves
to perform. Heidekoper v. Hadley, 177 Fed. Rep. 1; Lankford v. Oklahoma Engraving Co., 130 Pac. Rep. 278; State
v. Cockrell, 27 Oklahoma, 630; Ralston v. Missouri Fund,
120 U. S. 390; Graham v. Folsom, 200 U. S. 248; Taylor v.
Louisville &c. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 350; Smith v. Ames,
169 U. S. 518; Ex Parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
The fact that the complainant may have a remedy in
an original proceeding in mandamus in the state court
for the cause of action alleged, will not deprive the complainant of the right to sue in equity in the Federal court.
Smith v. Ames, 169 U. S. 518.
The Oklahoma depositors' guaranty fund is not a part

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

of the general state funds and is not under the control
of, and cannot be used by, the executive or legislative
branches of the state government for general state purposes, or for any purpose whatever. The fund is in the
possession and control of the State Banking Board, and
can be used solely for the purpose of paying depositors
of failed banks. Danby v. State Treasurer, 39 Vermont,
92; Sess. Laws, Oklahoma, 1911, ch. 31, § 6; Id., 1913,
ch. 22, § 6.
Depositors in failed banks have a justiciable right to
enforce payment out of the depositors' .guaranty fund.
Danby v. State Treasurer, 39 Vermont, 92.
This is not a suit on a certificate of deposit, as a negotiable instrument, but is a suit for money actually deposited. The fact that a certificate of deposit was accepted as evidence of the deposit, will not deprive the
depositor of the right to be paid out of the depositors'
guaranty fund.
The holder of a time certificate of deposit is a "depositor" within the meaning of the State Bank Guaranty Law
of Oklahoma. Tiffany on Banks, 75; Williams v. Rogers,
77 Kentuaky, 776; Wilkes & Co. v. Arthur, 74 S. E. Rep.
361; Lamar v. Taylor, 80 S. E. Rep. 1085.
The Federal courts have an independent jurisdiction
in the administration of the state laws in cases between
citizens of different States, cordinate with and not subordinate to that of the state courts and are bound to exercise their own judgment as to the meaning and effect
of those laws.
As the object in giving the national courts jurisdiction
to administer the laws of the States in controversies between citizen of different States, was to institute an independent tribunal which would not be supposed to be affected by local prejudice or sectional views it would be a
dereliction of their duty not to exercise an independent
judgment in cases not foreclosed by previous adjudication.
VOL. ccxxxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

235 U. S.

Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 30; Bucher v. Cheshire
R. Co., 125 U. S. 555; Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193
U. S. 93; Stanley Co. v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437; Kuhn v. Fairmount .Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349, 360; Oats v. First National
Bank, 100 U. S. 239; Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529.
In respect to the doctrine of commercial law and general
jurisprudence the courts of the United States will exercise
their own independent judgment. In respect to such Judgment they will not be controlled by decisions based upon
local statutes or local usage, although if the question is
balanced with doubt, the United States court, for the sake
of harmony, "will lean to an agreement of views with the
state courts." Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 19; Presidio Co.
v. Noel-Young Co., 212 U. S. 58; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20, 30.
When the law of a State has not been settled it is not
only the right but the duty of the Federal court to exercis6
its own judgment in construing state statutes, as it also
always does when the case before it depends on the doctrine of commercial law and general jurisprudence. Kuhn
v. Fairmount Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349, 360; Swift v. Tyson,
16 Pet. 1, 19.
This action is not an action against the State. The defendants cannot seek shelter behind the State for the
abuse of their discretion in office. See § 55, Art. 5, Const.
of Oklahoma, the purpose of which is to control the method
in which public money or state funds should be disbursed.
The word "appropriation" has a definite and certain
meaning in law and is generally, defined as the setting
apart from the public revenue of a certain sum of money
for a specified object, in such manner that the executive
officers of the government are authorized to use that money
and no more, for that object and no other. State v. Moore,
50 Nebraska, 88; Ristine v. State, 20 Indiana, 328; Clayton v. Barry, 27 Arkansas, 129; Stratton v. Greene, 45
California, 149; State v. LaGrave, 23 Nebraska, 25; State

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

v. Wallichs, 12 Nebraska, 407; Proll v. Dun, 80 California,
220.
As applied to the general fund in the treasury of a State,
"appropriation"' is defined to be an authority from the
legislature, given at the proper time and in legal form to
the proper officer, to supply sums of money, out of that
which may be in the treasury in a given year, for specific
objects or demands against the State. State v. Lindley, 3
Washington, 125; State v. King, 67 S. W. Rep. 812; Ristine
v. State, 20 Indiana, 328; Shatteck v. Kincaid, 31 Oregon,
379.
Nothing in Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104,
warrants the conclusion that the guarantee fund is one
of the State. See § 7919.
Administrative or ministerial officers with duties prescribed by law for their performance may be compelled
to perform those duties by those who may be directly interested in their performance. Board of Liquidation v.
McComb, 92 U. S. 531; Rolston v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 390;
Grahamv. Folsom, 200 U. S. 248; Taylor v. Louis. & Nash.
R. R., 88 Fed. Rep. 350; Madison v. Smith, 83 Indiana,
502; Huidekoper v. Hadley, 177 U. S. 1; State Board v.
People, 191 Illinois, 528; State v. Bourne, 151 Mo. App.
104; State v. Adcock, 206 Missouri, 556.
The money in the guarantee fund is not subject to appropriation by the legislature for any purpose it may see
fit. On the contrary it is collected from a special source
for a limited purpose. The credit of the State is not
loaned, simply the credit of this fund. Ipso facto it follows
that this is not a suit against the State.
Under our system of laws there is no wrong without a
remedy, and yet to deprive the appellee in this case of its
money and deny it judicial relief with the barren statement
that this action could not be maintained because against
the State would certainly work a wrong, and no less certainly find appellee withouit a remedy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit in equity brought by appellee against appellants,
constituting the Oklahoma State Banking Board. The
Platte Iron Works Company, appellee, is a Maine corporation and a citizen of that State and became the holder
of two certain time certificates of deposit issued by the
Farmers' & Merchants' Bank of Sapulpa. Appellants
are members of the State Banking Board, and the appellant J. D. Lankford is the State Bank Commissioner.
On September 10, 1912, the Bank Commissioner took
charge of the Farmers' & Merchants' Bank and of all its
assets and proceeded to wind up its affairs. Demand for
the payment of the certificates was made upon the Banking Board and the Commissioner out of the Depositors'
Guaranty Fund of the State, but payment was refused.
A decree was prayed adjudging appellee owner of the
deposits and certificates of deposit and that it was entitled
to have the same paid out of the Depositors' Guaranty
Fund created under' and by virtue of the laws of the State.
If there should be not sufficient funds available therefor,
that the Banking Board be required to issue to appellee
certificates of indebtedness for the amount of the deposit,
to be known as "Depositors' Guaranty Fund Warrants
of the State of Oklahoma" bearing 6% interest as provided
by § 3, Article 2, Chapter 31, Session Laws of Oklahoma,
1911, as amended by Senate Bill No. 231, passed at the
last session of the State Legislature, and that the Banking
Board be required to levy an assessment against the capital stock of each and every bank and trust company organized and existing under the laws of Oklahoma for the
purpose of increasing such Depositors' Guaranty Fund
and pay the deposits and the "Depositors' Guaranty Fund
Warrants of the State of Oklahoma." General relief was
also prayed.

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants in the suit, appellants here, moved to dismiss the bill on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the action or of the persons of the defendants, the
suit being one against the State of Oklahoma without its
consent, in violation of the provisions of the Eleventh
Amendment to the Constitution of the .United States.
The motion was denied and defendants were given thirty
days to answer. No answer appears in the record but the
decree recites that one was filed. The court entered a
decree as prayed for in the bill ahd this appeal was then
prosecuted.
The assignments of error in this court are: (1) The suit
is an original action in mandamus and the District Court
had no jurisdiction, the same not being ancillary to any
judgment theretofore obtained; (2) the suit is one against
the State, "the defendants [appellants] having no personal interest therein and being sued in their official capacity as agents" of the State; (3) the amended bill upon its
face states no cause of action for relief.
Is the suit one against the State? The appellee earnestly
contends that the answer should be in the negative. "An
action," counsel say, "against a State officer to compel
him to perform duties piescribed by law is not an action
against the State. An officer who refuses to obey the
laws does not stand for the State, within the meaning of
the Federal Constitution."
These contentions depend upon the meaning of the law;
they assume its commands are disobeyed by the officers
of the State; in other words, that the default of the officers
is personal, in opposition-not in conformity-to the law
of the State. But another and seemingly broader contention is made." It is asserted that the Depositors' Guaranty Fund is not under the executive and legislative control of the State and cannot be used by either for any
purpose whatever, but "can be used solely for the purpose
of paying depositors of failed banks." Two questions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

therefore, are presented, one of power and one of interpretation.
This court, in Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.
104, sustained the constitutionality of the act as an exercise of the police power of the State. The law in its general purpose was there presented and passed on. The relation of the State to the fund did not come up for
consideration, but necessarily this is but a detail in administration not one affecting legality of the law. The creation of the fund was said to be justified by its purpose,
and the power of the State was declared adequate to
accomplish it. "The purpose of the fund," it was said,
"is shown by its name. It is to secure the full repayment
of deposits."
Where the State should vest, the title to the fund for
the purpose of its administration was immaterial to the
essence of the power to create the. fund. Whether the
State should commit it to the mere ministerial administration of the Bank Commissioner and Banking Board
and subject them to controversies with depositors or
draw around them the circle of its immunity, was a matter
within its competency to determine, and we are brought to
the question of interpretation-which has the State done?
By the statute, the Banking Board is composed of the
Bank Commissioner and three other persons, to be appointed by the Governor; and it is provided that the
"Board shall have supervision and control of the Depositors' Guaranty Fund, and shall have power to adopt
all necessary rules and regulations not inconsistent with
laW for the management and administration of said
fund." The fund is created by levying "against the
capital stock of each and every bank organized and existing under the laws" of the "State an annual assessment
equal to one-fifth of one per cent., and no more, of its
average daily deposits during its continuance as a banking corporation," the fund to be "used solely for the pur-

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pose of liquidating deposits of failed banks and retiring
warrants provided for" in the act. If at any time the
fund be insufficient for such purpose or to pay "other
indebtedness properly chargeable against the same, the
Banking Board shall have authority to issue certificates
of indebtedness to be known as 'Depositors' Guaranty
Fund Warrants of the State of Oklahoma,' in order to
liquidate the depo;its" or such other indebtedness. It
isprovided that tae depositors shall be paid in full, and
when the cash av'xilable or that can be made immediately
available is not sufficient to discharge the obligations of
the bank or trust company "the Banking Board shall
draw from the depositors' guaranty fund and from additional assessments, if required, as provided in § 300,
the amount necessary to make up the deficiency; and the
State shall have, for the benefit of the depositors' guaranty
fund, a first lien upon the assets of said bank or trust
company, and all liabilities against the stockholders,
officers and directors of said bank or trust company and
against all other persons, corporations or firms. Such
liabilities may be enforced by the State for the benefit of
the depositors' guaranty fund."
The contention of appellee is that the law has created
a fund for the payment of depositors and directs that
they shall be paid in full from the fund or "from additional assessments." If the fund be insufficient for such
purpose, it is further contended, the Board is required
to issue guaranty fund warrants in order to liquidate the
deposits. Such, it is insisted, are' the plain commands
of the statute to which obedience is imposed and is necessary to fulfill the purpose of the law, which is to secure
the full repayment to depositors. And, therefore, a suit
by depositors is not a suit against the State but a suit to
compel submission by the officers of the State to the laws
of the State, accomplishing at once the policy of the law
and its specific purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

There is strength in the contentions and we are not
insensible to it, but there may be more complexity in
fulfilling the scheme of the statute than the language of
counsel exhibits and it may be embarrassed if not defeated by subjecting the Banking Board to incessant
judicial inquiries of its administration. We certainly
cannot assume that it will not do its duty and provide the
ultimate payment of all depositors. To this result the
State makes itself an active agent. It is given a lien
upon the assets of insolvent banks and upon all liabilities against their stockholders, officers, directors, and
against other persons, which may be enforced by the
State for the benefit of the fund which its law has
created.
In Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151, there
is analogy to the case at bar. The State of South Carolina
in the year 1892 assumed the exclusive management of
all traffic in liquor. It subsequently abandoned the
scheme and passed an act called "the State Dispensary
act" to provide for the disposition of all property of the
instrumentality it had created and to wind up its affairs.
A commission was appointed for that purpose. A part
of the duties of the commission was to dispose of the
property, collect all debts due and pay "from the proceeds
thereof all just liabilities at the earliest date practicable."
Any surplus was to be paid to the State Treasury. A
duty, therefore, was imposed upon the commission to
collect the assets of the dispensary and pay its debts and
it was as directly expressed as was the duty imposed
upon the Banking Board in the pending case.
The Wilson Distilling Company contended that the
Winding-up Act of the State created a .trust, and the
funds in the hands of the commission were a trust fund
held for the benefit of the creditors of the State dispensary
and the suit a plain suit in equity brought by a ceetui que
trust to compel a trustee holding property for his benefit

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to perform the duties imposed upon him. The suit, there.
fore, it was contended, was not to require the commissioners to do that which the law of the State forbade, but
to do what the law of the State commanded, and the
State was not a necessary nor an indispensable party.
The contentions received the approval' of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but this court took a different view
of them and decided that there was "no just ground for
the conclusion that the State, in providing by that legislation for the liquidation of the affairs of the State dispensary, intended to divest itself of its right of property
in the assets of that governmental agency, and to endow
the commissioners with a right and title to the property
which placed it so beyond the control of the State as to
authorize a judicial tribunal to take the assets of the
State out of the hands of those selected to manage the
same, and by means of a receiver to administer such assets as property affected by a trust, irrevocable in its
nature, and thus to dispose of the same without the presence of the State." (213 U. S., p. 170.) The case, it is
true, has some differences from that at bar. There the
State was the owner of the property committed to the
commissioners for disposition and was also the original
debtor. Here the property is that of the contributing
banks and is accumulated in a fund for the security of
their respective depositors. These are differences, but
there are substantial resemblances. In that case officers
were appointed to administer the property and liquidate
and pay the demands against it, and this was the specific
direction of the law, marking the beneficiaries and apparently making them the exclusive parties in any proceedings to enforce the law. In this case officers are appointed having even a greater power. They are not only
empowered to liquidate the deposits or other indebtedness of failed banks, but to levy assessments on other
banks to make up any deficiency. Therefore, as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

State was said to be a necessary party in the cited case,
the State can be said to be a necessary party in the pending case because of its interest that the fund which it
has caused to be created in pursuance of its policy shall
be administered by the officers it has appointed rather
than by judicial tribunals. Certainly this construction
can be given to the Oklahoma statute; and, granting that
it may admit of dispute, an important element to be considered is the decision of the state tribunals.
In State v. Cockrell, 112 Pac. Rep. 1000, the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma had occasion to define the duties of
State Examiner and Inspector. It decided that the office
was constituted, by the constitution of the State and was
independent of the control of the Governor, and passing
upon the authority of the Examiner and Inspector over
the accounts of the Bank Commissioner it decided that
"the funds and assets" of an insolvent bank are "under
the management of the State" and "that the depositors'
guaranty fund and the funds of a failed bank in the hands
of a Bank Commissioner for the purpose of reimbursing
the depositors' guaranty fund is 'as much a fund of the
State as the common school fund'"
It was further decided that the act creating the fund
was sustained as an exercise of the police power for the
public welfare of the people of the State and, having been
so exercised, the assessment levied by it upon deposits
for the purpose of protecting the depositors of the banks
is the exertion of the same power "which levies or causes
to be levied, a tax upon the prQperty within the State for
the maintenance and support of the common schools
and educational institutions." And it was said, "The
title of such depositors' guaxanty fund vests in-the State
just as much so as the common school lands or the
proceeds of the sale of the same, and the taxes levied
and collected for the maintenance and support of said
schools, all of which are held in trust by the State for

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a specific purpose. Even if it were not a state fund, it
would at least be a fund under the management. of the
State."
From this decision it appears that the law intended to
give to the State as definite a title to the Depositors'
Guaranty Fund as to the common schoQ fund, as definite,
therefore, as the title of South Carolina to the assets of
the State dispensary, which was the subject of decision
in Murray v. Wilson Distilling Company. In both cases
there were ultimate beneficiaries-in the pending case,
the bank depositors; in the other case, the creditors of
the dispensary. And the purpose of the law-or, if you
will, the command of the law-in each case was or is the
satisfaction of the claims of those beneficiaries. The
fund having this ultimate destination does not take its
administration from the officers of the State or subject
them to judicial control. We cannot assume that it will
not be faithfully managed and applied.
In Lovett .et al., County Commissioners of Creek County,
v. Lankford et al., composing the Banking Board of the
State of Oklahoma, 145 Pac. Rep. 767, the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma decided, citing the Cockrell Case, that the
defendants in error in the case composing the Banking
Board were "executive officers of the State, and in performing their duties in administering the law under consideration (the Guaranty Fund Act), do so as such officers,
and the property entrusted to their control and management by the law is property owned by the State, or property in which the State has an interest," and that therefore a suit against them to compel their administration
of the depositors' guaranty fund "is, in fact, a suit against
the State; and in the absence of the consent of the State,
the same cannot be maintained." The court further
said that "the law has specifically confided to the Banking
Board and the Bank Commissioner the duty and authority
to determine the validity of claims against the depositors'

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

guaranty fund," and, also that "it is not only their duty
to determine when a claim is valid against the bank, but
they must further determine whether such claim is protected and required to be paid from the depositors' guaranty fund. Lankford v. Oklahoma Engraving and Printing
Co., 35 Oklahoma, 404." Any other view, the court in
effect said, would not only substitute the judgment of a
court for that of the officials, "but would harass and
create confusion, the, effect of which would destroy the
efficiency of such board." That case and Columbia Bank
and Trust Company v. United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company, 33 Oklahoma, 535, give special emphasis to
the principle announced. Both were suits to recover
deposits respectively of county and state moneys deposited
as general or special deposits.
It will serve no purpose to review the cases cited by
appellee in which state officers were. enjoined from doing
unlawful acts, prescribed, it may be, by unconstitutional
laws, or commanded by valid laws to perform specific
duties. Examples of such cases are reviewed and distinguished in Murray v. Wilson, and there is a later
example in Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S.
636.
The foundation of appellees' argument is, as we have
said, that the Oklahoma statute imposed the duty upon
the Bank Commissioner of paying depositors of insolvent
banks and that "this suit, therefore, instead of being
against the State, is against its servants to compel the
performance of duties, which, by their acceptance of the
office, they obligated themselves to perform." A duty
being prescribed, it is further contended, the officers "cannot seek shelter behind the State for the, abuse of their
discretion in office." But these contentions and the arguments based upon them all depend upon an incorrect
version of the statute, as we have seen.
Decree reversed.

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S. PiTNEY,

DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE
I~mAR, dissenting.
The question upon which we are divided is whether
this action, brought by a depositor in an insolvent state
bank of Oklahoma, asserting the right to compel payment
of his deposit by the State Banking Board out of the
Depositors' Guaranty Fund, or, if this be insufficient,
then by the issuance of a certificate of indebtedness of
the kind known as Depositors' Guaranty Fund Warrants,
is in effect a suit against the State, and therefore within
the inhibition of the Eleventh Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, or whether it is merely an action against
state officers to compel the performance of duties of a
non-political nature clearly prescribed by a statute of the
State, so that the officers in refusing to obey that law do
not represent the State. I agree that the:question depends
upon the true intent and meaning of the law, and that in
determining it we are to assume that the commands of
the law are disobeyed by the defendants-appellants; so
much, indeed, having been adjudged, upon their confession, in the present case.
There is, I think, no controlling decision.
Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151, seems
plainly distinguishable.- That case dealt with trahsactions
in which the State of South Carolinahad a direct property
interest and a direct responsibility as a contracting party;
and it was upon this ground that the court held the action
brought against the agents of the State was in effect a
suit against the State. This will appear by a reference
to the opinion, pp. 168, 170, etc. It will be my endeavor
to show that, under the Oklahoma statute, there is no
such interest or responsibility on the part of the State.
We are referred to certain cases in the state court of
last resort, one of which, and a very recent one, bears

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNzY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAmAR,JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

directly upon the question; and it is frankly conceded
that proper deference should be paid to them. At the
same time, it is not to be forgotten that this action was
brought in the District Court of the United States because
of the diverse citizenship of the parties,-a ground of
jurisdiction especially provided for in the Constitution
(Art. III, § 2). And, however desirable it may be to
preserve harmony of decision between the Federal and
the state courts, we cannot, with due regard to our duty,
fail to exercise an independent judgment respecting the
true intent and meaning of the statute, in the absence of
an authoritative adjudication to the contrary previous to
the time that the cause of action arose. For this plaintiffappellee is entitled to the enforcement of its contract as
it was made; and it invokes a Federal jurisdiction that
was established for the very purpose of avoiding the
influence of local opinion. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20, 33, 34; East Alabama Ry. v. Doe, 114 U. S. 340,
353; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S. 439, 446; Anderson v.
Santa Anna, 116 U. S.356, 362; B. & 0. Railroadv. Baugh,
149 U. S.368, 372; Folsom v. Ninety-six, 159 U. S. 611,
625; Stanly County v. Cbler, 190 U. S.437, 444; Kuhn v.
Fairmont.Coal Co., 215 U. S.349, 357, 360.
The statute in question is the so-called Bank Depositors'
Guaranty Fund Act of Oklahoma, first enacted December 17, 1907, and several times amended, but not in essential respects. The portions pertinent to the discussion,
as they stood upon the statute-book when the present
.cause of action arose (in the year 1912) are set forth in the
margin, followed by an amendment adopted in 1913,
shortly before the action was commenced. 1
1 Extracts from Bank Depositors' Guaranty Fund Act, as found in
Revised Laws of Oklahoma, 1910 (Harris and Day), §§ 298, et seq., and
in subsequent Session Laws.
Section 3 (299 and 300, as amended by Laws 1911, p. 54), "There is
hereby levied an assessment against the capital stock of each and every

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

PITNEY,

DAY, VAN

DEVANTER,

LAmAR, JJ., dissenting.

It seems to me clear that, by the language and evident
meaning of this law, the State has no property interest
in the guaranty fund. No part of it is raised through
general taxation, nor can any part of it be lawfully placed
in the treasury of the State, or devoted to any of the
bank and trust company organized or existing under the laws of this
State, for the purpose of creating a Depositors' Guaranty Fund, equal
to 5 per centum of its average daily deposits during its continuance in
business as a banking corporation. Said assessment shall be payable
one-fifth during the first year of existence of said bank or t-rust company,
and one-twentieth during each year thereafter until the total amount of
said 5 per centum assessment shall have been fully paid.
After the 5 per centum assessment, hereby levied, shall have been fully
paid, no additional assessment shall be levied or collected, against the
capital stock of any bank or trust company, except emergency assessments, hereinafter provided for, to pay the depositors of failed banks,
and except assessments that may be necessary by reason of increased
deposits to maintain such funds at 5 per centum of the aggregate of all
deposits in such banks and trust companies, doing business under the
laws of this State.
"Whenever the depositors' fund shall become impaired or be reduced
below said 5 per centum by reason of payments to depositors of failed
banks, the State Banking Board shall have the power and it shall be its
duty to levy emergency assessments against capital stock of each bank
and trust company doing business in this State to restore said impairment or reduction, but the aggregate of such emergency assessments
shall not, in any one calendar year, exceed 2 per centum of the average
daily deposits of all such banks and trust companies. If the amount
realized from such emergency assessments shall be insufficient to pay
off the depositors of all failed banks having valid claims against said
Depositors' Guaranty Fund, the State Banking Board shall issue and
deliver to each depositor, having such unpaid deposit, a certificate of
indebtedness for his unpaid deposit, bearing 6 per centum interest.
Such certificate shalh be consecutively numbered, and shall be payable,
upon the call of the State Banking Board, in like manner as state warrants are paid by the state treasurer in the order of their issue, out of
the emergency levy thereafter made; and the State Banking Board shall
from year to year levy emergency assessments, as hereipbefore provided,
against .the capital stock of all the banking corporations and trust companies doing business in this State, until such certificates of indebted-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PiTNEY,DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAmAR,JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

ordinary purposes of the government, or to any purpose
other than the payment of depositors. The State, it is
true, through the Banking Commissioner, holds the bare
legal title to the fund, and enforces in the name of the
ness, with the accrued interest thereon, shall have been fully paid. As
rapidly as the assets if failed banks are liquidated and realized upon
by the bank commissioner, the same shall be applied first, after the
payment of the expenses of liquidation, to the repayment of the Depositors' Guaranty Fund of all money paid out of said fund to the
depositors of such failed bank, and shall be applied by the State Banking Board toward refunding any emergency assessment levied by reason
of the failure of such liquidated bank. Provided, that the guaranty
fund collected under this act, shall be re-deposited with the banks from
which it was paid and a special certificate, or certificates, of deposit
shall be issued to the bank commissioner by each and every bank and
trust company, bearing 4 per centum interest per annum."
By § 5 (302) in the event of the insolvency of any bank, the bank
commissioner "may, after due examination of its affairs, take possession
of said bank or trust company and its assets, and proceed to wind up
its affairs and enforce the personal liability of the stockholders, officers
and directors."
Section 6 (303) "In the event that the bank commissioner shall take
possession of any bank or trust company which is subject to the provisions of this chapter, the depositors of said bank or trust company
shall be paid in full, and when the cash available or that can be made
immediately available of said bank or trust company is not sufficient to
discharge its obligations to depositors, the said banking board shall
draw from the depositors' guaranty fund and from additional assessments, if required, as provided in section 300, the amount necessary
to make up the deficiency; and the State shall. have, for the benefit of
the depositors' guaranty fund, a first lien upon the assets of said bank
or trust company, and all liabilities against the stockholders, officers
and directors of said bank or trust company and against all other persons, corporations or firms. Such liabilities may be enforced by the
State for the benefit of the depositors' guaranty find."
Section 8 (305) "The bank commissioner shall deliver to each bank
or trust company that has complied with the provisions of this chapter
a certificate stating that said bank or trust company has complied with
the laws of this State for the protection of bank depositors, and that
safety to its depositors is guaranteed by the depositors' guaranty fund
of the State of Oklahoma. Such certificate shall be conspicuously dis-

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S. PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

State the liabilities ot the failed banks, but this is done for
the sole benefit of the fund. Thus the State has title
only, but without real ownership. Not even is the credit
of the State pledged for the success of the scheme, for
while § 8 permits banks to display an official certificate
of compliance with the law, the certificate declares that
safety to the depositors is guaranteed not by the State but
by the depositors' guaranty fund, and it is made a misdemeanor for any bank officer to advertise the deposits
as guaranteed by the State. It would, I think, be difficult
to find language more clearly showing that the State is
played in its place of business, and said bank or trust company may
print or engrave upon its stationery and advertising matter words to
the effect that its depositors are protected by the depositors' guaranty
fund of the State of Oklahoma: Provided, however, that no bank shall
be permitted to advertise its deposits as guaranteed by the State of
Oklahoma; and any bank or bank officers or employ6s who shall advertise their deposits as.,guaranteed by the State of Oklahoma shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the
county jail for thirty days or by both such fine and imprisonment."
By act of March 6, 1913 (Sess. Laws, ch. 22, pp. 27-29), the third
section was amended so as to provide for the issuance of certificates of
indebtedness to be known as "Depositor's Guaranty Fund Warrants
of the State of Oklahoma" in order to liquidate the deposits of failed
banks or other indebtedness properly chargeable against the fund; the
warrants to. bear six per cent. interest, and to constitute a charge and
first lien upon the depositors' guaranty fund when collected, as well
as a first lien against the capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits
of every bank operating under the banking laws of the State to the extent of its liability to the fund; and that ".All warrants heretofore issued by the Banking Board.shall be paid serially in the order of their
issuance from any funds on hand when this act takes effect or provided
for by the terms of this act, and all warrants hereafter issued shall be
in numerical order and retired in like order. As rapidly as the assets
of failed banks are liquidated and realized upon by the Bank Commissioner, the proceeds thereof, after deducting the expenses of liquidation,
shall be paid to the State Banking Board, and by said board credited to
the Depositors' Guaranty Fund."
VOL. CCXXXV--81

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PrrNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting. 235 U. S.

neither interested in the fund nor responsible to the
depositors with respect to it. And when we read these
and the other provisions of the act in the light of the state
constitution, the matter becomes still more plain. For,
by the constitution, Article 5, § 55, "No money shall
ever be paid out of the treasury of this State, nor any of

its funds, nor any of the funds under its management,
except in pursuance of an appropriation by law,
and every such law

.

.

.

shall distinctly specify the

sum appropriated and the object to which it is to be
applied, and it shall not be sufficient for such law to refer
to any other law to fix such sum." It cannot, I think, be
reasonably contended that the guaranty fund was intended to be a state fund, or a fund under the management of the State, withinthe meaning of the constitution.
To so hold would render the Act violative of the section
quoted, since its provisions are plainly inconsistent with
the slow and formal process of legislative appropriations.
Again, by Article 10, § 15, of the state constitution, "The
credit of the State shall not be given, pledged, or loaned
to any individual, company, corporation, or association

.

.

.;

nor shall the State become an owner or

stockholder in, nor make donation by gift, subscription
to stock, by tax or otherwise, to any company, association,
or corporation." These constitutional limitations explain,
I think, why in the framing of the Act the legislature was
so careful to dissociate the State in its organized capacity
from all participation in the scheme or responsibility for
its success. The Act contemplates that the cash constituting the fund is to be in the physical custody of the banks
themselves, until actually needed; for by §3, as amended
in 1911, it was provided that the fund should be redeposited with the banks from, which it was paid, and
a special certificate or certificates of deposit issued to the
bank commissioner by each bank, bearing four per centum
interest per annum; and by the 1913 amendment the

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

PrTNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAx,

JJ., dissenting.

annual assessments for that and succeeding years are to
be paid by cashier's checks, to be held by the Banking
Board until in its judgment it is necessary to collect
them, but the checks are not to bear interest during the
time they are so held. In short, the Act, as I read it,
simply establishes a plan for enforced cobperative insurance by all the banks in favor of the depositors of
each and every bank, the Bank Commissioner and the
Banking Board being charged with the management of it
as public trustees, with duties owing to a limited class
of persons having financial and not political interests.
The promise held out to bank depositors is clear and
unequivocal. By §§ 5 and 6, in the event of the insolvency
of any bank, the bank commissioner may take possession
of its assets, and in this event "the depositors of said bank
or trust company shall be paid in full, and when the cash
available or that can be made immediately available of
said bank or trust company is not sufficient to discharge
its obligations to depositors, the said banking board shall
draw from the depositors' guaranty fund and from additional assessments, if required, as provided in section 300,
the amount necessary to make up the deficiency." And
by § 3 (300), if the amount realized from emergency
assessments shall be insufficient to pay off the depositors,
"The state banking board shall issue and deliver to each depositor, having such unpaid deposit, a certificate of indebtedness for his unpaid deposit, bearing 6 per centum interest;"
these certificates to be consecutively numbered and to be
paid in the order of their issue out of future emergency
assessments which the Banking Board is required to levy
annually until the certificates of indebtedness with accrued
interest shall have been fully paid. By the 1913 amendment, the certificates of indebtedness are designated as
"Depositors' Guaranty Fund Warrants," and are to
constitute a charge upon the guaranty fund when collected
as well as a lien against the capital stock, surplus, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY, DAY,

VAN DEVANTER,

LAMAR,JJ.,

dissenting. 235 U. S.

undivided profits of every bank to the extent of its liability
to the fund.
The entire scheme is carefully devised to give assurance to every bank and to every bank depositor not
merely of ultimate payment of the amount of the deposits,
but of immediate payment in cash or in certificates salable
for cash, in case the bank becomes insolvent. A winding
up of the bank's affairs, with a liquidation of its assets
and enforcement of the liabilities of stockholders, officers
and directors, is provided for, and the proceeds are to be
devoted to restoring the guaranty fund and repaying to
the solvent banks the amount of the emergency assessments; but the depositors are not to await the outcome
of the process. A main purpose of the Act, as I read it,
is to relieve them not merely from the hazard of ultimate
loss, but from the hardships normally incident to the
delays of winding-up proceedings, and for which, as everybody knows, an ultimate allowance of interest is very
often an inadequate compensation.
The law was intended, as I think, to render the rights of
depositors so clear as to be readily understood by all,
and free from cavil or question in any quarter. It constitutes a.clear and unequivocal tender of a benefit to every
person who might contemplate becoming a depositor of
a state bapk in Oklahoma. Under § 8 every bank is permitted to advertise that its depositors are protected by
the Depositors' Guaranty Fund. Every would-be depositor is thus directly referred to the terms of the law,
and on reading it may learn that in the event -of insolvency "the depositors of said bank or trust company
shall be paid in full," etc.
It was said upon the argument that this promise, however unequivocal, is a "political" promise, and therefore
not enforceable by suit. If it is a promise of the State of
Oklahoma it of course is a "political" promise; otherwise
not. But does not § 8 show most plainly that it is not

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

PITNEY, DAY, VN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

at all a promise of the State, and is enforceable out of and
only out of a fund kept upon deposit in the banks thenselves and controlled by trustees whose salaries are,
indeed, paid from the public treasury, but who are charged
with no political function, and whose duties are owing
solely to the banks and to depositors and others interested in the banks?
The failure of the statute to make any express provision for an action against the Banking Board at the suit
of a depositor can hardly be deemed significant. This is
taken care of in the Constitution, which declares (Art. 2,
§ 6):""The courts of justice of the State shall be open to
every person, and speedy and certain remedy afforded
for every wrong and for every injury to person, property,
or reputation."
That the fund is established for a public purpose through
the exercise of the police power of the State does not, I
submit, make the fund itself public property. It is closely
analogous, I think, to the surplus of a mutual insurance
company. The argument that the fund is public will
hardly bear analysis. In one of the briefs it is expressed
as follows: "The essence of the law, therefore, is not to
establish a private right, but to serve public welfare; and
as such no justiciable rights in the depositors are presumed to arise; the law was not primarily enacted to
return to the depositor his money, but more properly
to prevent the public injury by bank panics. Nowhere is
there language used showing an intent to give to a depositor the right to sue." But, since bank panics are
caused by the fear on the part of depositors that their
money-that is, their ability to withdraw the money or
otherwise realize upon their deposits-is in jeopardy, the
argument pretty clearly defeats itself.
Not only has the State no part in the raising of the
• guaranty fund nor property in it, nor interest or responsibility in the distribution of it, nor even the remotest

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting. 235 U. S.

reversionary right should the scheme prove a failure, but
the Act contains no. expression of a purpose that the
public trustees are to be clothed with, that immunity
from private suit which is one of the prerogatives of sovereignty. There is nothing to suggest any participation
by the State in the transaction, except that § 6 declares
that "The State shall have for the benefit of the Depositors' Guaranty Fund a first lien upon the assets of
said bank," etc., and that "such liabilities may be enforced by the State for the benefit of the Depositors'
Guaranty Fund." But does not this plainly show that
the State is to be a merely nominal party, and that the
fund alone is the real beneficiary? It seems to me the
language naturally imports the familiar action brought
in the name of one but for the sole use of another; an
action in which the nominal plaintiff at the same time
avows that he has no interest in the proceeds. I cannot
find in § 6, or elsewhere, anything to suggest that the
State is to be an active agent in the matter, otherwise
than as the Bank Commissioner and Banking Board
act therein.
It is argued that the Board is endowed with discretionary powers in respect to the administration of the
fund. I concede that the Act implies a considerable
latitude of administrative discretion with respect to the
care and management of the fund; but it is quite different with the provision for the payment of depositors.
Here the plain mandate is: "Pay in cash, so far as you
have it, and give certificates of indebtedness or warrants
to the extent that the cash falls short." The argument
in behalf of appellants goes to the length of saying: "It
(the fund) may be used not only to pay the depositors of
failed banks, but frequently to aid banks while in a failing
condition. All, of the fund which may be available at a
particular time might, in the judgment of the Banking
Board, be better used to aid disabled banks than to be

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.

235 U.S.

PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

applied to the immediate payment of depositors of a particular bank which had already been taken into the custody of the Bank Commissioner. In this way the available funds might be withdrawn by the Banking Board, in
the exercise of its discretion, from the payment of a failed
bank," etc. As showing the results to which the argument for discretionary powers with respect to paying
depositors logically leads, this is illuminating; but if
anything is clear in the letter and spirit of this enactment,
it is that the legislature by no means intended that the
fund'or any part of it should be subject to use in supporting banks while in a failing condition, or in any other
form of hazardous enterprise.
And it would seem, plain enough that an interest on
the part of the State or a discretion on the part of the
Banking Board ought not to be read into the Act by construction, when the result is, not to make the promised
guaranty more clear or more readily enforceable by the
depositors, but, on the contrary, to render it unenforceable
except with the consent of the State, and therefore materially less valuable to the depositors than otherwise it
would be.
It is submitted that for the proper interpretation of the
statute-or, for its construction if construction be needed
-we should observe the fundamental rules that apply to
contracts; for while there is disagreement upon the question whether the State is a party to it, we all agree that
the Act prescribes a contract, and one of wide importance,
between the banks and the depositors, and that the public
interest is as much concerned in seeing it carried out and
enforced according to its true intent and meaning as in
requiring that the contract be made. Not bnly has the
State obliged the banks to make this contract with their
depositors, but in the law it has expressed the terms in
which it shall be made. The.courts, therefore, ought by
all means to adopt an interpretation such as reasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PiTNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

would have been placed and presumably was placed upon
the statute by ordinary bankers and bank depositors in
advance of judicial interpretation; reading it according
to the fair import of its terms, without resort to legal
subtlety in order to overthrow or weaken it, but seeking
rather to uphold it and give it effect, "Ut res magis valeat
quam pereat"; and if construction be needed, adopting
that meaning which the promisor had reason to believe
the promisee relied upon in accepting the offer. 2 Kent
Com. * 557; The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, 74;
Ewing v. Howard, 7 Wall. 499, 506; Empire Rubber Mfg.
Co. v. Morris, 73 N. J. Law., 602, 610; Gunnison v. Bancroft, 11 Vermont, 490; Jordon v. Dyer, 34 Vermont, 104,
80 Am. Dec. 668; Barlow v. Scott, 24 N. Y. 40, 42; Tallcot
v. Arnold, 61 N. Y. 616; White v. Hoyt, 73 N. Y. 505;
Chamberlain v. Painesville & Hudson R. R., 15 Oh. St.
225, 246; County of Clinton v. Ramsey, 20 Ill. App. 577,
579.
I cannot. resist the conviction that this legislation was
intended to convey and did convey to the banks and to
intending depositors the understanding that the deposits.
were to be secured by the Fund and not by the State, that
in the event of the insolvency of any bank its depositors
were to be paid in full, without delay and without "ifs '
or "ans," out of the cash in the Fund, or at worst by delivery of interest-bearing certificates of indebtedness
capable of being sold for cash and payable in consecutive
order as issued, and that the duty imposed upon the
Banking Board to thus pay off the depositors without
regard to the ultimate outcome of the liquidation of the
particular bank would be enforceable, if need be, by process out of the courts of justice. It savors of repudiation
to read into the scheme an unexpressed condition that
renders the promise unenforceable by any means within
the command of the pr6misee.
Let us now examine the state decisions in their order.

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.. PriNY,

DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

State ex rel. Taylor v. Cockrell (1910), 27 Oklahoma,
630; 112 Pac. Rep. 1000. This was an action for a writ
of mandamus instituted upon the relation of the "State
Examiner and Inspector" (a constitutional officer with
large powers, in the performance of which he is independent of the Chief Executive), to require the state bank
commissioner to permit relator to examine the records
and accounts pertaining to the collection and disbursement of the depositors' guaranty fund and the assets of
failed or insolvent banks. Relator invoked a statute
which declared: "The Examiner and Inspector shall
examine the books and accounts of state officers whose
duty it is to collect or disburse funds of the State, or
(under) its management at least once each year." As
the court said (27 Oklahoma, 632), the sole question involved was whether relator was authorized under the
law to examine these records. The court's response was
succinctly expressed,-" That the Bank Commissioner is
a state officer has not been and cannot be questioned.
That the depositors' guaranty fund, and the funds of a
failed bank in the hands of a Bank Commissioner for the
purpose of reimbursing the depositors' guaranty fund, is
as much a fund of the State as the common school fund
is also true. . . . The title of such depositors' guaranty fund vests in. the State just as much so as the common school lands, or the proceeds of the sale of the same,
and the taxes levied and collected for the maintenance
and support of said schools, all of which are held in trust
by the State for a specific purpose. Even if it were not a
state fund, it would at least be a fund under the management of the State." I cannot see that this amounts to
the placing of a construction upon the statute in any respect pertinent to the question now before us.. The decision was in effect that the depositors' guaranty fund
was under the management of the State through the
bank commissioner, a state officer, and that, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

the accounts of the latter were subject to examination
by the Examiner and Inspector by the terms of the statute that defined his duties. Treating it as a decision that
the title of the fund is in the State, within the meaning of
that statute, this is very far from holding that the real
ownership of the fund is in the State, so as to clothe the
managers of the fund with immunity from suit in a controversy raised by one of the stated beneficiaries. The
decision rather puts the Bank Commissioner in a subordinate position than in one that entitles him to participate in the sovereign's immunity from responsibility to
action in the courts of justice.
Columbia Bank & Trust Co. v. United States Fidelity &
Guaranty Co. (1912), 33 Oklahoma, 535; 126 Pac. Rep.
556. The bank commissioner applied to a state court
for orders in connection with the administration of the
affairs of an insolvent bank of which he was in possession,
and prayed that the creditors and depositors be granted
all relief to which they might be entitled. The Fidelity &
Guaranty Company filed its petition in intervention,
alleging that it had signed, as surety for the bank, a bond
to the State of Oklahoma for the sum of $50,000 to protect the State against loss by reason of a deposit in the
bank of certain funds in possession of the commissioners
of the land office; and that the bank commissioner since
taking charge of the assets of the bank had acted under
the direction and control of the State Banking Board, and
had paid the claims of other depositors in full without
in any way protecting the deposit for which the intervening petitioner was surety. The trial court rendered
a decree directing the bank commissioner to treat the
amount due the commissioners of the land office as a
deposit and pay over to said depositors their pro ratashare
of the assets. The Supreme Court, upon a review of
other legislation (Comp. Laws, 1909, § 7943) relating to
the custody and investment of the permanent school

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

491

PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR, JJ., dissenting.

funds of the State in the hands of the commissioners of
the land office, which provided (inter alia) that they might
be deposited in bank upon security being given, held that
such a deposit of the State's money was not within the
purview of § 3 of the Guaranty Fund Law, and hence
that the surety was not entitled to relief. In the course
of reaching this conclusion the court held (p. 540) that
the surety, having responded to the invitation implied
in relator's prayer for relief in behalf of creditors and
depositors, was entitled to "maintain its petition of intervention, and have its rights,, if it has any, in relation to
the bank guaranty fund, determined without having
previously paid the penalty of its bond." There was no
intimation that the Bank Commissioner was clothed with
immunity from action, or endowed with any discretion
that rendered it inappropriate that he should be sued.
Lankford, Com'r, v. Oklahoma Eng. & Ptg. Co. '(1913),
35 Oklahoma, 404; 130 Pac. Rep. 278. The court simply
held that a "merchandise creditor" of a defunct bank was
not entitled to share pro rata with the depositors in the
distribution of the assets.
It will be observed that both of the two latter cases were
decided upon the merits of the intervenor's claims; upon
grounds inconsistent, indeed, with the immunity from
suit that is now asserted.
The last-mentioned decision was subsequent to the
time when the rights of the present plaintiff accrued; the
cases in 27 and 33 Oklahoma were decided before that
time.
Another case, decided not only after the cause of action
accrued but after this .court acquired jurisdiction by the
taking of the appeal, is Lovett et al., Commissioners, v.
Lankford (September 29, 1914, 145 Pac. Rep. 767). Here
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma has distinctly held that
a petition for mandamus brought by a depositor against
the State Banking Board to require payment of the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting. 235 U. S.

posit is in effect a suit against the State, and that the
Board is a part of the executive branch of the government charged with the exercise of judgment and discretion in the administration of the law, so that their acts
cannot be controlled by mandamus. This, of course, is
directly in favor of the contention of the present appellants. Ought it to, control our decision? What are the
grounds upon which the state court proceeded? (a) Citing the language of the Act that gives to the State a first
lien upon, the assets of the Bank, and invoking the authority of State ex rel. Taylor v. Cockrell, 27 Oklahoma,
630, 633 (supra), the court holds that a judgment in
favor of the depositor "would directly affect the State,
and would, in effect, be a judgment against the State,
and would require the subjection of state funds to satisfy
said judgment." This treats the word ."title" as equivalent to "ownership."
I have endeavored to show that
this is inconsistent with the language and purpose of the
Act, and that state ownership renders the Act, in its other
and essential provisions, inconsistent .with the limitations
found in the state constitution. (b) The court cites
Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151. For reasons already indicated, it seems to me this case is clearly
distinguishable. (c) It is said that the failure of the
legislature to make specific provision for review in the
courts of the action of the Banking Board concerning
claims against the guaranty fund tends to prove a legislative purpose to give exclusive jurisdiction to the Board.
As already shown, it would be a work of supererogation
for the legislature to specifically provide for an action in
the courts; for, if the statute confers a right upon the depositor, art. 2, § 6 of the state constitution provides a
remedy. And I find nothing in the Act that expressly
or by reasonable implication confers any judicial jurisdiction upon the Board. Exclusive jurisdiction in that
body seems plainly inconsistent with the same constitu-

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

tional provision. (d) After quoting from the 1st section
of the Act, which gives to the banking board supervision
and control of the fund, with power to adopt necessary
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, for its
management and administration, and after quoting the
other pertinent sections that are set forth in the marginal
note, supra, the court cites Lankford v. Oklahoma Engraving & Printing Co., 35 Oklahoma, 404, supra, as authority for holding that under § 6 (303) it is the duty of
the Banking Board and the Bank Commissioner to determine the validity of claims against the fund, and that:
"By this section, it is not only their duty to determine
when a claim is valid against the bank, but they must
further determine whether such claim is protected and
required to be paid from the depositors' guaranty fund."
I am unable to find any provision of this kind in the statute; and the case cited, far from.holding that these questions are confided to the decision of the Board or the Commissioner, is directly to the point that such questions are
properly to be decided by the courts; and to the same
effect is the case from 33 Oklahoma, cited above.
For these reasons, it is submitted that the decision just
referred to ought not to be followed by this court in the
present case. Laying that on one side, and adopting that
view of the statute above indicated as being in accord
with its letter and spirit, there appears to be no legal or
constitutional obstacle in the way of affirming the present
decree.
For, if the ction is notnominally or in effect a suit
against the State, is not brought to enforce any liability
or duty of the State or interfere with its property, but
has for its object merely to require public officers to perform a plain official duty, not of a political nature, owing
to a special class of persons among whom the plaintiff is
included, it is not properly to be deemed a suit against
the State within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY, DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAM.uR,

JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

ment. We are referred by appellant's counsel to Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. R., 109 U. S. 446; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S.
52; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; N. Y. Guaranty Co. v.
Steele, 134 U. S. 230; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.
1, 10; Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436; and similar cases.
But there is a broad distinction, uniformly recognized
by this court, which, as it seems to me, takes the present
action out of the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment.
It was well expressed in Board of Liquidation v. McComb,
92 U. S. 531, 541, where the court, by Mr. Justice Bradley,
said: "The objections to proceeding against state officers
by mandamus or injunction are: first, that it is, in effect,
proceeding against the State itself; and, secondly, that it
interferes with the official discretion vested in the officers.
It is conceded that neither of these things can be done.
A State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an individual; and a court cannot substitute its own discretion
for that of executive officers in matters belonging to the
proper jurisdiction of the latter. But it has been well
settled, that, whefi a plain official duty, requiring no
exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance
is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury
by such refusal may have a mandamus to compel its performance; and when such duty is threatened to be violated
by some positive official act, any person who will sustain
personal injury thereby, for which adequate compensation
cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to prevent
it." In the Jumel Case, 107 U. S. at p. 727, Mr. Chief
Justice Waite said: "The relators do not occupy the position of, creditors of the State demanding payment from
an executive officer charged with the ministerial duty of
taking the money from the public treasury and handing
it over to them, and, on his refusal, seeking to compel
him to perform that specific duty." In the Cunningham
Case, 109 U. S. at p. 452, Mr. Justice Miller, in describing

LANKFORD v. PLATTE IRON WORKS.
235 U. S.

PITNEY, .DAY, VAN DEVANTER, LAMAR,

JJ., dissenting.

the class of cases in which public officers may be sued,
said: "A third class, which has given rise to more controversy, is where the law -has imposed upon an officer of
the government a well defined duty in regard to a specific
matter, not affecting the general powers or functions of
the government, but in the performance of which' one or
more individuals have a distinct interest capable of enforcement by judicial process." In Rolston v. Missouri
Fund Commrs., 120 U. S. 390, 411, Mr. Chief Justice
Waite said: "It is next contended that this suit cannot
be maintained because it is in its effect a suit against the
State,, which is prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, and Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S.711, is cited in support of this position.
But this case is entirely different from that. There the
effort was to compel a state officer to do what a statute
prohibited him' from doing. Here the suit is to get a
state officer to do what a statute requires of him. The
litigation is with the officer, not the State. The law makes
it his duty to assign the liens in question to the trustees
when they make a certain payment. The trustees claim
they have made this payment. The officer says they
have not, and there is no controversy about his duty if
they have. The only inquiry is, therefore, as to the fact
of a payment according to the requirements of the law.
If it has been made, the trustees are entitled to their
decree. If it has not, a decree in their favor, as the case
now stands, must be denied; but as the parties are all
before the court, and the suit is in equity, it may be retained so as to determine what the trustees must do in
order, to fulfill the law, and under what circumstances
the Governor can be compelled to execute the assignment
which has been provided for." In Reagan v. Farmers
Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.362, 390, where it was objected that the suit was in effect a suit against the State
of Texas, the court, by Mr. Justice Brewer, said: "There

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

is a sense, doubtless, in which it may be said that the
State is interested in the question, but only a governmental sense. It is interested in the well-being of its
citizens, in the just and equal enforcement of all its laws;
but such governmental interest is not the pecuniary interest which causes it to bear the burden of an adverse
judgment. Not a dollar will be taken from the treasury
of the State, no pecuniary obligation of it will be enforced,
none of its property affected by any decree which may be
rendered."
Finally, this is an equitable action brought to establish
and enforce a trust in favor of plaintiff, with only an incidental prayer for a mandatory decree. It is not an
original proceeding by mandamus, of which the Federal
courts have no jurisdiction. Bath County v. Amy, 13
Wall. 244; Jordan v. Cass County, 3 Dill. 185; Fed. Cas.
No. 7517; County of Cass v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360, 370;
County of Greene v. Daniel, 102 U. S. 187, 195; Davenport
v. County of Dodge, 105 U. S. 237, 242.
It seems to me that the decree should be affirmed.

AMERICAN WATER SOFTENER COMPANY v.
LANKFORD AND OTHERS, COMPOSING THE
STATE BANKING BOARD OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 418. Argued October 14, 15, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.
Decided on authority of Lankford v. Platte Iron Works, ante, p. 461.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

