UNITEI) STATES v. NIXON.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. NIXON, BIDDLE, AND WEST,
RECEIVERS OF THE ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 427.

Argued October 22, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

A receiver of a corporation is not a corporation and not within the
terms of the penal statute regulating corporations involved in this
action. United States v. Harris, 177 U. S. 305.
In so far as a receiver of a railroad company transports passengers and
property he is a~common carrier with rights and responsibilities as
such, and while operating a railroad he is subject to the penal provisions of a statute regulating the actions of common carriers in regard
to transportation.
Prior to the amendment of March 4, 1913, extending the Quarantine
Act of March 3, 1905, c. 1496, 33 Stat. 1264, prohibiting the transportation of cattle from a quarantined State to any other State, so as to
make it apply to any common carrier, §§ 2 and 4 of that act did not
apply to receivers of railroad companies.
Entries in the caption and on the back of the indictment are convenient
means of reference, and in cases of doubt might be of assistance in
determining what statute has been violated, Williams v. United
States, 168 U. S. 382, but they form no part of the indictment itself.
The statute on which the indictment is founded must be determined as
matter of law from the facts therein charged; and the facts as pleaded
may bring the offense charged within an existing statute although
the same is not mentioned in the indictment and another statute is
referred to in the entries on the back and in the caption.
Under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1913, the statute on which as matter
of law the indictment is based may be misconstrued not only by
misinterpretation but by failing to apply its provisions to an indictment which sets out facts constituting a violation of its terms.
An indictment must set out the facts and not the law.
The right of the Government to an appeal under the Criminal Appeals
Act of 1907 cannot be defeated by entering a general order of dismissal without referring to the statute involved or giving the reasons
on which the decision was based.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

An error on the part of the trial judge dismissing the indictment in coistruing the statute in its original form as not including the offense
charged, cannot be cured, nor can his decision be sustained, because
the amendment by which the statute was made to include the offense had not been called to his attention.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907 and the construction of the Cattle Quarantine Act of 1905 and its application to receivers of common carriers under the Amendment of 1913, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
United States.
Mr. W. F. Evans and Mr. W. S. Cowherd for defendants
in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The Grand Jury for the Western Division of the Western
District of Missouri returned an indictment against the
St. Louis & San Francisco Railroad Company and its
Receivers, charging that on August 16, 1913, Nixon,
Biddle and West, as Receivers of said Company, were
operating the property and business of said corporation
as a common carrier of freight, and unlawfully transported cattle from a quarantine district in Oklahoma to
Kansas City, Missouri, without compliance with the rules
and regulations established by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Both the indorsement and caption to this indictment
described it as being for "violation of secs. 2 and 4 of the
act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1264." Those sections of
that act provide that "no railroad company . .
shall transport from any quarantine State . . . to
any other State any cattle . . ." except "in com-

UNITED STATES v. NIXON.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pliance with regulations promfilgated by the Secretary
of Agriculture."
The defendants demurred on the ground "that the
indictment does not charge any offense for which Receivers
herein can be held." The court treated the indictment
as founded on the act of 1905 imposing a penalty upon
railroad companies and after argument sustained the
demurrer-filing a memorandum in which he held that,
under the ruling in United States v. Harris,177 U. S. 305,
the statute did not create an offense fo4r which Receivers
could be punished.
The case is here under the Criminal Appeals Act (84
Stat., 1246) on a writ of error in which the Government
excepts generally to the quashing of the indictment and
specially to the court's construction of this act of 1905.
In view of the decision in United States v. Harris, the
judgment of the court below would necessarily have to
be affirmed if the case was to be determined solely by the
provisions of the Quarantine Actof 1905, which imposes a
penalty for the transportation of cattle by a railroad company. But a Receiver is not a corporation, and, therefore,
not within the terms of a statute applicable to railroad
companies, even though cattle from an infected district
transported by him would be as likely to transmit disease
as, if they had been shipped over the same line while it was
being operated by the company itself. And, no doubt in
recognition of this fact, and in order to make the remedy
as broad as the evil sought to be cured, Congress, by the
act of March 4, 1913, c. 145, 37 Stat. 828, 831, made all
of the provisions of the original quarantine act of 1905
"apply to any railroadcompany or other common carrier,
whose road or line forms any part of a route over which cattle
or other live stock are transportedin the course of shipment"
from a quarantineState to any other State.
The statute, as thus amended, applied to transportation
of live stock over short lines belonging to private individ-

OCTOBER TERM, 4914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

uals or to lumber companies hauling freight for hire; to
roads operated by Trustees under power contained in a
mortgage; and also to the more common case where a

railroad was being operated by a Receiver acting under
judicial appointment. For in so far as he transports passengers and property he is a common carrier with rights
and civil responsibility as such (Eddy v. Lafayette, 163

U. S. 456, 464; Hutchison on Carriers, § 77). And there
is no reason suggested why a Receiver, operating a railroad, should not tlso be subject to the penal provisions of
a statute prohibiting any common carrier from transporting live stock by rail from a quarantine district into another State. Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584; United States
v. Ramsey, 197 Fed. Rep. 144.
But it is said that the Amendment, buried in the
Agricultural Appropriation Act of 1913, was unknown to
the Grand Jury when the indictment was fouhd and was
not construed in deciding the motion to quash. And it is
contended that, inasmuch as the Criminal Appeals Act
only authorizes a review of a decision in so far as it was
"based upon the . . . construction of the statute
upon which the indictment is founded" (March 2, 1907,
c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246),-the correct ruling that Receivers
are not within the act of 1905 ought not to be reversed
because it now appears that they are within the terms of
the act of 1913 which was not brought to the attention of
the District Judge and was not therefore construed by
him in fact. It is pointed out that while there is a general
assignment that the court erred in quashing the indictment, yet the Government itself specifically complains
of the court's construction of the act of 1905-not the
act of 1913. And to emphasize the fact that the indictment was not founded on the Amendment, attention is
called to the fact that entries on the back and in the caption of the indictment describe it as being for "violation of
Secs. 2 and 4 of the Act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat.

UNITED STATES v. NIXON.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1264," which apply to railroad companies and not to Receivers.
These entries are useful and convenient means of reference and in case of doubt might possibly be of some
assistance in determining what statute was alleged to have
been violated. But these entries form no part of the indictment (Williams v. United States, 168 U. S. 382, 389) and
neither add to nor take from the legal effect of the charge
that the Receivers, while operating the business of the
corporation as a common carrier, transported cattle
"contrary to the form of the statute in such cases made
and provided." What was that statute and on what statute the indictment was founded was to be determined as
a matter of law from the facts therein charged.
There is no claim that it was quashed because of any
defect in matter of pleading, and that being true, the
ruling on the demurrer that "the indictment does not
charge any offense for which the Receivers can be held,"
necessarily involved a decision of the question as to
whether there was any statute which punished the acts
therein set out. In determining that question it was
fnecessary that the indictment should be referred, not
merely to the Act mentioned in argument, but to any
statute which prohibited the transportation of cattle by
the persons, in the manner, and on the date charged in
that indictment. For the reasons already pointed out
it was a misconstruction of the Act of 1913, to which the
indictment was thus legally referred, to hold that Receivers acting as common carriers were not within its
terms.
Nor can a reversal be avoided by the claim that the
act of 1913, though applicable to the facts charged in the
indictment, had not been construed by the court. For
within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act (34 Stat.
1246) the statute on which, as matter of law, an indictment
is founded, may be misconstrued not only by misinter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. 8.

preting its language, but by overlooking its existence
and failing to apply its provisions to an indictment which
sets out facts constituting a violation of its terms. It is
"a solecism to say that the decision that the acts charged
are not within the statute is not based upon a construction
of it." United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 535. It
would, of course, be fairer to the trial judge to call his attention to the existence of the act on which the indictment
was based (United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14, 18). Yet
an indictment must set out facts and not the law; and when
he sustained the demurrer on the ground that the shipment
therein stated did not constitute a crime of which the
Receivers could be convicted, he in legal effect held that
they were not liable to prosecution if while operating a
road as common carrier they hauled live stock from a
quarantine State to another. In rendering that decision
he made a ruling of the very kind which the United States
was entitled to have reviewed under the provisions of
the Criminal Appeals Act (34 Stat. 1246). If that were
not so the right of the Government could in any case be
defeated by entering a general order of dismissal, without
referring to the statute which was involved or without
giving the reasons on which the decision was based.
The error can no more be cured by the fact that the
existence of the statute was not called to the attention
of the court than the Receivers, on the trial before the
jury, could excuse themselves by proof that they did not
know of the passage of the amendment which made it
unlawful for them to transport cattle by rail from a quarantine State in interstate commerce.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

