PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

is the one arising from that part of the San Jose de Sonoita
claim which has been confirmed as against the United
States. And in any event the lands in that conflict are
not public lands or subject to disposal by the Land Department. They belong either to the owners of the Baca
float or to the owners of the confirmed portion of the San
Jose de Sonoita grant. But which is the superior claim we
cannot now consider or decide because the Sonoita claimants are not parties to this cause and because the, question
will more properly arise in the local courts and not in a
proceeding in the District of Columbia against the Secretary of the Interior.
With this explanation of our former opinion, leave to file
the petitionfor rehearingis denied.

PULLMAN COMPANY v. KNOTT, COMPTROLLER
OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 383, 384.

Argued October 21, 1914.-Decided November 2, 1914.

The constitution of the State is not taken up into the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. Burt v.
Smith, 203 U. S. 129.
A state tax will not be upset under the equal protection proviaion of the
Fourteenth Amendment upon hypothetical or unreal possibilities if
good upon facts as they are. Keokee Consolidated Coke Co. v. Taylor,
234 U. S. 224.
Quwre, whether a classification of sleeping and parlor car companies
excluding railroad companies operating their own sleeping and parlor

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

235 U. S.

cars is,so arbitrary as to be unconstitutional under the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The provision in the statute involved in this case that the proper state
officer fix the amount of ,gross receipts on which the tax shall be based
in ,case the party subject to the tax shall fail to make a report of
the actual gross receipts as required by the statute, held not a dep, rivation of property without due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment as denying an opportunity to be heard.
The court in this case declines to overthrow a state taxing statute on
the ground of its invalidity under the state constitution as the decisions of the state court sustaining similar. statutes are apparently
broad enough to cover this statute, even though there may be possible distinctions between it and the statutes involved in the other
cases. Louisville & Nashville 1?. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298.
The statutes of Florida of 1907 and 1913 imposing taxes on sleeping
and parlor car companies held not unconstitutional under the Federal or the state constitution.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Florida taxing sleeping. car companies, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Gustavus S.
Fernald and Mr. John E. Hartridge were on the brief, for

appellant:
The tax is not a capitation lax or a license tax provided
for by § 5 of art. 9 of the Florida constitution.
The tax is not an ad valorem tax based upon a "just

valuation of all property" and provided for by "a uniform
and equal rate of taxation" throughout the State.
The statute and imposition of the tax thereunder deprives the appellant of its property without due process
of law, and denies to appellant the equal protection of
the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States.
The case presented is within the cognizance of the equity
jurisdiction of the Federal court.
Mr. Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, for appellee.

PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
235 U. S.

MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUfTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are suits to prevent the collection of a tax on
gross receipts for different years, derived from business
done by the appellant in the State of Florida, and to have
the laws under which the tax would beassessed, declared
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The bills are
like those stated in 231 U. S. 571, and aver the following
facts. Chapter 5597 of the laws of Florida for 1907, now
§ 44 of Chapter 6421 of the laws of 1913, imposes a license
tax, which has been paid. Section 46 of Chapter 5596
of the laws of 1907 imposes a tax ad valorem, which also
has been paid, with immaterial exceptions. Up to 1907
this property tax had not existed, but sleeping and parlor
car companies had been required to make a return of
gross receipts from business done between points within
the State and to pay a percentage upon such returns,
which it paid in lieu of all other taxes. But by § 47 of
said Chapter 5596 (now § 45 of Chapter 6421 of the laws
of 1913), the last mentioned tax was continued in force
alongside of the new ad valorem tax of §46, and the appellant contends that after the levying of a property
tax the tax on gross returns became void. An application
for a preliminary injunction was heard before three judges
and was denied, whereupon this appeal was taken and a
supersedeas was granted upon payment of the sum in
dispute into court.
The cases come here upon an alleged infringement of
the Constitution of the United States, but are argued
mainly upon the constitution of the State. Of course
the latter is not taken up into the Fourteenth Amendment.

Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674.

Burt v.

Smith, 203 U. S. 129, 135. It can be considered only
because the cases come from the District Court upon
the other ground. We will deal with the Federal question
first. It is su %gested that there is an arbitrary classifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S1

tion because the tax is confined to sleeping and parlor
car companies and does not fall upon railroads operating
their own sleeping and parlor cars. If otherwise this
were a valid objection, as to which we need express no
opinion, it is enough to say that a tax is not to be upset
upon hypothetical and unreal possibilities, if it would be
good upon the facts as they are. Keokee Consolidated
Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224. It does not appear
that any railroad in Florida does operate its own sleeping
or parlor cars, and the Attorney General of the State
denies that such a case exists.
The other objection urged is that the tax payer is not
given a hearing. The statute, as we have said, requires
the companies to make a report and fixes a percentage
($1.50 per $100) to be paid. If the report is not made
the Comptroller is to estimate the gross receipts and add
ten per cent. of the amount of the taxes as a penalty.
If the companies do as required there is nothing to be
heard about. They fix the amount and the statute establishes the proportion to be paid over. Bell's Gap R.
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232. The provision
in case of their failure to report is not, as it seemed to be
suggested in argument, an alternative left open for the
companies to choose. It is a provision for their failure
to do their duty. In that event their chance and right
to be heard have gone by.
We do not feel called upon to- discuss the objections
under the constitution of the State at length. Starting
with the conceded proposition that the tax to be valid
must be either ad valorem or a license tax, the appellant
argues that this cannot be a license tax, as was held by
the Judges who refused the injunction, because the payment of it is not made a condition of the right to do business; because another tax is imposed in terms for a license;
and because the history of the law shows that for years
it took the place of a property tax. These considerations

UNITED STATES v. PORTALE.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

undoubtedly are very strong. But as we are dealing
with the validity of the law under the state constitution,
a matter that must be decided finally by the state court,
and as the state court has held other gross earning taxes
to be license taxes, Afro-American IndustrialBenefit Ass'n
v. Florida, 61 Florida, 85, 89, we are of opinion that if
this act is to be overthrown it should not be overthrown
by us. It is true that there are possible distinctions between this case and the Florida decision cited, but it
seems to us not improbable that the Supreme Court
had in view a principle broad enough to cover the case
at bar. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231
U. S. 298, 305.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PORTALE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 382.

Argued October 22, 1914.-Decided November 2, 1914.

The provision of § 6 of the White Slave Act of June 25, 1910,'requiring
filing of statements in regard to the harboring of women brought
into this country for purposes of prostitution, is not confined to
persons who have had to do directly or indirectly with the bringing
in or sending forth of such women.
As the statute on which the indictment is based was enacted in pursuance of an international agreement which requires every person
to perform an act which may be assistance to the Governments, it
is construed literally, as reading it otherwise would deprive the Government of such assistance to no good end.
Where, as in this case, the writ of error was taken by the Government
under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, on a single ruling,

