NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. HOLBROOK.
235 U. S.

625

Statement of the Case.

and a discussion of the classifications permissible under
such an act would not be pertinent.
There is no error in the judgment complained of and
it is accordingly
Affirmed.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
HOLBROOK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 516. Argued December 1, 2, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, where death is instantaneous the
beneficiaries can recover their pecuniary loss and nothing more; but
the relationship between them and the deceased is a proper circumstance for consideration in computing the same. In every instance,
however, the award must be based on money values, the amount of
which can be ascertained only upon a view of the peculiar facts presented.
While it is proper for the trial court to instruct the jury to take into
consideration the care, attention, instruction, guidance and advice
which a father may give his children and to include the pecuniary
value thereof in the damages assessed, it is not proper to give the
jury occasion for indefinite speculation by comparing the rights of
the actual beneficiaries with those of the supposed dependents who
are mere next of kin.
Where the facts are adequate to constitute a strong appeal to the
sympathy of the jury the charge should be free from anything which
the jury can construe into a permission to go outside of the evidence.
It is the duty of the court in its relation to the jury to protect the parties
from unjust verdicts arising from impulse, passion or prejudice or
any other violation of lawful rights. Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116.
215 Fed. Rep. 687, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal

Employers' Liability Act of 1908, are stated in the opinion.
VOL. ccxxxv-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

. 235 U. S.

Mr. F. Markoe Rivinus, with whom Mr. Theodore W.
Reath was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Werth for defendant in error:
Substantial pecuniary damage is presumed as a matter
of law in favor of a widow and children; the presumption is prima facie, of course, and it may be shown that
the deceased husband and father was a burden, but in the
absence
-of such rebutting evidence the presumption prevails. This
presumption is recognized and applied in the
following cases: Balt. & Pot. R. R. v. Mackey, 157 U. S.
72; 2 Sedgwick on Dam., 9th ed., § 584a; Atchison &c.
Ry. v. Wilson, 48 Fed. Rep. 57; Spiro v. Felton, 73 Fed.
Rep. 91; S. C., 78 Fed. Rep. 576; Peden v. Am. Bridge
Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 523; Fithian v. Railroad Co., 188 Fed.
Rep. 842; Chicago &c. R. R. v. Woolridge, 51 N. E. Rep.
701; Dukeman v. Cleveland R. R., 86 N. E. Rep. 712;
Louis..& Nash. R. R. v. Buck, 19 N. E. Rep, 453; Korrady
v. Railroad Co., 29 N. E. Rep. 1069; Haug v. Gr. Nor.
R. R., 77 N. W. Rep. 97; Hays v. Hogan, 165 S. W. Rep.
1125.
In the case of mere next of kin the contrary presumption prevails. 2 Sedgwick on Dam., 9th ed., § 584a; Burk
v. Arcata R. R., 57 Pac. Rep. 1065; Rhoades v. Chicago &c.
R. R., 81 N. E. Rep. 371; Garrett v. Louis. & Nash. R. R.,
197 Fed. Rep. 715, 722; In re Cal. Nay. Co., 110 Fed. Rep.
670, 677, aid see Case Note, 11 L. R. A. (N. S.) 623.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
W. T. Holbrook, a bridge carpenter, aged thirty-eight
and employed by plaintiff in error at a wage of $2.75 per
day, was killed by a passing train while at his work in
McDowell County, West Virginia, January 4, 1913. He
left a widow, thirty-two years old, and five children of

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. HOLBROOK.
235 U. S.

627

Opinion of the Court.

one, four, seven, eleven, and fourteen years. The widow
qualified as administratrix and instituted this suit under
the Employers' Liability Act, approved April 22, 1908,
c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, in behalf of herself and children in
the United States District Court, Western District of
Virginia. She charged that the accident resulted from
negligence of agents and employ~s of the Railway Company and at the trial introduced evidence tending to
establish this fact. The jury returned a verdict for$S25,000
in her favor; judgment thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (215 Fed. Rep. 687); and the cause
was brought here.
The only assignment of error now relied upon goes to a
single sentence in instruction No. 5, wherein comparison
is made between the pecuniary injuries of a widow and
infant children and those of adults or mere next of kin.
At the instance of the administratrix, the court told the
jury (instruction No. 4) that if Holbrook's own negligence
contributed proximately to his death only proportionate
damages could be recovered and then gave instruction
No. 5, in the following words:
"The court further instructs the jury that if they believe from the evidence that plaintiff is entitled to recover,
then the amount of her damages is, subject to diminution,
if any, as set out in instruction No. 4, to be measured by
the pecuniary injury suffered by the widow and infant
children as the direct result of the death of the husband
and father, it not being permissible for the jury to go beyond the pecuniary loss and give damages for the loss of
the love of the husband or father by wife or children, or
to compensate them for their grief or sorrow or mental
anguish for his death, or other purely sentimental injury
or loss.
"However, the court instructs you that where the persons suffering injury are the dependent widow and infant.
children of a deceased husband and father, the pecuniary

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

injury suffered would be much greater than where the
beneficiaries were all adults or dependents who were mere
next of kin, so that the relation existing between deceased
and the infant beneficiaries prior to his death is a factor in
fixing the amount of the merely pecuniary damages.
Bearing the above principles in mind the jury should assess
such damages, not exceeding $40,000, the amount claimed
in the declaration, as shall fully compensa'te the widow and
children for alpecuniary loss, as hereinafter explained,
suffered by theni as the direct result of the death of the
husband and father, and in doing so the jury should consider:
"(1) What the earning capacity of deceased has been
prior to and was at the time of his death, and what it
probably might have been in the future had he not been
killed, at the same wages he was receiving at the time of
his death, as shown by the evidence; and, in estimating the
probable earnings of decedent, and what his family might
have realized from them during his future life had he not
been killed; and, in estimating the length of his probable
life.had he not been killed, it will be the duty of the jury to
consider his age, health, habits, industry, intelligence,
character, and expectancy of life, as shown .by the evidence
introduced before you.
"(2) The jury will also take into consideration the care,
attention, instruction, training, advice and guidance which
one of decedent's disposition, character, habits, intelligence, and devotion to his parental duties, or indifference
thereto, as shown by the evidence, would reasonably be
expected to give to his infant children during their minority, and the pecuniary benefit therefrom to said children,
and include the 'pecuniary value of the same in the damages assessed."
The Railway Company duly excepted because "the
court tells the jury that the widow and infant children of
decedent are entitled to larger damages than -would be the

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. HOLBROOK.
235 U. S.

629

Opinion of the Court.

case of persons suing who were more distantly related."
The exception was Overruled, and this action is now relied
on as material error requiring a reversal.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, where death is
instantaneous, the beneficiaries can recover their pecuniary
loss and nothing more; but the relationship between them
and the deceased is a proper circumstance for consideration
in computing the same. The elements which make up
the total damage resulting to a minor child from a parent's
death may be materially different from those demanding
examination where the beneficiary is a spouse or collateral
dependent relative; but in every instance the award must
be based upon money values, the amount of which can be
ascertained only upon a view of the peculiar facts presented. Michigan Central Railroad v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.
59, 68, 72, 73; American Railroadof Porto Rico v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145, 149; Gulf, Colorado &c. Ry. v. McGinnis,
228 U. S. 173, 175, 176; North Carolina Railroad v.
Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 256, 257.
In the present case there was testimony concerning the
personal qualities of the deceased and the interest which
he took in his family. It was proper, therefore, to charge
that the jury might take into consideration the care, attention, instruction, training, advice and guidance which
the evidence showed he reasonably might have been expected to give his children during their minority, and to
include the pecuniar? value thereof in the damages assessed. But there was nothing-indeed there could be
nothing-to show the hypothetic injury which might have
befallen some unidentified adult beneficiary or dependent
next of kin. The ascertained circumstances must govern
in every case. There was no occasion to compare the
rights of the actual beneficiaries with those of supposed
dependents; and we think the trial court plainly erred
when it declared that where the persons suffering injury
are the dependent widow and infant children of a deceased

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
MCKENNA, DAY, HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

husband and father the pecuniary injury suffered would
be much greater than where the beneficiaries were adults
or dependents who were mere next of kin. This gave the
jury occasion for indefinite speculation and rather invited
a consideration of elements wholly irrelevant to the true
problem presented-to indulge in conjecture instead of
weighing established facts. Insurance Co. v. Baring, 20
Wall. 159, 161.
The facts brought out during the course of the trial were
adequate to constitute a strong appeal to the sympathy
naturally engendered in the minds of jurors by the misfortunes of a widow and her dependent children. In such
circumstances it was especially important that the charge
should be free from anything which they might construe
as a permission to go outside of the evidence. It is the
duty of the court in its relation to the jury to protect the
parties from unjust verdicts arising from impulse, passion
or prejudice, or from any other violation of lawful rights.
Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 121.
Considering the whole record we feel obliged to conclude
that the probable result of the indicated language in Instruction No. 5 was materially to prejudice the rights of
the Railway Company. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court for the Western District
of Virginia for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Judgment reversed.
with whom MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE HUGHES concur, dissenting.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA,

DAY

I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of
the court. I think the criticism that the railway company
makes of the charge of the court to the jury is too severe
in inference and makes a single sentence in a charge which

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. HOLBROOK.
235 U. S.

MCKENNA, DAY, HUGHES,

631

JJ., dissenting.

occupies a page of the record exclusively dominant, pushing aside all qualifications and particulars. I do not think
this is permissible. The charge of a court to a jury must
be considered as a whole, not by isolated sentences, and a
jury as one of the tribunals of the country must be presumed to have some sense.
The court in the case at bar was confronted with the
difficulty with which courts are often confronted and
which no court has yet been able completely to §urmount
by any form of words-of bringing home to itself or to a
jury the loss to wife and infant children through the death
of the husband and father. The court in the present case
ventured to say that these relations had something more
*in them and their destruction had something more of
"pecuniary injury" than the injury to "the mere next of
kin" and that there might be a loss to infant children
greater than to adults. Would any one like to deny it?
Would not its denial upset all that is best, in sentiment
and duty, in life? And must that sentiment and duty,
so potent in motive and conduct, be illegal to emphasize
in a court of justice as an interference with the strict
standards of the law?
By these standards, I admit, the charge of the court
must be determined, and, therefore, let us turn to them
as applied by the district court. The court said the amount
of recovery must "be measured by the pecuniary injury
suffered by the widow and infant children as the direct
result of the death of the husband and father, it not being
permissible for the jury to go beyond the pecuniary loss
and give damages for the loss of the love of the husband or
father by wife or children, or to compensate them for their
grief or sorrow or mental anguish for his death, or other
purely sentimental injury or loss." (Italics mine.) Can
there be any mistake in the 'standard declared by the
court? Not love, not sorrow, not mental anguish, not
sentiment, but loss in money "as the direct result of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
MCKENNA,

DAY,

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

death," and beyond that money loss "it not being permissible for'the jury to go." The standard then is money
loss, or, to use the court's words, "the pecuniary injury
suffered." No prompting to or excuse for impulse or
passion was given, nor was imagination left any sway.
The judgment of the jury.-was brought and held to the
money value of the life destroyed to wife and children
dependent upon it. And the elements in the computation
were not left undefined. They were enumerated as
follows: (1) Earning capacity at time of death and the
probability of its continuance. In estimating the latter,
and hence the value of it to wife and children, the jury
were told to consider the age, health, habits, *industry,
intelligence and character of the deceased and his expectancy of life, as shown by the evidence-all, I may say in
passing, strictly legal elements and none found fault with.
(2) Regarding those qualities and his devotion to his
parental duties or indifference thereto, as shown by the
evidence, the jury were instructed to take into consideration "the care, attention, instruction, training, advice
and guidance" which "he would reasonably be expected
to give to his infant children during their minority, and
the pecuniary benefit therefrom to said children, and include the pecuniary value of the same in the damages
assessed."
A money standard with careful iteration, it will be
observed, is declared throughout, and there is no dispute
as to the elements to which it is to be applied; and of
which the law assigns to the jury the duty of estimating.
I repeat, no error is asserted of these elements or of the
estimate of their pecuniary value by the jury, but counsel say that they were made vicious and might have been
exaggerated or misunderstood by the comparison made
by the court between the widow and children and dependents who were mere next of kin and between infants
and adults. It may be well to give the court's language.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. HOLBROOK.
235 U. S.

McKENNA, DAY,

HUGHES,

633

JJ., dissenting.

After stating that the amount recovered should be measured by the pecuniary injury suffered, the court added,
"However, the court instructs you that where the persons
suffering injury are the dependent widow and infant
children of a deceased husband and father, the pecuniary
injury suffered would be much greater than where the
beneficiaries were all adults or dependents who were
mere next of kin, so that the relation existing between
deceased and the infant beneficiaries prior to his death
is a factor in fixing the amount of the merely pecuniary
damages." It is objected that the instruction was error
because the court told the jury that the widow and children of the deceased were entitled to "larger damages"
than would have been allowable to persons suing who were
more distantly related. The first impulse of the mind is
against the objection, and the impulse is supported by
the deliberate resolution of cases. In Balt. & Pot. R. R.
v. Mackey, 157 U. S. 72, and Michigan Central R. R. v.
Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, the same distinctions are expressed.
In explanation of those cases counsel say this court announced "the general proposition of law that the rule for
damages must differ as the degree of the proven dependence of the beneficiary differs," and add, "but matter
suitable in an opinion of an appellate court may be inappropriate in a charge to a jury." The latter statement
is rather intangible. It cannot be that the law declared
by an appellate court is unsuitable to be followed by a
trial court. The court besides in the pending case did
no more than express the elements of damages as dependent upon the relationship of the deceased to the
beneficiaries. The distinction is a natural one, based on
the realities of life, and I cannot conceive of a mistake by
the jury in its application. There may be, indeed, special
cases, and counsel imagines there may be, of crippled
or diseased adults or infirm next of kin who, on account
of their condition, may be entitled to a special considera-

OCTO1HER TERM, 1914.
MKENNA, DAY, HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

tion, but the possibility of their existence did not make the
instruction of the court erroneous, or that the jury in
some way might have made a "comparison between
beneficiaries who were before the court and hypothetical
beneficiaries who were not in the case at all." In other
words, the contention is that the jury was left or invited
to conjecture the injury in an extreme example of imaginary dependent next of kin as necessarily below the
limit of the injury to the widow or infant children, and
this notwithstanding the careful enumeration of the elements of damage contained in the charge of the court. I
am unable to yield to the contention. The court only
expressed a general distinction, a natural one based on
general experience and supported by a difference in legal
obligations. It is a distinction recognized by the statute
by virtue of which the action was brought as determining the order of precedence of its beneficiaries. The law,
therefore, recognizes the fact, and it is not to be put out
of view, that there is a difference in the relation of a widow
and children to a deceased husband and father and the
relation of the next of kin, whatever be the degree of the
dependence of the latter. But, granting I am mistaken
in this and that there may be exceptional cases of dependent next of kin, they do not constitute the rule, and
the objection to the charge of the court was too general.
The objection was that the instruction took in elements
of damage improper to be considered by the jury because
the court told "the jury that the widow and infant children of decedent" were "entitled to larger damages than
would be the case of persons suing who were more distantly related." It was not pointed out, therefore, that
the court was wrong in its generality on account of exceptional instances which were left to the jury to imagine,
but universally wrong. In other words, the objection
was not, as it now is, that the court committed the case
to the imagination of the jury or made the "relationship

WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL CO.
235 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

itself" of the plaintiff and her children to the deceased a
factor to be considered in fixing the amount of pecuniary
,damages. If the objection had been so special and explicit it might have been yielded to. At any rate, it was
wrong because of its generality and should not now be
regarded. The judgment, therefore, should be affirmed.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR.
JUSTICE HUGHES

concur in this dissent.

WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL & REFINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 79.

Submitted November 9, 1914.-Decided Januasy 11, 1915.

The right to restrain the enforcement of a statute as an unconstitutional deprivation of its property is a right existing in the corporation
itself, and a stockholder is not entitled to maintain such an action
without clearly showing that he has exhausted the means within his
reach to obtain action by the corporation in conformity to his wishes.
Under Equity Rule No. 27 (formerly No. 94) in order to conferjurisdiction upon a Federal court of a suit by a stockholder to enforce a
remedy belonging to the corporation the bill must allege not only
that the suit is not a collusive one for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction but that unsuccessful efforts have been made' to induce the
corporation to bring the suit or the reasons for not making such
efforts.
A bare assertion, by a stockholder in a suit to enjoin the officers of a
corporation from complying with a statute alleged to be unconstitutional, that the officers and directors do not wish to comply with it
but intend to for fear of incurring penalties, without stating any
ground for dispensing with efforts to procure action by the corporation, is not sufficient under Equity Rule No. 27.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions of the ten-hour labor law of Mississippi and
THE

