OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 380. Argued October 22, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.
The plain object of the prohibition in the Meat Inspection Law of 1906
against alteration or destruction of tags and labels is to safeguard
food products against alteration and substitution so as to render the
process of inspection effective, and the statute will not be so construed
as to defeat the purpose for which it was passed.
The prohibition in the Meat Inspection Law against altering, defacing
or destroying marks, tags, labels, etc., does riot relate alone to those
engaged in the business of preparing mer.ts for transportation and
carrying or assisting in the carrying of such meats in interstate commerce, but is as broad as its language and-applies to any and every
person, firm or corporation, or officer, agent or employ6 thereof.
THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Federal Meat Inspection Law, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the United
States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Defendants in error were indicted for an alleged violation of the so-called Meat Inspection Law, which is a
part of the "Act making Appropriations for the Department of Agriculture," etc., approved June 30, 1906,
c. 3913, 34 Stat. pp. 669, 674, etc. Upon motion of

UNITED STATES v. LEWIS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants the District Court quashed the indictment,
basing its decision upon the construction of the statfite,
and the Government has brought this writ of error under
the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34
Stat. p. 1246.
The pertinent portions of the Meat Inspection Law are
set forth in the margin.'
That for the purpose of preventing the use in interstate or foreign
commerce, as hereinafter provided, of meat and meat food products
which are unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for
human food, the Secretary of Agriculture . . . shall cause to be
made by inspectors appointed for that purpose, as hereinafter provided, a post-mortem examination and insp .ction of the carcasses and
parts thereof of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats to be prepared for
human consumption at any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment in any State, Territory, or the
District of Columbia for transportation or sale as articles of interstate
or foreign commerce; and the carcasses and parts thereof of all such
animals found to be sound, healthful, wholesome, and fit for human
food shall be marked, stamped, tagged, or labeled as "Inspected and
passed;" and said inspectors shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as "Inspected and condemned," all carcasses and parts thereof of animals
found to be unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit
for human food; and all carcasses and parts thereof thus inspected and
condemned shall be destroyed for food purposes by the said establishment in the presence of an inspector, and the Secretary of Agriculture
may remove inspectors from any such establishment which fails to,
so destroy any such condemned carcass or part thereof.
That for the purposes hereinbefore set forth the Secretary of Agriculture shall cause to be made by inspectors appointed for that purpose
an examination and inspection of all meat food products prepared for
interstate or foreign commerce in any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment, and for the purposes
of any examination and inspection said inspectors shall have access at
all times, by day or night, whether the establishment be operated or
not, to every part of said establishment; and said inspectors shall mark,
stamp, tag, or label as "Inspected and passed" all such products found
to be sound, healthful, and wholesome, and which contain no dyes,
chemicals, preservatives, or ingredients which render such meat or
meat food products unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or unfit for
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by the Act, the Secretary of Agriculture made certain rules and regulations,
effective May 1, 1908, among which was the following:
"An official establishment may ship from the said establishment to any other official establishment any meat
human food; and said inspectors shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as
"Inspected and condemned" all such products found unsound, unhealthful, and unwholesome, or which contain dyes, chemicals, preservatives, or ingredients which render such meat or meat food products
unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or unfit for human food, and all
such condemned meat food products shall be destroyed for food purpoesi as hereinbefore provided, and the Secretary of Agriculture may
remove inspectors from any establishment which fails to so destroy
such condemned meat food products.
That when any meat or meat food product prepared for interstate or
foreign commerce which has been inspected as hereinbefore provided
and marked "Inspected and passed" shall be placed or packed in any
can, pot, tin, canvas, or other receptacle or covering in any establishment where inspection under the provisions of this Act is maintained,
the person, firm, or corporation preparing said product shall cause a
label to be attached to said can,.pot, tin, canvas, or other receptacle or
covering, under the supervision of an inspector, which label shall state
that the contents thereof have been "inspected and passed" under the
provisions of this Act; and no inspection and examination of meat or
meat food products deposited or inclosed in cans, tins, pots, canvas,
or other receptacle or covering in any establishment where *inspection
under the provisions of this Act is maintained shall be deemed to be
complete until such meat or meat food products have been sealed or
inclosed in said can, tin, pot, canvas, or other receptacle or covering
under the supervision of an inspector. .
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

That on and after October first, nineteen hundred and six, no person,
firm, or corporation -shall transport or offer for transportation, and no
carrier of interstate or foreign commerce shall transport or receive for
transportation from.one State or Territory or the District of Columbia
to any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, or to any
place under the jurisdiction of the United States, or to any foreign
country, any carcasses or parts thereof, meat, or meat food products
thereof which have not bebn inspected, examined, and marked as

UNITED STATES v. LEWIS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or meat food product which has been inspected and passed
under these regulations without marking the same 'Inspected and passed,' if such shipment be placed in a rail"inspected and passed," in accordance with the terms of this Act and
with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
That no person, firm, or corporation, or officer, agent, or employ6
thereof, shall forge, counterfeit, simulate, or falsely represent, or shall
without proper authority use, fail to use, or detach, or shall knowingly
or wrongfully alter, deface, or destroy, or fail to deface or destroy, any
of the marks, stamps, tags, labels, or other identification devices provided for in this Act, or in and as directed by the rules and regulations
prescribed hereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture, on any carcasses,
parts of carcasses, or the food product, or containers thereof, subject to
the provisions of this Act, or any certificate in relation thereto, authorized or required by this Act or by the said rules and regulations of 'the
Secretary of Agriculture.
That no person, firm, or corporation engaged in the interstate commerce of meat or meat food products shall transport or offer for transportation, sell or offer to sell any such meat or meat food products in any
State or Territory or in the District of Columbia or any place under
the jurisdiction of the United States,'other than in the State or Territory or in the District of Columbia or any place under the jurisdiction
of the United States in which the slaughtering, packing, canning, rendering, or other similar establishment owned, leased, operated by said
firm, person, or corporation is located unless and until said person, firm,
or corporation shall have complied with all of the provisions of this Act.
That any person, firm, or corporation, or any officer or agent of any
such person, firm, or corporation, who shall violate any of the provisions
of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished on conviction thereof by a fine of not exceeding ten thousand dollars or imprisonment for a period not more than two years, or by both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. . .
, Said Secretary of Agriculture shall, from time to time, make
such rules and regulations as are necessary for the efficient execution of
the provisions of this Act, and all inspections and examinations made
under this Act shall be such and made in such manner as described in
the rules and regulations prescribed by said Secretary of Agriculture
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

road car which is sealed by an employ6 of the Bureau of
Animal Industry, and provided that not less than 25 per
cent of the contents of each car consists of meat or meat
food products not marked 'Inspected and passed."' (Reg.
25, ยง 12, par. 1.)
The indictment charged, in substance, that defendants
knowingly and wrongfully altered, defaced, broke, and destroyed a certain government seal, then being upon a certain railroad freight car containing meat and meat products then under government supervision for inspection
and offered for transportation in interstate commerce, the
seal having been affixed to the car in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture. The
clauses of the statute upon which the indictment rests are
those which declare "That no person, firm, or corporation,
or officer, agent, or employ6 thereof, shall . . . knowingly or wrongfully alter, deface, or destroy . . . any
of the marks, stamps, tags, labels, or other identification
devices provided for in this Act, or in and as directed by
the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder by the
Secretary of Agriculture, on any carcasses, parts of carcasses, or the food product, or containers thereof, subject
to the provisions of this Act," and "That any person,
firm, or corporation, or any officer or agent of any such
person, firm, or corporation, who shall violate any of
the provisions of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor."
The District Court construed the prohibition as relating alone to those engaged in the business of preparing
meats for transportation, and the carrying or assisting
in the carrying of such meats in interstate transportation.
We are unable to discern any sufficient reason for giving
to the language of the statute so limited an application.
The plain object of the clause is to safeguard the food
products in question against alteration or substitution,
and thus enable the officials of the Government to sys-

HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

tematize and render effective the processes of inspection; an object that is interfered with if the tags or other
identification devices are destroyed, whether they be
destroyed by those engaged in the business or by others.
Moreover, one of the other prohibitions of the Act is in
terms limited to those engaged in the interstate commerce of meat or meat food products.
It seems to us clear that the prohibition upon which
the present indictment is founded has an effect as broad
as its language, and applies to any and every "person,
firm, or corporation, or officer, agent, or employ6 thereof."
See United States v. Porfale, decided November 2, 1914,
ante, p. 27.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
CERTIORARI TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 30.

Argued October 16, 19, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

The function of a bill of review filed for newly discovered evidence is
to relieve a meritorious complainant from a clear miscarriage of justice where the court is able to see, upon a view of all the circumstances, that the remedy can be applied without mischief to the
rights of' innocent parties and without unduly jeopardizing the
stability of judicial decrees.
The relief prayed by a bill of review for newly discovered evidenve is a
matter of sound discretion and not of absolute right; and even though

