LANE v. WATTS.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

to the main ridge, follows said ridge up to the summit
known as Big Fodderstack Mountain and follows the
main ridge thence to the junction of the Big Fodderstack
and Hangover leads, and thence follows the main ridge of
the Unaka Mountain southwesterly, according to the plat
exhibited with this opinion. And, further, that commissioners be appointed to permanently mark said line.
The cross bill of the State of Tennessee should be dismissed.
Counsel for the respective States are given forty days
from the entry hereof to agree upon three commissioners
and to present to the court for its approval a decree drawn
according to the directions herein given, in default of
which agreement and decree this court will appoint commissioners, and itself draw the decree in conformity
herewith. Costs to be equally divided between the States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no part in the consideration and
decision ot this case.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v. WATTS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 889. Petition for rehearing distributed to Justices October 12,
1914.-Decided November 2, 1914.
Opinion in Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S. 525, explained and leave to file
petition for rehearing denied.Quwre, whether the act of August 4, 1854, incorporating the territory
acquired under the Gadsden Treaty with, and making it subject to,
VOL. ccxxxv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

235 U. S.

the laws of the Territory of New Mexico, made the provisions of
§ 8 of the act of July 22, 1854, applicable thereto.
Statutory reservations of lands within territory acquired under treaty
which are covered by claims of private parties may be subject to
repeal; and so held as to reservations of Mexican lands under § 8
of the act of July 22, 1854. Lockhart v. Johnson, 181 U. S. 516.
Quwre, whether the act of'June 21, 1860, did not repeal pro tanto the
reservation provisions of § 8 of the act of July 22, 1854.
Where the lands involved have not been reserved, but are necessarily
included within one or the other of two grants, they are not public
lands nor subject to disposal by the Land Department.
The question of superior title of contesting claimants to lands within
territory acquired under the Gadsden Treaty cannot be determined
in an action between the Government and one of the claimants and
to which the other claimant is not a party.
THE facts, which are the same as those involved in
Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S. 525, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General West and Mr. C. Edward
Wright, for appellants in support of the petition:
The decision leaves open the question of the status of
the conflicting Mexican grants-San Jose, Tumacacori,
and Calabazas-and yet affirms a decree which enjoins
the appellants from further action in respect to the Ohm
homestead entry and other entries which are within the
bouridaries of these Mexican grants. The point made by
the appellants was that in no event could the appellees
take the lands embraced by these grants because the same
were reserved and not subject to appropriation at the
time of selection of Baca Float No. 3. If this be so, the
appellants ought not to be enjoined as to entries within
said grants.
The court leaves the point undetermined and says that
it is not now concerned with such question; that if a controversy should arise it will properly be adjudicated in
the courts where the lands are located.
If these lands were reserved under § 8 of the act of
June 22, 1854, 10 Stat. 308, and if the Land Department,

LANE v. WATTS.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

notwithstanding that fact, did acts that culminated in an
attempted transfer of the legal title to the heirs of Baca
on April 9, 1864-a transfer of title to lands that embraced over 30,000 acres of land reserved by Congress
from any form of disposition at that time-then the conveyance, at least so far as these conflicting Mexican claims
are involved, was absolutely void. Burfenning v. Railroad,
163 U. S. 321; Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 117 U. S.
165, 173.
The conveyance is absolutely void. Yet if void, under
the decision of this court and by operation of the decree
which it affirms, the appellants are perpetually enjoined
from any action in respect to lands within these conflicting grants on the theoi'y that title passed to the appellants
in 1864--i. e., that the Commissioner passed a title that
he had no power to pass.
The court may not enjoin the Land Department perpetually without first, at least, deciding that these Mexican
claims were not reserved lands in 1863.
The claims as claims in toto cannot become the subject
of controversy, because thia- court has already decided
that the Tumacacori and Calabazas grants were invalid.
Faxon v. United States, 171 U. S. 204.
Under the opinion of the court, the action of the Commissioner taken on April 9, 1864, when he ordered a survey, operated to pass the title. It is also held that a
survey was necessary to segregate the lands from the
public domain, but see Burke .v. Southern' Pacific R. R.
Co., 234 U. S. 669. In this case there was no definite location until a survey had been made.
In the western country mountains or prominent hills
merge into foothills or rolling country. It is a, matter
purely of individual opinion as to where the "base" of a,
mountain may be said to be. A hundred different surveyors might have a hundred different ideas as t6 the
location of the "base" as intended in the selection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The Surveyor-General of Arizona, not the SurveyorGeneral of New Mexico, was the officer with jurisdiction.
The latter had no jurisdiction, and his so-called approval of the selection was without force and effect. No
surveyor-general of Arizona had acted in respect to this
selection until 1905:
Mr. G. H. Brevillier, Mr. James W. Vroom and Mr.
Herbe?'t Noble, for appellees in opposition to the petition.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Leave to file an application for rehearing is asked. We
see no reason to grant it, but to avoid misunderstanding
of the opinion we may add a few words.
The opinion is explicit as to the main elements of decision. It decides that the title to the lands involved passed
to the heirs of Baca by the location of the float and its
approval by the officers of the Laid Department and
order for survey in 1864 in pursuance of the act of June 21,
1860, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71, 72. A survey, it was said, was
necessary to segregate the land from the public, domain
and the condition was satisfied by the Contzen survey.
It follows, therefore, that the land was not subject to
homestead or other entry under the public land laws, and
the asserted jurisdiction of the Land Department over it
for that purpose could be restrained.
It is suggested, however, by appellees that appellants
urge that certain claimed Mexican grants conflict with
the location and that the opinion leaves uncertain the
effect of this and that therefore it may encourage or require further litigation. Appellants assert that the effect
of the claimed Mexican grants is reserved from decision
and yet the Land Department is enjoined from exercising
any jurisdiction over the conflicting areas.

LANE v. WATTS.
2.

U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A few words of explanation will make certain the extent
of our decision. In adjustment of the conflict between the
Baca grant and the grant to the town of Las Vegas, the
act of 1860 was passed. The quantity and the manner of
location were defined. The land was to be located in
square bodies and be "vacant land, not mineral, in the
Territory of New Mexico," and it was made the duty of
the Surveyor-General of New Mexico to survey and locate
the lands when selected by the heirs of Baca. There
were no other conditions, and these were fulfilled in 1864.
But it is said that portions of the tract as located were
then embraced in two claimed Mexican grants, to-wit,
the Tumacacori and Calabazas grant and the San Jose
de Sonoita grant, and that by virtue of § 8 of the act of
July 22, 1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, 309, the lands covered
by such claims were reserved from other disposal and
therefore from location under the Baca float. That section made it the duty of the Surveyor-General of New
Mexico, under such instructions as might be given by the
Secretary of the Interior, to ascertain the character and
extent of claims to such lands under the laws, usages and
customs of Mexico and Spain and to make full report on
all such claims as originated before the cession of the
Territory to the United States by the Treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo of 1848, and report the same to Congress for
its consideration and action. It was provided that " until
the final action of Congress on such claims, all lands
covered thereby shall be reserved from sale or other disposal by the government, and shall not be subject to the
donations granted by the previous provisions of this act."
Subsequently, by the act of August 4, 1854, the territory acquired under the Gadsden Treaty was incorporated
with the Territory of New Mexico and made subject to
the laws of that Territory (c. 245, 10 Stat. 575). Assuming, not deciding, that this provision made § 8 applicable
to lands acquired under the Gadsden Treaty, the reserva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S;

tion was statutory and subject to repeal. Lockhart v.
Johnson, 181 U. S. 516. And there axe grounds for a
contention that the act of 1860 making a grant to the
Baca heirs effected a repeal pro tanto of the reservation of
the act of 1854. But there are answers more directly
under § 8 of that act. The mere fact of a claimed Mexican
grant did not reserve the lands covered by it. Lockhart v.
Johnson, supra. It was only after their presentation to
the Surveyor-General of New Mexico for his report thereon
that the lands were reserved "until the final action of
Congress." There was no reservation except by this
statute and it related only to lands covered by a claim presented to the Surveyor-General. There is no language in
the treaties which implies a reservation. Lockhart v.
Johnson, at p. 523.
The Tumacacori and Calabazas grant was not presented
to the Surveyor-General until June 9, 1864, and his report
was not laid before Congress until May 24, 1880. A petition for confirmation of the San Jose de Sonoita grant was
not presented to the Surveyor-General until December,
1879. It will be seen, therefore, th-at there was no disclosure of these claims until after the selection of the
Baca grant and its location by the Land Department, the
consummation of which was accomplished by the approval of the location April 9, 1864. Besides, the Tumacacbri and Calabazas claim was held untenable and void
by this court (Faxon v. United States, 171 U. S. 244), and
the greater part of the San Jose de Sonoita claim was rejected in Ely's Administrator v. United States, 171 U. S.
220. And we may say that before the Contzen survey
was made § 8 of the act of 1854 had been repealed. Lockhart v. Johnson, supra.
The contention that the lands covered by these claims
were reserved by the act of 1854 being untenable, it results that the only conflict with the Baca float as located
April 9, 1864, which requires consideration and decision

PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

is the one arising from that part of the San Jose de Sonoita
claim which has been confirmed as against the United
States. And in any event the lands in that conflict are
not public lands or subject to disposal by the Land Department. They belong either to the owners of the Baca
float or to the owners of the confirmed portion of the San
Jose de Sonoita grant. But which is the superior claim we
cannot now consider or decide because the Sonoita claimants are not parties to this cause and because the, question
will more properly arise in the local courts and not in a
proceeding in the District of Columbia against the Secretary of the Interior.
With this explanation of our former opinion, leave to file
the petitionfor rehearingis denied.

PULLMAN COMPANY v. KNOTT, COMPTROLLER
OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 383, 384.

Argued October 21, 1914.-Decided November 2, 1914.

The constitution of the State is not taken up into the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. Burt v.
Smith, 203 U. S. 129.
A state tax will not be upset under the equal protection proviaion of the
Fourteenth Amendment upon hypothetical or unreal possibilities if
good upon facts as they are. Keokee Consolidated Coke Co. v. Taylor,
234 U. S. 224.
Quwre, whether a classification of sleeping and parlor car companies
excluding railroad companies operating their own sleeping and parlor

