MARYLAND STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES
235 U.S.

451

Statement of the Case.

We have seen that the allotment in question was not
selected or made until after the supplemental agreement
went into effect. The heirs designated in chapter 49 of
Mansfield's Digest were therefore the tiue beneficiaries.
According to its provisions, as is conceded, the paternal
cousin was the sole heir.
Judgment affirmed.

MARYLAND STEEL COMPANY OF BALTIMORE
COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 104.

Argued December 8, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Although parties to a contract may agree that time is of the essence
and may stipulate for liquidated damages, they may subsequently
so modify the requirements as to completion that performance within
the stipulated time becomes unimportant. Flynn v. Des Moines
Railway, 63 Iowa, 490, approved.
As the record in this case does not show that there was any culpable
delinquency in completion of a contract for the building of a vessel,
or .any detriment to the Government, but that the vessel wag delivered, tested, approved and paid for without protest on the part of
the Government on account of delay, and, as it does appear, the
Quartermaster General had, in his discretion, orally waived the time
limit in the contract, held,.that:
In a case of contract authorized by law necessarily entered into
and conducted by officers of the Government, they must necessarily have the power to make it effective in its progress as well as
in its beginning; and the oral agreement of the Quartermaster
General was within the scope of his official authority and amounted
to a modification of the contract. Salomon v. United States, 19
Wall. 17, followed. United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S.
105, distinguished.
48 Ct. Cls. 50, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the right of the Government
to deduct from final payment on a contract an amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

235 U. S.

alleged to be due as liquidated damages for non-completion
on a former contract with the claimant, and also the
question of whether such liquidated damages had been
waived by the Government, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter D. Davidge, with whom Mr. Alexander
Preston was on the brief, for appellant:
Within the time limited for the completion and delivery
of the steamer under the first contract the Government
waived the time limit. Salomon v. United States, 19 Wall.
17; Fordv. United States, 17 Ct. Cl. 60; Districtof Columbia
v. Camden Iron Works, 181 U. S. 453; Phillips Const. Co.
v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646; Williams v. Bank, 2 Pet. 96;
Ittner v. United States, 43 Ct. Cl. 336.
The waiver of the time limit in the first contract necessarily tolls the provision in -that contract for liquidated
damages. Kemp v. Rose, 1 Giff. 258; Dodd v. Churton, 1
Q. B. 562; Wait's Enginee~ing Jurisprudence, ยง 726, p. 667;
Flynn v. Des Moines R. R., 63 Iowa, 491; Phillips v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646; Mosler Safe Co. v. Maiden Lane S. D.
Co., 199 N. Y. 479, 489.
Aside from the express waiver of the time limit by the
Quartermaster General, the fact of payment in full of the
entire balance due under the first contract was an accord
and satisfaction and conclusive on the Government and
a waiver of any claims against the claimant under that
contract. United States v. Corliss Steam Engine Co., 10
Ct. C1.494; S. C., 91.U. S. 321; Shipman v. United States,
18 Ct. Cl. 138; 1 Hudson on Building Contracts, 538;
Wait, supra, ยง 325.
The payment of the entire contract price under the first
contract, without any deduction, was deliberate and under
no mistake. Cases supra and Griffith v. United States, 22
Ct. Cl. 165; Barnes v. District of Columbia, 22 Ct. Cl. 366,
394.
There was- no loss or damage suffered by the Govern.

MARYLAND STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
235 U. S.

453

Opinion of the Court.

ment in completing and delivering the steamer under the
first contract.
United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S. 105;
Sun PrintingAss'n v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642, do not apply
to this case.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States:
Where the contract provides for the payment of liquidated damages the same become chargeable without a
showing of actual damage suffered. United States v.
Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S. 105, 119.
The waiver of the stipulated time limit for the performance of the contract did not destroy the right to
liquidated damages. Phillips v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646,
651; McGowan v. Am. Pressed Bark Co., 121 U. S. 575,
600. See also Graveson v. Tobey, 75 Illinois, 450; United
States v. McMullen, 222 U. S.460, 468; Nibbe v. Brauhn,
24 Illinois, 268; Redlands Association v. Gorman, 161 Missouri, 203; Fisk v. Tank, 12 Wisconsin, 306; Jeffrey Mfg.
Co. v. Central Coal Co., 93 Fed. Rep. 408, 412; Wisconsin
Cent. R. R. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190, 212; Logan
Co. v. United States, 169 U. S. 259; United States v.
Saunders, 79 Fed. Rep. 408; United States v. Utz, 80 Fed.
Rep. 852.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Petition in the Court of Claims for judgment for the
sum of $4,750.00, balance due upon a contract entered
into between petitioner in such court, appellant here, and
the United States for the construction of a steel hull twinscrew suction dredge and for installing therein the propelling and other machinery.
There was and is no controversy as to the performance

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

of the contract or as to the amount due upon it. The
Governmen't set up as an offset an amount alleged to
have been illegally paid on a prior contract between appellant and the Government, which contract, according
to the findings of the Court of Claims, (all the facts which
we state being the findings of the Court of Claims) was
entered into between appellant and the Government on
June 24, 1903, for the construction and equipment of a
single screw steamer for harbor service of the Quartermaster's Department and submarine cable service, according to certain specifications which were made part of
the contract, for a consideration of $88,000.00, to be paid
in various amounts as the work progressed, less 10% to
be withheld to make good any defects, the vessel to be
completed within one hundred and forty days, exclusive
of Sundays and legal holidays, or by December 9, 1903.
It was provided that if appellant should "fail to complete and deliver the steamer within the stipulated time
it should pay to the United States the sum of $50.00 per
day as liquidated damages for each and every day so
delayed, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, which
amount, it was provided, might be withheld from any
money due" appellant under the contract. 1
1 "That the Maryland Steel Company shall complete the construction and equipment of the said steamer and deliver same to the party
of the first part in New York Harbor, or as directed by him, in one
hundred and forty (140) days, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays,
from the date of this contract. And it is hereby agreed that in case the
party of the second part fails to complete in all respects and deliver the
said steamer within the time herein specified, the loss resulting to the
United States from such failure is hereby fixed at the rate of fifty ($50)
dollars per day for each and every day, exclusive of Sundays and legal
holidays, completion and delivery of the vessel is delayed beyond the
period hereinbefore specified,, and it is hereby. stipulated that the party
of the first part may withhold such amount as liquidated damages
from any money due and payable to the party of the second part by
the United States for work done under this contract. In the event of

MARYLAND STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
235 U. S.

455

Opinion of the Court.

On December 1, 1903, before the time stipulated for
completion had expired, at the request of appellant, owing
to unavoidable delays in procuring the necessary material,
the Quartermaster General of the Army, within his discretion under the contract, orally waived the time limit
in the contract, and subsequently, on April 2, 1904, confirmed the waiver by letter.
On April 1, 1904, or ninety-five days, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, after the time fixed in the contract, the
Quartermaster General directed the depot quartermaster
at New York to make final payment for the steamer, retaining, however, the 10% to make good any defects there
might be in the material and workmanship. On July 13,
1904, the entire sum stipulated to be paid by the Government was paid without any deduction whatever.
It does not appear that appellant unreasonably delayed
the work after the waiver of the time limit, or that the
Government suffered any actual pecuniary loss or damage by reason of the delay in the completion and delivery
of the steamer.
The court found the facts as to the other contract as
set out in the petition of appellant and that appellant was
paid the stipulated price therefor, less the sum of $4,750,
"which [we quote from the findings, 48 Ct. Cls., p. 53] the
defendants (the United States) claim was the amount
arising as liquidated damages for the ninety-five days'
delay of the claimant (appellant here) in the completion
of the steamer under the first contract hereinbefore referred to and which amount the defendants further claim
was inadvertently and under mistake of fact paid to the
claimant company" (appellant). And the court recites
the act of God, war, fire, or strikes and lockouts of workmen affecting
the working of this contract, the date of completion of the steamer may
be extended for such period as may be deemed just and reasonable by
the party of the first part, to cover the time lost from any of the above
mentioned causes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

that the Government set up by way of counterclaim the
amount so paid and that the Government claimed such
sum was due as liquidated damages f9r the ninety-five
days' delay of the claimant (appellant) in the execution of
the first contract and claimed further that such sum was
"inadvertently, improperly and illegally paid by the officers of the Government." The record shows that the
counterclaim was filed February 15, 1912.
From the findings of fact the court decided "as a conclusion of law that the petition be dismissed." And this
as a consequence of sustaining the counterclaim of the
Government, the court deciding that a waiver of the time
limit "did not embrace and release from the payment of
the agreed damages, which were assessable upon its (appellant's) default." The court said (48 Ct. Cls., p. 60),
"Under such circumstances an officer, in the absence of
some provision of law or contract therefor, would have
no authority to release a contractor from the provision
for liquidated damages so arising." This appeal was then
taken.
Appellant attacks the conclusion of the court and contends that "the waiver of the time limit in the first contract necessarily tolled the provision in that contract for
liquidated damages." The Government, on the other
hand, maintains "that the waiver of the time limit simply
estopped the Government from annulling the contract,
'but that this in no way affected the other terms of the
contract." It is the effect of the contention of the Government, curious certainly at first impression if we consider
the intention of the parties, that the time limit was waived
but its sanction was retained, and what seemed to be concession to a delay which was without fault (so found by
the Court of Claims) carried with it the full rigor of the
bond.
It may be that the Government would have had the
right to annul the contract upon the default of appellant

MARYLAND STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 457
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and avail itself of resultant remedies. It did not do so, but
preferred to retain the contract and extend the time of its
execution; and, we may assume, upon a consideration of
the circumstances-as much in view of the Government's
interest as appellant's interest, the Government suffering
no damage by the delay, but getting the instrumentality
for which it had contracted in time for its purpose, sooner,
indeed, it may be, than if it had annulled the contract
with appellant and re-let the work to another. These
were considerations which the Quartermaster General, in
the Government's interest, might well entertain. And it
may have seemed to that officer that it would have been
as harsh as it would have been useless to sacrifice what had
been already done, and faithfully done, by annulling the
contract or by refusing to excuse the delay in final performance which was without fault. The case should be
judged by that consideration and conduct. But the Government insists that these seemingly natural suppositions
cannot be indulged and urges against them the principle
of building contracts that if the builder has failed to complete the whole or any specific part of the building or
structure within the time limited by his covenant, the
other party has the option of abandoning the contract for
such failure or of permitting the party in default to go on.
If he chooses the latter course he so far waives absolute
performance as to be liable on his covenant for the contract
price of the work when completed. For the injury done
him through the broken covenant he may sue, or, if he
waits to be sued, he may recoup the damages thus sustained in reduction of the sum due upon the contract for
the completed work. Phillips v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646,
and United States v. Bethlehem Steel Company, 205 U. S.
105, are cited. Cases are also cited which declare the same
principle in regard to contracts for the sale and delivery
of goods where time is of the essence of the contract. The
latter cases were cases of actual damages, and so also was

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Phillips v. Seymour, where, there being no legal evidence
of actual damage, it was decided none could be recovered.
It may be said that a provision for liquidated damages
is a declaration by the parties of the fact of damage from
delay in the performance of the work contracted for and
the measure of its amount, it not being susceptible of exact
ascertainment. United States v. Bethlehem Steel Company,
supra, is adduced for the application of the proposition to
the case at bar. The contract in that case was entered
into when war was imminent With Spain and was for the
delivery of gun carriages. It'contained a clause for a deduction, in the discretion of the Chief of Ordnance, of
$35.00 per day from the price to be paid for each day of
delay in the delivery of each carriage. The clause was
held, considering the circumstances, to be not a penalty
but a provision for liquidated damages and that it was
competent for the parties to the contract to provide the
latter, and, 'having so provided, recovery might be had
"for the amount stated as liquidated damages upon the
violation of the contract and without proof of the damages'actually sustained." It will be observed, therefore,
that a condition of recovery was proof of violation of the
contract. The condition does not exist in the case at bar.
The contract was not violated. The time for its performance was extended and, we may observe, before any
default had occurred. In that case there was no waiver of
the time limit; in the case at bar there was an express
waiver. That case, therefore, fails in its asserted analogy.
Undoubtedly parties may agree that time shall be of the
essence of their contract and, the proper legal conditions
existing, may stipulate for damages and the measure of
them, but they may subsequently change their views and
requirements and consider that performance within the
stipulated time- is unimportant.
Flynn v. Des Moines Ry., 63 Iowa, 490, is directly in
point. The plaintiff in the case entered into a contract

MARYLAND STEEL CO. t?. UNITED STATES.- 459
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the railroad to construct part of its line. Payments
for the work were to be made monthly upon the certificate
of the engineer of the company, and it was covenanted
that 10% from the value of the work as an agreed compensation for damages should be retained by the company
in case of failure by Flynn to complete the whole amount
of the work according to the stipulations of the agreement.
It was contended by the railway company that it was
entitled to retain the 10% as liquidated damages. The
court found that the stipulation as to time was waived
and by being waived was eliminated from the contract
and the railway company was not entitled to any sum as
liquidated damages.
In the present case, as we have seen from the findings,
there was no thought by the officers of the Government
of a culpable delinquency on the part of the appellant or
of detriment to the Government. The steamer was delivered, tested, approved and paid for.
It was held, however, by the Court of Claims that the
Quartermaster General had no power to waive the provision for liquidated damages. It is not clear that counsel
contends for so broad a proposition. His contention is
that "the Government is not bound by the acts of its
officers in making unauthorized payments through mistake
of fact or of law." There was no mistake of fact, and by
mistake of law counsel may mean, the action of the
Quartermaster General was outside of the scope of the
official authority given him by law. If that officer so acted
the Government is not bound by his acts. Wisconsin Central R. R. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190, 212, and Logan
v. United States, 169 U. S. 255, 259.
The cited cases (they are those upon which the Government relies) involved the construction of statutory law,
in other words, of a specific law which was the source of
the officer's authority. The case at bar is a case of contract, authorized by law, necessarily entered into and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

conducted by the officers of the Government and as necessarily they must have had the powers to make it effective
in its beginning and progress. The Court of Claims recognized this and found that (48 Ct. Cis., p. 52) "the Quartermaster General, United States Army, within his discretion
under the contract, orally waived the time limit in said
contract,"-a very essential discretion which might have
been embarrassed or defeated if it had not extended to
what depended upon the time limit of the contract. We
think the case, therefore, falls under the ruling of Salomon
v. United States, 19 Wall. 17, 19-20, where it is said that
"The Act of 1862 (12 Stat. 411), requiring contracts for
not infringed by the
military supplies to be in writing, is,
proper officer having charge of such matter, accepting
delivery of such supplies after the day stipulated, nor is
a verbal agreement to extend the time of performance invalid." See also District of Columbia v. Camden Iron
Works, 181 U. S.453.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with direction to
dismiss the counter petition of the Government and to
enter judgment for appellant in the amount claimed
by it.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of the case.

