A. BR1{YANT Co. o. N. Y. STEAM
235 U. S.

PITTING CO. 327

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE USE
OF ALEXANDER BRYANT COMPANY v. NEW
YORK STEAM FITTING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 67.

Argued November 9, 1914.-Decided December 7, 1914.

Where the District Court understood that the controversy involved its
jurisdiction and dismissed the case because the publication under
the Materialmen's Act was insufficient to bring in some of the necessary parties and so certified, the issue of jurisdiction is involved and
this court has jurisdiction of a direct appeal under § 238, Judicial
Code.
Even if the District Court is in error in holding that failure to perform
a prerequisite condition to commencing an action raises a question of
jurisdiction of the court, and dismisses the action on that ground instead of on the merits, this court can and must review the decision
and correct the error, if any, under § 238, Judicial Code.
Although a statute may be ambiguous and repel accommodation, the
court must try to give coherence to its conflicting provisions and
accomplish the intent of the legislature.
The Materialmen's Act of 1894, as amended in 1905, is highly remedial;
its purpose, simple and beneficial, is to give a remedy to materialmen
and laborers on the bond of the original contractor and a reasonable
time to enforce it and to unite all claimants in a single proceeding.
Although the provisions of the act present an apparently insolvable
puzzle owing to ambiguity and conflict with each other, they must
be adapted to fulfil the purpose of the act, and the court must consider which of such provisions must give way and which are the
fittest to accomplish that result.
The provision in the third proviso of the amended Materialmen's Act
requiring notice to be given to other creditors by the creditor availing of the right to commence suit within the year in case the Government has not instituted a suit within six months after completion,
is not of the essence of jurisdiction of the court over such a case nor
a condition of the liability of the surety on the bond.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Materialmen's Acts of 1894 and 1905, are stated in the opinion.

. 28

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argtumeat for Plaintiff in Error.

2351 . a.

Mr. George B. Class for plaintiff in error:
The construction of the act of Congress of February 24,
1905, is involved in the question as to jurisdiction which is
certified to this court.
The third proviso of the act a: Congress of February 4, 1905, is directory and not mandatory or jurisdictional.
When one section of a statute treats specifically and
solely of a matter, that section prevails in reference to that
matter. Long v. Culp, 14 Kansas, 412.
When the first section of a statute conforms to the obvious legislative intent, it is not rendered inoperative by
any later section which may appear inconsistent with that
intent. State v. Bates, 96 Minnesota, 110; Hall v. State, 39
Florida, 637.
A later clause which is obscure and incoherent will not
prevail over an earlier one which is clear and explicit.
Gundlich on Interpretation of Statutes, § 183.
The third proviso is directory and not mandatory or
jurisdictional. 1 Sutherland on Statutory Construction,
p. 1114.
Statutes are to be construed so as to effectuate legislative intent. United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556;
Durousseauv. United States, 6 Cr. 307.
The third proviso of the act is not intended to change
the period of limitation within which the claims of subcontractors, etc., may be asserted in a suit on the bond,
and where claims were asserted within the six months
specified it was immaterial that the notice was not published three months and three weeks prior to the expiration of the year within which suit might be instituted.
Vermont Marble Co. v. National Surety Co., 213 Fed. Rep.
429.
The failure to obtain a court order as to service by publication, under the act, is not fatal to plaintiff's recovery,
in view of the ambiguity of the-statute upon the subject,

A. BRYANT CXO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO. 329
238 U. S.

Argument for Defendant In Error.

and where the notice to all creditors of their right to intervene was published daily for thfee consecutive weeks in
manner and form as done by plaintiff, and where the record
fails to show that any creditor was injured by any alleged
defect as to time and'manner of notice.
The stipulation equitably estops the defendants from
raising'any objection as to the sufficiency of the notice
required by proviso three of the act. The time and circumstances under which the stipulation was made show
that no injury or fraud was wrought against creditors by
the making of the stipulation.
Defendants should not be permitted to assert provisions
of the act intended for the benefit of creditors, in order to
extinguish their own liability to such creditors upon the
bond given for their benefit. Van Rensselaer v. Kearney,
11 How. 326.
Defendants are estopped from pleading insufficiency of
notice under the circumstances, etc. 5 Ency. U. S. Sup.
Ct. Rep., pp. 590, 938; Catts v. Whalen, 2 How. 376;
United States v. Girault, 11 How. 22; Ins. Co. v. Wilkinon, 13 Wall. 222; Dair v. United States, 16 Wall. 1;
Dickerson v. Colegrove, 100 U. S. 78.
Mr. John R. Halsey, with whom Mr. Adrian T. Kiernan
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
Compliance with the requirements of the third proviso
of the act is a limitation upon the liability to the plaintiff.
The stipulation did not give existence to a cause of ac-.
tion where there was none under the act.
The motion to. dismiss the writ of error should be
granted.
The writ of error should be dismissed or the judgment
should be affirmed.
In support of these contentions, see Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175; Texas Cement Co. v.
McCord, 233 U. S. 157; Vermont Marble Co. v. National

OCTOBER TERM, 1914,
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Surety Co., 213 Fed. Rep. 429; United States v. Congress
Const'n Co., 222 U. S. 199;,UnitedStates v. Stannard, 206
Fed. Rep. 326.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The United States, suing for the use of the Alexander
Bryant Company, plaintiff in error, vas plaintiff in the
court below, and the defendants in error defendants.
The complaint alleged the following facts: the New
York Steam Fitting Company, entered into a contract
with the United States-for the mechanical equipment of
the New York Custom House at New York. It gave bond
for the faithful performance of its contract with defendant
in error, The Title Guaranty and Surety Company as
surety. One of the conditions of the bond was that the
Steam Fitting
Company would, among other things,
.promptly
make payment
to all persons supplying its labor
and material in the prosecution of the work contemplated
by the contract of the Steam Fitting Company with the
United States.
The bond was accepted and the work undertaken and
duly completed on or about February 19, 1908, the
Alexander Bryant Company having, in pursuance of a
contract with the Steam Fitting Company, furnished all
the materials and performed all of the work, upon which
there-is a balance due to the Bryant Company of $5,431.18.
Under the terms of the agreement between it and the
Steam Fitting Company it should have been paid as the
Government paid the former, and as final payment was
made by the Government February 15, 1908, interest is
demanded.
No action, it is alleged, had been brought by the United
States against defendant within six months after, nor had
one year elapsed since, the performance and final settle-

A. iBRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FiTTING CO. 331
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the contract by the New York Steam Fitting Company prior to the commencement of this action.
It is alleged that in pursuance of the requirements of the
act of Congress of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278,
as amended February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, under
and by virtue of which this action is brought, complainant
served personal notice of the pendency of this action upon
all known creditors, informing them of their right to intervene as the court might order, and in addition thereto
published the notice in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city, county and State of New York for three successive weeks, the last publication of which was three
months before the time limited therefor as in the acts of
Congress provided.
A bill of particulars was furnished defendants, of which
the following is a copy:
"The plaintiff as and for a Bill of Particulars, demanded
by The Title Guaranty & Surety Company herein, avers:
"That pursuant to the requirements of the Acts of Congress under which this action is brought, the plaintiff
herein made personal service of Notice of the Pendency of
this action upon all known creditors of the New York
Steam Fitting Company, as follows:"On Messrs. Peet and Powers, November 21st, 1908, on
Hermann & Grace, November 21st, 1908, on Henry R.
Worthington, November 19th, 1908, Qn John Simmons
Company, November 20th, 1908, on Cutler Hammer
Company, November 19th, 1908, on Rob't A. Keasby Co.,
November 20th, 1908.
"That under date of November 21st, 1908, Messrs.
Hardy & Shellabarger, attorneys for New York Steam
Fitting Company and The Title Guaranty & Trust Company of Scranton, Penna. (now The Title Guaranty &
Surety Company) stipulated with the attorney for the
plaintiff as follows:"'It is hereby consented on the part of the defendants

OCTOBER. TERM, 1014,
Opinion of the Court.

281U. S.

that defendants waive any failure on the part of the plaintiff to notify creditors under the third proviso of the
Statute, provided no more such notices are sent.'
* "That on the 5th day of November, 1908, and ou each
day thereafter to and including November 25th, 1908,
there was published in the New York Press of New York
City, New York, 'a notice of the pendency of this action,
addressed to all known creditors of the defendant, the
New York Steam Fitting Company.
"Attached hereto and forming a part of this Bill of
Particulars is a copy of the form in which personal notice
of the pendency of this action was served upon all known
creditors of the New York Steam Fitting Company, and
a copy of the notice which was given by publication in the
New York Press to aforesaid creditors.
"Dated, New York, December 7th, 1909."
Copies of the notices are inserted in the margin.1 , It
take notice that the above named Alexander Bryant Company, has commenced an action in the name of thet United States of
America under the provisions of the Act of Congress of August 13th,
1894 (as amended by Act of Congress of Feb. 24th, 1905) to recover a
judgment against the defendant New York Steam Fitting Company
and its surety The Title Guaranty & Trust Company of Scranton,
Penna., for a sum of money alleged to be due and owing to the aforesaid
Alexander Bryant Company for work, labor, materials and services
furnished as sub-contractors under the contract and bond entered. into
by the New York Steam Fitting Company for the mechanical equipnient of the new custom house at New York City, New York, in which
bond the slefendant, The Title Guaranty & Trust Company of Scranton,
Penna., is joined as surety.
"As required by the express provisions of the aforementioned acts of
Congress, and as one of the creditors of the New York Steam Fitting
Company, under aforesaid contract, you are hereby notified of your
right to intervene and be made an additional party plaintiff in this action, as the Court may order, so as to have the rights and claims of any
and all existing creditors under said contract and bond, adjudicated in
one and the same acti6n.
"Dated, New York, Nov. 2nd, 1908."
"Pursuant to the requirements of an Act of Congress of August 13th,
1 "Please

A. BRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO. 333
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was stipulated that certain of the creditors who were
served with personal notice appeared in the action and
filed pleas of intervention. The action was subsequently
discontinued as ,to them, they having been settled with
by the Surety Company.
The answer of the Surety Company is unimportant except so far as it raises the issue, which ip the crux of the
case, whether the action was brought in time or whether
proper notice of it was given to other creditors.
The answer of the Steam Fitting Company is also unimportant.
The case, by consent of the parties, was referred to a
referee, upon whose report judgment was to be entered
"as if said cause had been heard before the court."
The referee found and reported the basic facts of
liability of the Surety Company, but found besides that
the action was not commenced in time as provided by the
acts of Congress, nor was notice given to creditors as required, and therefore directed a judgment dismissing the
complaint. A judgment was subsequently entered by the
court after motion for a new trial was denied by the referee.
The following facts appear from the report of the
referee: The date of final settlement between the United
States and the Steam Fitting Company-was February 19,
1908, and to show compliance with the provisions of the
act of Congress set out below, the Bryant Company
1894, and of February 24th, 1905, amendatory thereof, notice is hereby
given to all creditors of the above named defendant New York Steam
Fitting Company, under the contract between the plaintiff and the
said last named defendant (and the co-defendant, as their surety) for
work incident to the construction of the Custom House, that the above
entitled action has been instituted upon the bond of the defendantcontractor and against said surety, and that any creditor may file his
claim in this action and be made a party herein as in said acts of Congress provided.
"New York, October 16th, 1908."
Both notices were signed by plaintiff's attorney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

offered evidence of the publication of notice to creditors
in the New York Press, beginning November 5, 1908, and
also introduced in evidence a stipulation between it and
the defendants made November 21, 1908, by which defendants' time to move or plead was extended and by
which it was stipulated as follows:
"It is hereby consented on the part of defendants, that
defendants waive any failure on the part of plaintiff to
notify creditors under the third proviso of the Statute,
provided no more such notices are sent."
Prior to the execution of the stipulation the Bryant
Company had personally served all known creditors with
notice in the form hereinbefore given. Notwithstanding
the stipulation, notice by publication continued for the
full twenty-one days, to and including November 25, 1908.
The Surety Company moved to strike out the evidence
of publication as incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial
on the grounds (1) That there was no order of the court
obtained for the giving of the notice. (2) That under the
act of Congress the last publication of such a notice must
expire three month before the end of the year after the
final completion of the contract, that is, on November 18,
1908, whereas the last publication of the notice offered in
evidence was on November 25, 1908, seven days beyond
the time.
The motion was based on certain provisos of the act of
Congress already referred to. The act is entitled "An Act
for the Protection of Persons Furnishing Materials and
Labor for the Construction of Pub lic Works." It provides
for the execution of a bond by any person entering into
any formal contract with the United States for any public
work and that in any action instituted by the Urited
States any person who has furnished materials or labor
to the contractor may intervene and become a party to
the action. If no action be brought by the United States
within six months from the completion and final settle-

A. BRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO.
235 U. S.

335

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the contract, then any person furnishing materials
or labor may bring suit in the name of the United States
in the circuit court of the United States [now district
court]* in the district in which the contract was to be performed and executed, irrespective of the amount in controversy, and not elsewhere, for his or their use and,,
benefit, against the contractor and his sureties.
The provisos are as follows:
"Provided, that where suit is instituted by any of such
creditors on the bond of the contractor it shall not be
commenced until after the complete performance of said
contract ana final settlement thereof, and shall be commenced within one year after the performance and final
settlement of said contract, and not later:
"And prodided further, that where suit is so instituted
by a creditbr or by creditors, only one action shall be
brought, and any creditor may file his claim in such
action and be made party thereto within one year from
the completion of the work under said contract, and not
later.
"Provided further, that in all suits instituted under the
provisions of this Act such personal notice of the pendency
of such suits, informing them of their right to intervene as
the Court may order, shall be given to all known creditors,
and in addition thereto notice of publication in some
newspaper of general circulation, published in the State or
town where the contract is being performed, for at least
three successive weeks, the last publication to be at least
three months before the time limited therefor'."
It was admitted that no court order was obtained
specnying the kind of notice to be given creditors or giving
directions as to publication.
The referee decided, that an order of the court was
necessary and that "the publication proved did not come
within the time limit of the statute."
The argument of the referee was that the conditions

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

of suit by the creditors of a contractor were (1) the omission of the United States to sue within six months from
the completion and final settlement; (2) an action by a
creditor must be commenced within one year after such
performance and final settlement; (3) only one action can
be brought, in which any creditor may file his claim and be
made a party thereto within one year from the completion
of the work under said contract, and not later. (4) Personal notice must be given to known creditors and in
addition notice by publication, the last publication to be
at least three months before the time limited therefor. In
other words, and succinctly, the referee held that the time
for a suit by creditors must be within one year from the
complete performance of the contract and its final settlement, and as there could be only one action, this time was
the limit within which other creditors could file their
claims, and that notice to them, whether personal or by
publication, must be in such time as to enable this to be
done. He held further that this was a jurisdictional
requirement. In this ruling the District Court concurred
and certified "that the jurisdiction of the Court over the
persons and subject matter in this action is in issue," and
that this was done in accordance with the provisions of
§ 238 of the Judicial Code.
Defendants in error, however, move to dismiss the writ
of error on the ground "that no question as to the jurisdiction of the court below to hear and determine the cause is
in issue."
Under § 238 of the Judicial Code a case may be brought
here directly from a District Court if the jurisdiction of
the court was in issue, that question alone to be certified.
The present case satisfies this requirement. The controversy between the parties must have been understood
by the referee and the District Court to involve the
jurisdiction of the court. Indeed such was the explicit
contention of the Surety Company, and both referee and

A. BRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO.
235 U. S.

337

Opinion of the Court.

court in the decision of the issue thus presented dismissed
the action. The Bryant Company combated the conclusion and still combats it. The issue of jurisdiction was
and is, therefore, plainly marked. It may be that the
referee and the court were in error in their decision, but
this could not be asserted or demonstrated except by
proceedings in error, to be taken as prescribed by law, and
to this court. We cannot make the possible error of the
court a ground for refusing to review it. The right of
review is given to correct the error, if error there be, and
the decision of the question involved is given to this court
by § 238 of the Judicial Code. We are brought, therefore,
to the consideration of the correctness of the ruling.
The act of Congress is undoubtedly ambiguous. Indeed, considering the letter only of the three provisos
with which we are concerned they absolutely repel accommodation. We must try, however, to give coherence
to them and accomplish the intention of Congress. The
act is intended to be highly remedial. Its purpose is
simple and beneficial. It is to. give a remedy to material
men and laborers on the bond of the original contractor
and a reasonable time to enforce it, and in a single proceeding to unite all claimants. It, however, imposes a
limitation of time on all claimants, the time beginning to
run from the same event. From this the complexity in
the construction of the act arises.
By the first proviso of the act a creditor cannot institute
suit until after the complete performance of the contract
and its final settlement, but after such events he may
do so (the United States not having sued) within one year
from their fulfillment. This is clear enough. The next'
proviso introduces ambiguity. "Only one action shall be
brought," is its provision, in which "any creditor may
file his claim . . . and be made a party thereto
within one year from the completion of the work and not
later." The words in italics are disturbing. "These
VOL. ccxxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM,
Opinion of the Court.

914.
235 U. S.

rights to intervene and to file a claim, conferred by the
statute, presuppose an action duly brought under its
terms." Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, 163.
But by its terms the instituting creditor has one year from
the designated events to commence his action. If he
file it on the last day of the designated time what then
becomes of the rights of other creditors who must file their
claim within the same limit of time and not later? The
question is not easy to answer and any answer may be
disputed. It presents a puzzle for judicial resolution
apparently insolvable.
. There is more ambiguity when we bring forward the
next, and third, proviso. Notice of the suit must be
given to creditors, personally if they be known and by
publication besides, informing them "of their right to
intervene as the court may order." Passing what the
quoted words may mean and coming to the requirement
of notice, it is provided that it must be "for at least three
successive weeks, the last publication to be at least three
months before the time limited therefor."
This seemingly brings us to an impasse. How can the.
instituting creditor (so called for convenience) have a
year to'commence his suit and yet give the notice required?-and it is to be remembered that the intervening
creditor must file his claim also within a year.
The Surety Company sees the difficulty and seizes it to
press its contention that the year's time for bringing suit
is not an authorization of such time but a permission and
must be availed of so as to permit .ofthe notice to creditors
provided for; in other words, that the time in which to
bring suit or file a claim, which is explicitly given, is cut
down by the provision for notice; that is, the instituting
creditor is given not one year from the indicated events to
institute a suit but one year to institute suit and serve
notice of it, which notice must precede the expiration of
the year by at least three months and three weeks. This

A. BRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO. 339
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

limitation of time is brought about, it is contended, with
all of its embarrassment to the creditor who institutes the
suit and to the creditors who may want to intervene in it,
by the third proviso, which is made all-dominating, bending the other provisions to it, and made even a jurisdictional condition of suit against the sureties of the contractor.
Ther are grounds for the contention, but there are
opposing grounds, which, we think, are supported by the
better reason, all things considered. As we have said, the
act of Congress is highly remedial and its provisions must
be adapted to fulfill its whole purpose.
In Vermont Marble Company v. National Surety Com-

pany, 213 Fed. Rep. 429, the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit had occasion to pass upon the act of
Congress under consideration. The Court, Circuit
Judge Gray speaking for it, decided against the contention now made by the Surety Company. The careful
review and exposition of the statute there made leave
little else to be said.
That case illustrates the consequences of the contention
of defendants in .error. Here the contention is urged to
defeat a suit by the instituting creditor against the surety
of the contractor; there it was urged to defeat a claim of
an intervening creditor.
The suit was on a contractor's bond by one who furnished materials to the contractor. The work was completed and final settlement made June 14, 1912. The suit
was brought February 28, 1913, within one year from the
completion of the work. Notice to creditors was given
by publication, the last publication being on April 9, 1913,
twenty-three days prior to the expiration of the time
within which the suit could have been brought. The Vermont Marble Company intervened and filed its statement
of claim within the time prescribed by the statute. The
claim was resisted on the ground that publication of notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

to creditors should have been so made that the last publication would have been at least three months before the
time limited for bringing the suit, and therefore should
have been started not later than February 21, 1913 (it was
started February 28, as we have seen), so that the last
publication should have been on or before March 14, 1913,
three months before June 14, 1913, the time when the
right to bring suit expired. It was contended that the
suit not having been brought nor publication made within
the time required by the act, it could not be maintained
either by the original plaintiff or the Vermont Marble Co.
or other intervening creditors. The contention found favor
with the District Court; it was rejected by the Court of
Appeals. The latter court concluded that the third proviso was directory and not a limitation upon the right of
action given by the other provisos.
Texas Cement Company v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, does
not militate against that conclusion. In the latter case it
was decided that no right of action accrued to a material
man until the time reserved to the United States to sue
had expired and that this condition was expressed too
clearly to be mistaken.
It is urged that it is a consequence of our construction
that an action may be commenced on. the last day of the
year and that all opportunity for intervention may be
precluded, for, counsel say, "intervention cannot be conducted in a day" and it would seem as if the act intended
"to afford creditors'an interval of three months within
which to secure an intervention." Even if this be the
consequence, some of the provisions of the act, as we have
intimated, must give way. We can only select those
which we consider the fittest to prevail to accomplish the
purposes of the statute; and at the very start .comes the
suggestion that even if it be granted that the diligent
creditor is under obligation to give notice to a waiting or
tardy, or, it may be, unwilling one, how is the surety of

A. BRYANT CO. v. N. Y. STEAM FITTING CO.
235 U. S.

341

Opinion of the Court.

-the contractor concerned with the discharge of the obligation? At the most its concern is only to be protected
against claims delayed beyond the limit of time provided
by the act. We may refer again to Vermont Marble Company v. National Surety Company. The court in that case,
in careful distinction between the purposes of the provisos,
said that the first and second confer a substantive right
of action or intervention limited only by a time for assertion, that is, one year from the completion of the work;
and that that time was "obviously for the benefit of the
sureties on the bond?'; while the last proviso (the third)
was "just as obviously for the benefit of the creditors
alone." It was pointed out that indeed it was to the interest of the sureties not to bring in the other creditors,
and yet they contended that the provision for notice to
the creditors was mandatory and jurisdictional and not
simply directory. The same contention is made in this
case. In other words, it is in effect contended that a provision which it is to the interest of the Surety Company
not to have observed the statute gave it a right to have
observed. Such a contradiction of interests and rights we
cannot assume the statute intended to create nor that it
was intended to give to the Surety Company a right to
have done that which it is its interest not to have performed. The provision for notice therefore is not of the
essence of jurisdiction over the case, nor a condition of the
liability of the Surety Company. We need not go farther
in this case.
In the cited case it was held that the third proviso was
directory only, and the conclusion has reason to sustain it.
There can be no sacrifice of rights in it, neither of surety
companies nor of creditors. Every creditor has the same
rights and may institute the action provided for in the first
proviso. If he does not choose to do so it is his own affair;
and he may guard against surprise or deception. He knows
the time limit of suit and of intervention. He knows

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

that the suit mast be brought in the District Court of the
United States in the district where the contract was performed. It would seem as if the law owed him no further
care. If he chooses he may institute proceedings if another has not done so. If another has, he knows in what
court and within what time and he may intervene. He
has, therefore, the means of suit or the means of intervention. An attentive waiting is all that is necessary for
either, and indeed is his ultimate safeguard, as intervention must depend on a suit previously instituted.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings.in accordance with this opinion.

JOHN Ii ESTATE, LIMITED, v. BROWN.
ERROR TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No.. 98. Argued November 13, 1914.-Decided December 7, 1914.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the Hawaiian Islands, made while
the present Territory was an independent sovereignty, in a case construing a will, that a devise of lands was in fee and not in trust, should
not be disturbed or pronounced void by the courts of the Territory
on grounds mainly of form and procedure.
A duly filed written decision of the highest court of the former sovereignty must be regarded as an adjudication if at that time it was the
recognized practice that the case, the submission and the written
decision constituted the record.
Where the constitution and statutes of the former sovereignty permitted
the highest court to fill a vacancy by calling in a member of the bar,
and it was the practice for years to fill more than one vacancy, the
question of the validity of a judgment of that court should not be
raised long after the change of sovereignty.
Even if under the statutes of the Republic of Hawaii questions in equity

