HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

tematize and render effective the processes of inspection; an object that is interfered with if the tags or other
identification devices are destroyed, whether they be
destroyed by those engaged in the business or by others.
Moreover, one of the other prohibitions of the Act is in
terms limited to those engaged in the interstate commerce of meat or meat food products.
It seems to us clear that the prohibition upon which
the present indictment is founded has an effect as broad
as its language, and applies to any and every "person,
firm, or corporation, or officer, agent, or employ6 thereof."
See United States v. Porfale, decided November 2, 1914,
ante, p. 27.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
CERTIORARI TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 30.

Argued October 16, 19, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

The function of a bill of review filed for newly discovered evidence is
to relieve a meritorious complainant from a clear miscarriage of justice where the court is able to see, upon a view of all the circumstances, that the remedy can be applied without mischief to the
rights of' innocent parties and without unduly jeopardizing the
stability of judicial decrees.
The relief prayed by a bill of review for newly discovered evidenve is a
matter of sound discretion and not of absolute right; and even though

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the evidence be persuasive of error in the former decree the bill of relief should not be allowed if it should result in mischief to innocent
parties.
Notwithstanding this court has recently decided, in an action between
North Carolina and Tennessee,-that the boundary between them is
different from that which the Circuit Court of Appeals had previously
adjudged it to be in-cases affecting titles to land now owned by third
parties relying on the decrees of that court, it will not now overturn
those decisions, as the stability of judgments and the protection of
rights acquired in reliance upon them would, under the circumstances
of this case, make the review inequitable.
194 Fed. Rep. 301, refusing a bill to review 103 Fed. Rep. 531, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the principles controlling the
granting of bills of review in cases affecting title to land, and
their application to property the title to which is claimed
under grants of different States, the boundary between
which has long been in dispute, are stated in the opinion.
Mr.C. B. Matthews for petitioners.
Mr. John Franklin Shields and Mr. William A. Stone,
with whom Mr. T. E. H. McCroskey was on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
In 1907, petitioners, alleged successors to David W.
Belding and others, filed a bill of reiriew against the heirs
and representatives of Charles Hebard in the United
States Circuit Court, Eastern District of Tennessee,
wherein they sought to reverse the decree for complainant
granted by the same court, June 10, 1899, and later
Affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the cause
entitled Hebard v. Belding, which was instituted to determine the title to somd seven thousand acres of mountain
land. The Smoky Mountain Land, Lumber and Improvement Company intervened, denied the alleged equities

HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
*235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and set up that it had purchased the property for value
and in good faith. The trial court having heard the matter
upon the pleadings and evidence dismissed the bill; and
this- was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (194
Fed. Rep. 301). The cause is here upon certiorari.
The land in controversy lies on the waters of Slick Rock
Creek, an affluent of the Little Tennessee River, and for
some time prior to 1895 was claimed by Hebard under a
grant from the State of Tennessee. Belding and others
claimed it under a North Carolina grant. The rights of the
disputants depended on the true location of the dividing
line between the two States. If, after crossing the Little
Tennessee, the line ran southward along Hangover ridge,
the land was within Tennessee and belonged to Hebard;
if, on. the other hand, it ran along Slick Rock Creek the
North Carolina grant was good and Belding and others
were the owners. In 1895 Hebard began a suit in the
Chancery Court, Monroe County, Tennessee, seeking an
adjudication of his rights. This was removed to the
United States Circuit Court; elaborate proofs were taken;
and, upon the hearing, the court determined that the
state line ran along Hangover ridge, as contended by
Hebard, and adjudged the title to be in him. The Circuit
Court of Appeals in a final decree, entered July 13, 1900,
affirmed this action, the opinion being written by the late
Mt. Justice Lurton (103 Fed. Rep. 532).
Some years before the present suit was brought, The
Smoky Mountain Land, Lumber and Improvement
Company, relying upon the last-mentioned final decree
in the Circuit Court of Appeals, in good faith and for value,
acquired the interest of Hebard. As security for debt,
Belding and others, by deeds of December, 1899, and
March, 1900, transferred to Archer and McGarry, Trustees, with power of sale, their interest in a large tract of
land the boundaries of which included the seven thousand
acres now in question "subject nevertheless to all deducVOL.Ccxxxv---19

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

tions, if any, arising by, through or under the 'State
Line' suit hereinafter mentioned" (Hebard v. Belding).
Default having occurred, the trustees executed a deed to
William R. Hopkins and others, petitioners here, .with
covenants of seisin and right to convey and special warranty; but from the covenants they expressly excepted" all
those lands situated at or near the State Line, between
the State of North Carolina and Tennessee, which were
recovered in a certain action known as the 'State Line
Suit' which was pending in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee and was
brought by one Hebard against David W. Belding and
others if future proceedings do not recover the title
thereof."
During the year 1821 Commissioners appointed by
North Carolina and Tennessee located and marked the
southern portion of the dividing line between the two
States and prepared a map roughly indicating it. After
being lost for many years, in December, 1903, or early in
1904, this was found among old, discarded papers stored
in the basement of the Capitol at Nashville. Relying on
the r-,ap as newly discovered evidence adequate, when
considered in connection with that formerly introduced, to
demonstrate that the dividing line between the two States
ran along Slick Rock Creek and to establish the invalidity
of the Tennessee grant under which Hebard claimed,
petitioners began the present proceeding.
Likewise relying in part upon the same map, the State of
North Carolina in March, 1909, presented an original bill
in this court against Tennessee, claiming that the true
line between them ran along Slick Rock Creek, and praying an adjudication to that effect. In an opinion recently
announced, the contention of North Carolina was sustained. North Carolinav. Tennessee, ante, p. 1.
The function of a bill of review filed for newly discovered
evidence is to relieve a meritorious complainant from a

HOPKINS v. HEBARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clear miscarriage of justice where the court is able to see
upon a view of all the circumstances that the remedy can
be applied without mischief to the rights of innocent
parties and without unduly jeopardizing the stability of
judicial decrees. The remedy is not a matter of absolute
right but of sound discretion. Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs,
10 Wheat. 146; Ricker v. Powell, 100 U. S. 104, 107;.
Craig v. Smith, 100 U. S. 226, 233; 2 Daniell's Ch. Pr.
*1577; Story's Eq. P1., §417; Street's Fed. Eq. Pr., §§ 2143,
2156, 2159; Gibson's Suits in Chancery, §§ 1058, 1062.
The trial court regarded the newly-discovered evidence
as favorable, rather than in opposition, to the original
decree and accordingly dismissed the petitioners' bill.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in a well-considered opinion,
upheld the result but for a different reason, saying (194
Fed. Rep. 301, 310): "In our opinion, taking into account
not only the speculative purchase by appellants, but also
the good-faith purchase by the Smoky Mountain Company, a case is not presented which appeals to the equitable
discretion of the court to allow the review of a decree upon
the ground alone of newly discovered evidence. We rest
our decision solely upon this proposition. Bearing in
mind the rule that this bill of review for newly discovered
evidence is not of right, no matter how persuasive of
error in the original decree the new evidence may be, and
that it should not be allowed if such allowance would
result in mischief -to innocent parties, and having in view
the stability necessary to be afforded to decrees, especially
of courts of last resort, where distuirbance thereof is not
essential to the protection of the real equities of the
parties before the court, we think the reyiew asked for
should be denied. In our opinion, the stability of judgments, and thus the-protection of rights acquired in reliance upon them, are such as, under the peeuliar circumstances of this case, to make the review asked for
inequitable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

Notwithstanding our conclusion in the proceeding
between the States of North Carolina and Tennessee,
where the established facts in respect to the location of
the dividing line were for the most part the same as those
disclosed, in the record now before us, we think the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right and it is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

took no part in the consideration and

decision of this case.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY v. HARRISON, SHERIFF OF PITTSBURG
COUNTY, OKLAHOMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 45.

Argued November 3, 4, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

A Federal instrumentality acting under Congressional authority cannot
be subjected to an occupation or privilege tax by a State. Farmers'
Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516.
Where the agreement between the Government and an Indian tribe
imposes upon the Government a definite duty in regard to operation
of coal mines, as is the case with the Choctaw and Chickasaw agreement of April 23, 1897, lessees of the mines are the instrumentalities
through which the obligation of the United States is carried into
effect, and they cannot be subjected to an occupation or privilege
tax by the State in which the mines are located.
Neither state courts nor legislatures, by giving a tax a particular name,
can take from this court its duty to consider its real nature and effect. Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 227.
Where the manifest purpose of a gross revenue tax equal to a specified
percentage on gross receipts from production of a mine in addition to

