ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

669

Syllabus.

may be brought against the Commission to test the validity of its orders.
If the Wadley Southern Railroad Company had availed
itself of that right and-with reasonable promptness-had
applied to the courts for a judicial review of the order, and
if, on such hearing, it had been found to be void, no
penalties could have been imposed for past or future
violations. If in that proceeding, the order had been
found to be valid, the carrier would thereafter have been
subject to penalties. for any subsequent violations of what
had thus been judicially established to be a lawful order-though not so in respect of violations prior -to such adjudicationBut, where, as here, after reasonable notice of the making of the order, the carrier failed to resort to the safe,
adequate and available remedy by which it could test in
the courts its validity, and preferred to make its defense
by attacking the validity of the order when sued for the
penalty, it is subject to the penalty when that defense, as
here, proved to be unsuccessful.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 347.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided January 11, 1915.

Where an action under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 was pending in an inferior territorial court of Arizona prior to statehood, such
action being one of which the Federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction, the voluntary appearance of defendant in the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

235 U. S.

court after statehood without interposing any objection to the jurisdiction of that court, held, to amount to a waiver of the objection
(based upon § 33 of the Arizona Enabling Act) that upon the commencement of statehood the action should have been transferred to
the proper state court, subject to removal to the Federal court upon
application made in due form for that purpose.
Under Rev. Stat. Arizona, § 2535, subd. 6, providing that a physician
or surgeon cannot be examined without consent of his patient as to
any communication made by the patient with reference to a disease or
as to any knowledge obtained by personal examination of such
patient unless such patient has offered himself as a witness and
voluntarily testified in regard to such communications, evidence
of physicians respecting the results of a personal examination of
plaintiff was in this case properly excluded because plaintiff had
not testified with reference to communications made by him
to the physician, although he had voluntarily testified with respect to his injuries and had introduced other evidence respectiug

them.
207 Fed. Rep. 817, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Acts of
1908 and 1910 and of the Arizona Enabling Act and of a
statute of Arizona relating to the admission of evidence
of physicians of the plaintiff in actions for personal injuries, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Garver, with whom Mr. William C. McFarland was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The action was not removable. See § 33, Arizona
Enabling Act, and express prohibition in amendment of
§ 6 of the Employers' Liability Act of April 5, 1910, as
reenacted, § 28, Jud. Code; Lee v. Toledo &c. Ry., 193
Fed. Rep. 685; McChesney v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 197 Fed.
Rep. 85.
Even if the action were removable, the requirements
of the removal statute were not complied with: This
case does not fall under Railroad Co. V. Mississippi, 102
U. S. 135; Railroad Co. v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5; Steamship

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

671

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, but under Stone v. South
Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Crehore v. Ohio &c. Ry., 131 U. S.
240.
The Federal court never acquired jurisdiction. United
States v. Alamogordo Lumber Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 700.
No certified copy of the record was entered in the
Federal court; and there is no evidence that any copy
of the record in the state court was ever entered in the
Federal court. Blitz v. Brown, 7 Wall. 693; Idaho Land
Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509.
While the failure to file the record within thirty days
.may be waived, St. Paul &c. Ry. v. McLean, 108 U. S.
212, it cannot be waived altogether, and the court cannot
proceed with the action until the record has been filed.
RailroadCo. v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5.
The question of jurisdiction was not waived and the
railway company was not precluded from raising the
point for the first time in this court. Crehore v. Ohio &c.
Ry., 131 U. S. 240.
If the plaintiff in error had not raised the point, the court
itself would have done so, on its own motion, if its attention had been called to it. Mansfield &c. Ry. v. Swan, 111
U. S. ,379; Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Parker v.
Ormsby, 141 U. S.81.
It was error to exclude the deposition of plaintiff's
attending physician under Rev. Stat. Arizona, 1901,
§ 2535, subd. 6, on the ground that his knowledge was
privileged because obtained in a professional capacity.
The privilege, if any, was waived. It was so held under a
similar statute in New York. Capron v. Douglass, 193
N. Y. 11.
The principle is similar to that which is recognized in
the case of attorney and client, where, if the communication is made in the presence of a third person, the privilege
is waived. Doheny v. Lacy, 168 N. Y. 213; Thompson v.
Cashman, 181 Massachusetts, 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Under the Arizona statute it is expressly provided, that,
if a person offers himself as a witness and voluntarily
testifies to the facts communicated to the physician, he is
deemed to consent to the testimony of the physician.
That is what the plaintiff below did in the present case.
See also Holloway v. Kansas City, 82 S. W. Rep. 89;
Fearnley v. Fearntey, 98 Pac. Rep. 819; Capronv. Douglas,

85 N. E. Rep. 827; Sanperev. Sanpair,107 Pac. Rep. 369;
San Fran. Cred. House v. MacDonald, 122 Pac. Rep. 964;
Studebaker v. Faylor, 98 N. E. Rep. 318; Glover v. Patten,
165 U. S. 394; Hunt v. Blackburn, 128 U. S. 464; Un. Pac.

Ry. v. McMican, 194 Fed. Rep. 393.
Mr.William M. Seabury for defendant in error, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action, brought by Clark against the Railway
Company, was commenced in January, 1912, in the District Court of the Fifth Judicial District of the then Territory of Arizona. It was based upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65,
as amended April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291. The complaint alleged that while defendant was engaging in commerce between the Territories of Arizona and New Mexico
as a common carrier by railroad, and while plaintiff was employed by defendant in such commerce, he sustained certain personal injuries through the negligence of defendant
and its employ~s, for which he claimed damages in the
amount of $40,000. After the action was commenced, and
on February 14, 1912, the Territory of Arizona became a
State, and the further proceedings (improperly, it is said),
were conducted in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Arizona. In that court plaintiff filed a
first and a second amended complaint, and defendant, having unavailingly moved to strike the latter from the files,
upon grounds not necessary to be specified, answered upon

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

673

Opinion of the Court.

the merits, without interposing any objection to the jurisdiction of the court. A trial by jury was had, resulting in
a verdict and judgment for plaintiff, and this was removed
by defendant's writ of error to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where the judgment was affirmed (207 Fed. Rep. 817). The present writ
of error was then sued out.
Two matters only require particular discussion. The
Enabling Act of June 20, 1910, under which Arizona was
admitted as a State (c. 310, § 33, 36 Stat. 557, 577), provided in effect that actions which, at the date of admission
were pending in the territorial courts (other than the
Supreme Court) should be transferred to and proceed
in the proper Federal court in cases where, if they had
been begun within a- State, the Federal court would have
had exclusive original jurisdiction, and that where the
cause of action was one of which the state and Federal
courts would have concurrent jurisdiction, the action
should be transferred to and proceed in the appropriate
state court, but in this case might be transferred to the
Federal court upon application of any party, to be made
as nearly as might be in the manner provided for removal
of causes from state .to Federal courts.
The present action being one of which the Federal and
state courts have concurrent jurisdiction, it is insisted
that upon the commencement of statehood it should
have been transferred to the proper state court, subject
to removal to the Federal court upon application made in
due form for that purpose; that in fact the files and records
in the territorial court were never transferred to the proper
state court, or to any state court; and that a certain petition of plaintiff, which appears in the record, wherein he
prayed for the removal of the cause from the state to the
Federal court, was insufficient and inefficacious for the
purpose, for want of compliance with certain of the requirements of the removal statute. It is further insisted
VOL. ccxxxv--43

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

that in the Enabling Act it was the intention of Congress
to provide for the removal of actions from the state to the
Federal courts only in case they might have been removed
if the action had not been commenced until after the
admission of the Territory as a State; and that under the
express prohibition contained in the amendment of § 6
of the Employers' Liability Act, passed April 5, 1910,
c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, shortly before the passage of the
Enabling Act, and which declares that "no case arising
under this Act and brought in any state court of competent
jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the United
States," (reenacted as § 28, Judicial Code), actions of this
character were not removable undgx the general provisions
of § 33 of the Enabling Act.
We need spend no time upon these questions, since
there is no ground for denying the jurisdiction of the
District Court of the United States over the subjectmatter, the objections urged are of such a nature that
they might be waived, and the record shows that they
were waived by the action of defendant in -permitting
the cause to proceed in the Federal court, and answering
there upon the merits, without objection based upon the
grounds now urged or any jurisdictional grounds. The
action being one arising under a law of the United States,
and the requisite amount being in controversy, the Federal District Court had original jurisdiction under § 24,
Judicial Code. The removal proceedings were in the
nature of process to bring the parties before that court,
and the voluntary appearance of the parties there was
equivalent to a waiver of any formal defects in such proceedings. Mackay v. Uinta Development Co., 229 U. S.
173, 176. The case of United States v. Alamogordo Lumber
Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 700, cited by plaintiff in error, is clearly
distinguishable, for timely objection was there made.
The second matter requiring mention is the alleged
error of the trial court in excluding the evidence of two

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

675

Opinion of the Court.

physicians called by defendant for the purpose of testifying
to the results of a personal examination of plaintiff shortly
after he received the injuries for which damages were
claimed. The trial court based the rulings upon an
Arizona statute (R. S. 1901, § 2535, subdivision 6), which
reads as follows:
"6. A physician or surgeon cannot be examined, without the consent of his patient, as to any communication
made by his patient with reference to any physical or
supposed physical disease or any knowledge obtained by
personal examination of such patient: Provided, That if a
person offer himself as a witness and voluntarily testify
with reference to such. communications, that is to be
deemed a consent to the examination of such physician
or attorney (sic)."
A material part of the injury complained of was the
loss of the sight of plaintiff's left eye, and because this was
set forth in the pleadings, and upon the trial plaintiff
testified personally in regard to his injuries, mentioning
the loss of sight and pain in the eye, and called as a witness
a nurse who attended him after the accident, and who testified as to the condition of the eye, it is insisted that
plaintiff in effect consented to the examination of the
physicians with respect to his condition. The argument
is that the statute was intended to protect persons in the
confidential disclosures that may be necessary in regard
to their physical condition, but was not intended to close
the lips of physicians where the patient voluntarily publishes the facts to the world. In support of this, plaintiff
in error cites two cases from the New York Court of
Appeals, Morris v. New York &c. Ry., 148 N. Y. 88, and
Capron v. Douglass, 193 N. Y. 11. But the New York
statute is materially different from that of Arizona.
'EXTRACTS FROM THE NEW YORK CODE OF CIVIL PROCE DURE.

"SEC. 834. A person duly authorized to practice physic or surgery, . . . shall not be allowed to disclose any information which

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The purpose of the latter enactment is very clearly expressed in its language. Without the consent of the
patient, the physician's testimony is excluded with respect
to two subjects: (a), any communication made by the
patient with reference to any physical or supposed physical
disease, and (b), any knowledge obtained by personal
examination of.such patient. And this privilege is waived,
according to the terms of the proviso, only in the event
that the patient offers himself as a witness and voluntarily
testifies "with reference to such communications." We
would have to ignore the plain meaning of the words
in order to hold, as we are asked to do, that the testimony
of other witnesses offered by the patient, or the testimony
of the patient himself with reference to other matters than
communications to the physician, or any averments contained in the pleadings but not in the testimony, amount
to a waiver of the privilege. The enactment contemplates
that the physician receives in confidence what his patient
tells him and also what the physician learns by a personal
examination of the. patient. It contemplates that the
patient may testify with reference to what was communicated by him to the physician, and in that event only it
permits the physician to testify without the patient's
consent
The express object is to exclude the physician's testimony, at the patient's option, respecting knowledge
he acquired in attending a patient, in a professional capacity, and which
was necessary to enable him to act in that capacity.
.
"SEc. 836. The last three sections apply to any examination of a
person as a witness unless the provisions thereof are expressly Waived
upon the trial, or examination by the . . . patient. . . . The
waivers herein provided for must be made in open court, on the trial
of the action, or proceeding, and a paper executed by a party prior
to the trial, providing for such waiver shall be insufficient as such a
waiver.
.

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

677

Opinion of the Court.

gained at the bedside, in view of the very delicate and
confidential nature of the relation between the parties.
The statute recognizes that they do not stand on equal
terms. The patient is more or less suffering from pain
or weakness, distracted by it, ignorant of the nature or
extent of his injury or illness, driven by necessity to call
in a professional adviser, sometimes with little freedom of
choice; he relies, perforce, upon the physician's discretion,
as well as upon his skill and experience, and is obliged by
the circumstances of his own condition not only to make
an explanation of his ailment or injury, so far as it may be
within his knowledge and may be communicable by word
of mouth, but also to submit to the more intimate disclosure involved in a physical examination of his person.
The physician, on the other hand, is in the full possession
of his faculties, and of that knowledge which is power.
Manifestly, the patient occupies, for the time, a dependent
position.. The chief policy of the statute, as we regard it,
is to encourage full and frank disclosures to the medical
adviser, by relieving the patient from the fear of embarrassing consequences. The question of dealing justly as
between the patient and third parties is a secondary consideration.
It is a mistake, we think, to regard the patient's disclosures-whether verbal or physical-as voluntary in the
full sense;' they are believed by him to be necessary for the
restoration of health or the preservation of life or limb.
But, at least, if he has command of his mind and memory,
the patient may somewhat control the extent of his disclosures by word of mouth, and may be able afterwards to
testify respecting them; while, if he submits himself to a
physical examination at the hands of the physician, he
cannot know in advance the nature or extent of what the
physician will learn, cannot confine the disclosure to the
present ailment or injury, and cannot afterwards testify
respecting its results, excepting as the physician may in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

form him of them. And, in many cases, the physician
may, with perfectly proper motives, withhold from the
patient the results of the physical examination and his
deductions therefrom.
We cannot, therefore, without encroaching upon the
domain of legislation, declare that there is no substantial
ground for a distinction between the information the
physician gains from verbal communications made by the
patient and the far wider knowledge that he derives from
his personal examination of the patient. Certainly it
cannot be said that when the patient afterwards has
occasion to make averments and adduce evidence respecting the nature of the ailment or injury, he thereby
necessarily publishes to the world the facts as disclosed' to
the physician through the physical examination. In
many cases this must be very far from true; the patient
having no access to the facts as thus disclosed excepting
with the consent of the physician. The language of the
statute, as we think, shows a recognition of this, and
also of the fact that when the patient himself has occasion
to testify respecting his ailment or disease, he often must
do so without knowing the range or the character of the
testimony that might be given by the physician, and
without any means of contradicting it. In order to prevent the patient from being subjected to this disadvantage,
the Act gives him the option of excluding- the physician's
evidence entirely by himself refraining from testifying
voluntarily as to that respecting which alone their knowledge is equal, namely, what the patient told the physician
with reference to the ailment.
The framer of the Act was careful to choose language
that recognizes the distinction between (a) communications made by the patient and (b) knowledge obtained
by the doctor through a personal examination of the
patient. The New York statute, which, so far as we have
observed, was the first to establish a privilege with respect

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

6i79

Opinion of the Court. '

to the knowledge gained by a physician while attending a
patient in a professional capacity, recognizes no such
distinction. Nor does it define with precision what conduct on the part of the patient shall constitute a waiver
of the privilege. Hence the courts of that State deemed
themselves at liberty to determine this question upon
general principles, derived from, the supposed policy of the
law. Not only, therefore, are the decisions of the courts of
that State, and of other States having statutes formed
upon the same model, valueless as guides to the meaning of
the statute here in question, but the very fact that the
Legislature of Arizona departed from the form of the
*New York statute indicates that it did so because it had a
different purpose to express. We are unable to see anything that would justify us in refusing judicial recognition
to a distinction thus laid hold of by the lawmaking body
in defining the extent and conditions of the privilege.
To construe the Act in accordance with the contention
of plaintiff in error would not only be a departure from its
language, but would render it inapplicable in all cases
where the "physical or supposed physical disease " is
the subject of judicial inquiry, and where any averment
respecting it is made in pleading or evidence upon the
subject is introduced at the trial in behalf of the patient.
This would deprive the privilege of the greater part of its
value, by confining its enjoyment to the comparatively
rare and unimportant instances where the patient might
have no occasion to raise an issue or introduce evidence on
the subject, or where the patient's disease might happen
to be under investigation in a controversy between other
parties. We are constrained to reject this construction.
The other questions that are raised require no special
mention. It is sufficient to say that we find no error warranting a reversal of the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

235 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, with Whom MR. JUSTICE DAY

concurred, dissenting.
I am unable to agree to the approval of the ruling which
excluded the physicians' testimony. It should be supposed that it was the legislative intent to protect the
patient in preserving secrecy with respect to his ailments
and not to give him a monopoly of testimony as to his
condition while under treatment. Here, not only did the
plaintiff introduce the evidence of his nurse, describing in
detail his bodily injuries and the medical treatment, but
the plaintiff offered himself as a witness and voluntarily
testified as to his bodily condition. His testimony covered
the time during which he was under the physician's
examination, and it was upon this testimony that he
sought to have the extent of his injuries determined by
the jury and damages awarded accordingly. To permit
him, while thus disclosing his physical disorders, to claim
a privilege in order to protect himself from contradiction
by his physician as to the same matter, would be, as it
seems to me, so inconsistent with the proper administration of justice that we are not at liberty to find a warrant
for this procedure in the statute unless its language prohibits any other construction. [See Hunt v. Blackburn,
128 U. S. 464, 470; Epstein v. Railroad,250 Missouri, 1, 25;
Roeser v. Pease, 37 Oklahoma, 222, 227; Forrestv. Portland
Ry. L. & P. Co., 64 Oregon, 240; Capron v. Douglass, 193
N. Y. 11; 4 Wigmore on Evidence, § 2389 (2).]
As I read the Arizona statute it was framed not to
accomplish, but to prevent, such a result. We have not
been referred to any construction of it by either the
territorial or state court, and we must construe it for
ourselves. To my mind, its meaning is that if the-patient
voluntarily testifies as to his physical condition at the
time of the examination, he cannot shut out his physician's
testimony as to the same subject. To reach the contrary

ARIZONA & NEW MEXICO RY. v. CLARK.
235 U. S.

HuGHES and

DAY,

681

JJ., dissenting.

conclusion, emphasis is placed on the words 'such communications' in the proviso, and it is insisted that the
proviso was to apply only if the plaintiff testifies as to
what he told the physician. I think that this is altogether
too narrow. When the patient submits himself to an
examination, he as truly communicates his condition to
the physician as if he tells him in words. Although the
patient were dumb, his submission to inspection in order
that he might be treated would be none the less a communication of what is thus made known. That is the very
ground of the privilege. Nor does the fact that the
statute, with unnecessary diffuseness, refers in the sentence
defining the privilege to 'any communication' or 'any
knowledge obtained by personal examination' limit the
natural meaning of the proviso. In saying that 'if a person
offer himself as a witness and voluntarily testify with
reference to such communications,' it is to be deemed 'a
consent' to the physician's testifying, the proviso may be,
and I think should be, taken to embrace implied as well as
express communications. I can find no reasonable basis
for a distinction. It is said that the plaintiff may not
know what the physician has observed or what testimony
he may give. But when the plaintiff testifies he invites
analysis and contradiction, and in contemplation of law he
asks to have his statement judged by what is shown to be
the truth of the matter. If the plaintiff testifies as to what
he told the physician, it is conceded that the physician may
be examined, and the obvious reason is that the plaintiff
is not to be permitted to insist upon his privilege as to
what he himself is disclosing. This is the policy of the
statute-and it governs equally, as I read it, when the
plaintiff testifies as to his physical! condition at the time
he submits himself to the physician's examination. The
words 'such communications' are broad enough to cover
all communications for the purpose. of treatment, whether
by utterance or by what is usually more revealing-the

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES

and

DAY, JJ.,

dissenting.

235 U. S.

yielding of one's body to the scrutiny of the practitioner.
To repeat, it seems to me that the statute was intended to
make it impossible for the plaintiff to claim the privilege
when he himself has testified as to the subject of it.
As in this view competent, and presumably important,
evidence was excluded, I think that the judgment -should
be reversed.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY concurs
in this dissent.

