UNITED STATES v. PORTALE.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

undoubtedly are very strong. But as we are dealing
with the validity of the law under the state constitution,
a matter that must be decided finally by the state court,
and as the state court has held other gross earning taxes
to be license taxes, Afro-American IndustrialBenefit Ass'n
v. Florida, 61 Florida, 85, 89, we are of opinion that if
this act is to be overthrown it should not be overthrown
by us. It is true that there are possible distinctions between this case and the Florida decision cited, but it
seems to us not improbable that the Supreme Court
had in view a principle broad enough to cover the case
at bar. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231
U. S. 298, 305.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PORTALE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 382.

Argued October 22, 1914.-Decided November 2, 1914.

The provision of § 6 of the White Slave Act of June 25, 1910,'requiring
filing of statements in regard to the harboring of women brought
into this country for purposes of prostitution, is not confined to
persons who have had to do directly or indirectly with the bringing
in or sending forth of such women.
As the statute on which the indictment is based was enacted in pursuance of an international agreement which requires every person
to perform an act which may be assistance to the Governments, it
is construed literally, as reading it otherwise would deprive the Government of such assistance to no good end.
Where, as in this case, the writ of error was taken by the Government
under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, on a single ruling,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

235 U. S.

reversal of the judgment sustaining the demurrer is based on that
ruling alone and is without prejudice to further action of the court
below consistent with the opinion of this court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 6 of the
White Slave Act of June 25, 1910, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States:
The review here is limited to the precise question decided below.
The statement provided by the statute is due from any
"keeper," though not concerned in importation. The
court below disregarded the literal reading of § 6 of the
White Slave Act. Other provisions of the act confirm a
literal reading of this section. The lower court's suggestions are without force and the consequences of its holding would be to nullify the act.
Similar language has previously been so read by this
court as shown by the history of the acts.
The constitutionality of the section was not decided
below, Keller Case, 213 U. S. 147, distinguished. A treaty
obligation is here involved. The amendment here involved was enacted to obviate the force of the Keller Case.
The information required is essential to the proper regulation of commerce.
Such inforination may be secured by penalties. No
right of a citizen is violated here. The provision is reasonably relted to the end sought. Other instances of
compulsory procurement of information will be found in
statutes relating to internal revenue, immigration, bankruptcy, interstate commerce, and the census.
In support of these contentions see: Balt. & Ohio R. R.
Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 221 U. S. 618; Hackfeld v. United
States, 197 U. S. 442; Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414,
420; Int. Com. Comm. v. Goodrich, 224 U. S. 194; Kansa&

UNITED STATES v. PORTALE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

City Southern Ry. v. United States, 231 U. S. 423; Keller v.
United States, 213 U. S. 139; Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S. 124; Latimer v. United States, 223 U. S. 501; Lewis
Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 315; Mason v. Fearson, 9 How. 248; Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S.
137; The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440; United States v. Barber,
219 U. S. 72; United States v. Birdsall, 233 U. S. 223
United States v. Davin, 189 Fed. Rep. 244; United States
v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95; United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370; United States v. Lexington Mills Co., 232 U. S.
399; United States v. Mescall, 215 U. S. 31; United States
v. Mooney, 116 U. S. 104; United States v. Young, 232
U. S. 155.
No appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an indictment alleging that an alien woman
entered the United States from Great Britain in 1913; that
the defendants knowingly harbored her in Denver foi the
purpose of prostitution, and that they, so knowingly harboring her for that purpose, wilfully failed to file, within
thirty days from the date of the commencement of such
harboring, with the Commissioner General of Immigration, a statement in writing setting forth her name, the
place where she was kept and the facts as to the date of
her entry into the United States, the port through which
she entered, her age, nationality and parentage, and concerning her procuration to come to this country within
the knowledge of the defendants. The proceeding is
under the act of June 25, 1910, c. 395, § 6, 36 Stat. 825,
827, which requires every person harboring an alien
woman for the above purpose within three years after
she shall have entered the United States from any country,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

party to the arrangement for the suppression of the white
slave traffic, adopted July 25, 1902, 35 Stat. 1979, to file
a statement as aforesaid. A failure to do so is made a
misdemeanor and is punished by fine or imprisonment or
both. Great Britain is a party to the arrangement. There
was a demurrer to the indictment and it was sustained,
as appears by a bill of exceptions, upon the ground set
forth in the opinion, that, as the court construed the statute, the above requirement was confined to 'persons who
have had to do, directly or indirectly, with the bringing
in or sending forth of such women or girls.'
We see no sufficient reason for the limitation thus read
into the generality and literal meaning of the words of
the act. It is true that persons who have had to do
with bringing the alien into the country are more likely
than others to know the facts to be stated, and it
may be assumed that others are not required to know
them at their peril. It is true that the immunity from
prosecution under the laws of the United States for
any fact truthfully reported which the section grants
most obviously applies to those who have taken part in
bringing the woman in. But others who have not taken
part are very likely to know the facts or some of them,
and their knowledge may be of a kind to raise suspicion
of guilt under the act. The requirement is that 'every
person' harboring a woman as above shall file the statement. It is, and purports to be in furtherance of the
international agreement. That agreement, among other
things, is 'to procure, within the limits of the laws, all
information of a nature to discover a criminal traffic';
Art. 2, 35 Stat. 1982, although, perhaps, those words
look more immediately to the points of departure and
arrival and the journey. Taken literally the statute required the defendants to file a statement of any of the
facts mentioned that were within their knowledge, and
to read it otherwise would deprive the Government of a

OVERTON v. OKLAHOMA.
235 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

considerable source of information, to no good end that
we can perceive.
"We therefore reach the conclusion that the court
erred in sustaining the demurrer to the . . . indictment, so far as that ruling is based upon the construction
of the statute in question." United States v. Stevenson,
215 U. S. 190, 199. That is the only question brought up;
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 398; and-the reversal of the judgment is without prejudice to further
action of the court below consistent with the opinion that
we have expressed.
Judgment reversed.

OVERTON v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 40.

Submitted October 19, 1914.-Decided November 9, 1914.

The court having instructed the jury that if the shipment of liquor
within the State was to complete an interstate shipment the local
prohibition statute did not apply, the contention that § 4180,
Snyder's Compiled Laws of Oklahoma,. is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, held too frivolous to sup-

port the jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment of the state
court on writ of error.
The record in this case not justifying the assumption that the conclusion of guilt could only have been reached by disregarding proof,
this court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state
court on writ of error on that ground; it is frivolous.
Writ of error to review 7 Okjahoma Cr. 203, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles B. Stuart and Mr. A_ C. Cruce for plaintiff
in error.

