MONAGAS v. ALBERTUCCI.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MONAGAS v. ALBERTUCCI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 44. Submitted October 29, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.
On an appeal from the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, the power of this
court is confined to determining whether error of law was committed
in admitting or rejecting evidence and whether the findings of fact
are adequate to sustain the conclusions based on them. Rosaly v.
Graham, 227 U. S. 584.
Although the appellate court held that the trial court erred in admitting
over objection testimony offered to show that a contract of conditional sale was really a mortgage, as that court also considered the
evidence and based the exclusion thereof on the ground of its character, and because it did not have probative force to accomplish the
result, the testimony was weighed sufficiently for the purpose of
finding that the instrument is what it purports to be, and the findings
and conclusions of law to the effect that the instrument is one of
conditional sale and not of mortgage are adequate to support the
judgment.
17 Porto Rico, 684, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the extent of the power of this
court on appeal from the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and
also the validity of a judgment of that court holding that
a transfer of property was a conditional sale that had become absolute and was not a mortgage, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill for appellants.
No appearance or brief filed for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Only that which is deemed necessary for the decision of
the case is stated, bearing in mind that our power is conVOL. ccxxxv-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

fined to determining whether error of law was committed
in admitting or rejecting evidence and whether the findings
of fact are adequate to sustain the conclusions based on
them. Rosaly v. Graham, 227 U. S. 584, 590.
The appellants sued in August, 1909, to recover immovable property upon the ground that a contract of sale
made by them of the property in September, 1906, subject
to a right to redeem was not a sale subject to condition,
but a mortgage, and, therefore, although the period for
redemption had long expired without the exercise of that
right, they were entitled to a decree for cancellation of the
recorded sale on payment of the mortgage debt. Moreover, a right to recover rents and revenues was sought for
the purpose of imputing the amount to the extinction of
the mortgage debt. At the trial Juan A. Monagas, one of
the plaintiffs, was tendered in their behalf as a witness and
he was permitted to testify over objection made and exception reserved by the defendant. The court substantially awarded the relief prayed. The prayer, however,
for an accounting was denied upon the ground that, although there was no agreement as to rate of interest,
nevertheless it was contemplated that the lender should
go into possession of the property, collect the rents and
revenues and appropriate them in lieu of collecting interest
on the debt. Both sides appealed.
On the appeal it developed in the argument that neither
-side had complied with the rules as to assigning errors.
The case was heard and taken under advisement with
leave to file assignments of errors within a time fixed. In
its opinion the court came first to the appeal of the defendant below. Directing attention to the fact that the permission to file assignments had not been complied with,
the court then considered what was open, and after referring to the exception concerning the testimony of the
witness offered for the purpose of showing that the deed
was not a sale but was a mortgage, treated the exception

MONAGAS v. ALBERTUCCI.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as covering two considerations; first, Was parol evidence
admissible, "under our Civil Code, to vary the terms of
the sale?" and second, whether "An improper construction was put on the written contract entered into between
the parties," evidently considering, therefore, that even
if parol evidence was admissible, it was yet necessary as a
result of the exception to determine whether the contract
had been improperly construed by a wrongful effect given
to the evidence admitted over objection.
The contention as to mere inadmissibility was at once
disposed of by stating that the real question to be decided
was not whether any testimony could have been received,
but the character and probative force of that which was
admissible. The court said (17 Porto Rico, 684, 686):
"The whole case really turns on the question whether
the written instrument in controversy was a mortgage or
a conditional sale. If it is the latter, it must be complied
with according to its terms; if the former, the plaintiff
must be allowed to repay the money received and take a
reconveyance of the land. The real intention of the parties
at the time the written instrument was made must govern
in the interpretation given to it by the courts. This must
be ascertained from the circumstances surrounding the
transaction and from the language of the document itself.
The correct test, where it can be applied, is the continued
existence of a debt or liability between the parties. If
such exists, the conveyance may be held to be merely a
security for the debt or indemnity against the liability.
On the contrary, if no debt or liability is found to exist,
then the transaction is not a mortgage, but merely a sale
with a contract of repurchase within a fixed time. While
every case depends on its own special facts, certain circumstances are considered as important, and the courts
regard them as throwing much light upon the real intent
of the parties and upon the nature of such transactions.
Such are the existence of a collateral agreement made by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the grantor for the payment of money to the grantee, his
-liability to pay interest, inadequacy of price paid for the
conveyance, the grantor still remaining in possession of
the land conveyed, and any negotiation or application for
a loan made preceding or during the transaction resulting
in the conveyance. The American doctrine on this subject does not differ materially from the principles set forth
in our Civil Code. 3 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence,
paragraphs 1194 and 1195. Civil Code of Porto Rico,
paragraphs 1248, 1249, 1250, 1348, 1410, and 1421."
Coming then presumably to analyze the testimony admitted over the objection for the purpose of ascertaining
whether it was of a character to engender any probative
force proper to be considered for the purpose of showing
that the minds of the parties met not on a conditional sale
but a mortgage, and therefore justified construing the
written contract to be not what it purported to be, it was
held that it did not, the court saying (p. 687): "In accordance with these principles, we must consider the conveyance in this case as a conditional sale, and that plaintiff
has failed to comply therewith;" it being added; "We are
further satisfied that the exception of the defendant was
well taken and ought to have been sustained, and that the
court consequently erred in its judgment." The decree
was reversed with direction to dismiss the suit.
The court in subsequently making its findings of fact
and stating its conclusions included therein the testimony
of the witness which'bad been admitted at the trial over
objection, that testimony being to the following effect:
"The witness then proceeded to testify in substance
that he applied to the defendant for a loan and she made
him an offer to make the negotiation, taking the house in
question as security under the conditions stated in the
written contract; that he had no intention of selling the
house to the defendant, as he had other better offers; and
that the contract was made inthe form of a deed of sale

MONAGAS v. ALBERTUCCI.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with option of return because she requested it and he had
no objection."
As there is no contention that the findings if accepted
do not support the conclusion which the court based on
them, it is sufficient to give the following summary: The
contract in question was notarial in form, on its face a sale
transferring ownership and possession to the purchaser
for a stipulated cash price, conditioned, however, on the
right of the sellers to redeem within two years on paying
a sum equal to the purchase price, no interest being provided for, with the right to extend the time to redeem for
one year further if it was elected to do so before the expiration of the original time, and conferring on the purchaser the power of noting on the public records the fact
of the failure to redeem, if it took place, and to convert the
title if recorded into an unconditional one. The findings
disclose that there was no evidence that the right to redeem had been exercised within the time fixed by the contract, that the purchaser inscribed that fact upon the
records and that thereby she became apparently the indefeasible owner. The following facts, however, relating to
this subject were found: (a) That shortly before the
original redemption period elapsed, one of the selisrs in
behalf of all wrote a letter to the purchaser asking her to
name a time when before a notary an agreement of extension could be signed in accordance with the original contract of repurchase, and that no answer appears to have
been made to this letter, at all events that nothing was
shown establishing that anything was done under it.
(b) That after the original period had expired and th3
failure to avail of the condition had been noted on the
public records, three several letters were written, one on
October 17, 1908, one on December 24, 1908, and the last
on May 5, 1909; the two first requesting the appointment
of a day for the purpose of signing an extension of the
original time because an agreement expressed in a letter

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

to give such extension had been made, and the last offering
to pay the amount fixed in the condition of redemption
on the ground that there was a right to do so because of an
assent to an extension which had been previously given by
letter, but, as we have said, the findings recite that nothing as to the existence of the letter referred to was shown
in the record. All four of the letters in unequivocal terms
treated the contract as having been one of sale and sought
to enforce it accordingly and contained nothing in the
slightest degree asserting the existence of a mortgage as
now relied upon. Indeed, the findings fail to show anything directly or indirectly asserting that view of the contract prior to its being made the basis of this suit filed, as
we have seen, in August, 1909.
The conclusions drawn from the findings were as follows:
"This Supreme Court disposed of the appeal by its
judgment of June the 5th of the last year, reversing that
rendered by the court below and ordering the dismissal of
the complaint, not only upon the ground that the exception to which we have already referred was well taken and
should have been sustained, but also because the agreement made by the parties was a conditional sale."
As we are bound by the conclusion as to the character of
the contract if it is supported by the findings, and as there
is no dispute that if the findings be accepted as legal they
do support such conclusion, it follows that there must be
an affirmance since the real question for decision is, Was
the court right in holding that the contract in question was
a conditional sale and not a mortgage? But it is insistedand that is really the only issue in the case--that the findings cannot be accepted and treated as conclusive without
previously determining the correctness of the ruling of the
court on the exception to the testimony, since if that ruling
be held to have been wrongful, it will follow either that
there were no findings, or if there were such findings in

MONAGAS v. ALBERTUCCI.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

form, that they were legally inadequate because made
from an incomplete and partial consideration of the evidence resulting from excluding from view the testimony
which was wrongfully held to be inadmissible. Indeed,
the argument is that this must be the case unless it be
assumed that the court after excluding the testimony on
the ground that it was inadmissible and hence wrong to
consider it, proceeded at once to consider it for the purpose
of making its findings. From this it is urged that there
must be a reversal and remanding for a new trial or at
least for the purpose of enabling the court below to make
new findings and express new conclusions upon all the
evidence including that which it should consider if it be
found that it was wrong in holding that the evidence excluded was inadmissible.
But when the statement we have made of the case is
considered, the proposition rests upon the plainest misconception of the action of the court below since, as we
have seen, its conclusion that error had been committed
by the trial court in holding that the contract of sale was
one of mortgage did not arise from a ruling that there was
a want of power to admit any testimony for such purpose,
but from the fact that the particular testimony which was
offered and received over objection was found, after considering and weighing it, to bear no legal relation to such
purpose and hence not to afford any probative force tending to support the varying of the contract. This clearly
is made manifest by the excerpt from the opinion of the
court which we have quoted and becomes indisputable
when it is observed that the authorities which the court
cited and relied upon as sustaining its action expressly
recognized that testimony was admissible for the purpose
of sh6wing that a contract of conditional sale was one of
mortgage, but pointed out the nature and character of
the testimony and the force of the proof required to accomplish such result. The error of the contention, hence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

consists in assuming that testimony was not considered
and weighed for the purpose of the findings, when in fact
on the face of the record it is apparent that all the testimony offered was considered and weighed. When this is
borne in mind, it results that the contention at last reduces

itself to the proposition that the decree below should be
reversed and the case remanded because of an error never

committed; that is, to enable a duty to be legally performed which the record discloses had already been completely and lawfully discharged.

Affirmed.

L. E. WATERMAN COMPANY v. MODERN PEN
COMPANY.
MODERN PEN COMPANY v. L. E. WATERMAN
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 54, 72.

Argued November 10, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

When the use of his own name upon his goods by a later competitor will
and does lead the public to understand that such goods are the
product of a concern already established and well known under that
name, and when the profit of the confusion is known to, and, if that
be material, is intended by the later man, the law will require him to
take reasonable precautions to prevent the mistake. Herring-HallMarvin Co. v. Hall's Safe Co., 208 U. S. 554.
There is no distinction between corporations and natural persons in the
above principle, which is one to prevent a fraud.
All the protection which a manufacturer is entitled to get against a
later person of the same name manufacturing similar goods is to require the later person to so use his name in marking his goods that
they cannot be confused with the earlier manufacturer, and this

